-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/rainbowsixvegas2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the best tactical shooter action on consoles to date.
 New sprint ability speeds up the whole game.
 The control scheme has evolved and is better than ever.
 Looks and sounds great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Takes too few risks.
 Your AI partners still go nuts occasionally.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,971 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rainbow Six Vegas 2 isn't the best sequel ever made, but it's still a great tactical shooter in 
 its own right. 

  If the original Rainbow Six Vegas felt like the first night of a trip to Sin City, its recently 
 released sequel feels like the second; a little worn, but still a lot of fun. There's still a casino's 
 worth of content and the best gameplay this side of Caesar's Palace. Plus, the introduction of 
 a sprint button not only increases your speed, but also quickens the pace of the entire game. On 
 the other hand, the cooperative play has been pared down a little and the expanded experience gains 
 are about as glamorous as pillow mints -- even if you are grateful for them. A third night of this 
 might be too much to handle, but if you like to place bets with bullets at all, you'll definitely 
 want to put some money down on Rainbow Six Vegas 2.  

           Scared civilians add gravity to some firefights, frustration to others.      

  Despite 
 the name Tom Clancy in the title, the Rainbow Six games are hardly known for their ace storytelling 
 skills. Having said that, the way the original Vegas ended on such a terrible cliffhanger ending, 
 when all it really had to do was give you a reason to kick some terrorist butt, was especially 
 disappointing. Fortunately, the campaign in Vegas 2 makes no such errors. You no longer play as 
 Logan Keller. Instead, you hunt terror and save hostages as a custom character referred to as Bishop 
 in the campaign. Although the specifics of the overarching story are pretty easy to lose track 
 of, one thing is clear: There are terrorists and you have to get them before they get Vegas. However, 
 there are a couple of great scenes in the campaign. For example, there is one where you're supposed 
 to meet up with a guy to find chemical weapons, only the terrorists meet up with him first. Because 
 he's wearing a communication device, you can hear the proceedings as you make your way through 
 the level. First, the terrorist in charge rails angrily, then the guy pleads with him, then the 
 terrorist rails some more, and then the guy starts screaming "NO, NO, not THAT!" Then there are 
 no more words, just animal noises of pain, fear, and more than a little loathing. Other moments 
 don't seem quite as authentic, especially those that involve civilians. While it's nice that they're 
 in the game, you'll occasionally lose if you fail to prevent the terrorists from executing one 
 of them. That's just plain silly because it's unlikely that a group of commandos would leave a 
 bunch of terrorists and weapons behind because Hank the Hostage bit the dust. Also, it's so easy 
 to die in Vegas 2 that you really don't need the extra "game over" screens.  

  Just like in the previous game, you play through each stage with your two not-so-trusty sidekicks. 
 They're like roulette wheels in the way they oscillate between deadly efficacy and utter helplessness, 
 though the odds are actually stacked in favor of them doing the right thing. Their normally smart, 
 super-effective behavior actually makes it even more striking when they get stuck behind the occasional 
 box. The campaign isn't very long, but it has its share of awesome firefights and is a good way 
 to warm up for the online play.  

  Although many of the locales aren't the first ones that would come to mind if someone asked you 
 to imagine a shootout in Vegas, they are inventive, nonetheless. There are a few nondescript warehouses, 
 generic loading docks, and lame industrial areas that could just as easily be in Rainbow Six Fresno. 
 But, then, there's also the theater level. This is a full-on replica of a decadent theater complete 
 with stage, backstage, seats, and a balcony. The tricky thing about it is that one team has easy 
 access to the balconies, while the other is pinned by the somewhat open stage. If a player from 
 the latter group can make it across and exit stage left, hopefully with a close-range weapon like 
 a shotgun, he can get all  No Country for Old Men  on the snipers watching the action below. How 
 quickly the hunters become the hunted.  

           Where theres smoke, theres about to be fire.      

  The best way to cross any open 
 space in Vegas 2 is to sprint, and that can now be accomplished with the push of a button, which 
 is similar to what you've done in nearly every shooter that's come out since Gears of War. But 
 unlike the reckless and half-blind dash in that game, Vegas 2's version is easier to control. It's 
 also more versatile because you can sprint sideways, as well as forward. However, when you see 
 a grenade rattle on the ground in front of you, you'll wish you could also sprint backward (you 
 can't) ; realism be damned. Sprinting is a small, minor addition to a great big game like this, 
 but it has a major impact on Vegas 2's pace and gameplay. It's obviously a good thing to be able 
 to run a little faster when you're trying to close in on a flash-blind enemy, and it goes with 
 the shotgun like peanut butter goes with jelly. Sprinting around a corner while pulling the trigger 
 on a shotgun blast before the gun is even half on the screen and catching your enemy with a mouthful 
 of buckshot is one of the sweetest kills the series has seen. Less obvious and less gory is the 
 overall effect on the pace of the play. Sprinting provides a welcome shot of adrenaline, especially 
 online.     

   

  Speaking of the Internet, online play used to be the only place you could go to level up your soldier 
 and unlock new gear, but that is no longer the case. You can now gain experience points, ranks, 
 and equipment by playing through the offline content. And, it's all universal. If you become a 
 sergeant by playing the heck out of terrorist hunt campaign, you'll still be a sergeant when you 
 log onto your system's network. The main perk here is that by playing through the single-player 
 campaign first, you'll enter online play with a few weapons and clothing-customization options 
 already unlocked. This really doesn't add anything to the game as much as it fixes a minor flaw 
 with the original -- you should have been able to gain experience points offline all along, although 
 it didn't matter to most players because the online content is such a huge part of the game. This 
 meager expansion of the experience model is also noteworthy considering Call of Duty 4's recent 
 strides in the developmental department. When it comes to creating your character as you play, 
 Vegas 2 has pretty meager cards.  

           Who knew casino rooftops were so exciting?      

  Despite this, the options for online 
 players have actually slimmed down a little when you compare the original with the sequel. Previously, 
 four players used to be able to tackle the campaign cooperatively, but now, that number has been 
 reduced to two. That may sound crazy and retroactive, but four players can still tackle terrorist 
 hunt. And to the game's credit, it's easy to drop in or drop out of the two-player campaign. There 
 is one co-op issue, though, that makes no sense: the fact that your two computer controlled companions 
 are both controlled entirely by only one player. The other player feels like an awkward stepparent: 
 You know you have good advice, but the kids just won't listen to you. It's clear that giving each 
 player one minion would have wreaked havoc on the stacking and breaching system, but there are 
 ways around this issue. If it were easy to transfer control of one or both minions between the 
 two players, the tactical options would have been even broader, and both players would feel like 
 they got to play with the nifty order giving.  

  The other new additions are multiplayer modes: team leader, total conquest, and demolition. Team 
 leader is the most creative because it blends a VIP-style match with elimination play. As long 
 as your VIP is alive, your guys can respawn at will. But once he drops, every death is final. Coming 
 back after your leader has been assassinated is possible, but not probable. Total conquest isn't 
 a complete departure from the conquest mode featured in the original Vegas; now, you must hold 
 three transmitters for 30 seconds. This is a fun, frantic mode because your objective is constantly 
 changing between assault and defense. You always know where to go, and you usually have a good 
 idea of where to find the enemy. Finally, demolition is a classic bombing mission where one side 
 tries to blow up a target while the other tries to defend it.  

  Though that last mode is old school, the graphics are anything but. Though there are occasional 
 instances of texture blurring and fill-in during frantic online play, there will also be times 
 when you'll get blasted by an unseen enemy because you were too busy admiring the walls. And what 
 walls there are in the game. From the gritty, sweaty walls of Kill House to the deep red and dimly 
 lit papering in the theater, Vegas 2's walls are unmatched, except perhaps by BioShock's. The characters 
 look good too, especially when you're shooting them. Blood spurts from bullet wounds, splattering 
 nearby walls as the gun noises pound and the controller rumbles with approval. Well, the Xbox 360 
 one does, but more on that later. The music and sound effects are also excellent. The audio queues 
 are as clear as they are life-saving, and the music is rousing. The track in theater is especially 
 epic and unusually operatic for a military shooter.  

           Riot shields are awesome against rocks and bottles, but not so good against grenades. 

  Though there are differences between the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2 that make the 360 version slimly preferable, both unequivocally capture the same excellent experience. 
 The lack of rumble in the PS3 controller is still a drag. Also, it takes a little longer to find 
 a good PS3 online game for three reasons: fewer people are playing, you can only see a match's 
 latency once you've joined, and you will randomly be unable to connect to certain servers. But 
 the graphics are comparable and the gameplay is identical, so overall, the PS3 version is easy 
 to recommend.  

  And that makes it better than most games because Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the best tactical shooter 
 on the market. It doesn't gamble as much as it should and, instead, seems to take cover behind 
 the formidable foundation established in the first game. But to its credit, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 
 does make one big gameplay tweak and provides another highly playable single-player campaign. It 
 also provides a decent suite of cooperative options and more excellent online multiplayer. Though 
 its experience system is now clearly behind the one found in Call of Duty 4, no game has a better 
 control scheme or more satisfying tactical play. This ace belongs in every shooter's hand.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (149 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supercclank
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  RSV2 is a great tactical shooter. I have spent many hours playing it and really enjoy the online 
 play. The game does have its flaws, I have experienced some lag online and have failed to load 
 maps (on and off-line) . The story is around average. The game really shines in terrorist hunt online, 
 its really fun taking out a small army with the help of three other guys. I really like the ACES 
 system and the customization that is avaliable. The variety of weapons is also great-you have everything 
 from an Artic Warefare Sniper Rifle to a Raging Bull Revolver. The amount of gadgets is also amazing- 
 you have everyting from a GPS to teargas to a radar jammer to an array of explosives. Most of the 
 weapons can be silenced which is a nice touch. I would recomend the ame o anyone who enjoys a FPS 
 where strategy is key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engclm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:21 am PT
Review:  The first in the Vegas series was quite slow placed but the addition of a sprint button speeds 
 things up plus with a new low difficulty for the first time ever in a rainbow six game you can 
 go all Call of Duty on it and just run in guns blazing.
  
  The multiplayer is similar to the first, the Snipers are poor, but the character creation is fresh 
 and cool, although that also was in the first and hasn't really got many new features. The downside 
 to the game is that it virtually is Rainbow Six Vegas with a sprint button but put it this way, 
 The first game I didn't enjoy but with a simple addition of a sprint button I love it.
  
  For me this and the Call of Duty series have features both could and should use, but until one 
 of the two franchises gets file for copyright then you'll have to settle for both, this is now 
 about 15 or $20 so why not buy it, believe or not this is still hugely popular and you'll find 
 a match instantly so why not buy it and have another top game to your pile. 
  
  Plus the best feature of Rainbow Six is still there the terrorist hunts of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Las Vegas 2 was my third game in the Rainbow six title, after the original, and it 
 more than lived up to my expectations. The graphics, whilst a little below COD4's, were still very 
 good and the sound did not disappoint on 5.1 Dolby
  
  Good 
  - level up on and offline
  - HUGE selection of guns made attainable by levelling system
  - awesome cover mechanics, always 
 work
  - good AI, both enemy and team
  - VERY VERY good customization, with body armor, fore arm armor, shoulder and leg armor, and clothing 
 with camouflage available for both armor and clothing.
  
  Bad
  - No "Instant WOW" moments
  - physics are a little irritating sometimes, especially when using 
 a Shotgun.
  - Enemies sometimes make it too easy
  - Story line differed very little from Rainbow six vegas.
  
  Bottom Line
  
  Good, solid 
 fun. I've been playing the campaign only for 3/3.5 months now, still enjoying it playing through 
 on "Realistic". A damn near must have of 2008, and a very very good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesknoxpolk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  The story is very good, this one is way better because it has XP points witch can be gained by 
 killing a terrorist or one of you swat team killing a terrorist and the XP can get upgrades like 
 new guns, clothing, and stuff like that.
  
  Terrorist hunt: In RSV2 terrorist hunt might be better then any other rainbow 6 Graphics: pretty 
 good but for comming out in 2008 and being on the ps3 to a game like brothers in arms hells highway 
 the graphics could have been a lot better!.
  
  gameplay: smooth, it's hard but not so hard that you can never beat the mission so it's difficult 
 but it's not so hard that it's not fun!.
  
  sound: sounds great you feel like your fighting terrorist!
  
  this game in my eyes is better 
 then call of duty 1,2,3,4 and 5, it's better then resistance fall of man and resistance 2, its 
 better then killzone 2, GRAW 2.
  
  so all in all its a verry verry verry good game and I think it should be one of the top game on 
 you wanted list if you do not allready have this game!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Versipellis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  (WRITTEN FOR A SCHOOL NEWSPAPER (MARGINALIA) , EDITED SLIGHTLY FOR THE WEB) 
  
  The latest offering in the popular Rainbow Six franchise is a continuation of the critically acclaimed 
 "Vegas". It's a benchmark for tactical shooters of the 360/PS3 generation. Playing as an elite 
 anti-terrorist squad, you must save Vegas from a gang of terrorists. Yawn. But, the only way to 
 stop those terrorists is to slaughter lots of them. Yay! Bang bang! 'Splowsion!
  Fans of the original will be right at home with the same controls and a similar interface. There's 
 now a "sprint" button, which is handy for moving from one cover to another. And... There's... Well, 
 that's about it.
  Not a lot of change there? But if you didn't play the original you ought to know that the formula 
 is great. The action is well paced and of a good difficulty. There is good AI, a good selection 
 of weapons and lots of sweet rapelling sections. You can customize your character's appearence 
 and weapons great deal. The PhysX physics engine is another cool feature, if not on a par with 
 the Havok engine form games like Saint's Row, Halo 3 or Oblivion. And the maps are fun, better 
 even than those from the first game.
  The maps you'll be playing are, as I said, great. Unlike the original, you really feel like your 
 blasting through a city in many of the levels, not just a terrorist-controlled building. There 
 are out-of-control cars to avoid, multiple paths, and lots of warehouses -- and I mean a LOT! There 
 are also occasional civillians to protect, or just watch -- a new feature, albeit small. It's all 
 about atmosphere, though, isn't it?
  Perhaps the best thing about this game, though, is the online. It works best with Xbox Live (or 
 PSN) . You can play through the whole campaign, terrorist hunts or even play deathmatches with fans 
 all over the world. The offline splitscreen is good for what it is, but splitscreen is... Well, 
 a split screen, isn't it? This hurts especially on a small SD TV, which I was condemned to play 
 PS3 on for most of the time I spent on this game.
  But the graphics are awesome. The effects are great, players are detailed and most of the textures 
 are pretty detailed. Most. I must say, the civillian characters look a bit PS2, and some of the 
 details are quite blurred. But the lighting is nice (especially in the "Nightclub" level) , and 
 the environments varied - from the snowy Pyranees mountains to scruffy industrial Vegas; from an 
 idyllic penthouse to a small desert town. Nice.
  Unfortunaltely, while the game looks very good, there is a price. The PS3 version (as far as I 
 know not the 360 version) is plauged with a sometimes horriffic framerate, dropping below 20 FPS 
 reguarly. In intensive firefights (i. e. most of the game) or online, it occasionally drops to a 
 slideshow.
  The sound is good enough. The music isn't too annoying -- but the sound of gunfire usually drowns 
 it out. The weapons sound great, but the script is dreadfull. Your character and his allies don't 
 talk much, except to shout commands. But the terrorists are far more vocal. This game deserves 
 the award for the worst overuse of a certain word that rhymes with "duck", and another that sounds 
 something like "Brit".
  All in all, this is a great game, and worth buying if you're into squad shooters. But the lack 
 of offline deathmatches and one-hit-kills mean that if your looking for arcade style, multiplayer 
 action or a Half-Life style campaign, you'd be better off with Call of Duty 4.
  Or, umm, Half-Life...
  
  --Mr. Versipellis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  The original Rainbow Six Vegas was one of the first "must have" titles to grace next generation 
 platforms, featuring a refined control scheme, innovative and highly customizable multiplayer setup, 
 a fresh story mode, and most importantly, high-end graphics and sound, the original Vegas was the 
 most highly anticipated Rainbow Six title since Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield arrived on the PC in 
 2002-2003. Banking on the overwhelming success of the original, it was only a matter of time before 
 a sequel arrived from perennial Tom Clancy publisher UBI, and with only one year of development 
 time under its belt, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 only half fulfills its role as a sequel. 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER LET-DOWN:
  
  Firstly, the story mode of Vegas 2 is extremely disappointing. Details 
 will not be explored here, as the story mode has been played through over and over again by thousands 
 of players by now, but the common complaint among these people is consistent: the story not only 
 is filled with countless plot holes and nonsense, but it strays from all of the elements that made 
 the original a memorable and pleasurable experience. It honestly makes little to no sense that 
 UBI Montreal chose to make a sequel bearing the name 'Vegas' yet chose to set the game in some 
 of the worst chosen and absolute weakest areas of its namesake location. Most of the playing community 
 finds the levels that deal with the Vegas that is known in public memory among the best ones in 
 the game, for example, casinos, theaters, and hotels. Unfortunately that is just one act in the 
 game, and every other one strays from this tried-and-true formula, creating a boring experience 
 that one is thankful for when it finally ends. Moreover, one of the most hated aspects of the original, 
 namely, when your player controlled character is on his own with no squadmates, returns and lasts 
 for almost an entire act, creating a hated and dreadful experience. A tactical, squad-based shooter 
 does not succeed in a single player evironment when the player has no squad, and that is evidenced 
 here. 
  
  Also, enemies remain completely unintelligent, often standing around waiting for you to kill them 
 and rarely using effective tactics to deal with your heavily-armed squad. Simply retooling the 
 enemy AI to seek cover where they aren't exposed in some way, then actively move to flank your 
 team would have been an improvement, or even making them more likely to open doors your team is 
 stacked against or counterattacking your team would have been a welcome and surprising addition 
 to the single player gameplay. Basically, the enemies are just slow-moving targets, and when the 
 single player is played through the maps are just filled with countless dead terrorists. It seemed 
 as though UBI tried to compensate for the lack of terrorist killing ability by increasing their 
 number in the maps. This is the wrong way to go about a tactical shooter, even if they are heavily 
 armed and elite-level troops, it is not realistic for a squad of 3 troopers to completely ravage 
 50+ terrorists per level. It would have been much more satisfying to decrease the number of terrorists 
 dramatically and increase their ability to effectively fight back in the face of the player. 
 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER ADDITIONS:
  
  The single player is not without its merits, as it features an excellent split-screen local and 
 online cooperative feature that is literally one of the best among any shooter for either next 
 generation platform. Allowing the player to customize his appearance and letting players jump in 
 and out of the campaign as it is progressed are two features that were highly sought after in the 
 original Vegas. Also, the gaining of experience points for the persistent elite character profile 
 in the single player game is also excellent, as it makes an otherwise bland and boring story mode 
 instantly replayable and more fun when played through with a friend. It should be a no-brainer 
 for UBI Montreal to retain all of these features when making a future Rainbow Six title, as they 
 essentially added a depth to the story mode that would not have been present otherwise. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER ADDITIONS:
  
  The multiplayer in this game is excellent as far as tactical shooters 
 go. The ability to sprint turns the strategies of this game on their head, as it is now possible 
 to suppress an enemy while a teammate rushes in on his flank to finish him off with a CQB firearm. 
 The multiplayer graphics are now on par with the single player graphics, one of the greatest complaints 
 of the original Vegas. The weapons are all well-balanced and virtually every firearm has a different 
 feel and handling to it, making it a pleasurable experience to switch up your weaponry to find 
 a different experience everytime. New additions are slightly minimal, but the additions essentially 
 came from fan requests (such as the M4 and the Rainbow Operative ballistic helmet and armor) , so 
 they are highly enjoyable. Weapon balance has also been addressed by UBI Montreal in light of the 
 constant stream of complaints from the player community of the original Vegas, as the MP7A1 no 
 longer dominates every weapon from all ranges, sniper rifles are now a legitimate option on maps 
 with long fields of fire, assault rifles have their place as highly effective mid to long range 
 firearms, and submachineguns dominate CQB but cannot be used to snipe. The addition of downloadable 
 content, more specifically, the new High Stakes mode that essentially turns the entire experience 
 into a more realistic and dangerous game that longtime Rainbow Six fans have been craving since 
 the release of the last Rainbow Six 3 expansion pack. High Stakes is basically the way Rainbow 
 Six games are meant to be played, as it makes scoped firing the most accurate way of gunning down 
 enemies, it removes the ability of the player to see around corners when stacked up against cover, 
 and essentially turns the game from one that can be played in a run-and-gun style to one solely 
 of tactical suppressing fire and flanking maneuver tactics. 
  
  WHERE TO GO WITH THE SERIES NEXT:
  
  The story mode of this game needs more work, it needs 
 to be engaging and fresh. The Rainbow Six series suffers from a tired repetition of the same plot 
 devices, fight disorganized unrelated terrorists, fight new organized terrorists, find out they 
 are in posession of a WMD which they plan to set off at location X, travel to location X and kill 
 all of them. It would be interesting to throw Rainbow Six into the middle of a global conflict 
 where they are performing hostage rescue and target elimination actions like many real-world counter 
 terror organizations, instead of allowing the series to dwindle down the path toward these seemingly 
 endless action-movie-epic but tired and hollow plot devices. Improvements to this series can be 
 found by overhauling the entire engine the game runs on, as the Unreal engine the game is powered 
 by has proven to be prone to lag issues (bullets will be severely delayed) in multiplayer that 
 can hamper any gameplay where the host has a subpar connection. The persistent elite character 
 mode also needs an overhaul, it is not ludicrous the borrow a page from shooter powerhouse Call 
 of Duty 4 and allow for challenges and progress bars to correspond with unlockable items. The customization 
 of weaponry should also be overhauled in any future titles; this was always one of the Rainbow 
 Six series strengths and it seems too limited in light of the firearm customization of other titles. 
 Essentially, future Rainbow Six titles should allow for multiple gun customization slots, such 
 as the ability to add a grip handle, a scope, a targeting laser, a suppressor, and custom gun camo. 
 Little things like these will go a long way in a series hailed for its tactical nature, customization 
 options and intense, engaging multiplayer. The tweaking of the cover system should also be implemented 
 to bring it in line with that of the High Stakes game mode, players should not be allowed to see 
 around corners while stacked up as it destroys realistic gameplay and allows for 'cover camping' 
 as players can leave their targeting reticule at head level, sit behind a wall and wait for a target 
 to run by, swinging out for an easy headshot. 
  
  It goes without saying that this game could have been much more than an expansion pack with a story 
 mode if there had been more new weaponry, armor and more engaging, varied maps included in it, 
 and as it stands this game can only really be recommended as a definite purchase for those players 
 looking to get a solid cooperative or multiplayer experience out of the game. Casual fans will 
 likely be turned off by the lack of new content and the prospect of being dominated in multiplayer 
 by players who know every hot zone of conflict in the maps and gamemodes. Still, this is a solid 
 title, and fans of tactical shooters will absolutely love everything this game brings to the table 
 that so many others cannot even touch; it doesn't do anything worse than its predecessor and slightly 
 builds on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  so ya i bought this game thinking it was gonna be just a regular shooter, but i didn't do my research 
 on this game and it turned out to be more of a strategic shooter, and i was happy i made this mistake 
 lol. this game has awesome gameplay that realy reminded me of gears of war. but too bad it couldn't 
 have some sick graphics, because they look like high end ps2 graphics. maybe im exagerating but 
 still, i would have hoped for a little more eye candy. still i recomend this game to any shooter 
 fan that wants to actualy think about what their going to do in their next move, and not just run 
 and gun, cuz if you do in this game, you'll be dead in 3 seconds. Also, the online part of this 
 game is top notch in my opinion. I mean the online is still strong to date. also it has a great 
 variety on online games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Storyline:
  
  The storyline is pretty much just a terrorist threat on Las Vegas and such. It works and has some 
 very intense moments such as hostage protecting and bomb defusing bombs. There are no cutscenes 
 which is something that always pisses me off. It's told pretty much all from in-game dialogue that 
 the characters say and do. This is pretty much the only interesting and worth-while segment of 
 this game other than the gameplay...
  
  Graphics:
  
  Easily one of the worst parts of this game. These graphics are way to cartoonish and even in full 
 HD it doesn't look good at all... The lighting is also absolutely horrible as well.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The one thing that makes me sad about this game is how much better it could have 
 been. The gameplay is absolutely stunning. The cover system is better than any i've ever seen and 
 the transition from first to third person is amazing. This game is just so unbalanced it really 
 hurts it's overall enjoyment. Anyways, the guns are great but feel a bit sticky and the cross-hairs 
 disappearing is realistic but really annoying.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  I guess if you play this game a lot it could be fun but the gameplay doesn't feel right while playing 
 online. I still don't know why this game is played in MLG.
  
  Overall: horrible graphics, decent single player and amazing gameplay add up to a shooter that 
 could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas 2, the second part of the action in vegas. Because of this game is based on the 
 campaign and the multiplayer, I will talk about both. The story of the game is solid, almost as 
 ok as the first game. Graphics is better than the first game. Sound quality is ok as ok as the 
 first game. Gameplay, I suggest you to play this game on hard if you are good at shooters. Because 
 it makes you a better shooter, more realistic is better. Value of the game is just right the length 
 of the campaign is not too short like the first one I guess. There is always online multiplayer. 
 Not enough characters in the game. The multiplayer doesn't feel that fun factor like the first 
 game had. I mean it is fun but not as good as the first game. First game had better mapping also. 
 The only better thing is the graphics considering with the first game. It is a good and realistic 
 shooter. You will enjoy and be a better shooter if you play this game!
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  
  Value: 8.5
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  I won't include the story 
 (because this is a shooter game) as I always do for action adventure games 
  
  Overall: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeedsUTDDLUFC
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  From the outset, Tom clancys Rainbow Six Vegas has been a Hit with many gamers across the world, 
 and Ubisoft have gone one step further and Released Rainbow Six Vegas 2. 
  
  First impressions of the game when you start it is the drastically long loading times and you will 
 find yourself spending more time watching the little soldiers running in the corner of your screen 
 than blowing peoples heads off in the Multiplayer or Offline modes. The Single player is a good 
 game to play, but its only half decent if your taking advantage of the two player Campaign, because 
 otherwise you will find yourself fighting heaps of soldiers commanding a group of braindead zombies 
 following you and getting in your way most of the time, That aside the game itself isnt much of 
 a dissapointment, just Online is where the real problems start.
  
  You can make your own soldier to play with online, editing everything from his face to the colour 
 of his uniform. An indepth ranking system similar to the Call of Duty Series is very appealing 
 but the fact is youll find yourself the top rank in no time. If your a serious online gamer then 
 R6V2 is NOT the game for you, I mean yes it does have a very good online community of skilled players, 
 but how they can play this game is mindblowing to me.
  
  Getting down to the graphics and performance aspects of things R6V2 isnt the best looking game 
 and isnt the best playing game either. Online the FPS is Poor at BEST, You will find yourself pressing 
 buttons to cover against a wall and youll be waiting for your character to do it.
  
  Ubisoft have never been the kings of online games, and they have underlined there poor online gaming 
 with R6V2, it never has a solid FPS rate, The PS3 is MADE for online gaming but R6V2 fails to deliver 
 in every aspect.
  
  With a Poor Online and a Half Decent gameplay, this is a game you should deffinitely avoid unless 
 you are familiar to the series and can prepare yourself for how poor this game actually is. 
  
  4.5 for the Offline ITSELF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:03 am PT
Review:  i got this game kinda late 'coz i focused on other games such as MGS4. i first played a rainbow 
 six game in the PS1, i don't think it's too good... then in the PS2, it got a lot better... and 
 that's one of the factors why i got interested in Rainbow Six: Vegas, only to find myself whether 
 to get R6V or R6V2... but since most people and reviews says that there's not much of a difference... 
 i preferred the one that has the sprint feature coz i believe it was a brilliant addition to an 
 already amazing game, and also its point system. it's action-packed and thrilling, especially when 
 opening two doors at the same time. i like the cover system and the character graphics... although 
 it's fell kinda short in the background realism and details. but overall, this is a very solid 
 game! a shooting game that requires tactical covering and timing, unlike other shooters where you 
 can just go like Rambo and shoot everything without getting hit seriously.
  Great game! i'm glad i got this one... i should've picked it up a long time ago!... and i'm hoping 
 for another installment that is a whole lot better. though it's very good, there are still room 
 for improvements that will make it one of the best games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  In Rainbow Six Vegas 2 you play as a Bishop, a special ops unit from the Rainbow division. Terrorists 
 have taken over Las Vegas and have threatened to destroy the area if their demands are not met. 
 It is up to Bishop, and his squad to put a stop to their plan and take down these psychotic terrorists. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 2's story is. how can I put this bluntlyboring. Nothing drives the characters 
 throughout the story, to tell you the truth I didn't even know what was going on in the game. All 
 I knew was that I was the "good guy" and the people I was shooting were, hopefully, the "bad guys." 
 If you can fully understand what's going on in the game in your first play through, then I tip 
 my hat to you. 
  
  RSV2 is essentially a first person shooter, but it's much deeper than that. You can command your 
 squad to execute a variety of actions. You can command them to use sound suppressors on their guns, 
 take cover, shoot all enemies they see, hold their fire, throw frag/smoke/incendiary grenades, 
 etc. Having a squad in the game requires a bit of strategy. Every action you commit in the game 
 determines the outcome of every operation. If you send your squad to take cover behind a door, 
 and the terrorists over there are loaded with shotguns and shields, you may as well kiss your comrades 
 goodbye. Thankfully your A. I. partners are relatively intelligent and can make decisions quickly 
 and effectively, but your enemies aren't that dumb either. They will do everything they can to 
 kill you, they'll try to outflank you, take down your partners and then shoot you, or they'll throw 
 grenades to expose you to their line of fire. In RSV2 spraying bullets everywhere is like slapping 
 a sign on your back that says "Shoot me, I'm a noob", strategy and quick decision making is what 
 will insure your survival. 
  
  There was a nice attention to detail in the levels, but there were also a bountiful of advertisements 
 in the levels as well (ahhh the power of advertisements) . The character animations were nicely 
 crafted and the characters themselves were detailed to an extent. The levels within the game were 
 large and complicated enough to approach situations in different perspectives, but at the same 
 time it wasn't confusing or frustrating. 
  
  Every gun within the game had its own unique sound to it. I could hear the bullets piercing the 
 glass above me, I could hear the cries of the innocent civilians being killed and captured by the 
 terrorists, I could hear the explosion of a nearby grenade. The sound design was astonishing; however, 
 the in-game dialogue was very difficult to hear. I tried very hard to understand what was coming 
 out of each character's mouth, the in-game music and sound effects hindered what the characters 
 had to say. This might also contribute to why I had a hard time understanding the overall plot. 
 
  
  Overall: Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a solid game. The gun play is phenomenal, tactical shoot outs are 
 a blast, and pulling off operations to save civilians is more fun than a barrel full of monkeys. 
 The story may drive some players back, but the excellent gameplay will draw many players in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crackers24
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  On first glance, R-Six Vegas 2 looks like the same thing as R-Six Vegas. You creep around like 
 gun-totin' ninjas with your three man squad, silencers on, blowing brains out before the terrorists 
 know what hit 'em. 
  
  Unfortunately, you'd be pretty much right. 
  
  The story line of R-Six Vegas 2 is virtually identical to R-Six Vegas, with you progressing through 
 several large buildings filled with disturbingly intelligent terrorists trying to kill you. The 
 similarities almost end here, exceptions include the return of old R-Six Vegas favorites, like 
 the MP5, PSG-1, SCAR-Q CQC, etc. 
  
  Let's start with Combat:
  
  Combat in R-Six Vegas held a slightly Call of Duty 2 or Arcadeish feeling. There are several instances 
 where it feels like your only duty is to get your 'mates to cover, keep your head down, and occasionally 
 pop up to unleash directed blind fire in the general direction of the enemy (this brings to mind 
 Dante's Casino and the Calypso Casino) , usually with a light machine gun. Not only that, but it 
 seemed that the only instance your 'mates were useful was in an area where there was minimal enemy 
 resistance. Big, gigantic firefights weren't their style. However, in R-Six Vegas 2, while the 
 story line is essentially identical, the fights are not as big or as long. While you're moving 
 through the area, particularly in the Monorail Station or the Convention Center, you'll encounter 
 sporadic enemy resistance instead of the long chain of 20 enemies with AK-47s all in a single hallway 
 type combat in R-Six Vegas. There is also better cover for you to utilize. A particularly memorable 
 example was when I could literally sneak from cover object to cover object in the Convention Center 
 and get within MP5 range of the enemy, all without them seeing me. THAT'S how the cover is distributed 
 around the combat areas, and if you utilize it correctly, it will help you immensely. Another big 
 improvement was the ability to shoot THROUGH soft cover, such as wooden crates or partitions (the 
 thingys that seperate booths in a convention) . It's pretty cool when, if you know there's a terrorist 
 behind a crate, you take a fairly large caliber weapon, like a shotgun or assault rifle, and shoot 
 the crate, and the tango goes "GAAHHH!!!" and dies. 
  
  Your teammate AI is also fairly accurate. While they do seem to get slightly panicky, finding cover 
 and staying there until the tango stops shooting, in general they are very accurate shooters. It 
 is possible for you to split up with your team, and while you, por example, go up on a catwalk 
 and shoot all the snipers, while your teammates mop up the ground level opposition. Even better 
 is when you have a small to medium concentration of enemies in a decent, yet not tiny room. Have 
 your team open/flash/smoke and clear, and by the time you enter, all the room is clear. While this 
 certainly doesn't work for areas like Casino Floors (again, Dante's Casino springs to mind) , room 
 to room clearing to cover your ass generally can be left to your teammates without mishap.
  
  The Enemy AI is also almost disturbingly good. They have the uncanny ability to stay completely 
 silent when your team moves forward, then suddenly unleash a hellstorm of light machine gun and 
 sniper fire when you're in the middle of the area. Many times, I'd be walking through an area, 
 and peek around cover, only for a "BANG!! Cri-chk, cri-chk," and I'd be dead, going "What the ***** 
 was that?!?!" Obviously, sniper on the roof tops. You'll probably die in the same area several 
 times until you figure out where the sniper is in the area. The shotguns are also extremely powerful. 
 If you hear a "crk-crk" of a shotgun, FIND COVER and STAY THERE!!!!! Exposing your head without 
 knowing where the shot gunner is will get you killed immediately, no questions asked. You HAVE 
 to play smart in R-six Vegas 2. A good general tactic is to spot the muzzle flash, then aim in 
 that general vicinity until you see the terrorist's head pop out. A quick head shot, and he's dead. 
 The Enemy AI is also disturbing in its complexity. When entering an area, you HAVE to make sure 
 you know where the baddies are, or you have to make sure to cover your ass ten times over, 'cause 
 otherwise, you're gonna be flanked and get your ass fragged. Seriously. The Enemy is also good 
 at running Suppressing Fire, Covering Fire, Diversions, VERY accurate grenade throwing, and many 
 of them will have bulletproof shields in the later chapters. The key is to shoot their legs. For 
 some reason, they die after enough bullets in the legs. Everything else is up to the expected Tom 
 Clancy accuracy standards, so we're good there.
  
  Story line: Again, pretty redundant. The only difference? There's no motive this time. Before, 
 it was to take out Rainbow as a threat. Now, it's just random bombings. Though if you play through 
 it, there's an ending explaining it all, though it'd spoil the ending if I told you....
  
  Graphics: If you have a crappy TV, don't expect much. A high-def capable TV is a must, and you 
 can set your PS3 for digital in the System Settings menu. I got mine to 1080i, and it is BLOODY 
 BRILLIANT!! While the water rendering could definitely be better, it is quite satisfying to see 
 your enemy's brain explode from a sniper round. Like, literally explode, there's blood all over 
 and everything!! The bullet holes are authentic and in the right direction in reference to your 
 shooting, and everything else is well rendered, though it'd definitely be better on PC, as usual. 
 
  
  Advertising: I gotta disagree with GameSpot on this one. The only advertising I found was the commercial 
 for the internet company (can't remember which one) in the Major League Gaming Expo in the Convention 
 Center. Seems logical for a MLG Expo!! Unless we were referring to the MLG expo itself, where I 
 simply say that any Expo is plausible at the Convention Center. 
  
  Controls: Simple to learn, easy to handle. I'm a PS2 gamer, myself, and I keep getting R3 and L1 
 swapped (the Zoom buttons on PS3 and PS2, respectively) . However, the button for "throw grenade" 
 and "cancel (in pause menu) " are the same, so if you get antsy and accidentally press Circle more 
 than once, you'll find yourself blown up. 
  
  Err... I hope I didn't forget anything.......
  
  
  
  Anyway, Final Verdict: A positively 
 addictive game with well thought out controls and combat. Not quite brilliant, but extremely good 
 graphics and a very well done AI make this a great game, but the redundant and slightly pointless 
 storyline (which is basically: There's a bomb here, go diffuse it) detract from its brilliance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review on R6V2
  
  Graphics- The graphics are amazing, they look awesome and look real, and when your playing online 
 if you have a microphone plugged into your PS3 when you talk the mouth on your swat character moves.
 
  
  Maps- The maps kind of all look the same, the Casino feel to it, which is the Vegas part of it 
 i guess, but I think that they could have added some different ones. 
  
  Controls- The controls are pretty basic, X jump, O grenade, sqaure reload, triangle switch guns, 
 R1 shoot, R2 switch between auto or bust fire, L2 hide behind door or table, R3 sprint, R4 aim
 
  
  Online- The online portion is okay, depends where you are but it lags sometimes, other than that 
 it is pretty good.
  
  Creation- There is a creation zone where you can change your characters apparel, guns, armor, masks, 
 hats, glasses, ECT.
  
  All together, this is an awesome game to get. If your a Tom Clancy fan then i recomend you to get 
 this game. Although it's not a perfect 10 it is a great game. I hope my review was helpfull.
  
  _seannyboy357_ 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Little late for the review off me, But Its near Christmas, Many people are looking for cheap games 
 for the Children, Or whatever.
  
  I'll break it down, This game is a decent shooter, Bad graphics and fairly Average gameplay. The 
 Online is Overrated, It really has some strange controls also.
  
  Graphics - 5/10
  Gameplay - 6/10
  Story - 7/10
  Replay Value - 3/10
  Online Multiplayer - 5/10
  
  Breakdown 
 ---
  
  Graphics - Average, Bad textures, Not at all showing what the PS3 or 360 can do Graphically.
 
  
  Gameplay - Very very very annoying. Bad controls are the main breaker for this game, You use R3 
 to Hold Aim, How strange.. The guns feel REALLY heavy and there is only 'Hold Aim' And no 'Hold 
 and release' Like COD for example. 
  
  Story - Decent story, Probably the best part about the game, Its worth a go, I enjoyed it a little.
 
  
  Replay Value - Only if its your only game, And you are VERY Bored.
  
  Online Multiplayer - Just bad. Worse than worse. Overrated, And just annoying. Hard to Kill Opponents, 
 Difficult handling the guns which affect your game, Plus bad maps, And alot of glitches.
  
  This game was fairly decent on release, But now as Resistance 2, COD: WAW, And many other Shooters 
 are released this one, Is a Must NOT Buy. Only buy if it is VERY Cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radamentlg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  I have only been playing some of the side mission stuff, like hunt for terrorist and such; but 
 this game can become highly addictive for those of us that enjoy "Call of Duty" and some of those 
 war games that give you a sense of close combat terror fighting. I am in the US Army and have gone 
 through all the training and experienced close quarters combat, a game like this gives soldiers 
 the freedom to "put your training to the test," with the controls and interaction with the terrorist 
 A. I. 
  I have only been playing the game for a little while but i enjoy the basics that the game has to 
 offer. It is also a great game to play with a bunch of friends and just compete with how far in 
 rank you can get before your buddies and how many more kills you can get.
  
  It is a great game for the Soldiers.
  Helping my friends and i get through the dead space in 
 our Iraq tour this year. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benhead08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous Rainbow 6 games but this one was pretty cool to start off 
 on. Some of the cool things about it is you can customize weapons and your appearance to suit yourself. 
 The way you can take cover and blind fire is also a big plus and they even take it a step further 
 as to make some cover penetrable like wood or thin metal. Probably my favorite thing about this 
 game is the points system. You get rewarded by head shots or killing people with grenades for example. 
 And the rankings take a while to complete but its worth it for the weapons and accessories you 
 can unlock. And you keep the same ranking so the replay value of this game is high. There are a 
 few different modes which add a little veriety. Terrorist hunt is my personal favorite. You and 
 a friend online or even by yourself can take part in this. It's pretty much you go in and clean 
 house. You can select one of three difficulties, easy, medium, and realistic. You will have to 
 use some stragety or you will die fast. Unless your playing on easy lol. All in all this game was 
 fun fun fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok where to begin. Ill start at the overal gameplay. The game is fun and offers a HUGE variety 
 of weapons and gadgets. You can also change the appearance of your character for single player 
 and online. The controls are just right but are easy to forget if you go without playing for a 
 week. The game is a long long long game and keeps you playing for a while. The only 2 things that 
 keep me from giving this game a 9.0 is the graphics and more importantly the variety of challenges 
 and enviremonts. The game constantly has you doing the same old objectives and keeps you gunslinging 
 through buildings and blowing up doors. I could never understand the story's plot or what was going 
 on either. I dont have anything more to say about the game's single player do to its lack of variety. 
 The online play is good but only lets up to 14 people in a single game which sucks. The maps are 
 boring and unlike COD4 maps. They are all building maps. There are a reasonable amount of game 
 modes which are very simple like free for all, Team Deathmatch, Team Leader, etc. There are ranks 
 that you must achieve to unlock certain weapons, grenades, and armors. The online gaming is fun 
 to play but people talking in mics make you want to go shut the **** up!!! Overal this game is 
 worth buying used at gamestop for 40-50$ but isnt worth 60$. I forgot to mention that this game 
 is a 720p game and you can play the story mode in offline or online Co-op. That is all i have to 
 say about this game. I hope this was of some help to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Hi there yall
  
  Right lets start off with the story, i think the story is better this time around, better set peaces 
 better story elements. But the most confusing thing is... It isn't clear to me if this is a sequel 
 or prequel to Vegas 1 hmmm.
  
  As for my "Been there, done that" Classification, it the exact same as Vegas 1 slightly better 
 graphics, but the same engine, same feel to the shooting and the cover shooting still all feel 
 the same. Don't get me wrong it doesn't fail in making you feel like a squad leader and all tactical, 
 the few new addition aren't to be sniffed at either custom characters help make you feel more in 
 control the ability to change your load out for more armor and less speed or vise verser including 
 new cameo patterns which can help show your skill rating online (to me it feels that way) . The 
 ability to level up offline as well as online baffles me a little bit, because it defeats the whole 
 point of playing online play through single player enough and you can top rank have all the good 
 armor and weapons but all of that won't save you from your lack of experience online. 
  
  To me the game was not too long but not too short, just right. The addition of the sprint button 
 isn't that much of a thrill, a nice addition would be able to "lean" around corners as well as 
 wall hugging. There are quite a number of weapons around but very few new add on's for them.
  
  Over all it's the same game as last year, just different story, more small things to peak the 
 interest of the old school Vegas fans. Well worth a play in my book, just remember while playing 
 through you are playing the 2nd Vegas game.
  
  Recommended for: Fans of the first and new comers 
  
  Be warned: Those who played the fist 
 and didn't like it you will not find enough new twists to keep this martini fresh and exciting.
 
  
  Thanks for reading yall
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guerrerro
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Tom Clansey's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of the nicest games for PS3 ever. In fact, the nicest 
 game of all. no game could ever come near it. So first, I have to congratulate the makers of Tom 
 Clansey's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 for a really good game. Thank you!! So, over to the real review of 
 this tremendous game, called "Tom Clansey's Rainbow Six Vegas 2" Everything is just really neat. 
 The graphics are good and the sound is also particularly good. What I love most about this game 
 is your ability to murder other people which I think is very important in this new world with wars 
 and maniacs walking around in the streets of Norway. If there is one thing that might been a little 
 bit better, it would be to part were you don't know what your talking about, like this, since i 
 never even played the game, but I want to, and i want to SO bad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the game right now that is making me rip my hair out yet I cant stop ripping. 
 What I mean is the at RSV2 is really fun but the AI of the enemies makes it all the spicy and sweeter. 
 However, there are 2 things I am disgusted with, firstly is, the lack of innovation, nothing new 
 does this game realy bring to the table. The second item is AI, not the enemy AI but the friendly 
 AI. I died a few times cause my two knuckleheaded partners couldnt decide who would go through 
 the door first. I mean come on if your own guys are getting you killed because they cant follow 
 orders it kind of says something. Rainbow Sixs story is meager yet solid because it still seemes 
 to hint toward a story. That says more for the games writers because most shooters you get so caught 
 up in the action that you lose the minimal story after the first act. Overall though this is a 
 solid worth owning game. Solid in Enemy AI, Graphics, Story and overall content and replayablility. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_w8
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game was the first game I got of my ps3 and I find it really amazing. The game play is good 
 and the characters too. I like the range of the different guns, armor, clothes and camouflages. 
 I wish the story mode was longer because I finished it 6 times. I think it would be better it Micheal 
 and Jung could split up. I am on my way to reach the rank on an elite, but it is a long way because 
 I am still a warrant officer. But it makes me to play it more and more. overall it is a fantastic 
 game. The enemies are clever and funny sometimes. I also like the terrorise hunt missions in the 
 game which is also catchy. It has also different grenade types. But I think there is some thing 
 wrong because in the medals section it is written to finish the story mode in the hardest difficullty. 
 I finished it at reallistic mode but nothing happens.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fresh10112
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Let's get started. Where should I start? Grapics. The graphics, at least in my opinion, are top 
 notch. They may be a little inferior to Call Of Duty 4, but nothing too noticable. The explosions, 
 smoke and flashbang grenades all look great. Sound. Everything about the sound is great. All the 
 guns sound powerful, the explosives haves the bang they should, and you can basically tell where 
 a shootout is from following the hum of guns. 
  Now I'll explain gameplay. This game is just about as tactical as I've seen a first person shooter 
 go. You have nearly comeplete control over your squad's every action. Using them right can make 
 things a ton easier. I won't spend time saying everything you can command them to do, just know 
 you can tell them almost anything. One impotant thing you can do with you're squad is tag enemies. 
 This means you give you're squad top prioriety targets to get rid of. This way you can handle a 
 situation a lot easier and have most of your enemies covered. If you want all the commands read 
 the gamespot review. Now I'll explain the tactics. You can hide behind cover, use blind fire, and 
 throw grenades from cover. Using cover properly is a major aspect of this game. Standing in the 
 open too long will easily get you killed. Just know when to leave you're spot and move on. One 
 great feature is the expanded ranking system. You can level up and customize you're agent or whatever 
 he is, in every single game mode. This same agent is the one you will use in multiplayer, so I 
 recommend playing the campaign to get some quick experience.
  Now I'll tell you about the game modes. The campaign mode was quite enjoyble. Personally I never 
 played the first game, so I pretty much ignored the plot until the end. That's when things get 
 good and the story really comes together. They give you a few options on how to play the story. 
 For difficulty settings there is easy, normal, or realistic. If you're new go to normal. If you're 
 a veteran choose realistic. This mode makes bullets more lethal, gives the enemy more awareness, 
 better aim, and better tactics. When it comes to others playing in the story with you, you also 
 have a few choices to make. There's single player, split screen, and an online co-op option. For 
 an online game you can either host or join a game. Terrorist Hunt is a seperate game mode where 
 you must kill all the enemies in a map. The options are exactly the same as in the campaign mode. 
 The last and best game mode is versus, aka online multiplayer. I won't go into too much detail, 
 but here is how it goes. There are five game modes, and a good handful of maps. There is also a 
 free map pack available at the Plastation Store you should definitely download. 
  When all is said and done, this is a great FPS that an action junky should buy for limitless hours 
 of killing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Very good game and long story. Great maps on this game aswell i would give the graphics about 8 
 out of 10 because the guns are a bit unrealistic but the rest is great. You can make your soldier 
 up by picking his primary and secondary wepons different kind of clothing and armour with a lot 
 of different type of camoflauge that is the best thing about this game. I really enjoyed the story 
 it was really fun and it was making sence lol. I would say this is one of the best shoting game 
 on the playstation 3. The online is very good lots of challanges and badges to collect but you 
 can do this through the single player campaing aswell but there is more point if you do it online. 
 The point system is how you unlock different kind of wepons. If you like first person shoting i 
 consider you to get this game trust me you will not be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Foxtrot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is hard to review. I have never played Rainbow Six Vegas so I can't tell you how much 
 it has changed since then.
  This review is best for those, like me, did not play the previous installments.
  
  
  Story:
 
  Vegas 2 puts in the shoes of a Rainbow operative known as Bishop. You and two other operatives 
 must complete a series of objectives to save hostages and kill a load of terrorists.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is a First Person Sooter/Third person shooter hybrid, meaning that it plays 
 out as an FPS until you use cover or do an action such as climb a rope and then it becomes third 
 person to give you better look of the enviromentand so you can see what you are doing. This works 
 suprisingly well.
  The game also contains a ranking system. As you gain points for killing enemies (and lose some 
 for killing yourself or your team mates) you gain higher ranks (such as sergeant) which unlocks 
 new equipment.
  
  The only problem I have with this game is the rag doll effects. These are a real annoyance to me.
 
  
  Other than that this is a solid shooter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Williamthethor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is almost perfect u can snap to the walls and peak around the corners the graphics are 
 amazing and the game is very in depth in the fact that when you put your silencer on you can actually 
 see him do it and when you switch guns its not like the gun comes out of his butt you can actually 
 your character take it off of his back the customizatoin of your character is amazing and i think 
 its a great feature to add to a shooter you can do so from putting on face masks to choosing differnet 
 coloured and weighted armour all having a big effect on the way your guy is able to move like i 
 said amazing game one my tops but the only thing that keeps it from being perfect is there is no 
 stealth feature by that i mean sure you can put on ur silencer and shoot a guy in the head with 
 out alarming anyone but what i mean is you have to shoot them there is no sneaking up behind a 
 guy and knifing and dragging him into the dark so no one can see no sirry bob u have to shoot him 
 witch takes away from the game play they really do need a melee attack as well its sort of weird 
 when i guy runs up to u and you cant rifle butt so you have to shoot him nevertheless it IS AN 
 AMAZING GAME VERY WELL PUT TOGEATHER AND SO MUCH FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemears
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't see what's all the hype in COD4 on the offline, online multiplayer and playing the story 
 mode when this is all cracked up to be when you use brilliantly smart varieties of made up and 
 updated tactics and other attributes when I recogn that this is probably better than COD4. But 
 beleive, if you like any first person shooters then this is one of the top games for you to buy, 
 and it's only 30 in stores now (Britain) .
  
  
  
  Advantages:
  -Gets you highly addicted to the tactically and slightly stealthy tactical first person shooter.
 
  
  -Thermo and night vission is very useful throughout dark situations and also for tagetting enemies 
 a lot easier.
  
  -Attachments to weapons like 6x to 12x zooms to snippers are useful.
  
  -Loads of different attachments, camoflages, ranks in levels and weapons to unlock.
  
  
 -Blood features and tactically funny talks to other enemies are hilarious with the swearing with 
 each other.
  
  -Loads of offline and online maps.
  
  -Realistic self and enemy actions through out the whole game are amazing.
  
  - Types of attributed 
 weapons are light machine and heavy machine guns, Snipers, assault riffles, shot guns etc.
  
  
  Disadvantages:
  -Graphics are a bit rubbish on the details of yourself and allies for 
 facial texture.
  
  -Online and offline features may get boring after a while, especially if you are no good at it.
 
  
  - Dying on normal and realistic difficulties by enemies are quite easy (but they should be on realistic 
 though)
  
  - Story mode may seem a bit short but includes quite a lot of things to do in mission situations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is an FPS/tactical shooter. Last game you play as Logan Keller but this time 
 you play as Bishop. You can customize this character by choosing his weapons, clothing, face and 
 more.
  
  Story: This game doesn't really have a storyline. I'm almost finished with the game and all I know 
 is that Las Vegas has a bunch of terrorists in the casinos and you have to take them out. Character 
 development is very poor.
  
  Gameplay: You have singleplayer and multiplayer. In the singleplayer you play with 2 other mentally 
 ill teammates. In co-op you have an extra teammate named Knight which player 2 plays as. Commanding 
 your teammates is a pain in the ass. Say I'm attacking and I'm about to die so I try to get back 
 inside. Chances are those idiots are standing in front of the doorway refusing to move out of the 
 way. The enemy AI is not very good either. The game has also introduced a sprint move. But you 
 can only sprint for 5 seconds max. and there is no meter to tell you either. The multiplayer is 
 terrible. Since you can get killed very easily in the campaign the same happens in multiplayer. 
 But other than that the game is extremely fun to play. I recommend co-op though.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very unimpressive. The game makes bad use of the Unreal Engine. I know 
 you play a game not look at it. But this is an example of a next gen game looking like a maxed 
 out last gen game. For example the absolute best looking item in the ENTIRE game was a Taco Time 
 sign. It looked very clear and real and the rest of the game looks kind of ugly. The views are 
 nice though. The Rainbow Team character models are good since you can barely see their faces. The 
 graphics overall are extremely disappointing and even launch titles like Resistance and Call of 
 Duty 2 look much much better than this.
  
  Sound: The sound track is pretty good. The guns sound pretty good too. But the voice acting is 
 not very good even no one talks that much.
  
  Value/tilt: This game for me was barely worth the rent. It had alot of fun moments but too much 
 frustration and a tacked on multiplayer mode keeps RSV2 from becoming the game it should have been. 
 So far Ubisoft has had a rough year. Huge letdowns like Haze and this have come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I liked the first Rainbow Six Vegas game, and this one is just as good, if not better. The gameplay 
 is based off of a cover system, like in Gears of War. There are a variety of different guns to 
 use as you play through the campaign or online. You go through multiple locales as a solider named 
 Bishop. There are many different places you go through in Las Vegas, like in a casino, some guy's 
 rich apartment, malls and others. The weapons are extremely fun to use during the intense combat. 
 The voice acting is generally quite good, but the storyline takes a beating. If you're new to the 
 series and haven't played the first one, chances are you won't be able to follow the story here. 
 The story isn't that well done and there isn't any character explanation. The sound in the game 
 is amazing, whether you're using a sound suppressor or a hand grenade explodes right in front of 
 your face, it's all pretty great. You can play with another person through the short campaign which 
 will take you around seven or eight hours to beat on the lowest difficulty level, but playing with 
 a friend really adds a whole lot more excitement to the already good campaign. The multiplayer 
 is also very fun and there are a variety of different gaming modes. However, the visual presentation 
 is awful. Character models look alright at best, but some of the environments and car explosions 
 look merely bland. The game's controls and gameplay are both good, but the visual presentation 
 and poor storyline bring it down slightly, but it's still a great game to play if you like shooters 
 or action games.
  
  Story: 5/10 -- really poor and there isn't any character explanation
  
  Gameplay: 9.3/10 -- the covering system is good and the action is intense throughout
  
  Sound: 
 9.1/10 -- great voice acting along with the action during gameplay
  
  Graphics: 6/10 -- the game suffers with just bland graphics, but it's not unplayable
  
  Enjoyment: 
 8.8.10 -- great gameplay mechanics, plus the multiplayer and co-op add a lot to the game
  
  Final Thoughts: This isn't the greatest first person shooter out there, but it's still a great 
 game that's worth a buy if you like shooters.
  
  Final Score: 8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AHaliassos
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs. First of all, I havent played the first game in the series. The 
 gameplay is quite good but then it gets a bit boring because you pretty much do the same thing 
 all over again: go to a door, look whats behind it, open the door and kill.
  
  The story is poor as well as the cutscenes. The graphics are very bad for a ps3 game, and also 
 the single player mode is not long at all. But I have to say that the online gameplay is quite 
 entertaining. There is deathmatch, team deathmatch and many more. The only problem is that when 
 you press a button then it takes one second till it actually responds to your action. This might 
 due to my internet connection, but when I press the button to run it responds immediately.
  
  Overall it's not a bad game, but it's not very good either.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Story: 
 6/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Value: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iJeff32
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, I play it all the time. It goes into my list of favorite games.
  
  Few things I don't like though:
  1. The realism could be better, reason I say that is because 
 more could be done when someone gets shot besides a little blood squirting out.
  2. Has a few glitches like if you get to close to your squad you can see the inside of their eyeballs 
 through the back of their head lol, and one more is on Terrorist Hunt; when you shoot someone when 
 they're repelling they don't seem to stop moving.
  3. Your squad seems to get in the way a lot when you're playing single player.
  
  That's about 
 all that I see wrong with this game. I love this game, and it can be very addicting as well. I 
 love getting my person ranked up, and even customizing them. It has amazing game play as well, 
 not the best graphics but the game play is just so good :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDnD-Mtm121
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  but other than that its the same as the first one, and it has graphics that could have been achieved 
 on a ps2, i mean come on, also multiplayer for the first few weeks was **** and still sucks ass 
 from all the damn lagging, and its not my internet, cuz everyone that bought the game sees the 
 same problem, my whole **** clan just quitted playing it, and everyone played something different 
 cuz it was **** dont buy it if you're looking for a great multiplayer, this game has a very fun 
 single player but multiplayer is a rip off, and graphics very poor for what the ps3 could handle, 
 believe me great shooters are noticeable, this is an ok game there is nothing special to it, its 
 pretty basic, its not hard, but the level ups are slow, but at least you can earn the ranks in 
 single player.
  
  
  As to the sound its horrible, i would give it a five out of 20 not ten but 20, there are moments 
 that its just freezes in single player and in multiplayer and all you hear is machine gun shooting 
 the whole time, and you have to wait for like twenty minutes in that annoying noise, its a piss 
 off and it shouldnt be happening but hey, i didnt create the game and i cant fix that problem either
 
  
  
  Gameplay overall is fun i like the fact that you can pick what you character wears and if you have 
 the eye toy you can actually make the guy look like you, but the graphics have some issues and 
 you have to be good at psychology cause your team can go crazy at moments, overall the story mode 
 i actually enjoyed, multi player got me pissed off and thats the reason the score is so low for 
 it, cause shooters should have great multiplayer modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper-1978
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  i first played this game on my mates PC which is average spec but the graphics were pretty good 
 so while blousing for bargain's at play. com found the ltd ed version of the game for 17.99 :D 
 anyway on to the review
  
  at first playing it on the ps3 i was a little disappointed with the graphics comparing it to the 
 PC but soon got into it and really started enjoyed it it's the first tom Clancy game I've played 
 ( I'm more of a call of duty, doom and half life gamer normally ) and if the others are as good 
 as this one i might have to get some of the others :D
  
  if it was just for the single player i would have given this game a 8 but then me and my son started 
 playing co-op and that's where the fun really started over the last couple of weeks we have had 
 loads of fun playing it we are on our 3rd time through and after I've played some of the other 
 games I've bought i might have to play it again, i haven't tried it online yet so might give that 
 ago at some point in the future.
  
  so my final score for this game is 9, very enjoyable and co-op made it for me and if online is 
 as good i will edit this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has everything you need in a stealth shooter, helicopters, guns and amazing 
 graphical locations. You play as a commander of the Rainbow Six team, ordering people around and 
 throwing grenades all over the place, pure genius!
  
  This game follows on nicely from the first, but people new to it, it creates a new story anyway. 
 First, you customize your armor, color, face and looks. It's good to make your own character's 
 armor, it can be as big or little as possible. Then, choose your guns! I recommend the shotgun, 
 pistol, smoke greande and rifle. Don't bother with normal grenades yet, they don't matter until 
 level 4. So, first level and you get to grips with the controlls, moving, fireing and ordering 
 your team to places, to shoot and to bash open doors. "Open and clear" as you say, and away you 
 go. Amazing graphics, the best i have seen, well, except Metal Gear Solid 4, but that isn't this 
 type of game. So, opening amazingly detailed doors, and jumping through glass windows, even though 
 the glass looks like duck tape. But who looks at glass! The only problem with the graphics is the 
 guns, they seem blurry but are fun to handle and shoot, the best gun play i have ever seen, even 
 better than Call Of Duty 4!
  
  Your character is amazing, very well acted, and voice cammands are perfectly playted by other team 
 members and enemies. The storyline is great, and levels are long, worth your money! A superb game, 
 a must have except a few loading times are long and gun graphics are fuzzy.
  
  9.0/10.0 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  i got this game for less then 20 and its been worth it from start to finish.
  
  the campaign is quite long alot longer then most fps, but the only thing with the campaign is that 
 they could of had some FMVs, to make the story telling a lot better but other then that it very 
 good.
  
  it has good tactical elements in it, you can use a snake cam under the door to tag enemys so when 
 your team mates go in they will kill the enemys you tagged first, before killing the other enemys. 
 or while using the snake cam you can order your team mates to flank the enemys though the other 
 door. or though a window, 
  
  also if you send your teammates to the door, you can order them to do various commands, like breach 
 and clear. flash and clear. smoke and clear. frag and clear. or just go in and kill the enemys.
 
  
  
  you have two modes for your A. I teammates will be in there is inflitration, or assalut, they vary, 
 inflitration you can have or team mates to smoke and clear, flash and clear, in assault you can 
 have frag and clear, breach and clear, i can't remember the other one.
  
  you can also send your teammates to through any type of grenade they also vary depending what mode 
 they are in, you can send your teams to further up the level by pointing to where you want them 
 to go and press X. you can send them up/down fast ropes and rappel.
  
  Also the mutiplayer side of the game is good, there is co-op for the story mode in which you can 
 have another person to join and help you, theres 4 player co-op for terriarist hunt, in which you 
 have to kill all the enemeys on the map in a certain time limit, and in a certain amount of respawns. 
 or you can online with up to 16 player deathmatch, team deathmatch, attack and defend and loads 
 more, the only thing is annoying as there isn't any private rooms you will get kicked alot, for 
 sometimes no reason at all which can be annoying.
  
  there is sometims lagg but that is a problem with all 3 versions of the game, it all depends on 
 the hosts connection. 
  
  also people say that this game plays very much like the 1st vegas, well DUH, it is a sequal so 
 of course it going to play like the first one and what is very annoying is if people compare this 
 game to COD4. COD4 not that special. the good thing about vegas 2 that it has a good single player 
 mode.
  
  but the graphics on this game arn't amazing, so don't exspect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HA_Chaosagent
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  So this is the sequel to the Rainbow Six Vegas game, with many improvements. The story mode is 
 a little short but it helps you get used to the feel and control. It also helps you get your rank 
 started so when you go online you will have some better weapons.
  
  
  Now there is a lot for extras for the game. One they added the sprint button which helps a lot. 
 Another thing is the whole customization of your character. Another thing is the Rank which goes 
 up to 100 Eilte. Their is also ACES which award you weapns and EXP by completing certain actions. 
 There is also awards for certain things you do online and off. 
  
  Once you are done with the Story mode, you can go and try Terrorist Hunt. In Terrorist Hunt you 
 pick a map and then you pick many enemies there will be, and then you pick what difficultly you 
 want the enemies to be. Once in the game you will go and find them enemy. You can do this with 
 your Rainbow team from the Story mode, or by your self. The best way to play TH is online co-op. 
 You can play up to 4 people in one game. you can also play split-screen co-op with any player. 
 
  
  Now to the main part of Vegas, Versus mode. In this mode you play against of players in 5 different 
 modes. The first mode is Deathmatch which is Free for all mode which is you against everyone else. 
 To win you have to get to the kill limit or intill the timer runs out. The second mode is Team 
 Deathmatch which is your team vs enemy team. As rules for deathmatch.
  
  Third mode is Team Leader which is a very team player game. First your put into two teams, then 
 at the start of the game your team is given a team leader. The team leader is the most important 
 person in your team. He has to get to the extraction to win the match or you can wipe out the other 
 team. To do that you have kill the team leader since if he does then your team can't respawn. To 
 win you either get to the extraction or wipe out the other team.
  
  The fourth mode is Attack n Defend which has three modes in it. Rescue Hostages, Deploy/defuse 
 bomb, and Recover case. To win you either kill the other team or complete the objective.
  
  The last mode is Team Conquest, which your team need to capture three nodes. To win you have to 
 capture all node and hold them for 30 seconds.
  
  
  Overall this is a very good game for the fan of the series or to new comes and will keep you entertain 
 for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatblade12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Well I have just recived this game from game in the uk and i have got to say for 15 this is amazing.
 
  
  First im going to talk about the gameplay.
  well the first thing i have got to say is that the skill used in this game aparts from others using 
 the walls to protect yourself is really realistic to other shooters. In this game there is also 
 recoil which COD4 does not have a lot of. The storyline is ok but using the rappels makes you feel 
 like James Bond LOL.
  
  Now for the character creation system.
  I have got to say in all my time of playing a shooters i have not seen a character creation system 
 like this. Also gaining ranks makes the chracter creation funner as you dont have all the equipment 
 at the start making the game more addictive.
  
  Now for the next part ONLINE!
  This online play is a lot like COD4 but i would say a tiny bit better as you can hide with skill.
 
  
  So overall i give this a solid 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unhollykilla
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  I was very excited for this game especially since i really enjoyed the first one. The day it came 
 out i went to blockbusters and rented this game ( i didn't want to buy it yet because the review 
 hadn't come out yet.) There were a couple people that said this game horrible online, so i decided 
 to see for myself. I put the game into my ps3 and immediatly went into online play. I really liked 
 the fact that unline in the first game there were actually game rooms so you could actully choose 
 where and with whom you wanted to play. Since im not really familiar with the maps yet, I click 
 on a random game room. First thing it says : unable to connect to host. So I'm like "ok the host 
 must have a real bad connection." I click on the next game room. Same thing. Unable to connect 
 to host. I click on all these random game rooms and still im unable to connect to host. By now 
 im sitting there and like what the ****. After trying about 30 game rooms I finally can get into 
 one. I really liked the online gameplay. Even thought it was similar to the first one i still very 
 much enjoyed it. Overall the online is good but definatly not great because of the constant server 
 problems. 
  After having enough of online, I decided to try the story mode. I have to say i liked it, but after 
 playing for a couple hours i got a little bit boring. Lots of repetition. Also it was very similar 
 to the first rainbow six vegas. I wouldn't say that the game is very hard to beat althought there 
 were a couple of levels where i had to restart a number of times. 
  The graphics in this game are pretty good. There was an improvement over the first game. The sound 
 is ok. They still didn't resolve the gun lag issue. 
  Overall this is a decent game which I am pretty happy I didn't buy. I honestly dont think that 
 spending 60 bucks for this game is smart. Back to R6V1 for online for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  AI: 
  Incredible. Enemies have minds of their own. They flank, attack from all angles and wait it out 
 just to survive if necessary. Sometimes though, the AI is far too intelligent for its own good; 
 sharply increasing the overall difficulty. But in retrospect, this aspect really defines the core 
 gameplay of this series.
  10/10
  
  Graphics: 
  Great. Even better than vegas 1 because of improvements on many different things. Not only is your 
 character fully customizable in single player modes as well, but there are more clothing, weaponry 
 and armor items that you can unlock faster. It really manages to get across that real gritty and 
 hardcore action of the franchise. Blood effects highlight this even more. Also, shaders and textures 
 are also greatly improved. 
  9/10
  
  Level design: 
  Brings a different look to the game and takes you more into the underbelly of las vegas. Problem. 
 You don't feel as if you are in las vegas anymore! The story-line causes for the glits and glam 
 of the city of lights to disappear, because of a sharp drop in population after the terrorist attacks. 
 Nonetheless, levels are very well incorporated into the whole experience... but this whole aspect 
 can leave you moderately disappointed if you've ever played the first game. 
  8/10
  
  Controls: 
  Very sharp and convenient. Even provides a sprint button that was greatly needed 
 in the first game. 
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is an amazing game. Taking place in (gasp) Las Vegas around the events of 
 the first game, you play as someone named Bishop. Bishop is your custom created avatar, for online 
 and offline use. You control Mike and Jung from Vegas 1 during the time that Logan and his team 
 are in Mexico.
  
  The game is great, featuring what little tactical sense we have left in this day of arcade shooters. 
 Although it's not as in depth in planning as the original, it mixes tactical planning with arcade 
 to create a hybrid of two distinct FPS styles. There are multiple way through a situation, with 
 multiple commands available to your teammates. The controls and gameplay is largely the same, feeling 
 somewhat like an expansion pack adding new weapons, levels, and sprinting, with a few new commands 
 while retaining the visual style and sound of the original.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game stands out. You can play the entire non watered down campaign with 
 a teammate (split screen or online through PSN) named Knight. Up to four players (online only) 
 can participate in terrorist hunt, which now allows you to go with your AI teammates when offline. 
 There are less modes, but more focus is put on the existing ones as well as the ranking up of your 
 profile (unlocking new equipment) that can be done online and offline.
  
  There are still a few problems though. The game can feel repetitive if you have the first one with 
 only a few changes as stated above (as well as differently tuned weapons) . Minor graphical glitches 
 and blemishes are also prevalent. During the first few das of online, it was largely impossible 
 to join a game (now fixed) .
  
  If you are a fan of tactical first person shooters, but are at a loss to find any, look no more. 
 Despite it's more arcadey playing style, on realistic you would be hard pressed to find a grittier, 
 more tactical game on today's markets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty good game.
  The gameplay is very good and solid but it doesn't bring many new additions to it's predecessor. You 
 will mainly do the same things as in the first Vegas using the same controls. It's good that the 
 game has all the good things that the first game had but it's a shame that it doesn't really bring 
 anything new.
  The graphics are pretty good and I would say that I always thought the first Vegas to be a very 
 good looking game, this game isn't so spectacular. The graphics are fair and only rarely will you 
 see something over the edge as you used to see in the first game. This is basically the same game 
 from last year but with a new story and some new voices and environments. The story is bad but you 
 don't care because you're here only for shooting. The AI controlled team-mates are better then before 
 but they still get out of control sometimes.
  The best thing about this game is the multiplayer. There are many modes available and the servers 
 are always full. This is good because you will always find someone to play with.
  If you're a fan of the first game in the series, this is a must have but if not you are better of 
 by renting it.
  
  My Score 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixer1282
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  At first I kept getting shot trying to go b**** to the wall savage on the terrorists, it was not 
 untill the peak and poke technique that I mastered the game. I get my dosage of savage b**** out 
 gaming from Gears. This game is a must for those with friends with short attention spans. When 
 If you hunker down it is a quick and sweet game to play in split screen. The action is a little 
 slow but pretty good. The sprintting action is cool... reminds me of the Gears' run. On the PS3 
 its a bitt slippery due to the controller but plays well. The graphics on these games are cool. 
 I love to zoom in with the snipe and get a clean head pop. The new trophy options are cool. I think 
 the only thing is that its kind of simple. Your enemies are almost right where you expect them 
 and tha can get a bit dull. The thermal scan make the game a piece of pie... Looks delicious but 
 is still hot and will burn the roof of your mouth... Grenades Snipes Buddies... Buy it and call your 
 bros over. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazpen90
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing rainbow six on the PlayStation 3 it wasn't bad at all i think the game play is 
 really good the way you can cover yourself and rappel and all kind of guns. I did not enjoy the 
 story that much though it was to dry they could of improved that a lot. I think the challenges 
 is great and badges hard to get so there is a bit of a challenge in the game that what makes this 
 game great. Sound is very good great shooting and exploding so you won't be disappointed with the 
 sound. The on line is good not a lot of games but it very fun and you can work as a team and learn 
 the maps together in the online co-op. So if you haven't played the last rainbow six you should 
 rent it first before you think of buying  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas, I spend more hours playing this game than any other game online. Why? Because 
 its different from other shooters, there is teamwork and strategy, and most of all it has the best 
 maps to do teamwork execution.
  
  When I played RSV2 online, I was really dissapointed, 1st, the maps. These maps are for Halo players, 
 meaning, it is designed for pray and spray noobs. You can't do any teamwork because there is no 
 space to do so. All you have to do in this game is to be like a taliban suicide bomber, sprint 
 then spray everywhere, or throw grenades and incendiaries all over the place.. the strategy and 
 teamwork that made the online addicting is long gone. 2nd, gameplay time online is very short! 
 It took me 30+ minutes to log in, and the online gameplay is only 3 minutes long! WTF?
  
  In the original RSV, you can play 20 minutes online, during this time, you can do adjustments and 
 strategies to fight the enemy clan. If an online game is 3 - 5 minutes long (no respawns) how the 
 hell are you going to do some strategies? Just common sense... pray and spray... hope for the best.. help 
 me God! When you play team leader, all you got to do is kill the leader of the opposing team.. because 
 of this, you will see 3 or 4 players rushing to the teamleader location, on a suicide mission,, spraying 
 FAMAS all over tha place. worst.. they sprint to you on point blank range and empty an entire assault 
 rifle ammo... reminds me of John Rambo... not a anti-terrorist soldier.
  
  The hiding and sniping, strategy is all gone, Ubisoft "Halosize" Rainbow Six Vegas... which is sad.. because 
 only rainbow six vegas does not carry the pray and spray tagline of fps games... until now. The hiding 
 and sniping, strategy is all gone, Ubisoft "Halosize" Rainbow Six Vegas... which is sad.. because 
 only rainbow six vegas does not carry the pray and spray tagline of fps games... until now. The hiding 
 and sniping, strategy is all gone, Ubisoft "Halosize" Rainbow Six Vegas... which is sad.. because 
 only rainbow six vegas does not carry the pray and spray tagline of fps games... until now. The hiding 
 and sniping, strategy is all gone, Ubisoft "Halosize" Rainbow Six Vegas... which is sad.. because 
 only rainbow six vegas does not carry the pray and spray tagline of fps games... until now. The hiding 
 and sniping, strategy is all gone, Ubisoft "Halosize" Rainbow Six Vegas... which is sad.. because 
 only rainbow six vegas does not carry the pray and spray tagline of fps games... until now. The hiding 
 and sniping, strategy is all gone, Ubisoft "Halosize" Rainbow Six Vegas... which is sad.. because 
 only rainbow six vegas does not carry the pray and spray tagline of fps games... until now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pridak123
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite shooters on the PS3. I have not played much of the single player. From 
 what i have played though, it seems pretty solid. What i play the most of in the game is its highly 
 addictive, and entertaining Multiplayer. The second Vegas might not have as many multiplayer modes 
 as the first, it is still just as fun. The competitive modes are very fun to play, but like all 
 online games, can get on your nerves. The ranking system is very solid, and the point system in 
 the game is also a great addition. One thing i love is Terroist hunt. Killing all terriosts on 
 a map is very fun, and challenging at the same time. If you dont use team work, u will wipe out 
 very quickly. This game is alot funner and easier if everyone has a mic in terroist hunt. For every 
 enemy you kill, you get experience, and most of the times points. This makes terriosts hunts alot 
 better, since in the first one, you only got experience points when you won, which didnt happen 
 often. The game offers many choices in guns, and custimization for those guns. Another great addition 
 to the game is the running. Man is that useful. One of the Cons though is the fact that the radar 
 was toned down, and the controls to see it isnt very convinent. Another con is that some times 
 it can be downright impossible to complete a terriost hunt. Overall, this game is a great buy, 
 and is worth buying for just Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas 2 carries on where vegas 1 stopped in which terrorists are threatening sin city 
 (las vegas) once again to take control and destroy it. its up to you and your 2 comrades to stop 
 them before they realise their plots.
  
  rainbow six vegas 2 may not be the revolutionary step people may have hoped but it is still a big 
 enough step to go and buy it from the first one including some ncie additions:
  
  A. C. E. S Sytem: this is a nice addition to where depending on the type of shots you do to kill a 
 terrorist (e. g. behind cover, blindfire, using explosives) you are awarded skill points in either 
 of 3 sections: marksman CQB and Assault. These give you rewards such as unlocking weapons and exp 
 rewards to rank up. They are a nice addition and make you want to play the game to reach up to 
 level 100 which is great, having a high target to reach (this was extended from 25 to 100 from 
 a patch recently)
  
  this can also be completed from offline to online, story mdoe to terrorist hunt and so on. 
  
 
  Rank system: it has around 25 main ranks up to elite but the patch has extended elite to 99 creating 
 more ranks for you to accomplish, making the game a very longlasting game to do giving the amount 
 of additions adding alot of replay value.
  
  revamped exp system: exp is gained from kills instead from each round. it is also gained online 
 and offline which some may seem it will make it easier but it doesnt exclude the experience as 
 it is in both online and offline which is nice. Also, from vegas 1, you can now use your created 
 player online and offline so you can go through the story with a character you made which is also 
 cool.
  
  A run mechanic is implemented this time around making going around places, avoiding grenades and 
 explosives and the overall experience much faster, though this should have been implemented in 
 vegas 1 which is standard in present games.
  
  the graphics have minor tweaks to them frmo vegas 1, not being impressive but enough to keep the 
 experience good. but soemtimes you can see weak textures on vehicles and other items which developers 
 should have improved on. nonethe less character textures are ncie and detailed with armour etc
 
  
  new maps have been added for free via the PSN Store adding the classic calypso casino with improved 
 textures and lighting, which is a bigger difference frmo one and looks far better than before, 
 with lighting used to created an eerie atmosphere. the remaining 2 maps are night maps of maps 
 already (murdertown and CQB training) which is a nice addition but failed to improve textures and 
 lighting.; but tis not so bad.
  
  the story is far less sublime than the original, not as engaging or an enough of an experience 
 to buy the game for its story. but where it really shines is the gameplay experience, tactical 
 strategy with a strong online community which makes the game addictive and enjoyable.
  
  overall, the game has new features, maybe not as much of an upgrade, but nice addiitons that still 
 make it a game to buy.
  
  Score: 8.5/10
  
  PSN: Veteran8701 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leef096
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  the online gameing is amazing the layout of the maps are excellent for snipers close quater combat 
 and sneaky shots. the game features normal online games were you have a mini map, grenade warning, 
 more than needed shots to kill someone realisticlly and you can see all your surrondings in cover. 
 but for the more experienced players or the ones who like a realistic battle there is high stakes 
 mode were you have no map, no grenade warning, 1 shot dead in the head and no more than 3 shots 
 to the body and when yor behind cover all you can see is what you would realistically so you can 
 only see your enemy when you look around.
  also the communinty is good apart from the odd stuck up people.
  the offline is also good for 
 leveling your character and for getting experienced with pulling off quick shots for those intense 
 moments.
  The graffics on the game are really good most of the game is good apart from the fact that you 
 cant rip through walls or at least kill opponets through them with powerful guns. You can kill 
 through wood but you should be able to kill through thin walls. but all in all the game is really 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espnballr24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The is game is great. You get the opp to costomize your character before you begin playing which 
 you cant do in most fps shooters (which is a plus) . The story mode is decent and you can through 
 it too, without going back to where you were on single player story. Online is addictive also, 
 although there are a few glitches here and there. One thing i didnt like is that the AI could of 
 been a bit more aware, not jus sliding down ropes and being easy to shoot. Another plus in this 
 game is the thermal scan, which allows you to view where your enemies are on a map. Also snake 
 cam is more useful now, which allows you to target enemies through a closed door by showing a red 
 target for you and your crew. Overall i think that this game is a solid A. This game is just as 
 good as Cod4 but, cOD4 is just a bit better because of its online modes and 4 player offline mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game has some fantastic elements for a FPS. It also has very mediocre graphics, and a dismal 
 story line. 
  
  It's hard to settle for this after games like COD4 or even Drakes Fortune demonstrate what next 
 gen graphics are all about. Army of Two is another game with much better graphics, and with a similar 
 storyline.
  
  UBISOFT seems to be on a mission to ensure all their games have the most pathetic stories possible, 
 culminating in the miserable Haze. \
  
  Also they never give you a reason this game is called VEGAS. It may as well be Rainbow Six MILWAUKEE. 
 Yeah you shoot some slot machines, thats about it.
  
  I like the series, and the split screen co-op mode is something I look for (Is it so rare that 
 you and a friend would want to sit down and play through a game together? I don't understand the 
 lack of games with split screen co-op, but there have been a few more recently) .
  
  I feel like we shouldn't settle for the mediocrity. UBISOFT has made incredible profits recently, 
 and the more money they make the more the games seem to lack any technical finesse or polish.
 
  
  I do like the variety of weapons. They all have their own feel, which is nice. Overall the control 
 system with the wall hugging is one of the best out there - however in multiplayer mode the wall 
 hug seems useless - you can jsut shoot at an exposed pixel on the screen. This negates the whole 
 wall hug mechanism in online play and you end up playing similarly as Call of Duty.
  
  So if you are going to buy one shooter, buy Call of Duty 4. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjimmyz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  R6V2 is one of the worst looking games on the PS3. Even Resistance has better graphics in comparison. 
 The textures are bland and the environment looks plain **** Only the character skins are bearable 
 in terms of visuals. In terms of locale, there is actually less of Vegas in this game than the 
 first (locations include a hotel, a convention center, and a warehouse, and a train station, but 
 you never revisit the strip) . The gameplay is very linear (does not allow you the freedom to explore 
 Vegas) and the friendly AI is abysmal as they get in your crossfire almost all too often. It seems 
 as if the same problems that plague the first game are recurring annoyances in this one. More often 
 than not, I use my friendly AI as meat shields rather than elements of suppressing fire. Finally, 
 the game actually has constant framerate problems despite having such a graphically impaired gaming 
 engine. The multiplayer is laggy and even though there are some great co-op options, I can never 
 seem to connect for too long in a game due to lag and lack of other players interested in the game. 
 This is one of the only times where I was truly disappointed in a Tom Clancy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  OK, I played the RSV and I loved it, the online, the story, the graphics, and the maker. Then my 
 brother rented the RSV2 and I played it for one day and didn't really like it. My brother played 
 it and loved it, so I really think it depends on you. You play as the same special opps team but 
 the system is a bit different. Now when you kill people you get experience from kills, headshots, 
 grenades, flash kills, and even using cover. This is a bit better than the idea used in the RSV 
 online when you don't really know when you are goin to level up. RSV2 story was good, but it wasn't 
 better than the original story. I personnally felt that they put this game out to fast. I was still 
 playing online with the RSV then I read that RSV2 is coming out in 10 days. The graphics in the 
 game are pretty good with the blood and/on the walls. The graphics are pretty much same as the 
 1st. The guns in the game where the only part I enjoyed. They added new snipers and machine guns 
 that have more fire power and b/s. This in all honesty wasn't my favourite game and I think they 
 rushed it. I gave it an 8.0 dispite this as the new system was good and it was a Tom Clancey game. 
 The amount of fun in this game truly depends on you.
  
  Verdict: If you have the 1st don't get the 2nd (you could rent it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhazim
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  i love this game from first game play it on playstation2 , in thats time the is was not perfect 
 game not bad game all but some it's be vey very hardest , well , the game making players strong 
 and good prave thats cool too i loved this , now to decided for this game we must be said the trueth 
 , first storyline for this game tom clancy's rainbow six vegas 2 it's 9.0 , second thing age of 
 game just right and thats score for that is 10.0 , thired thing speed of game is 10.0 , and fourth 
 thing is effects thats very good for this game and score it's 9.9 , and last thing for this game 
 i think the power graphics for this part tom clancy's rainbow vegas 2 it have 10.0 , and let me 
 tell you my last word for this game the tom clancy's rainbow six vegas 2 is great game ever played 
 in the playstation3 ever . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  This beats splintercell, GRAW2, and all the other Tom Clancy games by far.
  The graphics are virtually amazing, the guns, are real and have a great feel to them, the environments 
 are highly detailed and look just like a real casino. it's like you're really in vegas, which, 
 is a good feeling.
  the tactical cover system is good and the enemy will throw grenades, flank you, and plan out.
 
  The AI is, well, intelligent. 
  The co-op is great, it has drop in drop out, so if you're partner has to go take a dump, he can 
 just drop out then come back again in a few hours. the co-op makes the game WAY easier. and depletes 
 frustration.
  the customizing options are HUGE!
  you can create you're own character, choose your own weapons, add attatchments, etc.
  I know 
 it's not much of a review but I just like to get down to the point.
  Overall this game is a huge succes to me and probably a helluva lot more clancy fans out there. 
 
  
  overall my rating is 10. why?
  graphics 10/10
  gameplay 10/10
  sound 10/10
  tilt 10/10
  value 10/10
  story 8/10 
  AI 10/10 / 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiltz04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game today and i have been playing it for under 10 hours... So far its just seems 
 the same as the first one with very little additives. Gameplay- The gameplay is good as usual very 
 good storyline up till wherever i finished...
  
  Sound/Graphics- Very good in this game probably the best feature...
  
  Online- Online play 
 is fun but could use a little work... Some of the different game modes are very neat including 
 extracting the leader... that one takes a lot of help from your teammates to make sure that is accomplished... very 
 nice!!!
  
  Overall i just think the game is alright nothing special... A first person shooter that everyone 
 including myself has already played in many other games... I just think that this was a forced game 
 out there could of been alot better if they just took there time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Another iteration of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is back but with less bite. 
  
  To start off, the graphics are more polished. Ubisoft has given us better detailed textures and 
 slightly sharper visuals, especially on the online maps, though I must say with caution the game 
 overall has less complex lighting. 
  
  The single player is much weaker the first. In R6V1, you got to see the glitz and glamor of Fremont 
 Street, Vegas lit buildings and several casinos. Here in R6V2, it is largely back alleys and urban 
 areas. Sometimes I felt I never was in Las Vegas. Still, it was interesting to see the city from 
 a different angle. The transition tarnishes the gaming experience a tiny bit, for the bland settings 
 get a little too dull and drab. Nonetheless, there are still a few gambling areas to fight through 
 and a strip club to visit here. The storyline only gets compelling in the later missions, where 
 you get to battle a chopper and finally put to rest the traitor, Gabriel, from the first game. 
 Earlier missions are the usual mix of squad-based maneuvering through the scenarios with Jung and 
 Walter, who are back. Nothing new or nothing you haven't seen from the first there.
  
  Noticeable additions in R6V2 include an improved implementation of Persistent Elite Creation. Instead 
 of having P. E. C available in online multiplayer as in the first one, you get to rank up while playing 
 offline single player as well. There is also a new rewards system which allow for unlocking weapons, 
 camos, armor, points and medals, both for online and offline. Essentially, you get reward for how 
 you kill and play (detonate 4 guys, snipe 20 tangos etc) . I must admit several of the rewards, 
 such as camos and armour, are rehashes are from the first, so don't get too excited with that. 
 The main highlight with R6V2 is the online interface. For the first time, we get a server list 
 to choose from, though pings for servers are unavailable. The first R6V allowed for instant matchup, 
 so you had really no overview of the servers to choose from which got frustrating.
  
  Online for R6V2 is more solid than the first, but nothing fancy. There's a new game mode called 
 Team Leader, which plays out like a TDM but the team's leader has to be killed or else everyone 
 on that team can respawn infinitely. Also the leader can choose to reach a destination point to 
 win the game. Co-op story in R6V2 has taken a downturn, for instead of 4 players in a game now 
 there are only 2 that can, while there are 2 team bots controlled by one player. This is stupid, 
 considering the 4 player co-op story from the previous game worked so well. Some modes found in 
 R6V1 have been removed, like Retrieval and Assassination.
  
  Minor mistakes committed by Ubisoft are the failure to address the glitches, annoying lag and sound 
 loops that occur frequently in the online modes. Many of them were present in the first game. The 
 sound loop is the worse, as the sound of a submachine gun that never dies down has forced me to 
 quit numerous matches.
  
  I must say R6V2 did deliver adequately to satisfy what was missing in the online experience from 
 the original. In all, a weaker single player campaign has been cushioned with a fun-to-play multiplayer 
 component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is my first time buying a game which is a second part of another, a continuation.
  The game is great, new features and good graphics. The game play is awesome but one of the things 
 I did not like was that they changed the button functions from the first version of the game. I 
 still getting confuse thinking im playing the 1st version.
  The other thing that is good is that you can do you best to keep up on your rank and discover new 
 weapons.
  Personally I'm not too exited to be playing this game as I was on the first one. I thought it was 
 going to be like Grand Theft Auto which every version of it is great.
  I find it a little boring.
  The online game got better than the 1st one but im still wondering 
 why I get kick out a lot right after playing a join game. I like that you can create you on profile 
 and person, that makes it look everyone different.
  The bad thing I find is you can get kill very easy also.
  The other thing that is good is that 
 you can do you best to keep up on your rank and discover new weapons. And when you shot a gun, 
 it looks so real as you are really shooting one on real life meaning that your weapon moves as 
 you shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  It is so hard for me to get into first person shoots, primarily because i don't play them enough 
 or can find one that i truly enjoy.
  
  well R6V has taken care of that for me. it is one of the best i have played in a while. i enjoy 
 the modern warfare aspect with the urban settings. i enjoy controlling teammates and even going 
 online to get 'owned' is fun. the story is solid, and the difficulty is just right. i would really 
 like if it was decision based, like i really wanted to save those people in that arena!!!
  
  multiplayer is the best. i can play with a friend or just take it online and play story or 
 terrorist hunt. the hunts are good, but frustrating. i really do not like the 'spawn' technique 
 for the AI. they can appear directly behind you and that gets old quick, especially when it is 
 a room you have just cleared. other than that, it good times, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is one of the most realistic and tactical first person shooters there is. A range on 
 PC and console always held a tactical experience you really had to think about, think about every 
 move, every action before busting into a room. When Rainbow Six Vegas came out, Six's next gen 
 debut, it offered exactly the same experience with brilliant graphics and stunning visuals. Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 delievers the same package, but maybe thats the problem?
  
  Whats new to the game and the first thing you'll be prompted to do when starting the game is create 
 your own character, which you fight as through single playing and multiplayer modes as well as 
 online. You don't create everything about this player, you have a few different faces to give him 
 and his name is already choosen for you, Bishop. However everything else is your choice which is 
 very impressive, you have a nice range of different things such as caps, backwards and forwards, 
 facepaints, kneepads, elbow pads, lots a different camo, sunglasses and weapons, which means you'll 
 never see the same two characters online, a nice step forward.
  
  The other new feature which is one of the best, is the the entire single player mode is all co-op 
 and very fun to do, multiple ways to go in a room, lots of different doors makes for a very exciting 
 co-op expierence. Although co-op will lower the graphics, which ill talk about in a minute, you 
 won't notice it so much, almost next to nothing lag makes a fun time. Its something like Gears 
 of War co-op because they'll give player 2 a new characters thats involved in the story.
  
  However, there are a few down sides to the game, for example the graphics will take a while to 
 load, you'll be clearing rooms out with a gun that you wouldn't be able to tell apart from a black 
 stick because the detail hasnt loaded, this can get annoying. There are other annoying things too 
 like long loading times and team mates who are still alittle stupid, the fact you can't throw a 
 grenade feather than 3 meters is stupid too but the nice gameplay sort counters them in a way. 
 The biggest thing that letsdown this game is the fact its pretty much Rainbow Six Vegas 1 minus 
 the 2 improvements. The story is clever because it mixes it in at the same time Rainbow Six Vegas 
 1 is happening but the missions are still alittle dull and repeatative. Not only that, but this 
 game has, in my own opinion, one of the worst endings to a game I've ever seen, next to Halo 2. 
 It just ends... Honestly, its about tracking this guy, you do your usual open and clear on a bunch 
 of rooms and finding the game, with no spectecular cutscene, to gun dual, just ends. Other than 
 that if you're into thinking and refining every move you make, being as tactical as Jame Bond and 
 having a realistic enemy with some new features, this isn't a bad game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CurryMcFlurry
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  this is possibly the best ps3 shooter ive played
  the graphics are great
  the sounds are good
  guns feel nice especially with the new cover system
  although i feel the 
 only way to enjoy the story mode is on realistic difficulty
  but thats just an opinion
  
  whilst it may be not be as good as COD4 if your into swat style shooting this may be your game
 
  
  the thing i found most enjoyable was just the whole swat styled action as even just entering a 
 door is fun as you tell your guys to bust through with a selection of different ways like flashbangs 
 and all that. along with the almost perfected gun conrols which include shooting from behind walls. even 
 if it means without poking your head out and just shooting blindly. for me honestly with the difficulty 
 on realistic it was challenging to say the least which makes this quite a hard game.
  
  oh and bout the whole not good sequal thing
  with the new cover system and what not that alone 
 would make it a good sequel because the game has been improved and not just the levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the sequel to the awesome first game (Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six Vegas) . I think it lives up to expectations and beyond. The online is great and you'll have 
 fun playing it with buddies or by yourself.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is awesome. The controls are perfect for such a game, except 
 for the zoom button is the analog stick which sucks but you rarely have to zoom in a hurry as the 
 crosshairs do a fine job. The online modes are intense and just plain awesome, it rivals Call of 
 Duty 4 in the realistic modern shooters category. The campaign is pretty good but the mass of your 
 time will probably be playing multiplayer.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics in this game are nothing groundbreaking but they don't fall short of spectacular and 
 again rivals Call of Duty 4. The enviroments, guns, and well everything looks crisp, clean and 
 great.
  
  Overall this game is an awesome squad based shooter by yourself, but it only gets better when you 
 go online or just play with some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  I was a little sceptical at first because of some reviews. I bought it even thoug and I am absoutly 
 stasified with this game.
  
  Vegas 2 is better than Vegas 1 everywhere; graphics are better, controls are better, story is better. 
 You have a very good and addictive expericence playing this game.
  
  If you played Vegas 1, there is absolutly no reason you won't like Vegas 2. So, run to get Vegas 
 2.
  
  Some fellows compared the game to Call of Duty 4 to give their notes. Of course COD4 is a better 
 game. But we are talking a WAR shooter in COD4 but a TACTICAL shooter in Vegas 2. One cannot honnestly 
 bases his evaluation comparing those 2 games.
  
  The only negative point I have wih it, is that a found one bug in the program while playing and 
 I had to delete the "Informations data" once because the game wasn't starting; minus .5 with that.
 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metabeau
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is not the sort of game you would expect it to be. I mean it is good but not 
 great and Call of Duty 4 is so much better. The problem for me is that you simply can't go out 
 guns blazing in Vegas 2, which you can do in Call of Duty 4.
  Another problem with Vegas 2 is that it feels like a juggling act because when you start a level 
 you have to put your silencer on and figure out where to go in order to do the most damage to the 
 enemy. Also, the game is so slow. You have to sneak around everywhere so sometimes it can take 
 about 5 minutes to find an enemy.
  There are good points to the game; the graphics are quite good and the AI is very good. This still 
 does not convince me that Vegas 2 is better than Call of Duty 4 so I would recommend that you rent 
 it first and then, if you don't like it, try Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy_smith85200
Rating: 6
Date: May 30, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  the first game was great, lots of cool looking levels and quite new gameplay. you would expect 
 bigger and better in the sequel right? well, no. the levels are lame and very dull. where are the 
 detailed enviroments from the first game?
  the graphics actually look worse! its ok as shooters go, but nothing new which is a shame as i 
 was looking forward to this. controls are a bit iffy on PC and the fact that you can die from 1 
 shot when you can send in you're men who take 10 times more in the same scene is annoying, along 
 with the fact that they will ignore a sniper, only for you to pop your head round the corner a 
 die. the level of detail is very poor, buildings look basic, as do cars and general objects.
  i wanted to love this game, and its not all bad i guess. the sound is top notch and some of the 
 battles are very engaging. but considering this is a sequel, i was expecting much more. it looks 
 2 years old already.
  still, far cry 2 is out soon :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  I am reviewing this for the PS3.
  
  For those of you who may not be familiar with Rainbow Six, it is a FPS shooter oriented more for 
 strategy lovers. The Vegas series focuses more on a more action, in-your-face style but strategy 
 is still recommended, just not as necessary than former original Rainbow Six serie.
  
  Still it possesses some elements that more cerebral FPS players will get off on.
  
  I ran-through 
 the main-story both in SP mode and split-screen mode with my squad buddy and of course played multi-player 
 before reviewing this game. Without a doubt the most enjoyble aspect is multi-player, but I will 
 start with SP mode.
  
  Let me say first that the SP experience is a frustrating one, but the game does manage to keep 
 you sucked in and seem to grow on you even through all the frustrations because your gameplay isn't 
 the problem.
  It could have been awesome but it rests between good and great...
  Let me explain : in the first Vegas game, the squad would respond to your orders precisely and 
 would end up saving your butt half of the time when some guy you didn't see snuck up on you without 
 you having to say a thing, like buddies do in real life. Ya know when you're assaulting a facility 
 and 3 guys pop behind you, you shouldn't have to SPECIFY to your squad to take new cover and shield 
 fire while you move.
  
  In this new Vegas game maybe they are down to recruiting the slow & inbred in the Rainbow Six Squad. 
 Hey I'm all for equal-opportunity employment, but you know when you've pinned down a bunch of seven 
 tangos down the hall and you are slowly advancing it really sucks to get shot by an ennemy standing 
 right between 3 of your squaddies who are just staring at you and your newly created bullet-holes. 
 
  
  And this will happen to you often in Single Player mode ; I usually end up sending the guys in 
 a corner and lone wolf the map.
  
  Between the way they just HAVE to stand an inch behind you all the time, preventing you retreat 
 or cover, and how they are completely useless in covering your back or any side for that matter 
 when things get loud, they are more useful somewhere far back where they cannot get shot.
  
  Because not only are they completely useless, but you have to keep the retards alive too. If 
 you or the ennemy bangs them up, you have to heal them or you restart. Not that they can heal you 
 or protect you themselves. It ends up being more of a babysitting chore than anything else...
 
  
  Too bad the AI is this bad on that one, the first Vegas was a lot better.
  
  Since this game is using the Unreal engine, the only good thing Ubi did in this game are the player 
 and weapon skins. The weapons are well balanced too which count for something, but I'm really not 
 impressed with their job since they already had a solid engine & AI to start with. The maps are 
 really nothing special, they do the job. Most annoying is the fact that ennemies seem to spawn 
 when you reach a certain range, you could throw a grenade not killing anyone, rush in and a brand 
 new guy would be staring at you, gun blazing. 
  
  This is silly and unforgivable for a strategic shooter...
  
  But when you go throught the SP 
 game with a buddy with SplitScreen, you start to enjoy this game. Like how you can sync an attack 
 through two doors at the same time, tag baddies and clean a room of 6 in an instant if you play 
 with someone who knows how to BOOSH.
  
  Some stupid details, like how only two tangos can be tagged at any time is dumb. I would have liked 
 different tag colors for my buddy and at least 2 independant tags for him to put on tangos too...
 
  
  The way you can get through any map if just one of you stays alive while the other respawns makes 
 the game a lot easier than just the checkpoint system in SP mode, unless you're playing with a 
 more Rambo-type buddy, then you get the job to sit his respawns until he understands this isn't 
 Quake and you advance slowly in RB6V2, using shielding fire to force tangos to seek cover or either 
 take out the ones sticking out easily...
  
  When a good chemistry between two players is reached, the Split-Screen mode Story can get very, 
 very much entertaining.
  
  You get nights of screaming directions and orders at each other, bullet impacts and explosions, 
 calling out any tango that just popped up or the ones you succesfully took care of. The game really 
 succeeds at recreating a war in your living room.
  
  The only thing preventing almost complete sync in Split-Screen mode is the fact you have to babysit 
 the squaddies and how sometimes the entire ennemy force will suddenly seemingly only target the 
 first or second player...
  
  What happens is a bunch of ennemies you haven't reached yet see you through miles away and all 
 start shooting at you, effectively pinning you down under cover if you are lucky enough to find 
 some.
  
  No matter how hard you try to shoot off those six guys, it's almost impossible they all seem to 
 have an angle and no matter where you run, they see you like you were incandescent...
  
  Now right at that same time, the other player can walk right out of cover and kill at least 3 before 
 the AI realize this isn't a single-player game and turn its attention to the other player. Now 
 he's pinned down, you come out and clean the rest. Stupid, stupid AI...
  
  Another thing that can happen in that scenario is they kill the first player, in that case, they 
 all immediately get aware of the position of the other player, wherever he is, and all rush him... 
 This rarely doesn't get ugly in a hurry.
  
  I did however immensely enjoy how the game unlocks new gear, camos, armors and guns. I particularly 
 like to make my guy an hommage to G. I. Joe's Snake Eyes heheh. Every kill nets you XP in one of 
 3 categories, and every category unlock different gun categories (for example, more sniper guns 
 will be unlocked as you increase in Marksmanship level) . You also have an overall Rank (like say 
 First-Sergant) , calulated with the sum of all these categories' XP, it act as a way to unlock new 
 camos & armor. In each category, when you reach an uneven level you'll get gear and every even 
 level you get bonus XP, which means it will take a while to build a well rounded armory, not to 
 mention varying your playing style.
  
  If you are more of shotgun kinda guy, you'll get assault weapons fast, but will be wondering where 
 all the sniper rifles are... Ditto for Snipers, if you go through the SP sniping everything, you'll 
 be staring at a pretty bland equipment screen. You can still get pretty much everything at the 
 same time using C4, pineapple grenades and just a FAMAS picked up on the ground early on, you just 
 add a 6x scope as soon as you can to it. That's the cool thing : Maybe you didn't unlock the weapon 
 yet, but if an ennemy dropped it, you can pick it up AND it will be there next stage -- next game 
 -- any gametype -- next time you boot the PS3 -- as long as you don't change it for one you already 
 have in the equipment screen. This really means you can get any gun you want without having to 
 unlock it in SP.
  
  
  Now for the best part, the multi-player online, just forget about the buggy AI. Forget about stumbling 
 over squaddies while backing up and getting shot because they are an inch behind you every step. 
 Forget about annoying ennemies seeing you through walls, rushing you down for no reason and spawning 
 in rooms you knew you just checked out.
  
  Forget everything bad about this game.
  
  The multi-player is awesome.
  
  Without it and the split-screen mode this game would be a broken 
 down piece. Luckily it completely redeems it and turns a really frustrating single player experience 
 into a very satisfying cooperative shooter.
  
  There is no need to describe a good online FPS, people who know what I'm talking about don't need 
 me babbling about it. But there are different breeds of FPS. If you like to play a FPS where you 
 have to position and use team tactics to be the most succesful as opposed to a game where you simply 
 are succesfull running & gunning, this one will be entertaining for you as well.
  
  Since it aims at being realistic and tactical, it tries to (and succesfully) penalize players who 
 do not play realisticaly, it also advantages players who use real-life military formations and 
 encourages advanced tactics instead of simply basing the action on continuous everything-is-blowing-up 
 action.
  
  I get a lot more satisfaction from being defeated by a well-coordinated twenty minute team effort 
 than winning a game just plucking running ducks. And since running ducks don't play this game for 
 long, we have a great RB6V2 community who is developping.
  
  
  So if you are looking for the best military single-Player FPS, get CoD4. But if you are looking 
 to play something else because you don't like CoD4 MultiPlayer (like me) , you should try RainbowSix 
 Vegas 2. You can probably find it for cheap and it really deserves a go with a buddy you can game 
 with. Now get some C4 and BOOSH that door! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaMunkey01
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  This game had some pretty big shoes to fill R6V1 was an amazing game and at the time the best shooter 
 out on the 360. the new one brings all the same thrills from the first ones, but does not really 
 build upon the game to make it better. And when you have already played the first one to death, 
 it can get a little boring.
  
  GRAPHICS: the new game looks a little better, but not much. It uses the same engine so you cant 
 expect much improvement. Personally I fond this aspect a little disappointing, and if you have 
 been playing COD4 up until now, you probably will be as well. Though they have deviated from the 
 Vegas style which is nice and adds variety to the maps.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Just like the first one its perfect, the guns are great and all feel different and the 
 third person cover system could not be better. the sprint function makes the game faster but if 
 you are playing on a difficult setting you will probably not use this at all.
  
  AI: mostly its fine, enemies stay to cover and do a good job of pinning you down, especially on 
 realistic where you have to pop out at the right time to avoid death. the enemy will frequently 
 run away from you, only to go around the whole map and flank you, which is great and keep you on 
 your toes. though its all to easy to sneak up to enemys from BESIDE them sometimes which is stupid.
 
  
  ONLINE:
  
  the online is bad. After COD4 I though all games would be like that, but its not. most of the time 
 a game is laggy, and not just a bit, but loads.
  
  If you press crouch, it can take up to ten seconds to do so at the worst of times, which when you 
 can die so quickly, is fatal.
  
  On most games I can play anyone anywhere without problems, now if I don't find a good server I 
 am even having problems playing with people in the uk, where I live.
  
  But when you do get a good game its great, and action packed.
  
  SPLIT-SCREEN: this is a game 
 for teamwork which is why split screen is so great, if you get this game you must invite a friend 
 round to play, or you COULD do terrorist hunt online with 4 players, which is great.
  
  
  --------------------------
  
  Overall this game is fun, though it wont last as long as COD4, 
 its fun but the online ruins what could have been an AAA title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashCharge
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I am no rainbow veteran. It was an interesting game to play but it lacked in total enjoyment. The 
 graphics are very good but not as good as Eternal Sonata or COD4. The story, although believable, 
 was not very engrossing. Earning ranks was a great idea and added to the playability of the game. 
 The controls were well designed and added to the game play. But there are some issues with the 
 game play. Weapons hang in mid air, target an enemy in the foot and he dies, and the solo mission 
 is frustrating and leaving you to wish that your team was there again. It is a good game but not 
 worth the full price. I would wait and either rent it or pick it up used. Vegas one, I thought 
 was a better game and its graphics were too. The co-op is the best part of this game and earns 
 the most rank points over the single player game. Hopefully, the Rainbow series wil return to its 
 high standards in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas2 is a good game but I like games that actually make some progress over development 
 time. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 feels like a quick game to boost sales and make some money. The first 
 one was good and I rated it pretty well. This one thought is just the exact same thing just with 
 new maps, sprint and different campaign levels. The story is still the same. Graphics are decent 
 but could use some improving to me. If you've played COD4 it will be tough to get a fix on the 
 controls. The control scheme is still the same but should be changed in my opinion to the style 
 of Gears of War it would just make it easier. Same story same gear just now you can customize your 
 campaign guy and the new voice actor doesn't seem right for this game and kinda throws it off in 
 seriousness.
  Graphics=8.5/10
  Sound=9.5/10 (besides the boring actor)
  Gameplay=7.75 due to some not so friendly controls to COD4 fans and nothing new
  Total 26.75/30 
 a decent tactical shooter that still keeps its potential but doesn't go the extra mile for a legendary 
 game.
  
  The game though tended to bore me and I didn't finish it because it was the same thing just I payed 
 $64 more dollars for new maps and color outfits on my gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milesdavis11
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the campaign. There are always some quirks in a game. For example, elite soldiers 
 would not stack up the way they do in this game unless they want to end up dead. On the other hand, 
 it was a fun game to play and the AI kept the game play interesting. Overall, the campaign was 
 good.
  
  Online play left a lot to be desired. Besides the lag that continues to plague the game, some players 
 can take 6 shots to the head and don't die and your player will get shot once in the chest and 
 it is all over. Obviously, I learned this from experience on many occasions. I do like the pace 
 of the game when it doesn't lag. I also like the lobby format although it would be nice to go into 
 with a predetermined team. After I began to play COD4, I have not come back to this game.
  
  In other words, save your money and buy COD4. You will enjoy it more with less lag and less 
 frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  In 2006 (2007 for Ps3 owners) , Team Rainbow stormed their way onto next gen consoles with a bang. 
 Thousands have continued to flank each other online everyday of their lives. Now, in 2008, the 
 year of battling Nintendo characters, and Liberty City's makeover, Ubisoft Montreal has decided 
 to let everybody have another chance at liberation in Sin City. But is this rush-job showing the 
 signs of it, or has the dev team been able to refine the experience?
  
  The first Vegas left players on a bit of an edge, with the twist at the end that made men scream 
 like girls in horror. Although the narrative design leaves a bit to be desired, what is here manages 
 to put some closure to the overall story. The storytelling in Vegas 2 doesn't do the first much 
 justice, as it is much shorter, and less deep than the previous installment. It's still fairly 
 decent, but it isn't as epic as something like Call of Duty.
  
  Actually, Vegas 2 manages to be both a prequel and a sequel. The game starts off in the French 
 mountains, as you play as a Rainbow operative named Bishop. And your squad just so happens to be 
 Gabriel Nowak and Logan Keller ( (OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH) (If you haven't played the first, then perhaps 
 you should ask a friend to tell you the details) ) After this first mission, the game fast forwards 
 five years into the present, in Las Vegas. As Bishop, your team must stop a terrorist organization 
 from destroying the city. This is occuring about the same time that Logan's team is in Mexico (OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH) 
 There is a theme of trust throughout the game, but it never gets too deep.
  
  For anybody who doesn't know, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a first person shooter, with a cover system 
 that switches into a third person view. You can command two other teammates, and they eventually 
 become crucial, and a bit of a crutch to lean on. You can stack them up against a door, and send 
 them in by certain commands. You can also tell them where to go, who to kill first and last. It's 
 a big help that these guys are incredible marksmen, and will almost always get a headshot. Vegas 
 2 is a very heavy tactical shooter. Patience is really needed, because if you run out into the 
 open, it only takes one burst of fire to bring you down.
  
  Holding the left trigger allows you to put your back against any wall or object that you can use 
 to take cover. You have the ability to lean out to either side, or to look over cover to shoot 
 enemies. This works amazingly well, and is very smooth. It's a main aspect of the gameplay that 
 is easy to get used to.
  
  However, this is a sequel. And sequels are supposed to have either a ton of new content, or be 
 a total refinement of the previous game. Luckily, Vegas 2 is a TOTAL refinement of the original, 
 and even happens to sneak in a little new content.
  
  First of all, graphically, Vegas 2 is absolutely gorgeous compared to the first game. The foggy 
 look and dull textures have all been tossed for a much more sharp, vibrant game. The character 
 models all look much more alive in their animations, and lip syncing, although still only par, 
 is better than before. The framerate is solid throughout, lighting is way more convincing, and 
 the blood splattering is like a Jackson Pollack painting. Absolutely beautiful. Without a doubt, 
 this is one of the best looking shooters out there, surprisingly running on the aging Unreal 3 
 Engine.
  
  Sound quality is also enhanced. The laughably bad voice acting of the first has been thrown away 
 for a more professional and believable outing. The voice are still very out noised by the effects, 
 making it difficult to hear your team speak at times. It's a good thing that the sound effects 
 are excellent.
  
  The controls are a lot smoother and quick this time around. Everything moves much faster, while 
 still managing to keep the tactical side of things in check. Some of the button mapping has been 
 changed, but once you get the hang of it, it's well done. You can now tell you team to throw a 
 grenade somewhere, and now with the simple act of holding down a button, you can sprint. Evading 
 grenades is now possible, the game is quickened significantly, everybody's happy.
  
  The original's crushing difficulty has been scaled back a lot. Apparently, sometime between 2006 
 and now, Ubisoft discovered the "easy difficulty". This opens the game up more to casual gamers, 
 and the game is much more streamlined than before. Enemy AI is better than before, but in this 
 difficulty, they aren't so great at shooting.
  
  There are some attention grabbing set pieces thrown in for good measure. There's a scene where 
 your team is outside of an arena, while the place is gassed, thousands of people are dying on the 
 other side of the door, and you can't do anything about it. You watch one of your teammates fall 
 apart in horror. You bow your head. These are really capturing, and save the lackluster story from 
 destruction.
  
  Stealing a little from Call of Duty 4, you now are able to shoot through cover. Plaster, couches, 
 sheet metal, other people. It adds to the realism of the game, and to be honest, is COD 4's only 
 rival in terms of realism and enjoyment.
  
  The 8 hour journey takes you across all parts of Sin City, and some parts of Nevada. There's no 
 shortage of slot machines to shoot up, but there are less of them than in the original. It's not 
 really disappointing, but I must wonder "Where's Vegas?".
  
  Aside from the campaign, this IS a Rainbow Six game, and it has the multiplayer to back it up. 
 There are about a dozen maps, with several different team based game modes. There's traditional 
 deathmatches, and attack and defend, but there are several other game modes that utilize the power 
 of the team. There's one where there is a leader on each team that must be escorted to an extraction 
 point, and the team loses if he dies. The core gameplay is simply so much fun, and the server and 
 game options are so deep, that there is more than enough here to justify its price tag.
  
  There's the new character system, called ACES. It's an upgrade system, where basically, everything 
 you do on or offline effects your stats. You no longer need to be online to achieve new badges 
 and ranks. This is great, considering I'm now a higher rank in Vegas 2 than Vegas 1 already.
  
  There's also the terrorist hunt arcade mode, which you can now do with a squad, online or off. 
 Enemies are much more evasive and smarter here, and it's a great place to train.
  
  Vegas 2 has everything going for it. Aside from the shallow story, there is so much here to make 
 it a quality sequel. Enhanced everything, I like to call it. If you have played the first, buy 
 this one. If you haven't, buy this one. Everybody will find something to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  There are things I prefer about this one and things that were better in the first one, Ill start 
 off with the bad:
  
  Its got more glitches.
  Online Lags more.
  No Retrieval.
  Maps arent as good.
  Controls dont feel as good.
  Storyline/Characters arent as good.
  
 
  There are some very nice new features though, such as sprint, face mapping and ranking up offline 
 and per kill.
  
  Graphics have improved a fair bit as you would expect, they look very nice.
  
  The sprint feature 
 has been implemented well. It feels good and it can help you out in alot of situations. The face 
 mapping looks ok, a bit wierd but its a cool feature, I have used it but my face looks really white.
 
  
  Maps are ok, most of them are too big and not enough maps from the first RB6 were included, I miss 
 Border Town, Calypso etc
  
  Overall I am going to give this game a 9, very good game but it has some problems.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  I've bought this game to play after Call of Duty 4 and I have to say that call of duty 4 is more 
 for my taste. Both are shooting games, but this game is more strategic and therefore it is at a 
 slower pace than COD4. The fact that you can customize your own guy is cool, but I don't like the 
 guns so much. They are way too shaky when shoot (I'm guessing that it adds to the reality of things, 
 but I don't think that the guns in real life whould shake so much that your aiming site is all 
 over the place) . The controller buttons are totally different between RSV2 and COD4 and so it takes 
 a little of getting used to (I like the COD4 style better) . For RSV2 I would like the ability to 
 craw, maybe they have it and I don't know how to use it. I like the fact that you can hide and 
 peeping around corners. The shooting around your hiding place is also a nice touch. Over all, this 
 game is good. I also like the fact that it has mulplayer coop where as the COD4 doesn't. However, 
 I wish I had rented it instead. For those who are addicted to COD4, I don't know if you're going 
 to give up that addiction and go for this one. I'm certainly going back to play COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I picked this one up on the realese date and was expecting something like the last one, and well 
 thats what I got, but the good thing is the last one was amazing. This one has added to where you 
 can earn XP points in the story mode. It has also added something called A. C. E. S. which is excuted 
 flawlessly, that is also how you get weapons now. The only thing you get from XP is camo and armor. The 
 ranking system is still great and pretty hard as long as you don't glitch your way to the top. The 
 terrorist hunts are still intense and difficult. Its not as easy as it was before to advance with 
 the terrorist hunts, now you don't get 600 points each time, you now get ever how many terrorist's 
 on the map times 10 on realistic or times 5 on normal. They added a few new game types to play with 
 online but they feel lackluster and not put together right. The team work is still great. And the 
 story puts a good ending to the first one. I also thought this story was more interesting than the 
 last, although it is just a continuation of the last one. But all in all this is a definate buy
 
  
  Real Score:9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twitch27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Story mode can get a little boring after a few hours of playing it. The other two people who follow 
 bishop are the most annoying people ever. but i love the online and i am addicted to it. Except 
 sometimes online someones gun fire audio will lag and is really annoying. and the sniper rifles 
 should cause a little more damage. its a mission killing someone with a sniper rifle unless its 
 a head shot. and dont be fooled by how bad RSV1 was. this is alot better than it. i admit when 
 first playing the online its tough with the weapons provided. but i recomend a FAMAS with a 6X 
 scope. the ragdoll deaths are a funny feature especially when you kill with your frags.
  
  Streets is an awesome match for snipers
  
  Vegas Junkyark is amazing for the short range kills 
 but also has some good places to camp out and snipe. (this is my faviorite online level)
  
  Three Kingdoms Casino is a great map
  
  Villa is awesome and i totally recomend getting you 
 shotgun out and your frags for this level
  
  Over all its an awesome game and well worth going out and buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaydeep12
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game. I would say that the graphics are pretty good, and the gameplay 
 is amazing.
  
  The game is mainly devoted to its online because when you start it up for the first time you must 
 create a player for single and multiplayer modes.
  
  The single-player mode is great because of the specific ways to complete an objective. Sometimes 
 you must break in my the side of building by rappelling from the roof to the correct floor and 
 break through the glass and other times you have to take out the guards with silenced snipers.
 
  
  Now the multiplayer on the other hand is excellent. You have three main options; 1. Play online, 
 2. Terrorist Hunt, and 3. Co-op story.
  1. The online mode is great because you can join games or create them and if you do create a game 
 you can always kick someone that you don't want or set up teams and rules like what weapons can 
 be used. The only problem I found was that you have to be EXTREMELY cautious because my first try 
 at online resulted in 3 kills and 18 deaths. This happened because I was not aware that it wasn't 
 like Call of Duty and you can't run all over the place without getting killed immediately.
  2. Terrorist Hunt is the mode where you (by yourself, with AI or online) look for the terrorists 
 in a map and try to eliminate them. But if you die you don't come back unless all the terrorists 
 die, all your team dies and of coarse if the host ends the game.
  3. Co-op story is great if you don't want your friend to come to your house to play with you because 
 now you don't have to worry about a split screen. The story is exactly the same except now while 
 playing online co-op you can get more challenges completed to unlock new guns, camo and etc.
  
  In conclusion, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great tactical shooter with a lot to offer the buyer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexandros0123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Awesome game !!!
  great online multiplyer very similar to call of duty 4 with a point system also similar to call 
 of duty for except on this you can gain points on offline mode (story) the charcter custimization 
 is fun with a wide range of weapons, clothes and armor to choose from. your character can be seen 
 offline and online so everyone has a unique charcter . i would highly recommend this game to any 
 ps3 owner.
  I own this game and spend many hours on the highly addictive multiplayer mode .
  ( the villa 
 is the best on team deathmatch with a shotgun.
  If anyone gets or already owns this game add me on alexandros01 and I will have to thrash you on 
 a match. 
  the online play always has people playing no matter what time and the good thing is you can choose 
 what match you go on not like call of duty 4 where it just puts you on a match. 
  the other cool thing is the ability to choose any weapons and explosives every time you die or 
 before the match.
  on multiplayer modes you only get one primary weapon and a pistol but on story mode you get two 
 primary weapons and a pistol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdcjb100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Frame rate fine graphics could have been better. Campaign needs to be not so much like the first 
 one. More levels. Different multiplayer choices on designing character. 9.5 very good shooter. 
 should be better in the way multiplayer is run possibly. almost but not quite just that it needs 
 something more. better sound track more interactive of a shooter downloadble content would be very 
 nice to have. On multiplayer have ranking of your profile. Multiplayer needs cuztomization to character 
 better communication on chatting able to have different paths in the campaign mode harder difficulties. 
 not a whole lot better than the first one! more interactive and more unique would be very nice 
 CCCCaaaaANNNNN SOOOMMMEEEOONNEE PLEASE BE CREATIVE THESE DAYS COME UP WITH NEW FRESH GAMES THEIR 
 ALL SO FAR THE SAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  i had never played a rainbow six game before this one. heck i hadn't ever played a tom clancy game 
 at all. i had NO idea what i was in for with a tactical shooter like this since all i had played 
 before was socom. i was pleasantly suprised.
  
  
  needless to say i had no idea what was going on in the story so i read it on wikipedia and it was 
 moderately interesting. i finished this game in like 8 hours and it was still only moderately interesting. 
 i guess it does finalize the story if you really cared. not much to say about single player.
  
  i WAS upset that most of the fighting you do isn't actually in a casino, or any vegas hot spots. 
 the convention center was trippy, the theater had amazing music out of nowhere, and the three kingdoms 
 casino was fun because its the only actual casino in the game. i got over this though because the 
 maps that are in the game are very well thought out, i realize the more i play in them, the more 
 you see where people are probably hiding and where a good tactical spot to be in is. the maps vary 
 a lot in size, the smallest is probably presidio, which is just one warehouse with boxes and shelves 
 sprawled about, and the largest is definitely convention center, with a gaming room, a theater 
 room, a dining hall, and some other giant room with random stuff in it. my favorite is killhouse, 
 where its 2 identical buildings with windows facing each other and there is only one way in or 
 out of each of the buildings. it makes for some fun choking
  
  the overall set up online is exactly what every game should be like. you can access your friends 
 list in game at any time (even while your playing) , you can send invites to 12 people at a time 
 (while your playing) and while you're doing these things the voice chat stays on with your team 
 or lobby. its really nice to be able to invite and talk to your friends without having to leave 
 a game, and at this point every online game should have this in there. if ubisoft can make a multiplatform 
 like this THIS compatible, than so can you sony.
  
  the ranking and aces is a nice thing to keep you motivated while it lasts, and the guns you get 
 often are a lot better than the earlier ones, but some of the best guns are the ones you begin 
 with. just remember this: stats mean nothing. try out a gun before you judge it.
  
  and yes, you really can take a picture of your face and the game will graft it onto your character. 
 i tried it, and it worked rather well, but if the proportions of your face aren't like the games 
 faces (fyi, they aren't) than it will look a little funny. but if you have the eye i suggest trying 
 it out cuz its a hoot.
  
  i just said a lot of nothing but my point is i enjoyed this game a lot and i will continue the 
 rainbow six/clancy series from now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was a big shooter back in 2006 before COD4 appeared. Among those fps fans it 
 was one of the first step next gen in terms of online gaming. With a wide range of guns, tactical 
 apporach and ranks, R6V was the game to play for online gamers. Now only a year and a half later, 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has been released. Not a satisfying sequel but it certainly brings back the 
 formula with improvements and better overall experience.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: The single player returns with the generic story, terrorists in Vegas, go take em out. 
 You will follow Bishop and the Rainbow team around Vegas taking out the terrorists. But this is 
 where my first problem arose, your not going through the Vegas that you know. Though there are 
 some levels where you are cruising through some casino and clubs, but majority of the game your 
 gonna be in the backstreets, the dark side to Vegas. The tactical gameplay is still there and it 
 never gets old. Snake Cam for whos on the other side of the door, put priority on whos to die first, 
 give the order to breach and clear. Your team mates AI is decent, theres always a few times that 
 you think there IQ is the same as there shoe number but not to worry, most of the time they get 
 the job done. The cover system is great, walk up to a wall or anything, you hold L1 and your in 
 cover, you go into a third person view. From there you can pop out and shoot or just do blind fire. 
 Though there are rare times where you pop out and find a terrorist's barrel right in your face, 
 its just part of the game. You extend your popping out from just looking through the opening to 
 looking around the corner. This can be very useful but again you don't know if someone is standing 
 right around the corner so throwing in a grenade is the best way to go. The blind fire works really 
 well too, at times a terrorist is standing right infront of you when you open the door. They are 
 stupid enough to not notice but theres at times a guy far off who can take you out so you use your 
 cross hair, point it towards the terrorist and R1. Without ever getting out of cover you will be 
 able to kill by extending only your gun out. This can be very useful if used correctly and its 
 another one of those elements that makes this game superior to COD4's run and gun. The game also 
 has two vision goggles, thermal and night. Night hardly comin in handy but thermal goggles can 
 be very useful in any type of play. At times your screen is dark, the enemy is far off in the distance 
 camaflouged or a smoke grenade has been used to provide cover. Turning on the thermal goggles allows 
 you to overcome these obstacles, you will see the thermal signals for the enemy and taking them 
 out will not be a problem unless your online facing pros who are not stupid. You can use these 
 goggles in the scope of any gun. It is again a very important element of stradegy. The game now 
 also has a Sprint mode, but holding L2 you will be able to sprint but not for long. Unlike the 
 first game, things get alittle faster due to this sprint mode, but once someone starts firing at 
 you, sprinting isnt going to help. You die much faster in this game and it can be annoying for 
 newcomers. As for variety, the game features alot of guns, yes more than COD4. Through promotion 
 of both rank and ACES you will get new weapons and new customizations. All guns can be customized 
 with all kinds of stuff, relfex scrope, red dot, AG Scopes, Higher Magnification Scopers. Similar 
 to the perks of COD4, you have thinks like Radar Jammer, more magazines but they don't play as 
 big of a part. You also have C4's, Frags, Flashbangs etc. The character customization is a newer 
 added feautre which also adds to the experience. It gives your profile more of a defined look and 
 representation. You can customize your character from head to toe from just clothing which doesn't 
 really gives an advantage or disadvantage to your character. There is armour which can be useful, 
 it allow for you to take more damage but at the cost of your mobility. Overtime you unlock these 
 customizations. ANother improvement is the reward system. There are ranks like any other game and 
 you get XP to get higher in ranks but whats different here is that you can gain ranks in any mode 
 of play. Whether your playing Single Player, Terrorist Hunt, Coop, or Online you will gain XP. 
 Now this may sound great and you may also think at the sametime than anyone can have a killer profile 
 in no time and gain ranks but thats not the case. The disadvantage to gaining ranks in Single Player 
 and Terrorist Hunt is that when you go to play online, you'll play like a recruit. There is so 
 much difference between the two enemies you'll be facing off that if you want to be pro in online, 
 you have to play aganist other ppl otherwise your rank wont fit your skill. Also your leaderboard 
 for each mode is different so cheating there is impossible too. But ranks arent the only way to 
 obtain equipment. There is also a new ACES system which invovles Close Quarters, Assault and Marksmen. 
 All three of these have 20 levels to complete each with around 7 challenges for each. This encourages 
 more of your style of gameplay. If your a sniper you will have the most points in Marksmen etc. 
 But when it comes to variety, there are only 7 challenges always repeated for every level. Though 
 its not a nuisance, there still is no variety when you compare to hundreds of challenges in COD4. 
 However, overall the reward system and customization works all very well. All these gameplay and 
 rewards work for online as well, where the game shines. The reason your buying Vegas 2 should always 
 be online. The game features 5 modes: Attack and Defend, Team Leader, Total Conquest, Team Deathmatch 
 and Deathmatch. Attack Defend has 3 modes in it, including Item Extraction, Demolition and Hostage 
 Rescue. All these very similar to Counter Strike and COD4 but implemented very well. The new ones 
 are Team Leader where you and your team have to take your leader to the extraction point without 
 getting the leader killed, however you can also eliminate the enemy leader and team to win. Another 
 new mode is Demolition, the classic Counter Strike mode of play, one team plants a bomb while the 
 other has to defuse it. Vegas 2 also features Terrorist Hunt (a personal favourite) . You and four 
 players online or offline are to eliminate all terrorist on the map. You can choose your diffculty 
 but it only sets the damage of the guns for the terrorists. However, this mode is where you can 
 have alot of fun, you have 2 or 3 spawns and again a cautious approach is encouraged or even required. 
 Coop is another aspect where you can play the single player with one other buddy who can drop in 
 at anytime and 2 AI's However, the AI's cant be controlled by your buddy and can act very stupid. 
 All these modes require more of a tactical approach because for most of them you have a specific 
 number of Respawns usually 2 or 3. So a more cautious approach is required instead of just running 
 in. Intially, you run in and get killed, this is again one of the spoils of COD4 but if you give 
 this game time, you will come to admire the more tactical approach and more use of your brain. 
 All in all the gameplay, online, single player is awesome. Online should be the reason for getting 
 this game. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS/VISUAL PRESENTATION: This is where the game lacks quality. The graphics aren't impressive 
 or even great. It can be said they are good, but at times you can't stop comparing COD4. The textures 
 are plain and not detailed. The maps can look simple and just boxes molded into shapes. However, 
 the characters and guns do look great. I would expect a 2008 shooter to have better graphics and 
 this game clearly doesnt but they arent bad enough to say this game sucks or stop playing. Despite 
 the fact they are not impressive, they are still decent and solid for you not to bash them or praise 
 em. 
  
  
  
  FINAL COMMENTS: All in all Vegas 2 is a shooter worth getting. It offers great vareity and more 
 of a tactical approach to your gameplay. I couldnt help comparing COD4 all the times to this game 
 and intially I would say COD4 is better. But overtime I realized these are the spoils of COD4. 
 COD4 is a game that has set the standard but it makes some players just want what COD4 offers and 
 nothing more or less. In this case, in alot of areas Vegas 2 offers more, cover, guns, customization 
 and modes. I recommend this game to anyone who is not spoiled by COD4 and has any interest in shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Storyline:
  Story is a little flimsy since your running around Vegas trying to catch terrorists but what Rainbow 
 Six game didn't have a very strong story to begin with. This game reminds me of 24 the TV show 
 but instead of a super operative, you're in tactical gear with a couple other teammates and you 
 use tactics and some strategy to gain the upper hand in close courter combat. The game is very 
 linear and you really can't explore too much but that's not why we play these types of games is 
 it!
  
  Controlling:
  Controls are perfect, although you might have to switch the control layout so the R2 trigger is 
 primary fire and R1 is grenades (default is the opposite among other small changes) . Another addition 
 I liked was the ability to run. You now can run between cover; however, it's a short burst but 
 fun nonetheless. Another tactical advantage you'll undoubtedly be using is corners cover which 
 you can execute by holding L1 (default) . This allows you to slide along objects and when you reach 
 a corner you can either blind fire around it or you can peek out and shoot.
  
  Enemies:
  Enemies aren't all that intelligent but they will try to kill you if you're not paying attention. 
 Overall it really isn't hard to move through the levels swiftly if you use your team and tactics 
 efficiently.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is really, really fun, although I really haven't been on it since my network connections 
 aren't as strong as I would like it to be due to other downloads but when I'm on it a blast. I 
 prefer team death match but every other type of game play has their strengths and weaknesses.
 
  
  Features:
  Theres a feature called terrorist hunt. These are maps that you try to take out every terrorist 
 on the map. You are with your teammates and you can use any tactic you want. I've beaten the first 
 level on normal and they were a challenge but I eventually killed them all. You can also gain experience 
 through this as well.
  
  All in all it's a good game to pass the time but if you want something with a little more substance 
 in story then this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GermanFizzle08
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I dont really have much to say other than this game is extremely boring. I rented this game and 
 could not even pull myself to play it past the first couple levels. It is just another below average 
 first-person shooter. If you are looking for another miitaryesque type of game then you might like 
 this, but if not then it is a waste of money to even rent. It is just another over-hyped letdown, 
 like most first-person shooter games are in this overcrowded genre. If you really want to make 
 a game in first-person, then you have to put something new into the mix, not just following the 
 Halo formula into mediocrity. Playing this game reminded me of every other shooter made in the 
 last 5 years, but not as good as any of them.
  
  Focusing on the game itself, the controls are responsive, which they should be for an over-budget 
 Tom Clancy game. The graphics are great, which they should be for a PS3 game. The gameplay is shoot 
 shoot shoot, like every other shooter hence the name. It is just the same as every game made on 
 the PS3 that carries the shooter name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the single player campaign, and I'm not interested in multi-player, so it was a 
 pretty short and somewhat frustrating play-though for me. 
  
  I'm also a little mad at myself for putting down an extra $10 for the "Limited Edition" and all 
 that was different was some boring extra DVD of people playing the game and a crummy keychain chochki 
 - definitely not worth it!
  
  Technically it's pretty good, although I never did get used to the control layout they picked - 
 usually throwing a grenade when I meant to do something else. The graphics and sound were pretty 
 well done, although the sound mixing was off in some places.
  
  Your AI teammates were usually pretty helpful, although they seemed to get hung up occasionally 
 forcing me to restart from a checkpoint so they would follow me again. It was fun to give them 
 "move-to" orders and have them follow.
  
  One thing I really didn't like, was for the first 5 chapters all was pretty good difficulty wise 
 on the "normal" setting. The last 2 chapters, were just ridiculously hard and frustrating in comparison. 
 I'm downgrading the score because of this. It made it seem to me like they wanted to make it longer 
 by making you die all the time, rather than to add some actual content.
  
  In Summary - it was just average for me, and I'll never buy another "Limited Edition" again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creamyzish08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  this new installment to rainbow six vegas really is a great game and is a definite must buy if 
 you loved the first one. This game delivers everything in a first person shooter you'd want possibly 
 more as it includes tactical thinking and is also a great shoot em up game. The only flaw i had 
 with this game is that its too much like the first game. it definitely is worth a play if you've 
 played and completed the first game as it tells you all you wanted to know about the past and future 
 of the rainbow six squad. An also added bonus is the great online multi player with co-op story 
 modes and terrorist hunt. Which is also good is the ranking system which would take you weeks or 
 even months to complete which can be almost addictive but makes the game long lasting. overall 
 if you liked the first game you'll love this installment and if your not familiar with the rainbow 
 six series you still love it GREAT GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brievolz84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this up, I came from Rainbow Six: Black Arrow and I do have to say that it's a vast 
 improvement from that game. I've betten the game only once so I really can't go into total detail 
 but I will graze most things; however, from what I've played, it's a fun game. Unlike Black Arrow, 
 you don't have to go through menus after menus to play each level. You do it on the fly with equipment 
 boxes throughout the map or in the helicopter during transit to another area (level) which needless 
 to say is better. That feature was a surprise and a well welcomed one too.
  
  Story is a little flimsy since your running around Vegas trying to catch terrorists but what Rainbow 
 Six game didn't have a very strong story to begin with. This game reminds me of 24 the TV show 
 but instead of a super operative, you're in tactical gear with a couple other teammates and you 
 use tactics and some strategy to gain the upper hand in close courter combat. The game is very 
 linear and you really can't explore too much but that's not why we play these types of games is 
 it! 
  
  Controls are perfect, although you might have to switch the control layout so the R2 trigger is 
 primary fire and R1 is grenades (default is the opposite among other small changes) . Another addition 
 I liked was the ability to run. You now can run between cover; however, it's a short burst but 
 fun nonetheless. Another tactical advantage you'll undoubtedly be using is corners cover which 
 you can execute by holding L1 (default) . This allows you to slide along objects and when you reach 
 a corner you can either blind fire around it or you can peek out and shoot.
  
  Enemies aren't all that intelligent but they will try to kill you if you're not paying attention. 
 Overall it really isn't hard to move through the levels swiftly if you use your team and tactics 
 efficiently. 
  
  Multiplayer is really, really fun, although I really haven't been on it since my network connections 
 aren't as strong as I would like it to be due to other downloads but when I'm on it a blast. I 
 prefer team death match but every other type of game play has their strengths and weaknesses.
 
  
  Theres a feature called terrorist hunt. These are maps that you try to take out every terrorist 
 on the map. You are with your teammates and you can use any tactic you want. I've beaten the first 
 level on normal and they were a challenge but I eventually killed them all. You can also gain experience 
 through this as well.
  
  All in all it's a good game to pass the time but if you want something with a little more substance 
 in story then this game isn't for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ-2K7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Wonderful as the first Vegas was, you'll fall in love all over again. the new customization is 
 great, with many new weapons and clothing to make a truly unique character, which evolves both 
 online and offline. a small problem with the customization is that you are limited to about 15 
 faces for men and about 10 faces for women. if you could change the features like on FIFA 08 it 
 would be a lot better, though it may happen with the future updates. 
  
  the new online play has been greatly improved, with great new modes, maps, weaponry and more ranks 
 it will become truly addictive. a small problem is that occasionally your rank may be reset, as 
 it happened to me today. i went from 3 ranks to elite (the top one) to about 20 ranks to elite. 
 but don't let that put off, just think of it a bit like Call Of Duty 4's prestige modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Just like last year Ubisoft have made the new Rainbow six in las Vegas, Nevada.
  your probibly wondering whats new? well other than improved combat system, offline and online ranking 
 system and sprinting there isnt really much to offer, but those alone just add to an already good 
 experience.
  
  Last years trip to Vegas didn't include include people playing Black jack or getting drunk, instead 
 it had a lot of tacticle shooting action, and a really annoying cliff hanger that left many fans 
 of Rainbow six steamed, this year the story takes place during Vegas 1 so you don't realy miss 
 out on much, besides half it is explained during the game anyway and follows bravo team through 
 Vegas following bishop (your custom guy) , Michelle Walter and Jung lee. this years installment 
 contains the likes of locations like the Vegas convention centre, a neon Graveyard and a oil refinery.
 
  the Ranking system has been set t work offline aswell as online with a system called a. c. e. s. 
 the ranking system gives you rewards like new combat armor and clothing, the a. c. e. s. gives you 
 at certain levels access to the likes of large amounts of experience and more powerful weapons, 
 this gives you something to aim for in the game.
  Finally the combat system has been made better, in 2 ways, one you can now sprint to cover at a 
 fast pace to avoid shots from enemy rifles and secondly your team can now toss frag grenades or 
 smokes anywhere you tell them so if you run out you can command them to take out a guy in a corner 
 a lot easier
  
  All these changes have just made the vegas series a lot richer, along with the multiplayer that 
 has just been updated to make it more accessable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  As a person who never played the first one, I was expecting an amazing game just from the reviews 
 I've heard from friends. Customizing the character right at the start was a very welcome sight, 
 customizing always makes me feel more involved personally. As I started the story mode, I had no 
 idea what was going on, and until I read some other reviews, I still had no clue what was going 
 on even towards the end of the game. So as far as story goes, I would give it a 6, because it is 
 a very unoriginal plot and you have almost no clue what is going on for a good duration of the 
 game. 
  
  The meat of the game comes in the customization of the character during the game as well as the 
 action itself. Now I must say for some reason as I kept getting new gear, it seemed worse and worse 
 then what you start with. The initial guns were almost the best selection. I would of like to have 
 upgraded to better weapons, and not just side grades. Same goes with the gear, there is really 
 no upgrades just side grades. The action is super fun, and since I played on realistic mode, I 
 died quite a bit. Unfortunetaly, unlike CoD where you die and retry a scenario it is completely 
 different then the last time you tried, the bad guys are all in the same spots, you know which 
 doors to come in and where to fire, so it is really a trial and error, rather then mastering tactics. 
 
  So for gameplay i would give it a 8.
  
  Also, there were several glitches I encountered, with people shooting through solid objects, and 
 the graphics were not very impressive at all, although the way you interact with environments was 
 really detailed. I just didn't enjoy flying over las vegas, and the city looked like it was given 
 no detail at all. Looked like the cities you saw in mechwarrior 2 back in the day. So for graphics 
 I would give it a 7.
  
  The reason I had to give it an 8.5 is the game is just plain freaking fun. It doesn't take alot 
 of skill for the single player, but alot of fun things to play around with, like customizing gear, 
 and especially loved shooting while rappelling and the shield. The online experience is very fun, 
 wouldn't say its very addictive, but none the less fun. It is definitely a good break from CoD4, 
 but I rented it with gamefly and I honestly would not purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  If you are interested in buying rainbow six vegas two, it has to be the type of game you like. 
 It is a slower paced shooter that really requires a lot of thinking and patience. 
  Graphics: They are better than the first one but, because they rushed to get it out you can see 
 that in the detail. Although the graphic detail on your character is very well done. The amount 
 of custimizations is very cool.
  Online: Online can be lots of fun, almost everybody has mics and it is very nessacary to use them. 
 It is more of a planned bassed online play. I suggest having a clan, it makes it more fun and if 
 someone in your clan is leader of the game it makes it go faster.
  STORYLINE: What story line?? If you love story lines the campain is not for you!! Although playing 
 it with a friend can be lots of fun. There is more than one enterance into almost every room so 
 you can get your friend on one door, your squad on another and you on another. Another cool thing 
 is that when you are playing off-line you can get upgrades and complete challanges that will effect 
 you online.
  Graphics: 8.5
  Online: 9.5
  Offline: 8.5
  Sound: 8.5
  
  Total 8.5 (not an average) Remmeber if you liked the first one you will enjoy this one a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I bought my PS3 a couple months ago, I knew I had to get this game. I had the first 
 Vegas on 360 and I loved everything about it. It was one of the first games I played on a next 
 gen system, and it blew my mind with the graphics and the gameplay. While R6V2 does'nt wow like 
 the first game, it delivers more of the same tactical gameplay series fans have come to love, and 
 adds a few new tweaks that improve the experience.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is virtually the same except for some major tweaks in the formula. Instead 
 of playing as Logan from R6V1, you'll be playing as Bishop, a character who you build from the 
 ground up. The tweaks you make to Bishop's appearance carry over from the single player to the 
 multiplayer. The tactical aspect of the game is basically the same except you can do a few new 
 things, like tag enemies by priority, order your team to throw grenades, and a couple more minor 
 tweaks. The new experience system is great. Its called ACES and its carried from the multiplayer 
 into the single player. ACES is based on what style you want to play as. If you want to be a marksman, 
 get headshots, and kills from long range. Wanna be an assault master? Get kills from close range. 
 I think this is an excellent aspect to the game. The multiplayer was down for the first week the 
 game released which was a major bummer, but has been fixed since. There are some good modes int 
 he multiplayer and some really good maps. The only complain I can see is that Retrieval mode was 
 left out of the game. This was my favorite mode in the multiplayer of Vegas 1.
  
  Graphics/sound- The graphics are a bit bland I have to say. Theyre not bad, just kinda bland. I 
 heard the graphics for Vegas 1 on PS3 were pretty blurry, but there is none of that to be seen 
 here. The sound is pretty good. The sounds are basically recycled from Vegas 1, but thats not a 
 bad thing. I find it odd that they used the same voice actor from one of the generic terrorists 
 from Vegas 1 and the Splinter Cell games to voice Bishop. That was kind of odd. I didnt find it 
 encumbering though. The sound is still very good.
  
  Fun/Value- This game is very fun. If you like tactical shooters, this one is for you. The single 
 player can last from about 8-10 hours, but the meat of the gameplay is in the multiplayer, which 
 you'll be spending hours upon hours enjoying. There is a lot of value to be had in this game. Its 
 nothing like COD 4, basically because the games are nothing alike. Its an excellent change of pace, 
 but dont expect either game to be like the other. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is an easy game to recommend 
 because of despite a few flaws, it makes up for them in excellent core gameplay and some notable, 
 great improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  What to say about Vegas 2..
  
  Its just an awesome shooter with everything that you would hope for a sequel to be.
  
  The 
 gameplay engine is mostly the same as the First Vegas game.. With more weapons more ways to cuztomize 
 your character and a new upgrading system and better graphics 
  this game has everything to be the best shooter yet
  
  The Graphics have been modified so everything 
 looks so pretty and realisticeven more as was the First Vegas game. And in multiplayer the graphics 
 are top notch too
  
  The Sound effects are just incredible , the gun shots are just so realistic overall all of the 
 sounds are great music included
  
  The Multplayer is mostly like in the first game but with 2 new modes added.
  Youll have a great 
 time playing this game online.
  
  The only Draw back is that there isn't enough maps into the game.. I know for sure that they will 
 release other map packs but at what price ..
  
  Anyway overall i would go and say that this is the best console shooter for the moment.. With a 
 great single and multiplayer experience you cant go wrong with it.
  
  This is a must buy for all PS3 shooter fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 takes place yet again in Sin City, only you don't play as the first games protagonist 
 Logan Keller, you play as Bishop, a character that you can customize from the ground up. You are 
 sent to Sin City after a hostage situation in France (five years ago) to solve the terrorist situation 
 there. It leaves questions from the first game answered and plays very very well. Enemy AI is great 
 as is your team mates resulting in a great balance, a Large array of weapons keeps you playing 
 to unlock all of them and keeps your imagination wide when it comes to customization. Graphically, 
 the game is again very impressive but it doesn't look any different from the first, which is pretty 
 disappointing. Gamneplay hasn't changed alot either except for a new Sprint action. The game also 
 seems to be focused alot on combat and not alot on infiltration techniques, but its satisfying 
 and FPS lovers will like this. But a bit more infiltration stuff wouldn't hurt.
  Multiplayer is better than the first games, with a new TEAM LEADER mode and the usual Ranking sustem, 
 which can be updated outside of Multiplayer. The terrorist Hunt mode has become less stressy thanks 
 to new Respawning techniques and access to your AI buddies, did i mention the two AI buddies join 
 you and a friend on split screen story mode as well? this gives you a wider range for techniques 
 to use in tight situations. It may not have hit us as hard as the first Vegas but it is one hell 
 of a way to end the series, Hopefully, when the next R67 comes out, the formula will be perfected.
 
  Buy this game if you loved Tom Clancy Games, Tactically Shooting or just plain action and shooting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this game day 1 and even though it was my first rainbow six game, I still enjoyed it very 
 much. 
  
  
  Story- In continues from the first rainbow six vegas and you are now in the shoes of Bishop, leader 
 of rainbow team. You're still hunting down the terrorist & logan (the traitor from the first game) 
 throughout vegas for the last time.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are nice, but nothing mind blowing. Music- The music was ok. 
  
  Online- 
 The online matches are the best thing this game offers in my opinion. You have team deathmatch, 
 deathmatch, & attack & defend. You also have terrorist hunt which to me offers the most fun online. 
 Online does have some issues as far as getting kicked out of games, not being able to get into 
 games & minor bugs/glitches. 
  
  
  Overall- Rainbow Six is a good game and should be played if you're a fan of the series or just 
 like strategic fps games. The game has it's ups and downs & is still going through some bugs/glitches, 
 but it is still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok first I did NOT play RSV1. I heard it was a good game with a great multiplayer. I watched the 
 reviews and the Tournaments. But never got around to buying it. So when I heard the second one 
 was coming out I jumped on it.
  
  First off I do not get story very much (maybe b/c I didn't play the first one) so im ganna let 
 that go. 
  
  Second the graphics are good and frame rate is excelent but the sound good use some slight improvements.
 
  
  The online is very fun and not very fast (depending on what you like) . For Ex. if you like UT3 fast 
 and alot of kills fast you probably wont love this game.
  
  The best part is as you rank up, you unlock new weapons and new clothing and body armour for your 
 character (online and offline) . The weapons have many different attachments such as scopes silencers 
 and a bigger magazine clip. The clothing lets you decide on what colour camoflouge you want it. 
 You could have your character completely match in colour.
  
  The story line is very long and kinda drawn out but at no time does it get boring. Though it does 
 get repiditive at points. You have many choices of grenade smoke, frag, incig, and flash. 
  
  There are so many weapons in this game Im guessing there is about over 200 which gives you 
 a really good variety of weaponary. Dueing anytime during a online match you can change up your 
 class types.
  
  One thing that I did not like was that the game did not give you a great tutorial in the begining. 
 
  
  The cover system is very cool and can peack behind walls and such.
  The controls for this are perfect.
  
  A new addition to this game was that you can order your 
 sqaud mates to throw anytype of grenade anywhere you want. Well i'm not sure if this is new to 
 the RSV series but before you go into a room you can put a "Snake Cam" under the door and see if 
 there are any tengos inside the room.
  
  Theres not much more to say but if you like FPS you should definatley try this out, evan if you 
 didn; t play RSV1 you might like RSV2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobble_head17
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas two has picked up where rainbow six vegas left behind, such as the graphics, 
 In the first game the graphics werent so good even on a high definition tv. when i played rainbow 
 six vegas 2 I was surprised to see that the graphics got so much better. I didnt get to finish 
 the game in story mode because i borrowed it frome a friend and he wanted it the next day. but 
 it seems like the story is a good one. I wish i got to finish to see the ending . Rainbow six vegas 
 2 also allows you to sprint making the game go a quicker pace.
  
  In the first game the onlie play was ok but it lagged quite a bit. It also was not very fun. It 
 was nothing compared to call of duty 4. Rainbow six vegas 2 is way better than the first one on 
 because it doesnt lag as much. In the second one you also have more customation on your character. 
 If you own the first rainbow six vegas you definetly need this. Even if you dont have the first 
 one you should still buy the second.
  
  graphics: Way better than first
  
  
  gameplay: faster and more intence than first
  
  
  pros: very fun online and off
  
  cons: Not 
 the same effect because most lvls in light not dark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xun_Jiaxian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I would first like to say that I didn't have the chance to play to first Vegas so I can not compare 
 the two. I am a long time fan of the Rainbow six series, started playing when Rogue Spear came 
 out on the PC. 
  
  
  I honestly couldn't get much into the story but it's about a guy who betrayed rainbow and you pretty 
 much chase him down the entire game. The story may be a bit dull but the action will keep you hooked 
 enough to finish it off.
  When you first fire up this game you will be asked to create a character that you will use in single 
 player and also multi player. This sounds good but the single player XP glitch makes me wish it 
 was separate characters. You can customize your characters gender, face, cloths, and armor. You 
 can mix and match the armor types and colors to your liking and you can use the Playstation Eye 
 to map your face onto your character. 
  
  The graphics in this game are top notch (to my standards) . The maps are alive and usually full of 
 objects to hide behind. You may recognize some of the multiplayer maps from older games in the 
 series make a return here which is a good thing to me because I really love some of those old maps 
 like The Streets.
  
  The gameplay is tactical and just running around trying to kill everything will end in your own 
 death. You use the L1 button to cover behind objects and analog stick to lean out to fire, you 
 can also just blind fire around corners by pushing the R1 button. This is pretty much one of my 
 first console shooters because I prefer to play them on PC but the controls are surprisingly easy 
 but not as easy as using a mouse and keyboard in my opinion.
  
  Everyone seems to be having problems with connecting to online rooms but this seems to be getting 
 better the longer the game is out, but don't let that discourage you from playing this game. Multiplayer 
 Terrorist hunt is very addicting and is what I spend most of my time doing. up to four players 
 can join up to take on the challenge and this can be pretty hard at times on the highest difficulty 
 you need a good group of people to be successful. I didn't spend much time on the Adversarial (player 
 vs Player) mods but they seemed pretty balanced, a lot of run and gunning going on so if you play 
 tactical you will probably to well. 
  
  In conclusion, I think without the XP glitch and connection problems this game would be a 9.0 or 
 higher, addictive gameplay and ranking system gives it a good amount of replay value.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afko
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Great Game!! Got it two days ago and i ve start playing it .. loved it, the coop mode is fantastic 
 and the new enhanced cover-fire system is great!!
  As soon as those windows brake and you hear the glasses falling on the ground and whole nice surround 
 sound hitting you.... damn... just cant stop shooting and continue killing like crazy!!
  
  You cant get bored of this game, just when you think everything is clear, you see terrorists coming 
 down from the roof or jump in from windows with ropes...
  
  The maps are quite good but some get quite dark, but, there you can use the great classic nightvision 
 googles and thermic vision googles!!
  
  Nice choice of weapons in vegas 2 loved the M468, which can be unlocked if your lucky to get the 
 card in your ps3 game box, if not you will get the second choice....
  
  Oh well, overall loved it and will continue playing it!! Worth the money guys and girls go for 
 it, if you like action-tactical games !! 
  
  10/10 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nineball2112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is a solid, engaging FPS that has improved upon it's predecessor.
  
  The single player mode is much the same as the first game, but the graphics are improved, there 
 is a better ranking system (A. C. E. S.) and the levels seem to be designed better.
  
  The new weapons are useful... having different capabilities and are fun to learn about and play 
 around with. 
  
  You have a much better system to customize your character as well. You can spend a lot of time 
 just checking out all the options available to you here.
  
  The game play really shines through. The controls for this version are different than the first 
 game and that threw me off a little bit, but after a while they become natural and you don't really 
 have to think about them.
  
  The terrorist hunt mode is improved. You now have your two other teammates as opposed to just yourself 
 in the first Vegas. It can be frustrating getting you AI teammates to do exactly what you want 
 them to do, but you gain experience each play through so that offsets some of the frustration.
 
  
  I personally had no problems going online with this game. I only played a few rounds because I 
 wanted to finish the single player mode first, but the online play seemed smooth and definately 
 fun.
  
  This may not be The Game of The Year, but it is certainly very much worth getting. I also think 
 it has a pretty high replay value because of the A. C. E. S. system.
  
  Another great game by Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWCsUpAFrEaK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is like a 2nd walk down a familiar hallway except you may notice a few new 
 pictures on the wall this time around. It picks up where Rainbow Six Vegas left off.. and doesn't 
 do much to distinguish itself from its predecessor. This isn't necessarily a bad thing considering 
 how addictive the first game was. Granted there are a few new additions like sprinting and the 
 co-op single player campaign.. but the new A. C. E. S. system where you can gain experience in any 
 online or offline mode (more experience being earned during multiplayer and higher difficulties) .
 
  
  The core tactical shooter gameplay of Vegas remains completely in tact with Vegas 2 and the game 
 uses that to separate itself from other shooters like COD4. However graphically there have been 
 no improvements as Ubisoft looked like they copied and pasted Rainbow Six Vegas with a new story 
 and the new additions and throw in some new weapons. It's more like an expansion in that sense 
 (but hey if it ain't broken then don't fix it.. right?)
  
  Where Vegas 2 truly shines is the single player campaign. It takes you on an adventure through 
 a variety of locations throughout Vegas. From strip club, to a casino, to a hotel, to a theater, 
 there are a variety of scenarios where fierce firefights will break out. Although the level design 
 is somewhat linear (which is something that plagues the FPS genre) , you are provided with many 
 points of entry, and methods to strike down on your unsuspecting terrorist .This makes sure you 
 don't get bored playing the same levels again as well as enhances the re-playability of the co-op 
 single player campaign. Also after every death you have a variety of options to try the next time 
 you load a checkpoint. 
  
  Although RSV2 shines in many ways it is far from perfect and in some aspects, it can be looked 
 at as broken. First was the whole fiasco with the Ubisoft servers.. now with that fixed we actually 
 have a chance to see its real flaws. Second of all i'd like to say the game a whole is graphically 
 unimpressive as you can see I mention this after the game play because it doesn't affect how great 
 a game is for me, but even so the multiplayer can be an eyesore and in some cases looks like a 
 hussied up PS2 game. 
  
  Now on to the game play issues. These issues mostly reside in the multiplayer. There still seem 
 to be some lag issues as shown when someone turns the corner and you pump them full of lead but 
 they still by some miraculous.. well for lack of a better word.. miracle.. kill you. Other than 
 that you really feel as though your weapons dont have any power and at times I felt as though I 
 was actually shooting blanks. 
  
  Another annoying point is the inaccuracy when the action gets into the close quarters region, also 
 the absence of a melee option feels extremely crippling. I just felt like i was playing an "aim 
 while drunk" simulation game while trying to shoot someone two feet in front of me. This is where 
 the game would fail against finely tuned shooters like.. gasp COD4. Although the experience system 
 is great, I see very little need to play this game for the upgrades considering the first assault 
 rifle you get (550 Commando) is pretty much the best overall rifle you get for a long while... 
 and most of the later upgrades include a variety of camouflages.. woot woot.. (sarcasm) .. 
  
  All in all RSV2 is a decent overall package and despite my gripes with it, I don't regret my 
 purchase and have had (and will continue to have) fun with it, considering I'm able to play with 
 my clan from COD4.. Although there are things wrong with RSV2 the game still does many things right 
 and I would recommend it to any FPS or tactical shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  I am not a fan of first person shooters, at all. Before I picked up Resistance I had never played 
 one through to the end, so I was a little leary about buying R6V2, but in all honesty it was fairly 
 enjoyable.
  
  Graphically - it's pretty good, not overly great, nothing to make you stand up and go ohhh, but 
 it does ok for the most part. A few occurences of tearng, some not great character models and ok 
 environments.
  
  Sound - I think I heard the same three songs throughout the entire game. The story moments (especially 
 inside the helicopter, but pretty much everywhere) were next to impossible to make out unless I 
 had my TV up way too loud. They did manage to get most of the weapon sounds right though, from 
 the t-t-t of a silenced MP5 to the POW of a shotgun, that worked.
  
  Story - Was there one? I caught some vague hints about Chemical weapons over the chopper noise, 
 and then I was shooting some guy I apparently worked with before.... That's all I caught of it. 
 Oh and my helicopter pilot got shot in the head......
  
  At this point you may be asking yourself "I thought he said he enjoyed this game" and you're right, 
 it's all in the gameplay baby. I thoroughly enjoyed the team tactics. My comrades were very responsive, 
 pretty intelligent, and very easy to control. Clearing rooms, rappelling, fast roping, infiltration, 
 to extermination, these guys rocked. Online Coop mode is excellent (when it holds the connection) . 
 The ability to earn experience and medals and such in the single player game is a plus, and the 
 upgradable weapons work fairly well. I just wish they would allow the second player more control 
 of the team, but I see why they did it the way they did.
  
  Overall it's really fun, just don't be expecting a Graphically beautiful, story driven game with 
 great music. It's all about killing terrorists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 has a new protagonist named Bishop. The single player of Vegas 2 is pretty boring 
 if you played the first Rainbow 6 Vegas, where all you do is look under doors, shoot terrorists, 
 and reach the objective. But they added some new features like the ability to run, your a. i. team 
 mates can now throw grenades and smoke, and much more weapons and attachments are now added in 
 the game allowing to have variation in the game. The multiplayer aspect of the game is really addicting 
 and fun, but can also be frustrating due to the lag and the host kicking people. Now back to the 
 single player, the levels are greatly designed and very creative. But in this Vegas it doesn't 
 take place in Casinos, it takes place in houses, convention centers, and old parts of Vegas.
  Overall if you are a fan of tactical or first person shooters, then give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing such a fast paced COD4 I feel I am playing a game with a stun grenade thrown at me 
 in rainbow six Vegas. The game is so slow that you feel you are walking in hyperspace. I don't 
 know about Xbox but the frame rate is very horrible in ps3 you actually observe the frames. You 
 can call the AI as AL artificial dumbness .I have to guide my computer to do each and every thing 
 .Even the enemy is in the front of them they keep getting the hits. They don't even shoot at them. 
 Even if the player is doing all the work they should at least bluff that they are shooting at somebody. 
 You'll find yourself constantly being shot by snipers when you try to pop out of cover. Overall 
 I was so disappointed. If you've played COD4 don't waist any cash on this! Would have been so much 
 better as a 3rd person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Graphics were my biggest complaint with the original Rainbow 6 Vegas. It looked like a PS2.5 
 game. Well, rest assured Vegas 2 corrects this glaring problem with significantly better graphics. 
 From textures to lighting, scenery to players, graphics have been improved across the board. It's 
 still not up to COD4 standards, but pretty damn close.
  
  - Gameplay is top notch, as expected from the original. Cover is easy to use and a key aspect of 
 this game. Unlike COD4, Rainbow forces the player to use strategy to succeed.
  
  - Character customization is excellent. You can select every detail - clothes, armor, guns, even 
 camo patterns. As you progress through the game, and move up in rank, more items are unlocked. 
 What's nice is you earn XP regardless of what game mode you play - single player, online or split 
 screen. That's a nice touch.
  
  - Location design is fresh, highlighting the darker side of Vegas this time around. You'll still 
 get to tear up some casinos, but you'll also play in junk yards, train stations and refineries. 
 Online mode level design is also well done, covering a wide range of locations.
  
  - Speaking of online mode, this aspect of the game has been enhanced. There are more modes to choose 
 from, a more robust XP/rank system. I also found it easy to join games, better than COD4. My favorite 
 mode is terrorist hunt.
  
  - Sound - good use of surround with excellent explosion and gun fire sounds.
  
  The Bad:
 
  - Sound glitches - I found a few instances were the rear surround speakers crackle or pop. Also, 
 sometimes after killing an enemy their gun fire continues to sound off. I'm surprised these obvious 
 bugs were overlooked.
  
  - Story modes lacks a good story... but it's not a big deal.
  
  - As mentioned above graphics could still use some improvement.
  
  The Verdict:
  Overall, 
 this is an excellent sequel. It fixes the problems of the original and builds on all the things 
 that were great. If you enjoyed the original Vegas, or just like 1st person shooters, this game 
 is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  R6V2 is the same as last year. The graphics have been improved and gameplay is smoother.
  
  STORY: Well the game starts out 5 years before the first incident, and then advances a few years 
 after.
  
  NEW GUNS: The new guns are awesome in this game. But they sound the same as the old ones so it's 
 nothing special. CHARACTERS: The characters are the same, you have Jung, and that annoying English 
 dude, I forgot his name. But, you don't play as Logan anymore. You play as Bishop, Male or Female.
 
  
  XP SYSTEM: The xp system is a great idea, but it doesn't work well. You earn xp and get promoted, 
 new guns, camo and all that stuff but it can get frustrating.
  OVERALL: The AI still can get frustrating, there is still annoying glitches in online multiplayer 
 and The sprinting can get crappy at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I was always going to buy Rainbow Six Vegas 2 after completing the first game and being left with 
 one of those thoroughly annoying cliff-hanger endings. Although the story was as mediocre as the 
 first, it did provide sufficient closure and was quite fulfilling upon completion. Also, with the 
 new linked ranking system, single player was worth playing anyway just for the XP. 
  This ranking system was also much improved with the new A. C. E. S. system which stands for something 
 ridiculous (probably just so Ubisoft could use a corny acronym) . This really helps to unlock the 
 best weapons at a faster rate, but does not do the same for armour and clothing. 
  Multiplayer is by far the best improvement from the first game due to the much tweaked ranking 
 system and the wide variety of new maps with some old favourites thrown in. Also it would appear 
 that the teething problems with the servers have been sorted out and so online play is now very 
 smooth.
  Overall, R6V2 is a game that should keep anyone playing for several months to come in order to 
 reach the much sought after "elite" rank, but also because the game is just pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  the game Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six has a huge reputation from other rainbow games such as raven 
 shield, lockdown, vegas 1, etc and they are all successful.
  then came Vegas 2....
  this game has great customization for weapons and especially the characters..
  from:
  - body 
 armor
  - arm armor
  -leg armor
  -shoulder armor
  -chest clothing
  -leg clothing
  -head
  -face
  - etc 
  (OMG)
  
  the story mode for this game is great... could use a bit 
 more work to it but its good.
  the online play is fantastic and has great maps and alot too
  (one problem was that the servers 
 were very bad at connecting at day one but last time i went on i think they fixed the problem so 
 thats good :D)
  i didn't like the ranking system on the game because it took to long to do it (there is a glitch 
 on Youtube or the Net that tell u how to get UNLIMITED XP HINT HINT!!!!)
  
  Graphics could also be worked on even if they use the unreal engine... it can still improve.
 
  
  end result....
  -great game
  -rent it, buy it, its up to u
  -loved the first one (Vegas 1) ? love this one
  -great customization
  -good blend with third 
 person and first person views
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_crosbie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first Vegas so this was a great new experience for me. 
  I spent my whole easter weekend neglecting my family so that i could play this game
  The graphics 
 are not revolutionary by any means but it doesn't take away from the core gameplay which is what 
 matters. The online game modes are addicting and rivals the online goliath of Cod4 IMO. The main 
 issue with Vegas with me was the inability to get into online games. It took me 5-20 servers on 
 average to find a game but it was a great experience after that.
  Terrorist Hunt really brings replay value into the single player campaign. It is challenging but 
 rewarding at the same time and varying difficulties can be set too. Story played little to no role 
 in this game for me but i still felt compelled to follow SIX's orders. Overall this was a excellent 
 game and a must buy for anyone who has never played a Vegas game before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is, well, just average. The story is average, the Graphics and online play are terrible, 
 the Frame rate lags a lot, the Co-Op is fun but the Bad Graphics are scaled down when playing Co-Op. 
 Overall if this was a PS2 game it would be grate but it doesn't hold up to the Next-Gen games like 
 Call of Duty 4, Gears of War, or UT3. 
  
  The most fun part of the Game it the Character Customization which is a cool feature. Also another 
 highlight of the game is the Massive weapon list, and customization of the weapons. there are a 
 variety of attachments for each weapon but you end up using the ACOG and 6x rifle scope the whole 
 time. 
  
  The online system is as bad as it gets. After every match you are forced out of the room and need 
 to reconnect to a new room. this works fine in Gears where you have 3 or more rounds of play that 
 last about 5 or 6 minutes. But in R6V2 the matches last 30 seconds most of the time and only have 
 one round, so the loading screens last longer than Game Play in most cases. 
  
  This game runs n the Unreal Engine but you wouldn't know by looking at it. I have Gears of War 
 on the 360, and I have Unreal Tournament 3 on the PS3 so I know what the Unreal Engine can do. 
 This game should look so much better and run so much smoother. I played R6V2 on the 360 and every 
 time there is smoke on the screen the Frame rate drops dramatically and it is hard to control. 
 This is very difficult on a game that makes you depend on smoke grenades and heat vision to clear 
 some rooms.
  
  Ubisoft needed to spend a few more months to work out the sort comings of the game. The game could 
 have been so much better if a company like EA would have done it. Ubisoft is really getting lazy 
 and not putting in much effort into their latest titles. Can anyone say Assassins Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 is still a great game bringing you the addicive gameplay that everyone loves with its great 
 cover system, and fun tatical gameplay. But it was a little boring for me, because i felt like 
 i had already done all the things that are available in the first vegas. but none the less its 
 still has its strong points and its the best shooter to hit the ps3 since COD4. If your looking 
 for a little change then i highy recommend u picking this game up. But don't go into it expecting 
 something groundbreaking this time around. the new wepons and game modes are great and fun to use. 
 Another new feature is the new ranking system, depending on your syle gameplay you can rank up 
 3 different styles, marksman, cqb, and assault. The story is basically the same thing as the last 
 vegas your trying to stop another terrorist attack, and to do so you need to kill every terrorist 
 known to man. simply all this new stuff wasn't enough to get me as excited as i was when the first 
 one came out. overall its a good game and worth buying if you love shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  After playing the first game I was stunned at how a game could have such a great system of tactics 
 and compelling online modes. But I was shocked at this game.
  
  To start you play bishop and the tutorial sees you free some hostages. Heres where the troubles 
 start. First you'll notice the graphics have downgraded and feel more cartoony thasn realistic. Secondly 
 the controls aren't as good. Every fps fan uses the r2 button to lob a grenade or some other shoulder 
 button but you use the circle button which is annoying. Theres a sprint mechanic which you won't 
 use often. THe cover system works the same only the can get you when your'e in cover. You'll find 
 yourself constantly being shot by snipers when you try to pop out of cover.
  
  Overall I was so disappointed I brought it back after HALF AN HOUR. and bought army of 2. If youv'e 
 played COD4 don't wast any ca$h on this! Get army of two instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamfer3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  It's been around two years since the first Rainbow Six tackled it's next assignment in Vegas. Now 
 it's back adn better than before as it improves on what it lacked in the previous installation. 
 Sure to be a game that will be enjoyed for months to come.
  
  Pros:
  Graphics: Environments and level designs look better than before
  
  Gameplay: Same as the original 
 one, but developers added the riot shield and other combat guns and itmes for those cheap terrorists
 
  
  Customization: What makes this game so cool is your story character carries on unto the online 
 option, as you level up (by killing etc.) you can gain new armor, guns and camo like in COD4. SO 
 you can actually enjoy playing your character without having to lose him or her by completing the 
 story 
  
  Online: A big community to trade bullets with, there are numerous game modes like conquest and 
 team leader. Matchmaking is improved so you can choose what game you want without the strain of 
 joining and leaving
  
  Cons: 
  Close quarter shooting: This can get pretty difficult especially when the crosshairs dissapear 
 when moving around
  
  Occasional lag: The game doesn't exactly run smooth as silk online
  
  Details in graphics: Although the graphics are good, they aren't up to par to the standards 
 of other great graphic games like COD4
  
  The Gist:
  Not exactly besting COD4, but with the endless customization, great online option and great campaign, 
 you'll be hooked on this for months to come. A wonderful game indeed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctan31
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The solo game is good and it brings closure on the story. The maps are bigger and with less cover 
 that forces you to sprint for cover (I like the new feature) . The new weapons are cool and stylish. 
 The action sequences Are great and I think that there is more places to breach rooms and that's 
 more fun tactical wise. 
  
  On the other hand, the story is a bit thin and the info delivered via PIP is given in middle of 
 action so I didn't pay too much attention. The thermoscan didn't give me the position of hostile 
 force alive but the dead also. 
  
  That's for the campaign. For the T-hunt, the addition of your team is making it less difficult 
 to complete the hunt and more fun. But the spawning of the Terrorrists suck as they often spawn 
 next to you or behind you.
  
  The additional functionality (xp, rank and unlocks) are cool but I don't understand why the devs 
 linked the rank and skill (when searchin for a game online) the rank only reflect how long you've 
 been playing not actual skills.
  
  The first time I've seen a guy with a shield I've been suprised and I got creamed when he rushed 
 me ;-p, I've really been suprised.
  
  Where the game lost points is the online because IT DOES NOT WORK. In rb6v I found it awesome but 
 I'll have to wait for Ubisoft to fix the trouble on rb6v2 (when they do i'll edit this review) .
 
  
  For the game I will give it a 6,5 cause the game as no online for now. The rest is still pretty 
 good and the small additions gives a new feel to an old games. The unreal engine is becoming a 
 little old to my senses.
  
  My two cents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammo_lad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is a first person shooter video game and the sequel to Tom Clancy's 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas. It was announced by Ubisoft on November 20, 2007. The game was released for 
 the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 on March 18, 2008 in North America and March 20 in Europe, except 
 in Germany, where the game has been delayed. [3] [4] [5] . The Microsoft Windows version, however, 
 has been delayed until April 15th, 2008. [6]
  
  A world-exclusive first-look of the game appeared in the January edition of the Official Xbox Magazine. 
 One of the biggest announcements is that Logan Keller, the lead character from the previous game, 
 has been removed in favor of having the player create his own character to play through the campaign. 
 The player instead assumes the role of "Bishop", a member of the Rainbow squad with a great deal 
 more experience and who is more deeply involved in the story. The game, billed as "part sequel, 
 part prequel", has events that run both before and concurrently to the story of Logan Keller and 
 continue after where the first game concluded. [7] [8] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navigata
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt what I had totally expected after playing R6V1. Seeing that there were many problems 
 in the first, I and many others had high hopes for this title. Unfortunatley that isnt the case 
 as many bugs make a come back. 
  
  Though they have come back, this is otherwise a great game. As you progress through single player 
 you may notice many differences. New things HAVE come in this Vegas. A new experiance system, A. C. E. S 
 and a new charachter by the name of Bishop.
  
  Single player offers a whole new twist and turns as you start from where you last left off. After 
 playing long and lengthy campaigns as Logan Keller, you have been switched to a guy named "Bishop". 
 On the hunt once again for terrorists and strange activity, it is up to you and your squad to stop 
 them all. As the last game, the squad ai is great. You have many ways in which you can take charge 
 of them. From telling them to clear a room or follow you, they are at your fingertips litteraly. 
 Handling them is extremely easy, as you just point and click where you want them to go. Although 
 this is all great, one small problem may be noticed. They can get stuck in your way. They sometimes 
 dont react and are often glitchy. This is a minor occurance and should not affect overall gameplay 
 of squad. Recommanding them sometimes does the trick. Handling your own charachter in this game 
 is also very simple. With Vegas being a tactical type of game, you will most times find yourself 
 against a wall taking cover. Sneaking around and flanking is what you would primarily do. All this 
 is extremely nice and easy to use with the interface given. Some noted problems to this is that 
 you may go to a wall and not "stick" right away. You may end up leaning on what you didnt intend 
 to. Again, minor problems that may occur.
  
  New gameplay elements include, destructible cover. This feature adds a more realistic approach 
 to what you are behind and what terrorists are behind. Eliminating camping is something that it 
 can also do as it forces you to move around. Destructible cover is great and well used. Shooting 
 through a billboard and killing a terrorist would be a great example as this. Choose your cover!! 
 
  
  The weaponry in this game is very up to date. In this installment of vegas you get 11 new weapons 
 that have never been seen before. Offering multiple weapons and customization to you the player. 
 Through single player you can carry 2 primary weapons and a pistol; in contrast to multiplayer 
 where you can only carry 1 primary and 1 pistol. Weapon combos with accessories such as acog, reflex 
 and laser sights makes the game mold to your gameplay type. With the usage of each weapon you rank 
 up your A. C. E. S
  
  Aces is the newest feature in the game that allows for completion and progress of weapons you use. 
 Through the game completing levels of A. C. E. S is what you will do to attain your weaponry. Marksman, 
 Close Quarter combat and assault are the three main categories. Ranking up in each of these respective 
 areas will unlock new weapons and experiance. Through R6V2, you can now rank up in single player, 
 offline and online multiplayer. Giving you more chances to rank up faster and more easily. From 
 private to elite you will have a blast.
  
  Online of this game is good. Playing things such as coop and terrorist hunt are very fun, until 
 the bugs come in. With the PS3 one of the main problems is connection. Many people cannot connect 
 and thus are frustrated. An occuring trend is that once connected you can be kicked out for various 
 reasons. By the host or randomly. Again a pet peeve. It should be known that this isnt the greatest 
 multiplayer games... But that should change. While broken, once you get into a game it IS VERY VERY 
 FUN. EDIT: ONLINE IS WORKING NOW!
  
  The sound in this game is also a great aspect. With gun shots and noices from enemies and squad 
 mates, its all there. Playing in 5.1 makes it even better. Offering a complete all around level 
 of sound. Some issues are again in the sound as one may hear continuous gun shot firing... Not normal 
 and it can go on forever.
  
  Last but not least the GRAPHICS. In comparison to the old game, the graphics in this title have 
 been drastically improved. Many of the charachter models look more polished and clear. The resolution 
 you can play in is 480i and 720P. The bug with the 1080i resolution is no longer here. But 1080i 
 is not supported. With that being said, some times you may see framerate issues in single player 
 and online. It can become unbarable at times. Still it IS an improvement over the last title.
 
  
  Overall Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game. Featuring many new things coupled with some great 
 old things, it is quite interesting. Many may compare this to COD4, but please do not. It is a 
 much more slow and tactical game, pushing and forcing to plan out your attack. This game is in 
 the same token rittled with bugs. Online and offline you may find yourself extremely frustrated 
 at times. If your not sure rent it first. Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancey's Rainbow Six Vegas has brought a lot into the tactical shooter genre, but Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 is nothing but better. While you're still with the same teammates Micheal Walter and 
 Jung Park from the second half of the first game, you play as a new character known as Bishop. 
 Most of Vegas 2 takes place at the same time as the first Vegas but instead of stopping the attacks 
 on the vegas strip, you and your team are going straight to the source and trying to find the one 
 behind the attacks.
  
  The gameplay isn't much different but that's ok since sequels don't supposed to have too much different 
 gameplay. The only new things about gameplay is the new sprinting ability from Call of Duty 4 which 
 can be helpful when trying to escape from a grenade or rushing to cover. The game also has switched 
 the heat/night vision button and grenade button for some reason which takes getting used to but 
 it's not that bad once your used to it. The last new game mechanism the game features is the thermal 
 scan, which allows you to have a little radar that supposedly tells you where everyone is but doesn't 
 seem to work so well because it doesn't show everyone. And the very last new game mechanism that 
 I almost forgot is the ability to shoot through cover, also taken from Call of Duty 4, which can 
 again be very helpful at times.
  
  The game supposed to have improved AI but unfortunatly it doesn't really. The only improved AI 
 there is in the game is that the terrorists now have shields, night, and heat vision goggles sometimes. 
 There are still glitches that previously existed in the last game that still exist in terrorist 
 hunt, like how terrorists spawn late in certain areas and how they often automatically know where 
 you are even though your being as stealth as you can. But other than that the terrorists are still 
 cool and humerous, not to mension the new things they say and the new camouflage they wear.
  
  You can also continue your single player story mode with a friend whos character is known as 
 knight, bring your team into terrorist hunt, and customize your characters armor, clothing, and 
 equipment. And lets not forget the new xp bar and aces system that the series now features. The 
 experience bar allows you to rank up to different ranks and unlock new armor and clothing and the 
 aces system (other known as the Advanced Combat Enhancement Specialization) allows you to unlock 
 more guns in specific areas like marksman which gives you more sniper rifles and long range assault 
 rifles, close quarters battle which gives you more submachine guns and shotguns, and asault which 
 gives you more powerful assault rifles and pistols. 
  
  The only thing that stopped this game from getting a 10.0 is that the AI still isn't fixed which 
 frustrates you almost everytime you die for various reasons. But besides that, the game can't get 
 anymore perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  One would think that a sequel to a game would consist of improvements of problems its predecessor 
 had as well as improved graphics, better story (or at least a better explanation of it) as well 
 as added online content and modes. Vegas 2 had none of these things. All the glitches of the first 
 game are still here: random clipping, teammate AI going bananas, HORRIBLE online functionality. 
 Actually, i take that last one back. The online experience was better on the first one. At least 
 i could actually get into a game and stay there for more than 3 minutes. Added weapons and new 
 maps can't serve their purpose if the gameplay is still fundamentally flawed. With precision shooting 
 and grenade throwing still being a problem, you can only expect complete frustration with this 
 game. Example, aiming a grenade with your cursor can usually result in a suicide since: 1) you 
 never know how far he's going to throw it and 2) at short distances you will probably hit the wall 
 in front of you even if your cursor isnt aimed at it. These small but crucial precision moments 
 are what these so called tactical REALISTIC shooters should be based on. Now, i have to admit the 
 graphics are a little amped up, but what good is that if the framerate jumps when you're in the 
 middle of a firefight with enemies on realistic mode? Believe me, they wont have mercy on you. 
 The online experience is by far the worst i've ever had. Without being able to get into ONE game 
 the first two days after i purchased it is just unacceptble. Note that i didnt even buy it on release 
 day. And with that, i'll end this review with one more glitch that really gets me going... You 
 spend so much time to earn points and get that coveted shield, and what good is it if every bullet 
 that hits it, hurts you? i'll take my chances hiding behind a car or barrel thank you very much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackbob666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is reallllly awesome. Great graphics and everything. Addicting gameplay like the old 
 rainbow six but the problem is the online is broken. Cant even finish 1 game without being kicked 
 off or saying the game closed down. I guess this is due to the fact that since its new and all 
 it has bad multiplayer but im hoping in the next few days or weeks this gets better cause right 
 now im still palying COD 4 cause of the online issues in RSV 2 but overall this game is freaking 
 great. Also the good thign is you can rank up in single campaing mode or any other single match 
 so while u wait for ubisoft to fix the online u can rank up alone then use your unlockables to 
 further destroy people once this game gets the online right. So yeah overall this game is a major 
 improvement in graphics and weapons over RSV but as new games always have problems this one has 
 the worst problem which is multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six VEGAS 2 started out very fast paced and very impressive however it seemed to lost its 
 cool after the first mission. The hostages infact all human movements (excluding Rainbow) wasnt 
 made properly, It doesnt give a next gen feel. The ACES system was a sucess however many people 
 including me found out various simple ways of leveling up. The Rainbow arsenal was impressive along 
 with the terroist arsenal. The new enemies especially ones with shields made the game more challenging 
 and really tests your flanking skills. The storyline was predictable just like most of the games 
 on the shelves nowadays. 
  
  The multiplayer was like the first one except with more maps and gametypes.
  
  I personally 
 thought that Rainbow Six VEGAS 1 was better when it came to campaign, other than that Rainbow Six 
 VEGAS 2 was a small to medium amount improvement. Improvements include: the sprint button, extra 
 weapons and customizable amour and of course the rewarding system incents players to continue. 
 Speaking of customizable amour i thought the new default amour looked better as it was black and 
 looked more like special ops.
  
  Im sorta the type that cares a lot about graphics and i thought that rainbow six vegas 1's graphics 
 looked more next gen maybe because Las Vegas is mainly spectacular at night. People who play Crysis 
 wouldnt appreciate the graphics in this.
  
  If you got Rainbow Six VEGAS 1 and enjoyed it, Rainbow Six VEGAS 2 is just a repeat of Rainbow 
 Six VEGAS 1 except in daytime. But if you dont own both i still recommend that you get Rainbow 
 Six VEGAS 1 rather than this one.
  
  Despite the bad comments this is still a great game to own,
  
  Look forward to seeing you guys 
 online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemineni
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the orginal rainbow six vegas on ps2. But this is what I feel when I compare it 
 to my current favorite COD4.
  
  After playing such a fast paced COD4 I feel I am playing a game with a stun grenade thrown at me 
 in rainbow six vegas. The game is so slow that you feel you are walking in hyperspace. I dont know 
 about xbox but the frame rate is very horrible in ps3 you actually observe the frames.
  
  Coming to controls it very poorly designed. Like take the wall lean move you need to press multiple 
 buttons to lean on to a wall and shot at a enemy. And also coming to the target mode of the weapon 
 which is actually a R3 button on PS3 you need to press this you get into target and another press 
 to come out to shot from the hip. This is real clumsy, I personally feel like a target should be 
 like in out usually assigned to any of the l1, l2, r1, r2 buttons.
  
  You can call the AI as AL artificial dumbness .I have to guide my computer to do each and every 
 thing .Even the enemy is in the front of them they keep getting the hits. They dont even shoot at 
 them. Even if the player is doing all the work they should atleast bluff that they are shooting 
 at somebody.
  
  One more example to open a door, or to climb down using a rope you have to do a accurate pin point 
 with your aim icon at them otherwise you will never get the press message to do the action.
  
  I bought this game for 59.99 (+tax) bucks and it is a real waste of money. I personally feel 
 like this game is not even worth to rent.
  
  I played this game just for an hour and I am thinking of getting rid of this game any buyers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Vegas.
  
  One of mine favorite shooter genres is Tactical gameplay. While some games offer it to certain 
 extent and are not one hundred percent real, every time when I, as a player am able to execute 
 certain parts of real life maneuver - it makes me smile inside.
  
  I have truthfully enjoyed Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 1,2. All of Splinter Cell franchise, 
 Most Socom games and of course my favorite First Person Shooter - Rainbow Six Vegas. While the 
 PlayStation 3 version of first Vegas was a straight port, it definitely felt and looked that way.
 
  
  Lighting was quite bad, reflection was over-dark in environments, textures were not on par with 
 Xbox 360 version and there were frame-rates issues time to time. Regardless, I had wonderful time 
 with Vegas simply because of one thing. Tactical gameplay. Out of all the shooters that I mentioned 
 earlier the amount of control you have in Rainbow Six is what made is such a great game.
  
  With that said, I can reassure anyone who enjoyed the first game, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is an improvement 
 in all aspects.
  
  Lets get the first thing out of the way. The PlayStation 3 version is excellent and big improvement 
 over first one. The graphics are better, lighting and shadowing is well done and textures look 
 phenomenal, especially on yourself and your squad members. The graphics are not mind-blowing or 
 anything, but they are polished and good. The frames per second are also stable. I have had barely 
 a few hick-ups here and there during the campaign, but it's never noticeable enough to make any 
 impact on the game experience.
  
  I also had a chance to take a good few missions on X360 version, which pretty much plays the same 
 and looks the same. I did noticed more blur in 360 version and a bit sharper textures on PS3. Other 
 then that, they are identical and play very well.
  
  This is a great news and largely thanks to a separate PS3 team that worked on RSV2 from scratch 
 resulting in a solid game. I wished the first Vegas was done the same way but that's beside the 
 point.
  
  RSV2 offers more of the same. You start with a completely new team. You will visit Vegas but compare 
 to the first game you will take your battles outside of the casino most of the time. Which is good, 
 as it offers more environment to work with. The cover system definitely feels more smoother, fluid 
 and responsive. You will issue the same cover order, breach doors and so forth.
  
  Everything that you enjoyed in first Vegas, makes its appearance in second game. This is not a 
 bad thing, I personally love Vegas gameplay and to be able to play it again is more then enjoyable, 
 especially when you bump the difficulty to Realistic. New to the genre is experience points. Regardless 
 if you play offline, online, co-op or terrorist hunt, you will continue to gather more experience 
 and once you reach appropriate rank, new body armour, weapons are unlocked. If you played Call 
 of Duty 4, you will be right at home with the system.
  
  However, Rainbow takes it a step further in customization department. As you chose your body armor 
 for example, you have options to have different appearances to it. From camouflage, paint and armor 
 type that will effect your mobility. Would you rather have heavy duty body suit that will take 
 little bit more damage, or lightweight equipment that will raise your mobility but will lower your 
 bullets penetration.
  
  There are lots of choices in here, and more became available as you gain new ranks. You can be 
 sure that when you jump in online action, no man or a woman will look alike if they used the customizations 
 options. You can create your own unique soldier.
  
  The story isn't extremely long. I play Tactical games like Vegas in slow pace and it's only appropriate 
 to say that I wasted 11 hours to finish the single player, while my friend took significantly less 
 because his play-style relied more on action while I enjoyed creeping around the cover walls and 
 order my team around to execute text book entries. I rarely fire a gun, unless I have to to provide 
 cover or trying to take out few bad guys in silent mode.
  
  This time around you can create female and male characters, respectively named Queen and Bishop. 
 I was able to get my face into the game as well using the PlayStation 3 Eye camera. It takes about 
 20 minutes to upload the photo and you need to take front and side snapshot. It looks very good 
 if you position yourself properly. You won't have blink animation or lips movement, but otherwise 
 it works like a charm.
  
  The single player co-op has been cut down to two man instead of four. When my friend joined he 
 was a second teammate. Unfortunately he was left alone and it feels a little "dull" for him as 
 he didn't had any team to work with, nor can he take control of at least one of my squad members. 
 You can still four man terrorist hunt just like before.
  
  Online is pretty good. There seems to be a little trouble joining in but after about 2-3 minutes 
 I was able to jump in. It would be nice if you could see the ping before you join but the experience 
 is good. I had quite a pleasure storming down on poor souls who are trying to pull out run and 
 gun tactic forgetting this isn't your shooter to do such things. You have to take cover, work with 
 your team and stay in groups. Communications is the key.
  
  New guns, new customizations, experience points, solid story line, excellent multiplayer and more 
 of Vegas Tactical gameplay. If you enjoyed first Rainbow Six Vegas, the sequel adds more of what 
 you liked with some new features added to the game that will make you play this game for many hours 
 to come, alone, co-op or online.
  
  If you like Tactical First Person Shooter gameplay, there simply isn't anything better out there. 
 Vegas 2 delivers excellent gameplay, lots of customizations options and solid online play along 
 side good single player story that wraps things up.
  
  Highly recommended buy for all fans of shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  The game starts out with the first few missions basically being tutorials on how to work the controls. 
 This is actually done very nicely. This year feels more like a tactical shooter than the previous 
 game. I find myself needing to peek around every corner and using the snake cam at every door. 
 I really like all the chances your given to send your squad mates to one door and you take another 
 door then infiltrate the room from both sides. Ok here is the review.
  
  Graphics 8.75/10
  Its not the best looking game we have seen but its definately not the worse. 
 The graphics seem pretty much the same as last year but who complained about the graphics in Vegas 
 1 anyways? Character detail and animations are done nicely.
  
  Sound 8.5/10
  There isnt a soundtrack to this game that will blow your mind. In fact I think the only music you 
 hear is at the main menu lol. This is a tactical shooter so really the only sounds you will hear 
 are voices in the distance and gun fire. In surround sound its pretty cool to hear those voices 
 in the distance or coming from behind. Same goes with the gun fire.
  
  Gameplay 9.25/10
  I think the gameplay is improved over last year. In Vegas 1 it seemed like I could just round out 
 and start shooting people. In Vegas 2 I need use all my tactical moves to solve the mission. If 
 you try to run out in the middle of any situation you will be killed pretty quickly. Flash bombs 
 seem to be of great use this time around as well as multiple entry. The gameplay is what really 
 makes this game fun and in my opinion better than the first one.
  
  Online ?
  I havent had the chance to play online yet.
  
  Overall 8.75/10
  Dont let this score fool 
 you. Whats important is the gameplay score which is 9.25. The game is better than last year and 
 for those of you looking for a good single player campaign then this is it. With lots of unlockables 
 and level ranks to earn this game will keep you busy. Another must have for those FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Note worthy flaws that buyers should beware:
  *Run-n-gunners will be largely unhappy with content
  *Gamers expecting a brand new game will 
 be disappointed; game sticks to its predecessor and just gives you new story, maps, weapons and 
 character customizing along with a new leveling system
  *AI for your teammates isn't very good
  
  The co-op is the best part of this game. That should 
 be said right off the bat.
  
  The troubling part of the co-op is the way the four guys are set up. Player one controls both AI 
 partners (which makes the 4th guy like a 3rd or 5th wheel) and they generally just get in the way. 
 The only way to use them is by letting them do the fun stuff (like frag and clear) and raking up 
 the kills when my friend and I could be getting them.
  
  The good thing about them is that they draw fire, save you from tight situations and you can tell 
 them where to throw a certain kind of grenade rather than wasting your own (my favorite new option, 
 which makes it very easy to get a grenade somewhere and makes the controls super tight) . They also 
 provide useful when you're entering a room because you can send them to one entry point while your 
 friend and you enter another  very useful tactic. I also understand why player 2 doesn't control 
 anyone because then it would mess up the tactics of frag and clear and what not but it still 
 kind of sucks. I have a run-n-gun crazy friend who works tactically in terrorist hunt, but in the 
 campaign since he's all alone he basically is just trying to avoid letting the two AI guys get 
 in his way so he dies a lot. It isn't the perfect co-op, but it is really, really fun.
  
  Terrorist Hunt is where the co-op fun is its best. Getting a friend and clearing out an area and 
 then both of you whipping out some tactical 500's to blow down a door and clear the next room is 
 absolutely awesome. Especially when you save someone while they're reloading or when someone sneaks 
 up behind themit's an awesome fun.
  
  The leveling up system is a fun system. It caters to your style of play and allows you to see what 
 you're best at which is always cool. It opens up weapons for you, as well, which gives you a better 
 sense of accomplishment than in Vegas 1.
  
  The frame rate issue mentioned by many is not nearly as bad on the PS3 as it is portrayed. I've 
 hardly noticed it and it has NEVER, EVER became "unplayable" or even remotely close to it. The 
 graphics haven't changed much (I'd say they're 10% better than Vegas 1) but they are still forgivable 
 because of how fun the game is and how interactive the maps are. The sound is average to above 
 average but no better, sometimes an endless gunfire loop can be experienced which is kind of annoying. 
 Not often enough to ruin the game by any means, though.
  
  In a nutshell, the game is a solid 9/10 for me. Great replay value, fun single player / co-op campaign, 
 best controls I've ever used in a FPS, sound/graphics sustain the game, awesome multiplayer (when 
 fixed) overall the game is worth buying in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theone332
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is reallllly awesome. Great graphics and everything. Addicting gameplay like the old 
 rainbow six but the problem is the online is broken. Cant even finish 1 game without being kicked 
 off or saying the game closed down. I guess this is due to the fact that since its new and all 
 it has bad multiplayer but im hoping in the next few days or weeks this gets better cause right 
 now im still palying COD 4 cause of the online issues in RSV 2 but overall this game is freaking 
 great. Also the good thign is you can rank up in single campaing mode or any other single match 
 so while u wait for ubisoft to fix the online u can rank up alone then use your unlockables to 
 further destroy people once this game gets the online right. So yeah overall this game is a major 
 improvement in graphics and weapons over RSV but as new games always have problems this one has 
 the worst problem which is multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  this game is really good... but i had some problems with it sometimes the AI gets really dump my 
 enemy just looked at me and stand do nothing so i can shoot at the head anyways.... the game is 
 great, game play same last year with the twist of sprint i like that ..... i can't get enough of 
 it .... and it's pretty much its easy to die hehehehhe.... sometimes i just throw granade before 
 they kill me..... i haven't played online yet... trying to finish the game then i will get online 
 i need more practice....... suggestions though the place is too dark...... but great lighting...... 
 great game have fun.....
  well i dont know what to say anymore but the thing making me write some more.... i'm writing some 
 more and more and more.... i dont know what to day anymore but i can't post this if it's not enough 
 this not right come on i'm done pls post now hahahahah...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biekert
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  The online portion of the game just doesn't work. Go to the forums at www. rainbowsixvegas. com for 
 more information. The bulk of the feedback is negative. Ubi proved last time that they don't support 
 their games well, at least for PS3. Multiple problems with RB6V1 were never patched as promised. 
 Its a disgrace that a company releases a game that doesn't work and there is no reason why I should 
 have open ports on my router or make any other adjustments on my PS3 to support this game. I never 
 had to for other online games like SOCOM, Warhawk and COD4. In addition, graphics are no better 
 than RB6V1 and the controls are sluggish at best. Returning, not trading back in, my copy on Monday. 
 I want to make sure Ubi doesn't get my money. My mistake for thinking things would be better for 
 this game. Won't be making the same mistake again with Ubi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 picks up right where the last one left off... terrorists, terrorists, and more 
 terrorists. The Rainbow Six squad returns to Vegas to end unfinished business left after the last 
 one, in one action packed shootout. If you are thinking of buying this game, take advantage. 
 
  
  Gameplay- 
  Don't worry, Ubisoft hasn't changed the main idea of the Vegas series one bit... Good or bad? If 
 your playing by yourself, you are the host of your three-man squad, Bishop. Bishop has the ability 
 give commands to your AI temmates such as to line up at a door, rappel down a window, how to enter 
 a room, etc. If you have a friend playing along, his character is named Knight and doesn't have 
 any control, but is just as big a help unlocking new rewards. Many other reviews say your AI teammates 
 "don't cooperate" and such, but if you send them right into the middle of the action, you won't 
 have to do a single thing! Anything in sight they will kill in an instant. When your teammates 
 die reviving them is as easy as walking up to them and pressing x. Pressing up with the D-pad has 
 the other teammate do it for you, but for you when your dead your dead. Missions are fairly long 
 and pretty easy to complete. Each one shows you a checkpoint and how close you are getting to it, 
 so its hard to get lost. You play through various landscapes including, a nightclub, gymnasium, 
 convention center, mansion or house, and a desert. Unfortunetly the graphics aren't quite as good 
 or maybe better then the first Vegas 1.
  
  A. C. E. S- 
  This is such a key componet to the game I'm just going to dedicate a seperate paragraph for it! 
 A. C. E. S is a brand new reward system added to the Vegas series. It stands for Advanced, Combat, 
 Enhancement, Specialization. This system rewards you with experience points for every time you 
 complete three actions, a close quarters kill (CQB) , multiple kills (assault) , and a long distance 
 kill (marksmanship) . These three categories are tracked on your profile and after completing a 
 certain number kills you rank up a level in that category. Experience points can be obtained with 
 the A. C. E. S reward system, or just by you or your teammates killing a terrorist. For the first 
 time you not only receive XP in multiplayer, but now you reveive them on the story as well! Even 
 in co-op! Your points are tracked for you to see at the bottom of the screen and shows you how 
 many more points you will need to rank up. With each rank up you may receive a set of new weapons, 
 camo, or gear. 
  
  Customization-
  Fantasic! Right off the bat, you are able to create a character for you to be used in story mode 
 (BRAND NEW!!!!) . Instead o fpicking one of the default faces, if you have an Eye-Toy or a USB camera, 
 you can take a picture of yourself and have it customized that way. Its a hit and miss ordeal though, 
 because users have found it quite difficult for it to look exactly like them. You also get to pick 
 a camo face paint you wish to have on your character. All of the rewards and new gear to unlock 
 packs a punch and makes it more rewarding while customizing your character.
  
  Online-
  Online Multiplayer was a sucess then and a sucess now. However, Vegas 2 includes,13 new maps and 
 2 new game modes. as well as 11 new weapons. Terrorist Hunt is back! This game mode can be played 
 online or by yourself and you must eliminate all enemy terrorists. They even revamped some of the 
 classic maps for all you long time Rainbow Six players! One of the new game modes, Demolition, 
 is a team based mode where you must pick up a bomb and plant it an enemy zone while trying to keep 
 the same from happening to you and making sure the other team doesn't defuse your bomb! The second 
 mode, Team Leader, is much like a VIP mode in Halo where you have to protect a character on your 
 team identified with a star, and kill the other teams character. These new game modes and features 
 are only the surface of RSV2! 
  
  Gameplay- 4
  Customization- 4.5
  Online- 5
  Replayability- 5
  
  VERY NICE! Thanks for viewing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  (Keep in mind that this is based on the PlayStation 3 version of the game. Owners of the Xbox 360 
 version may have a different experience)
  
  Having thoroughly enjoyed the original Rainbow Six Vegas, I eagerly pre-ordered Vegas 2 and snatched 
 up my copy on release day, then proceeded to tear into it with the sort of childlike enthusiasm 
 that rarely takes hold of me nowadays. However, once I'd absorbed the single player experience, 
 things began to unravel.
  
  The first thing that got to me was that there was a patch ready on the PlayStation Network on the 
 first day out. As bullcrap as this was, I had assumed that this was some sort of multiplayer fix, 
 so I simply went with it. After the patch and the nearly 3 gigabyte install time, the game title 
 screen shows up. Rather than taking control of the previous game's protagonist, Logan Keller, players 
 step into the boots of Bishop, a hardened military instructor pushed into service as the terrorist 
 attack on Las Vegas begins. Rather than being a pure sequel, the game goes the Resident Evil 3 
 route with parts of the game happening before, during and after the original R6V, with the tutorial 
 first level taking place five years before and providing some excellent foreshadowing. The first 
 thing players will notice is that their character is customizable, with facial details, armor, 
 and gender selectable at the start, a feature only available in the original's Terrorist Hunt and 
 online modes. Also spilling into single player is the experience system, which was previously online-only. 
 Players will unlock armor by earning rank, and weapons by earning points in marksmanship, close-quarters 
 combat and assault disciplines.
  
  The single player game is the same sort of experience for the most part as the original game, though 
 the experience system will initially limit the sort of weapons and armor available. Also, mobility 
 versus protection will have to be weighed when selecting armor, as people who like to fight straight-up 
 will not benefit from light armor. While armor type affects Bishop's abilities, the camoflage options 
 don't seem to have any effect on the game. It makes no difference whether you're decked out in 
 all black or all pink, enemies will see the squad the same way in single player regardless.
  
  The main single player game is about equal in length to that of the original Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 with a suitably epic storyline that ties up the first game's loose ends quite nicely. However, 
 gamers may feel an extreme sense of deja vu, as there has been little in the way of change other 
 than a streamlines layout and a sprint feature. The game is just far too conservative. Also, the 
 copious amount of product placement, most notably for Comcast and Major League Gaming, serves to 
 break immersion at times. Also breaking immersion is the fact that enemies often simply say the 
 English language version of what the enemies said in Spanish in the original game. These niggling 
 bugs aside, the main story is an enjoyable game for fans of the original Vegas.
  
  Terrorist Hunt returns mostly unchanged from the previous game, save that players can now take 
 the main game's AI partners in with them, making it somewhat more playable than the previous title. 
 Those who prefer going it alone may enable the "Lone Wolf" feature in the Terrorist Hunt menu. 
 Other than that, though, nothing new here.
  
  (On a side note, to unlock the Comcast gift map go to the Comcast Gift option in the Extras menu 
 and type the following when prompted: COMCAST FASTER)
  
  I'd like to tell you about multiplayer, which seems to have an impressive array of modes, but I 
 ran into a small problem in multiplayer. Actually, a rather large, imposing problem of being incapable 
 of entering a game. Almost every game I tried to enter told me I couldn't get in, and the few that 
 I could get into cut me off within minutes, making it an unplayable mess. It's a shame too, as 
 the game boasts a variety of modes. However, if Ubi can't be bothered, I don't see why I or anyone 
 else should be either. Considering many first-person shooters rely heavily on multiplayer for their 
 long-term appeal, this is a massive blunder by Ubi Soft Montreal.
  
  For those who enjoy a great single player experience, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 will provide a thrilling, 
 if entirely conservative experience. Those looking for compelling multiplayer, however, are better 
 off taking a pass and sticking with Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off, I have never played the first R6 Vegas. So that eliminates me talking about 
 the repetition in the games. 
  
  Firstly, this game looks amazing and feels amazing, though the installation part took a bit of 
 time, I wasn't disappointed when I first started off.
  
  As I pressed the menu, it asked me to customize my character, which I did, it gave me a ton of 
 options to chose from, but these options were just the basic ones. As I dove deeper into the menu, 
 I found out I could not only customize facial and gender features, I could also change up clothing 
 and such, I felt like this was my character and no one else could do better. It was a nice feature 
 I might add, and it gives a lot more options as you rank up.
  
  Speaking of ranking up, the ranking system is similiar to those who've played COD4, rank up and 
 earn stuff. Kill people, do certain tasks and gain XP. It was a simple kill and gain idea that 
 is still enjoyable. What's neat about Vegas 2, is that you can rank up offline or online, so no 
 matter what, you're always getting some XP.
  
  Secondly, the A. C. E. S system is a neat feature to implement in the game, it as well levels up and 
 unlocks new items such as weapons. The system implements the idea of what you do, how you kill 
 enemies etc. For example, the Marksman part focuses on Long distance kills, headshots etc, and 
 as you do more headshots or anything else that falls in the Marksman category, your Marksman levels 
 up and you obtain either XP or weapons.
  
  Thirdly, the online multiplayer. Though I was really looking foward to it, it's has unfortunately 
 failed to meet my standards in a lot of ways. The main problems isn't the actual gameplay, but 
 rather connecting. I probably got into 2 games after 20 tries of "failing" to connect. It was frustrating 
 and nerve racking that I almost didn't bother with online after awhile. 
  
  As well the framerate can get quite annoying in online multiplayer games, as well lag might be 
 an issue, though it could just be the Ubisoft servers that are seeing some problems. 
  
  Lastly, the feature I didn't mention yet was Terrorist Hunt. This feature involves single player 
 or co op terrorist hunting, as the name implies, you and a friend or someone online in a map killing 
 the alloted terrorists. It's an easy way of getting XP if you're frustrated with the connections 
 like I am.
  
  In the end, Vegas 2 will satisfy those looking for a tactical shooter, with amazing graphics and 
 customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerjohn07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  so, we take a trip back to sin city where now everythign is much cleaner but also more dangerous. 
 In Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 everything has upped the anty from the first outing, enemy AI more smarter, 
 weapons more responsive, surroundings look alot sharper but also bullets- alot deadlier.... watch 
 out! you never know what will emerge around the corners of las vegas.
  
  I'm a huge Rinbow Six fan and loved the first Vegas outing.... and all I can say for this is Go! 
 Go! Go! Full throttle. At this moment in time I have almost completed the game and have thoroughly 
 enjoyed the experience. This is without if not THE most exciting and rewarding sequels in recent 
 history and I urge anyone interested in First person shooters to jump on the Vegas 2 bandwaggon 
 because this is going to be a great ride once the online is fully up and running. Featuring 11 
 maps, 13 new guns and countless camo and armour add-ons with the need to mention 2 new modes and 
 a brand new 'more convenient' matchmaking system, all there is left to wait for is for UbiSoft 
 to kick up the servers we need for the online pleasure and this could possibly be the shooter of 
 2008... maybe in History? .... We'll wait and see!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyunjoon123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I didn't play the first Vegas so I was psyched to play the second one, I've played more than 10 
 hours so far and have been trying to look for glitches and have not been able to spot any obvious 
 annoying ones. Also the game play is good but things that really start to get irritating after 
 awhile like the fact that you can't simple jump over things like in call of duty 4 you always have 
 to either take the stairs or the rappel. It makes the game less lifelike, also the AI is decent 
 but still does some dumb things, I feel like I always have to tell them what to do most of the 
 time they end up covering the door and while I'm getting blasted by enemies they're just standing 
 there. I like the A. C. E system very similar to COD4 but whats funny is being able to put a scope 
 on just about everything its kind of funny how you can put a scope on a shotgun, interesting and 
 different. To me the game is pretty much Counterstrike mixed in with Army of Two and COD4, not 
 as good as CS and COD4 but its a different FPS which keeps me interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Contrary to the title, the game does not need buffing up, just to set things straight, that was 
 all the terrorists that need... shall we say, "removing". 
  Onto the game, and what a game it is. Just to mention, i bought this game from Amazon. co. uk a few 
 weeks before release and with the First Class postage option got it on release day, with which 
 i was very pleased. 
  It was 37 including the postage, which i was also very happy with. 
  (No, i don't work for Amazon, i'm 15)
  
  To get the technical stuff out of the way first, the 
 graphics are fantastic, but not really as good as CoD4, by some extent infact. Certainly much better 
 than in the origional though. The sound is good, with meaty sounding guns and hilarious terrorist 
 sound clips, such as:- "Oh god, what do we doo?" "Grow a pair of balls, now go go go!!"
  
  The gameplay is one of the best in class with the cover system working to a tee. It feels really 
 solid and frankly is probably better than CoD4 on this front. Other things that trump CoD4 are 
 interior fighting. As you can take cover and lean-and-peek yopu are much more capable than just 
 standing in a door way. 
  
  Customizing your own personal character with the face etc is the first thing you are asked to do 
 in the game. As you achieve higher ranks you are offered new armour and weapons too, which yo can 
 customizes with scopes and grips for guns and a vast variety of camo patterns for armour and clothing. 
 The aviator sunglasses went down well too :P
  
  So, the game finally starts after customizing your character with you and your two man squad, Michael 
 and Jung, in somewhere not very shiny at all. Infact, the first few levels, which are broken dwn 
 into Act's and Scenes, are set in a grimy looking dull industrial estate. The game has been slated 
 for this by a stupid British magazine (i'm looking at you, PSM3) but to be honest if the whole 
 game was set in casino's and theatres, which you also see action in, it would be rather dull. 
 
  
  As you are looking around the Idustrial estate you find a girl whose family are being held hostage, 
 que lots of "Hoo-ha, i've Hoo-ha got them Hoo-ha Sir" ing as you fight your way into where they 
 are being held and wipe out the terrorist scum that are holding them. 
  
  A bit further into the game you go to a Convention centre in Las Vegas, inventivly named "The Las 
 Vegas Convention Centre" and have multiple vast, fast fire fights there. 
  
  Enough of the story and locales, all i can say is that they just get better and better from there. 
 No more spoilers :P
  
  The main innovation in this game is the cover system, which lets you, Bishop, a veteran who has 
 been taken out of retirment for one last operation, lastch onto nearly any flat surface and do 
 a number of things. 
  You can just poke you gun around the corner and blind fire, lean out (either up, left or right) 
 and fire, and while doing this you can zoom in either through a scope or not depending on whether 
 one has been attached. 
  Also you can order your team, Team Rainbow of course, to do certain things while you yourself are 
 shooting up some bad guy's. 
  
  If you have a door infront of you, there are a number of things that you will be doing without 
 thinking about it an hour or so into the game, or immediately if you had the first Vegas. You will 
 order your team to "Stack up" on the door, basiclly one either side of the door. And then, you 
 will use the snake cam. I love the snake cam. It is a tiny little camera that you put under the 
 door, which you can guide to look around the room. It is so helpful to know whether you are entering 
 an empty room or a room packed with terrorists. Then, once you have "Tagged" tow of the bad guys, 
 prioritising these for your team to kill, you also have yet more options to choose. 
  Your team can either: enter and clear, opening the door then enter and kill. 
  frag and clear, 
 as above but with lobbing in a frag grenade first.
  breach and clear, same againg but they put a charge on the door that obliterates the entire door, 
 then they clear the room. 
  
  These are all immensely helpful. 
  Now the new way of ranking up you character on Vegas is called the ACES System. I'm sorry but i 
 have forgotten what that stands for, but there are 3 catergories. Marksman, Close Quarters and 
 Assault. 
  
  Each of these start at level 0, but go up to level 20, and there are a number of things that you 
 can do to gain points to upgrade these through the levels. 
  For example, you might need 25 points to get to marksman level 1, so you can get those point by 
 either getting headshots, shooting enemies who are using ropes etc etc. 
  
  Then for close quarters there is the same thing, 25 points, so you can do this one by getting blind 
 fire kills, close range kills etc. 
  Then againfor assault, but assault gets leveled up by getting kills with explosives like grenades. 
 
  
  The main new thing about levelling up your character is that when you get to level 1 marksman, 
 you get xp, and there is an xp bar that you have to fill to get promoted to the next rank. So getting 
 headshots etc is a much faster way of levelling up than just killing from standard range.
  The secondary mode that you can play is Terrorist hunt, and this, like the story, can be done using 
 co-op play, but unlike story, you can do co-op online with terrorist hunt. 
  
  You and either a mate or your squad from single plaer are put in a map and told, "right, there 
 are 25 terrorists in this map. Kill em all."
  Every map has a differing difficluty from casual to realistic, and doing all of them in all 3 difficulties 
 gets a medal. 
  
  Online play is great fun, but, i'm sad to say, quite glitchy. 
  It looks like ironing all of them out from the first game to too high a challenge for Ubi this 
 time around, which is a shame, because when it works it is awesome fun, and a complete hoot, but 
 then again i have been having some problems with my PSN of late, so don't take this as gospel. 
 
  
  An awesome game anyway, great fun and so challenging it hurts sometimes, especially when you are 
 put by yourself on an oil rig. 
  At night :cry:
  
  A great game though, and a complete must own for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeatH-MetaL_
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  alright i just bought this game because i couldnt wait to play it especially after the first vegas. 
 That had little bugs but quite alot and soon enough came to **** me off.
  
  So does this game have any of those bugs??
  oh yes i think it has much more and some still havnt 
 been fixed (looping sound) now ive only been playin this for about 10 hours so far and it has some 
 bugs from the old vegas im not sure if others have been fixed. But the most ****est thing is that 
 yes they finally included a lobby system but guess what?!
  
  they made it worse than the last system. yes its true you will spend more time looking for a match 
 you can successfully connect to then you will in game. I cant join with my frends until like 20 
 attempts and its really disturbing. Now if you look past this its a pretty decent game although 
 it feels like the first one.
  
  The maps are quite good and some have been included from the old vegas (thankfully) but i still 
 miss the casino (lol forgot what its called) and the luv campus the maps arent as good as the first 
 vegas. The gameplay is the same but thats not what we want we've already spent time on the old 
 vegas why this one?? well it has new weapons (pretty good) and well it has a sprint button. lol 
 okay its pretty much the same but new maps mean more gameplay it definitely wont make a big impact 
 like old vegas but for those who havnt played it yet they will find it pretty good.
  
  you wont be spending as much time on this but its damn sure good i still reccommend anyone to get 
 this but i just cant look past the bug which you have to keep trying to get into a game. If they 
 patch it up i would give it a 9 but otherwise im keeping it a 7. Dont get me wrong you should still 
 buy this.
  
  Hope this has helped and if you decide to get it see you online :D
  
  (PSN: crushertoxin if you wana add me and play) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green195
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  I cant join many games but i can host them, i dont no what ubi is doing to sort the problem but 
 they better fix it soon. I have always been a fan of the clancy series, but this game is disapointing. 
 the game is good when i get i a game or i am hosting a game, the only down fall is i dont have 
 a very good connection if anyone has any advice to offer feel free - psn : Greenxtheory.
  Hopefully they will fix it soon. the worst thing is that i bet the xbow version works fine. Does 
 any one know when ubi are going to have the game fixed. I think it is safe to say that it wont 
 win game of the year. 
  when you get in a game or host it runs quite smoothly with my "host advantage" but if you get into 
 a game about 2 games after you get booted, or the host is french lol, the game would be alot better 
 if the problem was fixed. I have no problems playing any of my other games such as call of duty, 
 i have never had any problems with connection. The worst thing for me was that i have only had 
 my ps3 for about a month now i had an xbox and i was on my third but i didnt have connection problems 
 with that. Any way enough rambeling.
  I hope ubi fixes it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dieyetagain
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2......... Sounds alright, doesn't live up to the expectation. Just 
 has same old guns offers nothing new than Rainbow Six and the story line is poor. Graphic wise 
 on this game are around a 6/10 they were bad with the texture of objects and smoothness of them. 
 The Sound, it was a good sound a good voice by the main character which you play and a great gunshot 
 sound i rate sound 8/10. Gameplay is what weighed down my decision. When you shot a sniper for 
 instance.... the gun would jump right up 90 degrees which was a total letdown. It offers no great 
 guns jsut same old machine gun and sniper, and offers no new grenades either. I rate the gameplay 
 a 3/10.
  
  Which gives us an overall of around 5.5 If your looking to buy a new First person Shooter, do not 
 buy this game. At the very most just rent it.
  
  That was my review, i hope you feel the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildact
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  just the same game as RSV1 but just added a bit more features i was hoping for more but oh well 
 the multiplayer is fun single-player is boring i would put this as the 2nd best game on ps3 for 
 fps as cod4 being number 1.
  
  its not addictive it needs patience your lucky if you like it.. just my opinion i kind of regret 
 and dont regret buying it at some parts but yea, i would rent it first to see if you like it cause 
 it has some goods and bads (a lot actually) the AI is really REALLY retarded i mean it seriously. 
 although teh only thing i like is just the multiplayer... man what's up with hardly any good games 
 coming out these days huh???
  
  Cod4 RSV2 but if i was on the 360 i would buy rainbow 6 because the community on cod4 sucks to 
 many children shouting in your ear......
  
  again i saw just rent it. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The problem that "Rainbow Six: Vegas 2" faces is that it is faced again with reinventing the wheel. 
 First person shooters are the staple of the current generation of consoles in much the same way 
 as driving games were for the last generation. Moreover, last year's hugely successful "Call Of 
 Duty" iteration raised the bar for what gamers should expect from the conventional FPS. "RS: V2" 
 delivers polished shooting action, throwing in the requisite online modes, but without really blowing 
 the hinges off what we would expect from a FPS in 2008. 
  The new "Rainbow Six" generally sticks to the formula established by Ubisoft Montreal in the first 
 outing. The squad-based Special Ops action will feel very familiar to anyone that has played that 
 game or its stablemate "Ghost Recon" games. Graphically and sonically the sequel matches the first 
 game, although additions such as a cover system and experience levelling set-up (where you gain 
 points for different aspects of fighting) are welcome additions. 
  Although based in Sin City, the game often accents on the mundane warehouses and leisure complexes 
 of Las Vegas, rather than vulgar casinos and the like. This is my first complaint about the game: 
 it seems rather samey, and at least in the PlayStation 3 version, the backgrounds can seem a little 
 sparse: grey abandoned warehouse segues to nondescript hotel complex, and so on, without there 
 being anything really to capture the eye or the imagination. The game does not feel as cinematic, 
 as much of an "event" as "CoD4". Similarly, the mundanity often stretches to your direction of 
 the AI squad members: move to the closed door, open it, clear the room and then repeat. There is 
 no real incentive to lead the charge from the front, especially as you often earn experience points 
 from the squad's action.
  The squad AI can often be irritating, too. For instance, it is not uncommon for one of your "buddies" 
 to block your line of fire, or stand in the middle of the war zone just waiting to be shot: often 
 the squad will not respond to orders very quickly, either. I have also noticed that there is quite 
 marked slowdown in some sections of the PS3 version of the game, which is pretty unforgivable in 
 a current generation game and from a top developer such as Ubisoft, to boot.
  On the plus side, "RS: V2" does provide plentiful reasons for immersion in the later stages of the 
 game thanks to the experience levelling system: there seems to be some form of progression from 
 playing through the game at point when you would otherwise feel ready to hang up your MP5 for the 
 night. The online "Terrorist Hunt" mode, where you co-operate with other players online is a good 
 idea, although I have often encountered connection problems trying to access this.
  An overall assessment of the new "Rainbow Six" would be that it is a good enough game, which offers 
 plenty of challenge. However, judged by the impressive yardstick of "CoD4" and the deluge of up-and-coming 
 releases for the PlayStation 3 and XBOX 360, the game is not really individual or exceptional enough 
 to warrant more than an extended rental play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cschalluspgh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Nothing more than a beefed up sequel to the first, but still a great game! Better graphics, sound 
 and above all... they finally added a run button witch makes me want to stick around a little longer 
 for that last online match after I just played 25 in a row. The new maps are highly detailed while 
 the new guns and camouflage will let you customize your character even further not mentioning that 
 this time around you can use you xbox camera to not only put your customize Bishop with your face 
 for multiplayer but you can even use it in the story mode. The all new points system is something 
 I think every first person shooter neeeds nowadays but Ubisoft seems to have left out the multiplayer 
 rankings this year so you can't really tell how if a person is as good as they say they are.. you 
 cant only rely on their rank to judge their skills. Yes, the AI of Michael and Jung still have 
 about as much brains as OJ Simpson, leaving you jammed up and killed rather quick when being flanked 
 by the enemy in Realistic mode but overall this game is totally worth the $59.99+tax. One thing 
 I forgot to mention is to all of the little kids out there who have and will continue to post comments 
 comparing this game to Call Of Duty 4 I want to say this... If you want to find a game to compare 
 Call Of Duty 4 to... then compare it with another Call Of Duty game such as 3 or 2 or the first. 
 This game is in no way shape or form like a Rainbow Six game except for the fact that most of the 
 guns are there and that's only because they are real guns. Yea I think Call Of Duty 4 is an excellent 
 game... but it's not Rainbow Six so don't waste your petty time trying to compare the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunblade55hz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  When i started to play this game i was amazed at how you could customize your own character for 
 both campaign and online mode. 
  In campaign mode you play, not as Logan Keller anymore, but a new character called Bishop. As usual 
 you have two AI partners. When you play the first 10 minutes you are stunned of how fun it is. 
 But after about 20 minutes you think to yourself, "when can i do something different in the game?". 
 Because it is the same tactics over and over again. Same with the weapons. Just a boring old machine 
 gun, and when you kill an enemy, there weapon is basically the same as your old one. Another issue 
 i have with the game is that you do not have enough life. Sure we want it to be realistic, but 
 die after 2 bullets? when wearing 20kg of armour?. The last problem i have with this game is that 
 you have no melee system, who's gonna shoot a guy when your trying to sneak behind him, and not 
 notify the other guards you are there. Enough with the criticism. 
  The new sprint in the game keeps thing in a nice speed, which helps instead of walking, obviously. 
 Your AI partners are as strong as Chuck Norris and as tough as a nail, They will not die in 2 bullets 
 and can make a kill quite easily, great teammates to have when your character is not as strong 
 as he should be. All in all it is still a pretty solid story line, which lasts for what you would 
 expect in a shooter.
  
  Tom Clancy's rainbow six has a nice online play, basically same as last year, but adding a few 
 nice touchs here and there. Aswell as gaining exp to customize your chracter online, you can also 
 gain exp by playing campaign mode aswell. So i basically have nothing to say, in this area. Except 
 that is a good online multiplayer.
  
  Overall this is a pretty solid game, but not the game you would rush to the supermarket and do 
 anything possible to buy this game. It's the type of game you rent instead of buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has probably been my most wanted game since I purchased Call of Duty 4. Sadly, I was 
 GREATLY disappointed to find it was the original put in a new box.
  
  Graphics (8.5/10) :
  The graphics are no better than the original's. But they're still pretty good. The character faces 
 could of used a more polish, and then again, the entire game could of used a bit more polish, but 
 nonetheless, it's still good.
  
  Sound (9.5/10) :
  The sound is DEFINITILY improved since the last game. I mean.... A LOT. The voice acting is TERRIFIC, 
 especially with the terrorists. I caught myself laughing sometimes at their humorous conversations 
 that never seem to be the same. The only flaw I could find is that sometime, even if the guy is 
 shooting right next to you, it sounds muffled and almost as though it's in a different room, but 
 GREAT job with improving th sounds, Ubi.
  
  Game play / Storyline (8.5/10) :
  The game play is still as great as the original. The new sprint feature brings things up to par 
 with many of the FPSs dominating the market. The new guns are pretty sweet. As for the storyline, 
 I couldn't really follow it that much. Maybe I was just paying to much attention to the game itself. 
 That's how good the gameplay is. The guns feel pretty solid and great. The whole bullet penetration 
 thing is really cool and it's a lot better than CoD4's penetration system. The enemy intelligence 
 has been GREATLY improved and they actually use some items that they didn't in the previous game, 
 which makes it more challenging, in a good way. Of course, with every game, you AI squadmates have 
 their own issues, whether it be shooting at a wall while trying to kill an enemy or just running 
 out into gunfire, which does get pretty annoying after awhile.
  
  Lastability (9/10) : The multiplayer is probably one of the strongest points of this game. With 
 a few new game modes and maps, it has a pretty strong lastability. Sadly, PS3 owners have been 
 having connection issues, which will HOPEFULLY be fixed VERY VERY soon. You can now send messages 
 to your friends and the online interface has been revamped.
  
  Final Comment: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 could pass off as the original with it's somewhat 
 dated graphics and overall style, but keep in mind, the original was freaking amazing. With some 
 new features, extremely solid gameplay and multiplayer, and some new guns, it shouldn't be too 
 much of a pain to pick up this game and give it a try. Trust me, you won't regret. You'll LOVE 
 this game, especially if you're new the the Rainbow Six series. It's probably one of the greatest 
 games you'll buy for the PS3. An 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notquitesure
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  right... well lets start from the beginning...
  one of the first games i ever really player for my PS3 was R6V...
  i was in love... all be it 
 a hand me down old xbox 360 game i thought it was the bee's knee's....
  
  you know whats coming next...
  
  COD4!
  
  oh my ass thats a good game.. graphically, the 
 levelling up system always gives you something new asap... the gameplay is frantic and fun.
  
  but yeh, r6v2.. brings back memories of when i first fell in love with r6v in the first place... 
 its tactical, the cover system...
  and because COD4 had been out a while i didnt see why there couldnt be an improvement graphically 
 and so forth..
  the A. C. E. S. system and the legging it button all pinched from COD4 basically
  
  so it was 
 due to come out when we'd all be scoffing our chocy eggs... but cos of that we all get it a day 
 early...
  i couldnt wait!
  
  but before i'd even got the game i was hearing of niggles and discrepancies in graphics and gameplay 
 etc...
  but i thought ive been waiting for this bloomin game forever and im dam well gonna buy it.
  
 
  so i did...
  got it home... and straight away theirs a patch... oh
  thats never gonna be good outa the box!
  
  but i make my little dude and LOVE how you can map 
 your face with the playststion eye... i think i look rather dashing and worked well.
  
  so i start to play... **** me... graphics went out the window straight away
  this game defo isnt 
 a looker..
  and then i started playing it... hmm
  it didnt bring back the feelings of the first game what so ever...
  its lost its spark.
  
 
  millions of loading screens before you can do anything
  
  and just isnt laid out quite right...
  but i can live with that
  so i find my m8 online and 
 give him a game...
  well
  tried to anyway
  
  we eventually managed it and cheered when we did...
  (you shouldnt cheer for when you connect 
 to any game btw, it should be a given)
  
  but then when we tried to change maps he vanished and couldnt get back in again
  (hopefully something 
 they'll eventually fix)
  but its a bugger all the same
  
  to be honest, the only thing that really stood out to me was the co-op story mode...
  its great... 
 a right laugh and brings a whole new dimension to the gameplay
  with multi sided attacks atc...
  unfortunately you still have your 2 computer AI mates following 
 you about getting lost and basically just in your way ARGH!
  if only you could leave them behind...
  
  the A. C. E. S. leveling up thing makes you wanna shoot 
 guys that little bit more and is cool... altho not as fun as leveling up in COD4 im afraid.
  the gaps are too far between levels and you dont get as good stuff to play with.
  
  all said 
 and done ive spent the rest of my evening with one message on my screen.
  
  "unable to establish a connection to this match"
  
  and hense me writing this stupidly long 
 review!!
  
  i want to love this game... and in a way i do... but its not r6v and its not COD4... its lost in 
 between and i dont like it.
  
  to be honest the only thing keeping me playing is the fact that my guy looks like me HAHA how sad...
 
  
  i dont think it deserves an 8.5 and isnt all that great... mid 7's possibly
  just doesnt feel next gen (i mean current gen) to me :/ sorry guys
  sigh...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowthamspa
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Again people goes on saying that vegas 2 is not good. It has a poor visualization and terrible 
 online play etc. This is what I think about this game.
  
  I have both vegas 1 and vegas 2. I have played vegas 1 on the pc as well. Vegas 2 graphics is lot 
 better that than the vegas 1. The A. C. E. S system is a cool feature. Increasing your character XP 
 by playing offline is also a great feature. 
  
  Now about the online. I have the problems of connecting to the games. But I try different servers, 
 out of every 5 tries I succeed one time. I didn't try the escort the leader online play yet. But 
 I tried the terrorist hunt online co-op which is very fun. Yet to try the story by online co op 
 mode.
  
  I don't understand why people is comparing vegas 2 with cod4. COD 4 is great game, nobody can deny 
 that. But this is a different type of game. Its fun on its own way. Cod4 is all more of a run and 
 gun but vegas 2 is all about tactical.
  
  One thing I didn't like about this game is that it requires 3 GB hard disk for installing. I don't 
 understand why the developers want to do that. If I want to install games on my hard disk, I would 
 stick to my pc games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weisser
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I loved the First R6LV But the sequel just didnt cut it for me. You have the occasional frame skip 
 which is excusable and though the sounds effects are good they are very glitching when it comes 
 to the voices, I didnt understand why i was doing the things i was doing 90% of the time cause 
 the background was to loud even with the settings down. Now im for a challenge but sometimes its 
 just unreasonable hard. The final battle is a joke with non stop bullets and grenades constantly 
 thrown at you and i have to admit is why im so pissed with this game. A good point is the customization 
 options which makes you unique and the new experience system seems to work well. I never gave the 
 multiplayer much of a chance because you cant help but thinkWhy am i playing this when i could 
 be playing call of duty 4 ?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBuyGames
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Well after only playing the first one for a little bit, I just had to get my hands on this one. 
 First of all, the Customizing options are amazing, you can change your shirts, pants, arms armor, 
 shoulders armor, chest armor, face, facial hair, hat, glasses, leg armor, ALL of this being changeable 
 with many options. If you think it ends there, think again. You can alwell change the color/camo 
 of each and every peice. Customizing your weapons is easy and very satisfying. Unlocking weapons, 
 armor, clothes, and camo is very cool. Now as for the gameplay, once you get in a good server the 
 fun never ends. Some maps suck, but most of them are spot on. The cover system is easy to use once 
 you get the hang of the controls. I especially like the co-op online terrorist hunt, very very 
 fun. I play alot of COD4 and I think both games are great. Pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattimer22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  First I'd like to start by saying this review is no Atheno review but it gets the point across 
 just the same.
  
  Single player campaign is awesome. It will seem like your playing in a completely different location 
 than Vegas due to being in old Vegas and the back alley's while playing daytime missions. The game 
 mechanics are pretty much the same. Changes being the Grenade button has moved from the R2 button 
 in Vegas 1 to the O button in Vegas 2, also the L2 no longer brings up the large map, you now will 
 sprint for a short distance by holding the L2 button. These two slight changes take some getting 
 used to. If you had a lot of experience points from Vegas 1 such as Colonel or Elite you will earn 
 1250 exp. points or so right off the bat in Vegas 2. Plus you'll unlock a couple items such as 
 a flight helmet a baklava and some camo. 
  
  The graphics are slightly better not a huge difference but you should notice a change. If you were 
 good or awesome at Vegas 1 it will take a day or two to get good at this one. For some reason it 
 just feels a slightly different when shooting. The L2 is a great addition, if you see the general 
 location your being shot from say by a camper, and hes close by, you can sprint over to him maybe 
 flank him and own him without him having the chance to think about his next move. It is not COD4 
 if that is what your thinking. You still have to use tactics and run and gun will only get you 
 shot and killed.
  
  Despite what all the consumers have to say on the negatives of this game I wanna focus on the positives 
 of online play. I believe in this game because I've seen its parts of absolute brilliance and seamless 
 online play. If you haven't heard already there are major online server problems. We know it, and 
 Ubisoft knows it its just a matter of time until the issues are worked out. I stayed on late last 
 night and I would say online was a disaster around 8pm through the peak midnight hour Eastern time 
 or with constant game lagging, failed to connect to matches 90% of the time. Around 2 AM I hosted 
 about 5 successful matches and they were GREAT! I wanted to keep playing because the games were 
 not lagging at all. It was defiantly due to the fact that not many people were on because they 
 got frustrated and left. You can send invites, add friends right from the mission menu if you're 
 in a game, also change your clothing and camo while waiting for the game to start. Everything is 
 controlled from the XMB as opposed to the game dashboard like in Vegas 1. This game is everything 
 I was expecting and more. I'm a big fan of Rainbow Six Vegas I played it every night almost and 
 this one is shaping up to be just as, if not more fun than the first. 
  
  Maps are fun but I deeply miss Calypso Casino and my nighttime missions from Vegas one but I'm 
 part owl so I have nocturnal instincts I have to deal with (Joke ha ha) . This is hopeless thinking 
 but maybe Ubi will launch a map patch with that will give us the Calypso map back at a later date.
 
  
  I have to put this in my review:
  UBISOFT! FIX THE SERVERS!!! ASAP!!!! PLEASE!!!!!!
  
  I recommend this game to any Tom Clancy Rainbow Six fans out there. Don't listen to these other 
 guys; you will have a freakin blast with this game. Everything is improved over Vegas 1 so why 
 not give it a shot. You won't be disappointed
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkjg
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  ok rainbow six its a great game but when it comes to connecting to a game online it is just shocking 
 it is that crap i can not put it into words. it takes about 10 minuites just to get in a game, 
 and it is not as if it is searching you are given a list of games you have to then try to connect 
 to the game individualy to find that it tells you sever full or that it cannot connect and this 
 is so infuriating. however when you get in a game it is not too bad well its not going to win game 
 of the year but it is not bad, the graphics dont seem to have benn improved but its worth a rent 
 to see what you think. it is not what i was expecting, i was expecting a bit better but it is basicaly 
 the same as the old one but maybe that isnt such a badf thing change can be bad so overall it is 
 ok but maybe it should be rented before it is bought by anyone , hopefuly they will make a patch 
 it fix online problems if they do it will make it far less stressful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnoSlider-PS3-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Very immersive game play. Terrorist Hunt is still a blast to play with your buddies. Environments 
 are sharper and brighter. A slew of new weapons available, with percentage and head shot totals. 
 This is one great game! Deserves higher rating than the first. Not as derrivitive as most reviewers 
 say. Very fresh feel with familiar controls. They did switch the grenade toss button, which will 
 take getting used to! Competitve on-line is tactical and fun. Alot less random grenade kills than 
 other games. Duck and cover system is still the sweetest. Great value!
  The only downside is lack of four player campaign co-op. It's just you with one friend and two 
 AI teammates, that you can leave at the beginning, because they just get in your way. Still, 4 
 player Hunts are awesome.
  New maps offer plenty of options for different styles of game play, much like the first. 
  Personally, 
 I enjoy being skill-ful and tactical over being the fastest guy to the trigger button. If you agree, 
 this will take you off of COD 4, if you're not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of all Tom Clancy games. But unfortunately. Like the Hitman series. Its 
 going down hill at a rapid fast pace. This game is boring, predictable, the graphics are washed 
 out, patchy, and not even next gen. The gun sounds are very unrealistic. You have choppy frame 
 rate, lag, it takes forever to get online. 
  
  The story line is bland, boring, unoriginal. The cover system is awkward with holding a button 
 each time you hit a wall. And it has a very clunky, buggy looking at shoot from cover animation. 
 
  
  There are much better 1st person shooters out there. This game is not even worth a rent. Its very 
 bad. The buggy animation. The clipping and wierd textures. The bad gun sounds and animations. The 
 very bad AI and the team mates are just like bots. This is worst game this year. I have given up 
 on tom clancy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricoman007
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Be careful purchasing this game. The RB6 V2 servers are extremely unreliable and you will get continually 
 kicked off or worse the game will state that it is "unable to connect". The game would be a great 
 shooter if you could play with anyone else on-line. It is very disappointing. Hopefully Ubisoft 
 works out the server issues.
  
  It is a graphically impressive game, and the solo missions are also fun. One of the things that 
 I like about the game is that "Bishop", the main character in the game, cannot take a huge amount 
 of damage. It is more realistic and if you are suprised by an enemy you can very easily get taken 
 down on the spot.
  
  I honestly do think this game could have been good, and if they fix the servers it will be. But 
 I need to be able to use the multiplayer activities and without them the game is useless. I bought 
 the game because of the ability to do online coop, but 2-3 min into it I get booted off. This happens 
 every time, and not just to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  So, here's my review. Some things they don't seem to mention... in list format.... kinda!
  
  1) Hey! In online/offline CoOp modes you get TWO main weapons AND a pistol! Awesome. Have an 
 Assault Rifle AND a Shotgun. Or an SMG and an LMG! Or an Assault Rifle and a Sniper Rifle! Or any 
 other combination you want. Weapons for all occasions.
  
  2) Where did all the RECON armour go? (If you liked wearing Raven Recon Arms/Shoulders.... TOO 
 BAD! You don't get to, anymore.
  
  3) Bad Squadmember AI? Sometimes it's worse than bad. When you're on an upper-level with a door 
 and you order your squad to stack up... and they decide to go to ground-level and get themselves 
 KILLED, ending your game... You'll understand just how bad it can be. Or how about when they completely 
 ignore an enemy down a hallway? Yay! It's not completely horrible... but... I'm just waiting for 
 the six-minute 'I'm stuck in the corner' run. If that happens, I'm shooting Michael, myself.
  
  4) All the major reviewers keep bringing up another game: COD4 and how much better the leveling 
 and reward system is. But to me, in the first place, one of them is a war shooter; This is a tactical 
 shooter. How about COD4 not having any real cover mechanic, period? Of course the rewards systems 
 are different. There are different things to consider. Besides. RSV2 has more weapons. So you don't 
 get a 3-frag grenade perk... so bring incendiaries. COD4 doesn't have Tear Gas... But it doesn't 
 need it. Get what I'm getting at? Better perks? Feh. Don't get me wrong... I LOVE COD4. But... 
 stop with the perk comparisons. You wanna compare? RSV2 lets you customize a character in Single-player 
 AND Multiplayer. COD4? Uhh... the level started, and you get whatever weapons and equipment they 
 decided to give you, or whatever you can pick up in-game. In Multiplayer, you could be a marine, 
 you could be wearing a towel on your head. You could, for no apparent reason, be carrying two RPGs 
 in a sack on your back and never get to use them. Oh, and you don't get squad members to control... 
 or ... not control in some cases. So... just stop, because You play COD4 if you want more of a 
 war-time balls-out frag-fest. It's Fast. It's Loud. It's Unrelenting. Don't believe me? One Word: 
 'Shipment'. anyone who's played it, knows. RSV2 is just not the same. It doesn't need an Iron Lungs 
 perk. It doesn't need increased damage. See, RSV2 is based more or less on reality. There's no 
 magic or mysterious power that somehow makes your bullets do more damage. You wanna do more damage? 
 Get a gun that does more damage. You wanna survive a few more bullets to the chest? Put on a heavier 
 vest. You wanna run into a group of guys and drop your grenade after you're dead? Too bad. Go play 
 COD4. Seriously. There's no real reason to have a 'Last Stand' perk. If they shot you and you fell 
 and pulled out a pistol... I'm gonna bet they're going to take cover if they haven't already. So... 
 what you gonna shoot at? Not much. Let's see... what'd I miss... oh. How about Double-tap? Oookay... 
 well. First off... sure, I guess you could get a gun to fire faster, mechanically. But in RSV2, 
 with the way the game is played... do you really wanna run out of ammo earlier? It lets you play 
 how you want to play, and strengthen the way you love to play. It also prompts you to try out other 
 methods and weapon sets. In conclusion, I find both games (as far as perks and the like) to be 
 neck and neck. RSV2 really has no room for: Claymores, Helicopters (thank Goodness) , Air Strikes 
 (Thank Goodness) , RPGs, etc... It's just not that kind of game. You can have Invisibility on radar. 
 But you gotta bring the gear. You can have lots of explode-y things. But you gotta bring them. 
 You can have better penetration... with the right equipment. You don't just 'get' them. You hafta 
 bring it all with you. And that's the difference. And thank goodness we can lock out some things. 
 And still get XP. You can't make a customized game in COD4 and get experience. It tells you so. 
 Not to mention that just about everything you unlock is either a different weapon, a different 
 Camo, or different armour bits. Which aren't even a REMOTE OPTION in COD4 (Aside from new weapons) . 
 So, stop the comparisons. God, I hope someone reads this. 
  
  5) Beefed up AI. Forget about hiding behind the dumpster in Terrorist hunt on the Presidio Map. 
 Just forget it, campers. But then, long gone is the need for you to sit there for the 600 points 
 anyhow.
  
  6) YES you do get a bonus boost once you boot up RSV2 if you've already played RSV.
  
  7) Right 
 now, a few days after release: Get used to this message: "Unable to Establish Connection" and random 
 game drops.
  
  8) THEY FIXED FRIEND-ING and the interface for getting into matches with friends is a whole lot 
 better.
  
  9) Load times are reduced... but sometimes when you first get into a game, everyone on your team 
 is a humanoid grey mass. That can sometimes last a whole round.
  
  10) There are still some bugs.... one round in particular, my cover button wasn't working.
  
 
  11) Bullet Control. I think either the firing rate of some weapons were increased or otherwise 
 changed somehow. It's not as easy to gauge a 3-4 round burst with full-auto on. So you might find 
 yourself running out of bullets more often. You also don't auto-reload, anymore.
  
  12) Controls have changed. If you played the first one, and go direct to the second, you might 
 find yourself turning your night-vision on instead of tossing a grenade out there.
  
  13) I still wish you could give two orders, or an 'immediate' order. LIke.... don't just go to 
 the rappel rope. Climb it as soon as you get there. Or Get to the door and go right in. Because 
 I just got jumped by a mess of Terrorists and I don't wanna look back at you just hanging on some 
 rope... and getting shot to death.
  
  14) Sprinting is awesome. Now they just need a 'vault' command so you can leap stuff when you're 
 sprinting to it. Instead of running full tilt, pausing and then going over.
  
  15) Again: I told you to go down the hallway.... WHY DID YOU GO OUTSIDE?!
  
  16) Bug fix: Now, 
 when a terrorist is crouching behind something, and their head is exposed, shooting it kills them. 
 I have yet to run into a 'robo-terrorist' what does not die.
  
  17) I can now shoot my friends in their faces. When we can connect. But I'm sure there'll be a 
 patch... They'd be silly not to fix it.
  
  18) If you can't see 'much of a difference' in the graphics from the first game... you're not paying 
 attention. I mean, it's not the greatest... but they let everyone have tons of options. I forgive 
 them that. and it is a definate improvement.
  
  19) Shoot a fire extinguisher.
  
  20) Shield + Desert Eagle = BUGGED. (Firing a shot while carrying a DE and the Shield causes you 
 aim to drift upward... indefinately.) 
  
  21) Blackjack.
  
  I gave it a 9.. but coming up against new and irritating glitches and bugs drops it down to 8, 
 because there really isn't a whole ton of new content, and still they managed to pack some bugs 
 in it. Up to and including some really strange aiming glitches. Now they just look a little sloppier 
 and lazier.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best shooters ive played, yes its not new but it improves the old one. 
 This game took the series to the next level. New story, way better graphics, less loading times, 
 and A. C. E. S, this is im my opinion a step higer than COD4. It migth feal a little old, but belive 
 me it brings back Las Vegas with more action and way better things. 
  If you want a tactical shooter, this is it!! go buy it now, this is not like COD4 it brings more 
 concentrated action and more plot to the game.
  I havent played the entire game but online is solid they have built something way better than COD4 
 with the new A. C. E. S thing.... belive me it will amaze you . Some people dont think this game is 
 worth it I say they dont know about gaming, a game that repeats a thing or two in a sequal is because 
 people like it. R6V 2 brings R6V with a buch of cool new things and more. But it and see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game to play and to have fun only if u didnt play RSV (first part) .
  In this 2nd part i dont see any major changes in the game, the same thing i have done befor i have 
 to do it again ,so its just repeating it self ,even the story in the first and the and this one 
 are about terrorist and hostages so it still the same .
  graphically i see no different at all only they change the dress and the add more weapons but when 
 you play this one u feel like you played it befor and you will get board quickly .
  I like the RSV series but i want in the same time to see something new and exciting not to repeat 
 the same thing again and again this will make the game less popular and no one will play it again 
 .
  The game came out so quickly since we played the first one and this back up may thought when i 
 feel that they just copied the first one and put it in the 2nd game and only changed the title 
 from RSV1 to RSV2 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
