-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's HAWX
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/tomclancyshawx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic planes and environments.
 Great, action-packed dogfighting.
 Believable audio really enhances the experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limited multiplayer modes.
 Ground textures look ugly up close.
 Planes all handle similarly.
 Friendly AI isn't great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 450 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: Flight Action
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This arcade-style aerial-combat game has plenty to offer those flying solo, but it doesn't offer 
 much in the way of competitive multiplayer content. 

  After tackling squad-based third-person combat in Ghost Recon, stealth action in Splinter Cell, 
 and strategy in EndWar, Ubisoft's Tom Clancy brand takes to the skies in HAWX (High Altitude Warfare -- Experimental) . 
 The game features intense dogfights, gorgeous scenery and planes, and an instantly accessible, 
 arcade-style air combat experience. Multiplayer options are limited, and different planes don't 
 offer as much variety as they should, but HAWX lives up to the quality of the brand and is a good 
 aerial-combat game in its own right.  

           HAWX's enhanced-reality system helps you shake missile locks and target enemy aces.   
    

  HAWX follows the story of the titular squadron and its leader, Major David Crenshaw. After you're 
 transferred to HAWX as squadron leader, the group is disbanded by the US Air Force in 2014, following 
 events in the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter games. (You get the cool task of rescuing Captain 
 Mitchell and the Ghosts in the first mission of the game.) After this, Crenshaw joins Artemis, 
 a private military contractor that works both for corporations and the Brazilian government. Artemis 
 attacks US forces, causing Crenshaw to have a change of heart and goes back to what he does best: 
 defending the US against hostile forces, namely Artemis. HAWX's story, like those in other Tom 
 Clancy games, is presented via cutscenes, radio chatter, and video updates. The story is largely 
 inconsequential, but it sets the scene well enough for your numerous engagements and keeps the 
 game moving along at a brisk pace.  

  HAWX is instantly accessible and is a lot of fun to pick up and play in short bursts. The controls 
 are uncomplicated and work well enough that even issuing orders to wingmen during a dogfight is 
 easily accomplished. One of the major gameplay innovations in HAWX is the Enhanced Reality System. 
 ERS is essentially a series of gates projected onto your heads-up display that, when you fly through 
 them successfully, let you shake missile locks or catch up to challenging enemies. For example, 
 in one mission ERS helps you fly a predetermined course to avoid radar detection, which in turn 
 lets you knock out a base's air-defence grid. There are a number of scenarios in which ERS proves 
 useful, but thankfully it's not a system that you can use as a crutch to get you through every 
 single mission.  

  The ERS definitely makes portions of HAWX significantly easier than they would be without it, so 
 for the experienced pilots among you, there's an option to fly with all of the assistance turned 
 off. Unlike similar options in racing games, the assistance option can be toggled on the fly by 
 double-tapping one of the triggers. When flying without assistance, you can perform sharper turns 
 to avoid missile locks, but you're more susceptible to stalling if you brake too hard. In this 
 mode, the camera angle switches to a wider view of the landscape, which affords you a better view 
 of your current target and incoming missiles. However, because the camera is constantly moving, 
 it can be a bit disorienting and makes controlling your plane even more difficult. HAWX's gameplay 
 is fast-paced, frantic, and ultimately satisfying. It's easy to get swept up in the tense saga 
 while dogfighting over famous cities and picturesque landscapes, and there's enough variety in 
 the missions that the action never gets stale. Dogfights are nothing like bombing runs, and escorting 
 a friendly VIP is a quite different challenge compared to defending a base. There are 19 missions 
 in the single-player campaign, spanning multiple continents that you'll visit both in daylight 
 and at night. Locales include famous city skylines such as Washington, Tokyo, and Rio de Janeiro, 
 as well as remote areas in Nevada and the Magellan Strait.  

           There's only one competitive multiplayer mode, but it's a lot of fun.      

  HAWX 
 is an arcade-style game rather than a simulation at its heart, which is why your payload can include 
 upward of 100 missiles for each mission. As you progress through the story, the odds against you 
 become increasingly steep, as enemy aircraft are joined by ground and naval forces and antiair 
 defences become more common. Thankfully, you have a large and varied arsenal at your disposal that 
 includes long- and short-range missiles, antiground "dumb" bombs, cannons, rocket pods, and countermeasures. 
 Though it would be unrealistic for a small, single-seater jet to carry that much firepower in real 
 life, it's a triumph of gameplay over realism that in HAWX you can stay in the heat of battles 
 without ever needing to land and resupply.  

  HAWX rewards you with dozens of unlockables throughout its campaign. Licensed planes include the 
 iconic F-22 Raptor, the stealthy F-117 Nighthawk, the devastating A-10A Thunderbolt II, and other 
 models from the likes of MiG, Eurofighter, and Saab. There appears to be no shortage of variety 
 in the hangar, but the handling of the planes doesn't change much when you move between cockpits, 
 which is disappointing. Despite the fact that HAWX is set in the future, you earn your stripes 
 flying older fighter jets before being allowed into the cockpits of more modern aircraft in later 
 missions. Despite the High Altitude Warfare -- Experimental acronym in the title, there are no experimental 
 fighters in the game, and most of the warfare takes place just a few thousand feet above ground. 
 That doesn't make the game any less enjoyable, though, and flying over famous landmarks in an F-22 
 without having to worry about throttle gauges and limited ammunition is a real treat.  

  Many of HAWX's missions group you with a pair of wingmen. You can order your comrades to attack 
 targets or to concentrate on defending you, but they're not always reliable and you certainly shouldn't 
 expect them to get much done without your help. At best, they'll destroy the occasional enemy unit, 
 but you still have to do the majority of the work in each mission. You can also fly with your friends 
 in the four-player cooperative mode, which definitely makes the campaign more rewarding. You can 
 drop in or out of an existing co-op game at any time, and though the gameplay remains the same, 
 it's much more rewarding to devise strategies and coordinate with real people than it is with AI 
 wingmen.  

  HAWX's competitive multiplayer offering is also fun, but it's limited to just one eight-player 
 Team Deathmatch mode. Multiplayer battles take place in a good selection of 19 maps based on those 
 from the campaign missions, and it's far more satisfying to take down a human opponent than it 
 is an AI pilot. Furthermore, if you string together a number of kills in succession then you gain 
 access to special abilities such as an enemy-stalling EMP blast, which is a nice touch.  

           Missions take you to varied locations all over the globe.      

  From a distance, 
 the environments -- which are created with real satellite data -- look beautiful. Natural landscapes 
 and expanses of water are incredibly lifelike, and city skylines are nicely detailed. But if you 
 fly too low, the illusion is shattered. Trees look rough and pixelated, and Chicago's skyline might 
 as well be a collection of cardboard boxes on close inspection. The planes are the game's stars, 
 and each one is modelled realistically with great attention to detail. Light bounces off of wings, 
 afterburners glow with blistering heat, missiles launch in clouds of smoke, and explosions serve 
 as a gorgeous reminder of just how much power you have at your command. The frame rate occasionally 
 takes a hit when there's a lot of action onscreen, but for the most part the engine holds up extremely 
 well. Realistic sound effects add a great deal to the presentation; slow jet burns give way to 
 intense growls as your speed increases, and the various beeps and buzzes associated with missile 
 locks really add to the feeling of being an ace pilot.  

  Tom Clancy's HAWX is a rewarding arcade aerial-combat experience that looks and sounds every bit 
 as good as it plays. The controls, and in particular the ERS innovation, make dogfighting in iconic 
 planes over famous cities as accessible as it is enjoyable. It's unfortunate that the multiplayer 
 options are so limited and that the various aircraft all feel very similar to fly, but there's 
 lots of fun to be had here for novices and top guns alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ElectroFilmsCom
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:39 am PT
Review:  i bought hawx and the flight stick on launch day. ive been playing though a mission a day for a 
 few weeks now. im highlty impressed with the overall gameplay. HAWX is an arcade style shooter. 
 you go from mission to ,ission blowing stuff up. theres no boring stuff like taking off and landing, 
 HAWX just gets down to the action. you dont have to worry about ammo cause its almost unlimited. 
 for gamers who just wanna expierence some fast action dog fights, this is the game for sure. i 
 also recommend the flight stick, it feels much more real. its made kinda cheap, all plastic, but 
 its held up prefectly. HAWX isnt for flight flight sim fans, those guys should stick with microsoft 
 film simulator X, its more their style. when i fly, i feel like tom cruise in top gun, but with 
 his additional scientology super powers. HAWX ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abelenky17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I've been very disappointed. The innovations in HAWX don't live up to their potential, 
 and the basics are done poorly.
  
  Here's my assestment:
  
  First off, HAWX is supposed to stand for High Altitude Warfare eXperimental squadron. Why then 
 does most action take place below 10,000 ft, and the hard-ceiling seems to be about 16,000 ft? 
 I consider High Altitude above 40,000 feet. And frankly, flight at that altitude is boring. Its 
 hard to bomb from up high, and dog-fighting in the narrow flight envelope at altitude doesn't allow 
 for extreme maneuvers. This kind of sloppy thinking is prevalent in the game.
  
  Another problem comes from the HUD, which shows decidedly less information than the AC6 HUD. Many 
 of the more important pieces of information are shown on overlaid boxes rather than in the HUD, 
 this includes weapon choice and remaining quantity. This creates a strong sense of "video game" 
 rather than "flight sim" (even if it is meant to be an easy-to-fly, highly accessible flight-sim) .
 
  
  The HUD also suffers from extremely bright icons. Enemy targets are highlighted as Red and Yellow 
 diamonds. The diamond highlighting is so bold and bright, it becomes almost impossible to see the 
 enemy behind the icon. This creates a feeling that I'm playing Asteroids, shooting at various diamond 
 shapes rather than attacking tanks, planes, facilities, etc. The HUD would be much improved if 
 the icons were semi-transparent overlays , making it possible to still visually track targets. 
 This is especially significant in one-on-one dogfighting, where it is difficult to see and respond 
 to the target's maneuvers when they are obscured by a HUD icon. The HUD is supposed to ADD information 
 to the battle, not obscure it!
  
  I personally find an important highlight of many flying games to be the take-off and/or landing. 
 This is an area for a game to show off its flight-sim abilities, and seamlessly merge flying with 
 ground-activity. AC6 does a great job with landings, including a carrier landing, and mid-air refuelings. 
 HAWX has nothing close. Every mission begins and ends in the air. Although there are Carriers in 
 some missions, you can't touch them. Who doesn't love a challenging carrier landing after a tough 
 battle.
  
  One of the winning points of HAWX is that it includes an enormous collection of aircraft, from 
 classics like the A-10 Thunderbolt to new modern craft like the F-22 Raptor, and futuristic, and 
 even unrealistic planes. Visually the wide selection of planes is very nice. However, most of the 
 planes have extremely similar flight characteristics. It just seems wrong when an A-10 can dogfight 
 on par with an F/A-18. AC6 had much greater differences between aircraft choices. In that game, 
 if you picked the wrong plane for a mission, you were pretty much guaranteed to fail the mission. 
 In HAWX, any plane seems viable for any mission. Add on to this that the game takes place around 
 the year 2020. Even though many of these craft are contemporary classics now, I think a realistic 
 world view is that these planes would be aging, out-moded planes by 2020. The idea that the player 
 is in an experimental flight squadron of the future is damaged when the planes are put in the context 
 of the larger story.
  
  Another innovation in HAWX is the ability to switch to "Assistance Off" mode, which is an external 
 view of a dog-fight, and the ability to perform more extreme maneuvers, accompanied by increased 
 risk, especially stalling. The switch between a cockpit view and the external view is extremely 
 jarring, and breaks up the action. I wish for a "bullet-time" transition that would freeze time 
 momentarily, while the camera makes a smooth transition between view points. Once in the external 
 view, the dog-fight view is very impressive, but it is also difficult to keep a good view on which 
 direction both you and your target are heading. I frequently over-turn, passing my target, then 
 have to correct back the other way. Strangely enough, some maneuvers in the external view, especially 
 a barrel-roll, or any inverted flight, seem impossible. This makes even a Hi-Yo move impossible. 
 While the external view is a great new take on dog-fighting, it actually hinders the potential 
 of a good hairball.
  
  Overall, the game is a fun time for flying, shooting, turning and burning. But the dissonance between 
 the squadron's apparent mission, the games limitations, the weaknesses in the flight model, and 
 some of the over-the-top graphics end up detracting. I feel like I'm playing an advanced version 
 of Asteroids, rather than a real action/adventure simulator-game. This game is close to excellent, 
 and I encourage Ubisoft to come out with a sequel with the kinds of improvements that would make 
 it excellent.
  
  For now, I give HAWX a Good score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  well hawx what can i say i really was not looking forward to this game because of what friends 
 and some reviews said but i decided to buy it just to see what it was like for myself and it was 
 amazing.
  
  there are a sick range of planes and attachments and i dont even care that all plays feel the same 
 to be onest it does not matter you will still be able to have tones of fun test pioleting them.
 
  
  a fairly good campaigne wich consists of 19 levels wich for some people is a lil short but the 
 change in play means the game never becomes repetitive and remains fun throught however some of 
 the later missions become incredibly hard fighting through what seems an unlimeted enemy force. 
 also there are a lot of protect missions which are really frushtrating.
  
  i was dissapointed with the lack of online multiplayer 
  
  the good: can play all campagne 
 missions online, online still boosts up your rank.
  
  the bad: can only play teamdeath wich gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  Jack Ryan is a CIA agent who must protect his country and his freedom from evil Soviet threats 
 using only his wits and high intellect amidst pressures from US government agents andno, nevermind. 
 Ubi Soft outright bought the rights to the Tom Clancy name and all properties within it, thus giving 
 them free reign to create Tom Clancy strategy games, Tom Clancy aerial combat games, Tom Clancy's 
 Extreme Skateboarding, etc. Tom Clancy's HAW-X takes the video game franchise that already strayed 
 far away from the original fiction and adds about 80,000 feet of altitude to the distance of separation 
 from Red October. 
  
  You play as a one of a group of former military pilots from the HAW-X team (and I do hate bad acronyms) 
 who joins Artemis, one of those Private Military Companies that Hideo Kojima was preaching against 
 in Metal Gear Solid 4. You fly anyone of a collection of unlockable jetsand I'll get this out 
 of the way; by playing all of the game's modes and killing targets, you collect experience points 
 used to improve your ranking and unlock assorted goods in another take of the Call of Duty 4 perk 
 system that I am so painfully indifferent too. Every time you shoot a tank/jet/anything down, the 
 game gives you XP for this. Has World of Warcraft really instilled the notion into gamers that 
 grinding levels for "XP" is fun? Really? This is billed as a high-action aerial warfare game.
 
  
  Back to HAW-X, you fly your choice of any given unlockable plane, and you complete a series of 
 missions that can comprise of anything from "kill X number of targets" to "protect/escort something 
 from X number of targets" to "kill many, many targets" andwell the range of mission objectives 
 isn't quite as broad as one would hope. There are way too many protect/escort missions, and I would 
 have hoped that game developers would've learned to nix them after the Rogue Squadron days, but 
 alas. But that said, I didn't mind them as I never found myself failing due to a stray enemy that 
 escaped my ballistic wrath, and someone out there will probably geek out over the prevalence of 
 missions asking you to protect the Ghost Recon team at least. 
  
  I've been trying to wrap my mind around whether or not HAW-X is trying to be a flight simulation. 
 In fact, this could be the game's greatest fallacy. The planes are all real even if they all handle 
 roughly the same, the worlds and locations may as well be based on Google maps, and the Tom Clancy 
 name hints at, or at least used to hint at, the idea that of real world political turmoil. But 
 small rebel insurgent groups and terrorist organizations shouldn't be so well-armed; one of the 
 first missions has you battling a terrorist group that seems willing to send about 30 tanks, ten 
 jet fighters and bombers to destroy a small oil refinery in the middle of nowhere. It's almost 
 as illogical as how your fighter jet is capable of holding about 200 missiles, or about $144,000,000 
 worth of firepower per mission. This Artemis company has to be wealthier than most first world 
 countries to have that kind of cash lying around to spend on protecting a meager oil refinery. 
 
  
  And I guess years of gaming and hoarding ammo and power-ups have made me less likely to question 
 how a plane can wield about 20 times its weight in missiles. 
  
  So the above quantities of munitions and enemies to incinerate are reason enough to think that 
 the developers intended a more accessible, arcade style of gameplay with HAW-X, and so are the 
 simplified controls. Besides not needing a keyboard, a flight joystick and the Microsoft brand 
 on the cover, the controls are somewhat streamlined. The core gameplay involves you flying towards 
 a target, your computer striving to get a lock on a target, and then firing and depriving a family 
 of their pilot caretaker. Sure there are land bombs, rockets and other munitions, including a gun 
 turret, but for the most part you'll be dependent of your lock-on missiles. There are a few nice 
 little twists to the formula, both of which have their own acronyms and thus make them almost as 
 pretentious as the EA Sports Cutman. ERS lets you, when prompted, press the square button to show 
 you a flight path that you can follow to either shake an incoming missile, go behind a target or 
 take the safest approach to an anti-air cannon. 
  
  If you feel like this is an insult to your intelligence, then the assistance OFF function will 
 be more to your liking. With a quick and not-always-responsive double tap of the shoulder buttons, 
 you'll flip off the automatic settings on the plane that prevent you from making poor piloting 
 decisions, and the camera pans far away to give you a stylish look of the action. Here, you can 
 make unusually sharp turns to dodge missiles or sneak up on enemies, but you're also prone to stalling 
 the plane and falling to your death if not careful. 
  
  Combined, the dogfighting in general feels rathersluggish. The planes feel slow and ill-responsive 
 and your gun turret is useless, relegating plane combat to two enemies chasing each other, looking 
 for a lock. While the Assistance OFF function is something new, it feels inefficient and risky 
 in comparison to the ERS system or simply doing a loop in the air. The online competitive multiplayer, 
 which is restricted to 4 on 4 team deathmatches, seem to emphasize this fact to me, though it's 
 hard for me to be concrete about such a statement with so few people playing the PS3 version online. 
 The same issue came up with the co-op play, which allows up to four people to play online. 
  
  Tom Clancy's HOCK-X perhaps suffers the most from being subjected to the Tom Clancy license. 
 The recent batch of Clancy-verse games have toiled with finding a mix between realism and accessibility, 
 but HAW-X suffers from getting the worst of both worlds. The mechanics are too simple to appeal 
 to flight simulator fans, and the gameplay is too sluggish and uninteresting for someone that just 
 wants to see fireworks made of steel and burnt flesh in the sky. Unless you've got some kind of 
 unnatural obsession with anything that has Mr. Clancy's name on it, then pass this one up and search 
 your bargain bins for Crimson Skies or any number of space shooters that involve talking animals; 
 they're about as deep as HAW-X but plenty more amusing. 
  
  3 stars 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abruzzano
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  Worth getting if your PS3 won't play those PS2 games, but the story is weak and you never get immersed 
 in the game.
  
  There are lots of planes that look good, but it's hard to keep track of them. There's also little 
 incentive to fly the older/slower ones when you can just pick up an F22 that does the job. Some 
 of the missions are clever and require some accurate flying, but none of the missions feel like 
 they continue the plot, they are individual and random.
  
  Online is fun, and even necessary sometimes, as long as guys understand the need not to target 
 each others kills, but can work as a group to defeat the bad guys. I don't have a headset, but 
 I'd say having one would allow for much better integration online. When I play with those guys 
 with headsets though, I hear a lot of static, and the voice comms are often poor.
  
  So, if you do have Ace Combat, wait till you can get this game for 19.99. It's definitely not worth 
 the full asking price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Somebody please take this game and smack Ace Combat in the face. I used to love playing Ace Combat 
 until they switched platform and left me hungry for a Jet Fighting game on the PS3. I can't thank 
 Tom Clancy enough for making this game. The game has great planes design with great use of the 
 satellite map. My favorite part of the game is fighting with multiple enemies in Assistance Off 
 mode. Seeing your jet flying and changing direction with streak of smoke is awesome. The online 
 game play is very limited, but I can live with that since this is a first installment. Hopefully 
 more will be put into this game once it becomes popular. The other thing that I had an issue with 
 is that my Jet can fly at low ground and runs into trees with no damage whatsoever. My one request 
 is to see some futuristic plane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logan906
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Ace Combat series, played, and still have AC 4, 5 and Zero from my PS2 days 
 and still play them on the PS3. When AC6 didn't make it to the PS3, I was disappointed. When I 
 saw the first release news for HAWX, I was hopeful that I would have a great modern air combat 
 game to play that took full advantage of the PS3 system. 
  
  Then I played the demo. Not impressed. I mean, all the little things were missing. When I'm in 
 cockpit view, why does it feel like I'm looking out of my car window? Where's the HUD? Where's 
 the detail on the cockpit canopy like in the seat of the F4 or F14 or any other jet in Ace Combat? 
 Ok, well it's a demo, maybe that stuff will be in the real game.
  
  Got the real game. Still no canopy detail, no HUD, the instrument cluster looks uninspired and 
 who is that guy in the window in the top right corner? It that me, my wingman? Why do I need to 
 see that? Where are the different skins for the planes? There was no feeling of speed in a fast 
 jet or lack of that feeling of speed in a slower one. Everything felt the same. In Ace Combat, 
 you could feel the difference between the A10 and the F16, not here. Combine that with no takeoff 
 or landing options, no mid air refueling and it's like they copied all the basic gameplay from 
 Ace Combat and left out all of the details that made Ace Combat great. Details. The little things 
 are what matter. I know that canopy detail and different skins and the feeling of speed may not 
 add to the core action of the game, but it adds to me feeling like I'm part of the game, like I'm 
 in a real fighter jet. Would COD4 have been great if the shotgun and the M4 sounded and shot exactly 
 the same? No. Details.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, graphics, and story, it's a solid game. Well, everything except the 
 assistance off mode. I don't even get that, what is that nonsense? With the weird camera angle, 
 I felt like I was back in the 80's playing Zaxxon again. Haven't spent too much time on Multiplayer 
 yet, so I won't comment on that. 
  
  Unfortunately, the omission of the little things make this a game that could have been great, and 
 possibly even raised the bar on Ace Combat by taking everything they gave us and improving on it. 
 Instead, they fell short and set the bar even lower by removing all the little things that made 
 Ace Combat great. 
  
  If you are an Ace Combat fan, you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madshredder93
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy and Ubisoft have done just that, they have fired H. A. W. X. into a bright future and hopefully 
 it will be a name that we will see in the future, maybe in the form of a sequel. Well why don't 
 we start then?
  
  H. A. W. X. is an incredible game, it supports online with up to a 8 players, 4v4 death match, microphones, 
 direct video uploading (PS3 exclusive feature) over 50 flyable jets, countless weapons, and offers 
 an incredibly rich and fun experience to tie it all together. For starters let's see what it's 
 single player has to offer.
  
  You are a pilot for the U. S Airforce but your squadron will soon be retired. You are than picked 
 up by a private defense organization called Artemis. Artemis is a mercenary company, they are payed 
 and recruited by others as an extra ally in a fight, and this is exactly why they hired you. You 
 are an experienced pilot who has shown what your worth, and you fill all the requirements Artemis 
 needs you for. As you progress through the game you and your allies will go through 19 completely 
 unique and fun missions. Some will have you escorting ally's around the map to certain locations 
 or make you provide air support to various ground units. Some will have you doing very intense 
 technical flights through enemy airspace while enemy SAMS and AA's fire upon your jet. Some will 
 even have you flying through canyons well having to maintain an extremely low altitude to avoid 
 radar detection, and all of this comes together in harmony giving you an awesome single player 
 campaign. If your in trouble you can also use the D-Pad to command your AI-Allies to attack at 
 their will, or watch your back, giving that extra umphh of strategy the game needs.
  
  Where the game truly shines though is in it's graphics and realistic maps. Maps in this game have 
 been created using extremely high resolution photos of the place itself in real life, and then 
 recreated to fit H. A. W. X. graphical style. Basically this means that if you see a river in a game, 
 it is in that exact place in real life. If you see trees in a game, there are trees in that place 
 in real life. If you see mountains they are in that place in real life! Forget what other reviewers 
 are saying about the games graphics being worsened by this because the satellite images make it 
 better. They look amazing from high altitude and even at lower altitude they still look great. 
 Sure when your 10 feet above the surface textures might look kind of pixelated but until the PS4 
 comes out this will always be the case. Hell even Ace Combat 6's ground textures are pixelated 
 when you get to close, but H. A. W. X. in my opinion looks much better than Ace Combat 6. Buildings 
 are very good looking, but when you get to close I have to admit they can start to look a tiny 
 (key word is tiny) but card boardish, then again when your going 1000 knots and passing by 10 skyscrapers 
 a second you don't even notice this.
  
  Planes graphics are truly spectacular as well. The ailerons move, elevators go up down, and speed 
 brakes are animated as well. Afterburners really burn and shadows are cast on the plane from plane 
 parts as well (which some aircraft games don't do) . Many planes have multiple textures too, and 
 all plane textures are very realistic and well done. Each plane also has it's own 3d cockpit view 
 you can select (I only use this view since it is pure awesome) . You can use your right stick on 
 the controller to look around in it just like you would turn your head in real life giving you 
 an even richer gameplay experience. The cockpits are very well done and highly detailed as well! 
 The only thing I wish there were more of in the plane graphics are some damage effects since when 
 your hit by a missile your plane doesn't even get a scratch. Hopefully this will be fixed in a 
 patch though.
  
  Effects are very well done as well. Explosions look incredible and are very explosive. Smoke trails 
 aren't pixelated at all which is a big plus since many games smoke effects I see are pixelated 
 and blurry. The missiles are very good looking to and have very high resolution textures ensuring 
 no details are missed. When you hit a building with a missile or even crash into one there is always 
 battle scars left on them for the rest of the game and smoke shoots straight out from them as well.
 
  
  As for the gameplay I have to admit it has left me a bit unsatisfied but this is mostly because 
 of the assistance off mode being something that you can use. To be honest I really hate the whole 
 assistance system since it degrades the gameplay experience. Out of the whole time I have had this 
 game and beat it on elite, I never once used this mode since it is no fun at all and gives you 
 an insane advantage over your enemy that makes the game way to easy. Other than the whole assistance 
 part of the game the gameplay is very good. It is arcadish yes, but what can you expect from a 
 game that allows you to hold 80 plus missiles, unlimited cannon amo and sends 100's of planes at 
 you per mission. Your plane moves unrealistically but never the less it is still extremely fun 
 to fly an F-22 at mach 2, a foot above the cold blue ocean beneath you. You can do barrel rolls, 
 flips, and any maneuver you can think of with ease in almost any plane you choose, but the planes 
 still fly differently. Some are faster, some turn much better, some have a slower minimum speed, 
 and some are just better all around, but the game still balances out very well. An F-117 can take 
 out an F-22 if the pilots know how to fly good enough, and since this is a game that is a plus 
 side not a minus side. You can also use your mike as a way to command your plane to do various 
 functions but I have never used this since I am stuck to the good old joysticks and trigger buttons 
 to command my plane through the battles it faces.
  
  Multiplayer does leave me wanting more though. You (as of March 14, 2009) can only play one multiplayer 
 mode; Team Death Match. Don't get me wrong, the multiplayer is deadly fun and the ranking system 
 is nothing short of extraordinary but I really wish a free for all, or capture the flag/base mode 
 was implemented. Anyways in Team Death Match there are two teams; Green and Blue, which you can't 
 change to any other color unfortunately. You and 3 allies take on up to 4 enemies in a brawl that 
 is really fun. As you take down your enemies you get rewarded with bonuses that can be used in 
 the fight you are in when you get them. Some allow you to jam your enemies radar systems making 
 it harder for them to lock on to your plane, and some allow you to disable your enemies use of 
 homing missiles completely for a certain amount of time. There is even one that puts all your enemies 
 into a stall for a very short time, but if your enemies are close to the ground when it happens 
 than you can pretty much guarantee yourself that they are dead. Another bonus allows you to set 
 a max altitude for your enemies and if breached they will take damage over time until they go below 
 the sealing again.
  
  The ranking system is composed of 40 levels, each of which unlocking new planes or weapon sets 
 for them. To get levels you can either play multiplayer or play campaign mode. As you get higher 
 in the levels you also get a new rank symbol beside your name in multiplayer matches to show off 
 which is much nicer than a stupid number beside your name which some games do. The ranks however 
 do nothing for your matchmaking but are merely a way to restrict powerful planes to weak users 
 so you don't see 8 SU-47's going at it. It also makes you try out planes you might have never used 
 since, when you think about it would you rather fly an F-22 or an F-5? I personally love this system 
 and think it works great and is suited for this kind of a game. Now I know some of you may be thinking, 
 "Well 40 levels is nothing, I'll get that in like a day", well you're wrong. I'm at level 26 and 
 I beat the game on the Elite difficulty, and on top of that have put in a lot of time into multiplayer 
 as well since I'm addicted to this game lol. Sure the first 15 or so levels are pretty easy to 
 get and completing one campaign mission at a level lower than 15 will get you two levels (on elite) 
 but after 15 two or three completed missions and a few games of multiplayer won't even get you 
 one level. This is good since many players will end up playing this game for two days straight 
 and they still won't be level forty, leaving us 'normal' people with a chance to still kick their 
 ass in multiplayer. One thing that makes this game stand out from other games of it's class is 
 the ability to play co-op campaign missions with up to four people (including yourself) . I have 
 done this a few times and let me just say WELL DONE UBISOFT. This feature is amazing! On top of 
 all this the game even let's you talk with a microphone with your allies so you can make complex 
 flight plans or split up the fight enemy by enemy. You can also send your allies a request via 
 the D-Pad to attack an enemy or watch your back for those of you without mikes. All in all this 
 games multiplayer will have you coming back and back again even after you beat the game's main 
 campaign.
  
  Another thing this game does very well in is it's sound. Throughout your flying you will hear beeps, 
 warnings, friendly voices, enemy speeches, missile launches, engine howls, explosions, crashes, 
 splashes and everything in between. For every effect you see there is an appropriate sound that 
 goes with it and flows with it as well. That's about it for sound but what can you expect... it's 
 sound lol.
  
  H. A. W. X. is definitely a game that will revolutionize the fighter jet genre in the future and is 
 also doing so now. Hopefully patches will fix errors and add more variety to the game in the future, 
 particularly in multiplayer modes, but even in it's current state H. A. W. X. goes above and beyond 
 what it was expected to do. It offers a great campaign, in depth single player features and a truly 
 fun multiplayer option that will keep you coming back to it again and again, and with over 50 planes 
 and countless missiles and weapons, boredom is something that is non existent here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited when this game was announced, I like flight combat games. Being a PS3 owner, 
 I never got to really play Ace Combat 6, apart from at my friend's house. When I played the demo, 
 I noticed the striking similarity between it and Ace Combat, the two are almost identical, apart 
 from this one's story being more realistic because it's accually set on Earth. Also, H. A. W. X. tries 
 out what they call "Assistance Off Mode," it pans the camera way out, makes the plane faster, far 
 more manuverable, and far more difficult to control. This is nessassary to fight a lot of the ememy 
 planes, but when I had to do it, I could feel fun being stricken from me. It led me into frustration, 
 I always overshot turns and I sometimes couldn't tell where my plane was pointing.
  
  Other than those complaints, I enjoyed this game and had a lot of fun, it reminded me of the old 
 Ace Combat games, I wish i had more to say, but... That's all folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  Had really high expectations from reading the reviews here, but I'm thankful I rented this prior 
 to purchasing. First off I'm a fan of most of the Clancy games (note to Ubisoft for buying clancy's 
 game cause it works) . I wasn't expecting a totally realistic game, but that it's not. The flying 
 is a little stiff and awkward to control with your plane going all sorts of directions. Gameplay 
 is pretty simple once you get the hang of it, which ultimately is the downfall for me. I honestly 
 can only play this game for a bit before getting bored. However the game does get a little better 
 with more play.
  
  Excellent Maps though (I actually can find my building in Chicago)
  
  
  
  Had really high expectations from reading the reviews here, but I'm thankful I rented 
 this prior to purchasing. First off I'm a fan of most of the Clancy games (note to Ubisoft for 
 buying clancy's game cause it works) . I wasn't expecting a totally realistic game, but that it's 
 not. The flying is a little stiff and awkward to control with your plane going all sorts of directions. 
 Gameplay is pretty simple once you get the hang of it, which ultimately is the downfall for me. 
 I honestly can only play this game for a bit before getting bored. However the game does get a 
 little better with more play.
  
  Excellent Maps though (I actually can find my building in Chicago) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathwingPanzer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I'll start, bizzarrely, with negatives of this game and then move onto the excelling parts. HAWX 
 is an excellent game for any dogfight junkie and jet lover alike. However, it is not a realism 
 focused game, though it does try to stay close without alienating people.
  
  The Negative:
  The biggest let down is the leveling system, though is has its merits, the scaling 
 is too steep once the player breeches level 25. The other two issues are the single player missions 
 limit which planes you may use haphazardly and the level of neglect that Ubi Soft has displayed 
 for the ranked servers at present (3/5-12/2009) in terms of lag and disconnections. The Assistance 
 OFF mode has is limited by the camera angle.
  
  The Positive:
  Assistance OFF mode is a Major step forward in combat flying, but camera angle makes it limited 
 at present. The ERS system is a major aid for the new comers to combat flight sims and also is 
 pretty useful for experienced players too. The Difficulty settings are pretty spot on too.
  Now, for the real stars of the game, the Jets. The aircraft are very detailed and beautiful. Though 
 weapons are limited in variety, most planes have a wide selection. Additionally, the plane selection 
 is excellent, it includes some of the best viewed fighters and multi-roles around. 
  The story is decent, not an epic, but good. It jumps on the band wagon of warning against large 
 and power PMC's (private military companies/corporations) . But like Ace Combat, the player character 
 is never explained to any detail to allow the player to 'make' him/her themselves.
  
  Summary:
  Tom Clancy's HAWX is a great game, and any Ace Combat fan will find it a great escape 
 until we finally get some news on Ace 7. Though it displays some faults, its merits more then make 
 up for them. With the possibility of more planes, missions and modes through DLC, it can only get 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobtheyeti
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 6:40 am PT
Review:  I played the demo for this a couple of weeks ago and was immediately hooked - for those of us that 
 want something a bit different from the hordes of FPS and platform games, HAWX provides an excellent 
 alternative.
  It is fun, challenging, has plenty of achievements and hoards of unlockable content. There are 
 some pretty interesting features too, including various ways to target and intercept enemies, as 
 well as impressive moves you can pull off and watch in the replays.
  Although the ground may look ugly up close it doesn't really matter as you barely get close enough 
 to tell - apart from this, the graphics really are impressive. The planes and scenery all look 
 fantastic.
  The campaign mode is set out very well, playing through on the basic difficulty will give you the 
 chance to familiarise yourself with the controls while it sets the basics for the different types 
 of challenge you will face. There is a great deal of replayability value with challenges becoming 
 tougher and various ranks and achievements that you can only get on playing the game more than 
 once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  When i saw the trailer. I was like; it is Ghost Recon with wings, so looks like a good game. I 
 have not bougth the game ( yet -but will do for the PC and the for the PS3) but i have played the 
 demos (PS3 and PC) arround 20 times now. And the controls are easy to rember . Fligth system is 
 a great one the best i have played in a long time. Very realistic ( like Flight Simulator X) with 
 a touch of cimematic action (like top gun) and some CNN ( remember the fotage for the gulf war 
 ) . My only complain abouth the game is that you cannot perfom certain dog fight manuvers ex . the 
 cobra; and the ruder some times is like it was not there. I also have attemted some of the manuvers 
 that i see at the history channel Combat Aces. And was unable to replicate them (there fore a 9) . 
 But this game is not abouth a combat flight simulator is an air combat game. And a Great ONE with 
 a Ghost Recon like history. So i do remend the game for the acction and the best part the OFF mode 
 in combat. See the movie and play in the movie.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to admit that I've never played a flight simulation before. The only reason 
 I played through Tom Clancy's HAWX is hat I had (to my surprise) a lot of fun with the demo and 
 then got the game for free. This unbiased attitude towards the genre seems to me as a good foundation 
 for a review.
  
  Taking into consideration that I'm really no professional in flying digital jets I considered HAWX 
 to be very easy. During the 19 campaign-missions I only got shot down approx five times  although 
 I played on hard. Of course one can argue that the game offers a great accessibility and I would 
 partly support that but I guess the game isn't a challenge for anyone familiar with the genre. 
 Nevertheless it's mainly this accesibility which makes the aerial dogfights so much fun. The easy 
 to learn handling of the jets provokes the player to do very coll maneuvers and the insistent enemies 
 force you into some exciting fights.
  
  All the action in HAWX takes place over extremely detailed environments provided with many cool 
 3D-models of which a lot are copies of actual buildings and landmarks. Anyway you don't have to 
 fear the satellites which helped making these maps even if they are directly over your house: When 
 you fly near to the ground it all gets muddy and blurred. Nonetheless the jets look amazing and 
 HAWX also provides some great effects, for example the explosions or the volumetric clouds. The 
 sweeping sound design makes an additional contribution to the great technical presentation.
  
  Unfortunately the dozens of different jets you fly during the campaign don't differ in handling 
 or speed at all  it all feels like the same plane. This has a very negative effect on the player's 
 motivation during the campaign: After every mission you unlock new jets and this could be very 
 motivating  but obviously it isn't when they all feel like one and the same. At least the several 
 weapons have to be handled in different ways and the mission design is keen to deliver variation. 
 Moreover the storyline of HAWX is extremely exaggerated if not ridiculous.
  
  All in all Tom Clancy's HAWX is a fun, arcade-style and very accessible flight game. Everyone who 
 looks for a challenging simulation should keep his hands off the game but those of you you seek 
 some fast-paced, mostly thrilling and diverting flight game should have a closer look at HAWX. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xolivierx
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Everybody is comparing this game to Ace Combat. And they should. Because HAWX is a copy of Ace 
 combat, only it's not a good one. HAWX comes close to being entertaining many times, but it also 
 fails at it every time.
  This game is an arcade game. It as some realism, but not too much of it. For instance you carry 
 way too many missiles and you never need to refuel. The enemy 
  
  AI is not impressive. I could fly for hours chasing an enemy doing loops, as he is doing loops 
 himself ,tailing my wingman, which is also doing loops trying to follow me. It's like a dog running 
 after its tail.
  
  Sure there is a wide variety of planes, but none of them are great to pilot. You can't feel the 
 speed. The graphics are simply ok. Ground texture is bad. The load screen is simply annoying; always 
 giving you the same stupid hints. 
  
  The controller configuration is ackward.... I'm talking about R2 and L2 used for acceleration/deceleration 
 when it should have been R1/L1... it makes R1 and L1 unusable while you are speeding or trying to 
 slow down. The planes are not affected by gravity while being inverted. The explosions look bad. 
 The missions are extremly boring. Storyline is not that good.
  
  I gave it a 6 only because I like dog fighting. I'll be selling this game back because it's not 
 a keeper. And what about when you press the square button a path leading you to a guaranteed kill 
 appears. That kills the whole fun factor.
  If you want to play a light game, a game that didn't even get a review from gamespot, well, don't 
 even bother because it's not good, Get Ace Combat on PS2 or Ace Combat on another console I cannot 
 name.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirzatech
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  In a strikingly wonderful detour from the usual Tom Clancy shooters, Ubisoft Romania has produced 
 a game that turns out to be surprisingly addictive primarily because of it's engaging gameplay 
 but also because of an intense storyline. 
  
  To this day, you and I know very well that scores of shooting games have been produced and that 
 they are continuously evolving in many aspects. The flying genre on the other hand, is the one 
 that does not attract such following as the shooting ones do, but nevertheless, many game developers 
 occasionally decide to make a bold move and produce a flying game. 
  
  In discussing the game H. A. W. X, it is very much given that the advocates of Ace Combat will remain 
 true to their allegiance (from personal experience) , but to all others willing to discover this 
 genre, H. A. W. X is a rock solid fun experience. It is not a flight simulator like the Microsoft 
 titles, but an arcade style game that is set in the near future. The single player campaign is 
 set in a fictitious war between the US forces and a multi-national private PMC called Artemis that 
 twists some laws around to attack the US mainland. I won't spoil more but this may sound like no 
 extraordinary story ---but it is still a very immersive one.
  
  Overall, H. A. W. X allows you to pilot the fastest and most combat efficient fighter jets of our 
 time and with a new ERS system which means that even those who are less familiar with aerial shooters, 
 can perhaps learn a little from this game. The question that is raised, is whether the inclusive 
 nature of the game has made the experience a little too tailored towards mass appeal at the expense 
 of keeping veterans well and truly challenged. HAWX looks very authentic indeed, it has some excellent 
 presentation via the menus and HUD, a joyous sense of speed and an overall level of polish not 
 to be scoffed at. The combat whilst rather un-challenging, still felt very solid and looked as 
 satisfying as you'd expect. The aircraft models are perfect recreations of their real life counterparts, 
 and it's always nice to be able to switch viewpoints on the fly to suit personal tastes. Your missions 
 take you all over the world from L. A. to Rio De Janeiro, with sorties during the day, dusk and 
 night. So you'll get to experience a real visual treat looking at the game's obvious use of satellite 
 images to create the lush and populated landscapes. I didn't encounter any issues at all with the 
 graphics, which points to some very high production values being employed.
  
  All in all, I was surprised to find that it was a fun game to play and urge all of you who can, 
 to do so as it goes quite far from usual Tom Clancy titles -- while managing to remain true to Clancy's 
 world of high-tech gadgetry and style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8TwilightAngel8
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Hawx is the next step from other Air combat games like Ace Combat 5 or Zero. It has the same kind 
 of arcade style game play, but it is a bit more realistic in both graphics and combat.
  The graphics in my opinion are pretty good, but could have been better. In game graphics are pretty 
 basic, even the cinematics are a bit lagging. Considering what the PS3 can do, they should have 
 worked on them a little more. Detail on the actual aircraft is fine, right down to the tail designs 
 and flaps. Environment details are what need a bit of improvement.
  Combating your enemy targets is quite interesting. They appear as a yellow square with a diamond 
 inside. When you get close enough to have a missile lock, the target turns red and you usually 
 get a command that says "locked on. Clear to shoot. Fire at will." Usually by then, the missile 
 has been launched. If you don't like the particular target you have you can change it by pressing 
 the triangle button. When flying in to shoot down multiple targets (for example a group of tanks) , 
 this is very useful. Once you launch your first missile on a red highlighted target, press the 
 triangle button to go to the next target that is within range. Right away, it should be red. Launch 
 another missile then target your next tank or ground unit and finish them off. This must be executed 
 quickly so you don't have to do another pass.
  Air-to-air combat is a little more difficult than air-to-ground, as your targets have some pretty 
 good maneuvering. There are two aerial enemies: helios (helicopters) and bandits (combat jets) . 
 Helios go down as easy as the tanks and ground units; they rarely fight back. Bandits are what 
 you need to worry about. They are very fast and have the same abilities as you do. The main attack 
 you need to worry about is a missile attack. When a missile is locked on to you, a warning appears 
 in two forms; there usually is an audio warning (beeping, the aircraft's computer voice- which 
 is female, one of your wingman or a commander) and a small arrow on the left side of your screen. 
 The arrow also shows the direction it is coming from and how far away it is from hitting you. Another 
 thing your wingman does to help you avoid getting hit is they tell you which way to veer to avoid 
 a collision. You can also use flares, but use them wisely as they can run out.
  If a bandit locks onto you and it is not visible, a little icon with a plane in it and an arrow 
 appears by the Tacmap (radar map) on the bottom left of your screen. Like with the missile arrow, 
 it shows you the direction to the bandit and how far away it is.
  When you yourself are locked onto a bandit, you must chase it down to get an accurate hit. If you 
 use the same tactics as you do with the tanks or helios, it is not guaranteed you will get a kill, 
 as these enemies are smart and can easily release flares. Here is a great way to get a kill. Sometimes 
 while you are following a bandit, a little square prompt will appear below the target that says 
 "intercept." Press square and a bunch of blue rings will appear before you. Fly through them. Make 
 sure you stay on track. If you stray for too long, the pursuit will end. Once your target appears 
 strait ahead and goes from yellow to red, fire a missile. 
  One thing that annoys me is the playing screen. A million things are going on at once. Potential 
 targets come from every direction, so its hard to choose which target to attack first. You have 
 to pay attention to audio commands as well as very small meters of conveys or buildings your supposed 
 to protect. If they are destroyed, the mission is over. Objectives appear at the top of the screen. 
 This bar tells you when an objective is complete and what the next objective is. Sometimes there 
 are only audio commands of what you need to do next, which can lead to confusion. On the screen 
 there is also a Tacmap as I've mentioned on the bottom left. This shows you where enemies and allies 
 are that are in range. You can also view a whole map without pausing the game. On the top left, 
 it shows you an image of your target, whether it's a tank, a helios or a bandit. On the bottom 
 right is your aircraft's weapon information (how many missiles and flares you have, etc) . On the 
 top right are two things: an objective gauge, which shows your progress until you beat the objective, 
 and an objective PIP display. Here is where your commanders give you your orders. There are other 
 things on the screen (mostly arrows and altitude stuff) , but I won't go into depth about that as 
 it is strait forward.
  The controls for the game are decent and pretty strait forward. One thing that I think is really 
 good for gamers is that you have a choice to use either analog or Sixaxis controls. The only thing 
 that bothers me is the sensitivity. I tapped the analog stick lightly, and my airplane almost did 
 a barrel roll. The only way to do a good turn without almost going upside down is to use the "YAW" 
 control (you do this with either R1 or L1 depending on which way you want to turn) . Hold it down 
 while turning left or right to make your aircraft turn more quickly and easily without rolling. 
 Slowing down with the brake (L2) is also recommended. Accelerating (L2) turns on your afterburners 
 and you begin to speed up (obviously) . You don't feel like you are moving any faster though. 
 
  Game modes for Hawx are made up of the usual campaign and versus. I don't play online, so I can't 
 say anything about the online play. On campaign you go along with the story's plot, unlocking areas, 
 weapon packs and aircraft. There are three difficulty levels for each campaign: normal, hard and 
 elite. During campaigns you can have four-player JUMP IN/ JUMP OUT co-op mode. Basically, on solo 
 missions up to four players can come or leave the campaign. This is good if you are not on the 
 PS3 Network (like me) . Now you can enjoy multiplayer without having to be online. Free flight mode 
 is pretty cool. Once you beat a level, you can either play it again on one of the three levels, 
 or go for a free flight. The name suits this mode perfectly. You can return to levels and just 
 fly around with no objectives or enemies. Of course, that at times can be quite boring. But with 
 this mode you can fly with any of the aircraft you unlock on your way. This is more for practice 
 flying then anything. Since there is no tutorial, free mode is the only way to get used to the 
 controls.
  Along with game modes, there are different View/ Camera Modes. You can have the camera behind your 
 jet, be in the cockpit or in first person. In my opinion its best to keep the camera behind your 
 jet during game play. In the cockpit there are a lot of sight restrictions. First person is a really 
 neat way to play in aerial combat, but again, sight is restricted and being able to judge distance 
 can be difficult. In this mode you have to pay attention to the altitude gauge that appears on 
 the screen.
  Overall, the game is great. They have collected a huge number of the most famous aircraft from 
 around the world just to give us a little taste of their abilities. Level areas can use some work 
 graphic wise, but look good nonetheless. Audio is very clear and sounds great with surround sound. 
 Combat is very realistic and puts you in the shoes of fighter pilots with exceptional accuracy. 
 Objectives should be more strait forward. Too much goes on at once for you to keep on track with 
 your mission. The three different view modes offer cool perspectives when playing. The JUMP IN/ 
 JUMP OUT co-op is good for those that don't or can't go online.
  I suggest that you pick it up once the prices drop, or get it used. If you don't think you will 
 like it or if you are curious, just rent it first. Don't waste $65 on a game and realize you don't 
 like it. If you have played Ace Combat games before or are extremely interested in aviation, then 
 pick it up. You'll have a blast! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronhoon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  First off I just want to say that this is the first flight combat game that I have ever bought. 
 I have played Blazing Angles the demo and that is about it, and this game impressed me from the 
 minute I put it in the PS3. The game play is extremely easy to get use to and is very user friendly. 
 I haven't tried the in cockpit view yet, but as far as the third person (or I should say third 
 plane view) it is a really simple to get the hang of it. The graphics for this game are really 
 stunning. I was hoping for really good graphics due tho the great levels that you are put in to. 
 When you are flying your missions you will sometimes find you self turned every which way and cant 
 tell what way is up, and the graphics still look beautiful. I must be honest I crashed and burned 
 the first mission, and as i was plummeting to the earth into a skyscraper the graphics were great. 
 Game content there is a butt load to unlock and also a leveling system to keep you coming back 
 for more. Each plane has a few things like armament payload that can be unlocked through different 
 achievements. All in all this is a great game and well worth the buy. If you are into the flight 
 games you will like this game. If you have never played a flight combat game and want to try your 
 hands in it this game will get you into to with little or no head ache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  .. and I believe that simulator fans will still like this game.
  
  Tom Clancy games have allways been the kind to get us right into the thick of strategic assault 
 simulation modes but Hawx has actually taken a bit of a twist away from this style. 
  
  I was wowed at first by the fluid flight controls and the fantastic graphical presentation. Even 
 at times when you fly your fighters right near the ground, it still remains impressive. Sound and 
 music is great and adds a brilliant atmosphere especially with surrounds. 
  
  Aerial combat is an absoloute blast but it also presents a small but acceptable disappointment 
 when it comes to realism. I am a big simulator fan and the more realistic, the better for me. I 
 just cannot buy the fact that within minutes of playing, you are quite simply the most dangerous 
 fighter pilot in the world. 
  
  This could be, because you are outfitted with a monstrous arsenal of weaponry that begs to wonder 
 how the pylons can hold so much armament. This occurs even on elite mode making the experience 
 far from strategic and realistic. Once you accept this, it's all just party time if anything. I 
 truly believe that if the game was designed to be a hardcore simulator, I would have moved the 
 score closer to 10. But then again.. with all this technology, it is set in the future so who knows, 
 maybe this stuff is on the production line as we speak..
  
  One of my favourite features is the assistant mode. This is truly an epic mode. At first and probably 
 for a few minutes, you will not even know what the hell is going on; but once you get the hang 
 of it, you will realise it's benefits. Apart from looking unreal from it's viewpoint, I found it 
 very useful for dodging missiles and for spotting your enemies and of course checking out your 
 totally cool and sexy fighters. (Yes, there is the nightmare Sukhoi Su-47 and every kind of JSF 
 and Raptor variant hehe ;) 
  
  The best way to describe Hawx is that it is a god above it's predecessor "afterburner" type combat 
 games. Massively action packed, it is not boring and it is also easy to play even on elite mode 
 once you get the hang of it.
  
  Whether this is a good thing, it is entirely up to you but if you hunger for awesome air combat 
 action with almost every fighter plane ever invented and ones that are about to be, then this is 
 the game that must be in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nastya0391
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:16 am PT
Review:  When i saw the trailer. I was like; it is Ghost Recon with wings, so looks like a good game. I 
 have not bougth the game ( yet -but will do for the PC and the for the PS3) but i have played the 
 demos (PS3 and PC) arround 20 times now. And the controls are easy to rember . Fligth system is 
 a great one the best i have played in a long time. Very realistic ( like Flight Simulator X) with 
 a touch of cimematic action (like top gun) and some CNN ( remember the fotage for the gulf war 
 ) . My only complain abouth the game is that you cannot perfom certain dog fight manuvers ex . the 
 cobra; and the ruder some times is like it was not there. I also have attemted some of the manuvers 
 that i see at the history channel Combat Aces. And was unable to replicate them (there fore a 9) . 
 But this game is not abouth a combat flight simulator is an air combat game. And a Great ONE with 
 a Ghost Recon like history. So i do remend the game for the acction and the best part the OFF mode 
 in combat. See the movie and play in the movie.
  
  Kisses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsg1961
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game to some looks a lot like the Ace Combat series, dont worry about them people if there 
 the ones that are making your mind on this, this is a very addictive action packed game, like the 
 good Clancy games should be. This game lacks somewhat in the tactical field, but the action and 
 constant missile fire leaves you wanting more, not mentioning the "assistance off" mode, which 
 is a little unreal, but some of the maneuvers make this game one of a kind. Like most Clancy games, 
 this is a very difficult game at times, and you need to think to finish the level, there are also 
 many ways to reach the objectives, and the levels are long as well, making it frustrating at times, 
 and wanting to break your controller over your knee, but you will not leave the game for long or 
 at all and keep trying, which gives this game a 10, this is an awesome game and is definitely a 
 solid contender for game of the year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
