-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's EndWar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/strategy/tomclancysendwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative voice command mechanic makes you feel powerful.
 Fantastic audio and visuals put you in the thick of the action.
 Persistent online campaign makes matches feel meaningful.
 Different match types make good use of uplink capture mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaign has no story to speak of.
 All three factions play the same way.
 Limited unit types make for simple rock-paper-scissors skirmishes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 456 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
At its core, EndWar is a bit too simple, but it does offer a unique voice command system and terrific 
 production values. 

  Many games put you in the role of a commander; few do it with the kind of immediacy that Tom Clancy's 
 EndWar delivers. In this innovative real-time strategy game, you don a headset and issue commands 
 to your units by speaking your wishes to your squads. Sound like a gimmick? Perhaps -- but when combined 
 with an explosive cinematic presentation that tosses you into the thick of the action, it imparts 
 a unique feeling of hi-tech sovereignty that's anything but a gimmick. Were this mechanic not implemented, 
 EndWar's core simplicity would be more obvious. Its three near-future factions all play the same 
 way, the rock-paper-scissors relationships between units are incredibly straightforward, and the 
 single-player campaign doesn't tell any story to speak of, which is a blatant missed opportunity. 
 Nevertheless, a novel multiplayer mode and persistent units that carry from one mission to the 
 next keep things interesting, and on the whole, EndWar is a fun RTS that will hopefully start a 
 refreshing new trend: console strategy games that feel tailor-made for their platforms.  

           Using the headset to issue commands is a breeze.      

  Your headset has an enormous 
 impact on the experience. To order your units about, you issue a series of preset commands by holding 
 a trigger and speaking your directive into the microphone. This runs the gamut from attacking enemy 
 squads ("Unit two, attack hostile four") and bringing in reinforcements when they are available 
 ("Deploy gunships") to centering your view on a particular group ("Unit three, camera") and ordering 
 special attacks ("Air strike, hostile six") . There are limited possibilities, so don't expect to 
 plan out multiple waypoints or set up tank patrols. Nor can you rely completely on the microphone -- at 
 least, not if you intend to be competitive. Actions like garrisoning infantry into a building or 
 ordering your units to unleash special attacks require some button presses, so there is a bit of 
 light micromanagement in this regard. Additionally, if you don't have a microphone or just don't 
 want to use one, you can use just the controller, though given the uniqueness of the voice commands, 
 that isn't ideal. Using the headset is cool, and it works well: While there were some exceptions 
 (the game misinterpreting "alpha" for "delta," for example) , EndWar easily recognized the huge 
 majority of our voice commands. This included a standard Xbox Live headset, as well as USB and 
 Bluetooth headsets on the PlayStation 3.  

  The units themselves are products of EndWar's World War III setting. In the game's version of near-future 
 events, The United States, Russia, and a unified Europe have each become superpowers, and the US 
 plans the launch of a military space station to tip the worldwide balance of power in its favor. 
 Unfortunately, terrorists destroy the station upon lift-off, thereby igniting global conflict. 
 Yet as interesting and far-fetched as the setting is, it's mostly backdrop. The campaign is just 
 a series of battles versus the AI that emulates EndWar's main multiplayer mode, so don't expect 
 much exposition, larger-than-life personalities, or political intricacies. You can play as any 
 of the three factions, but while your own commander (and his or her blatant accent) will change, 
 there's no story to involve you, aside from mission updates and news blurbs. Thus, there's no reason 
 to play the campaign with another faction if you've finished it once already. This lack of narrative 
 is a big disappointment, given Tom Clancy's pedigree of political potboilers.  

  Nevertheless, EndWar has a way of drawing you in, not just because of the unique control mechanism, 
 but because it lets you closely follow your squads into battle. Regardless of your faction, the 
 basic units are the same: Infantry comprises riflemen and engineers; tanks and artillery have the 
 armored advantage; gunships take to the skies; and transports not only whisk your infantry about 
 the battlefield, but offer necessary antiair support. Most of the time, you'll be switching your 
 view from squad to squad, and the camera's close-up vantage point has quite an impact when you're 
 engaged in combat. Bullets fly, gunships fall from the sky, and artillery fire rains from above, 
 and some visual glitches aside, it's all quite exciting and cinematic in a way that most other 
 strategy games just can't accomplish. If you prefer a more traditional overhead view, you can enter 
 "sitrep" view, assuming that your command vehicle hasn't been blown to smithereens. Here, you can 
 get a quick overview of the battlefield, which is useful but not particularly dramatic. The rapid 
 zoom of the camera when you move in and out of this mode and from one unit to the next, however, 
 is incredibly slick.  

           Sitrep view gives you some perspective.      

  While having so few unit types and no striking difference between factions may be authentic -- and 
 relatively simple to balance -- given the setting, it doesn't make any side worth playing more than 
 another. The relationship between units is always the same: tanks beat transports, gunships beat 
 tanks, and so on, so there's little subtlety. Instead, strategy is delivered on a broader level, 
 starting with the mission objectives. There are four main mission types: assault, conquest, siege, 
 and raid. Assault is the simplest (kill your enemy) , while in Raid, you must either destroy or 
 defend certain buildings on the map to achieve victory. Conquest, however, is the most interesting 
 mode, taking its cues from the Battlefield titles in addition to EndWar's closest RTS cousin, World 
 in Conflict. Here, you must use infantry to capture control points called uplinks scattered across 
 the map while fending off the enemy and sabotaging their attempts to do the same. Siege battles 
 are much less common than the others, and involve an assaulting player attempting to capture a 
 critical uplink while the defending player struggles to maintain control of it.  

  Tactics are generally obvious in all of these situations, but they can still generate a tense tug 
 of war between players as each jockeys for position. Uplinks are present in all modes, and they 
 are a critical part of the gameplay. Most importantly, they help you earn command points, which 
 you need to call in reinforcements and perform other actions. However, uplinks can only be taken 
 by infantry, so even if you aren't playing a conquest map, you'll still want some riflemen or engineers 
 in the field. Uplinks also hold a second key to victory: upgrades that allow you to engage support 
 powers like air strikes and electronic attacks. These powers are invaluable in a sticky situation 
 but also cost command points, so you'll need to weigh the advantage of bringing in another transport 
 to defeat your gunship-heavy opponent against a quick strike that could do immediate damage. There 
 are even short-range nukes to deploy in certain circumstances that can immediately turn the tide 
 of battle, and produce a properly spectacular explosion.     

   

  All of these battles are given context within a larger turn-based map called the Theater of War. 
 The offline theater is good for practice, but it's the online theater that provides the meat of 
 the experience. This semiglobal map is persistent, so as opposing players engage one another, the 
 results of an entire day's matches represent a single turn within the theater. Once the day's turn 
 is complete, new battles open up as each faction spreads its dominion. This is a great idea that 
 may remind you of a similar mode in the mech action game Chromehounds. But while the sameness of 
 each faction makes it hard to feel particularly loyal, it's involving to watch your faction's color 
 spread across the map, whether that means establishing your presence in Florida or burning Paris 
 to the ground.  

           Varied mission types help make up for some missing complexity.      

  So your battle 
 prowess has global consequences, but success brings more than a victory for your faction. You'll 
 also earn a supply of credits after each battle that you can then spend on upgrades for your units. 
 Surviving units gain levels, which gives them access to purchased enhancements, which could mean 
 faster movement speed, new support powers (being able to designate a new drop point for reinforcements 
 is ever so helpful) , or additional attacks that can be triggered with a button when you are following 
 the unit that can perform them. Like the Theater of War, this feature seems like its supposed 
 to make you feel more emotionally attached to your faction's success, and it works to an extent, 
 giving you an incentive that works on a more personal level. While new attacks open up some minor 
 micromanagement options, they don't bring drastic changes, because most battles are still won or 
 lost with quick uplink securing and basic understanding of rock-beats-scissors dynamics.  

  But while EndWar's tactics were designed on a broader scale, its presentation throws you into the 
 midst of battle. When firefights get heavy, the screen fills with units and explosions, and nothing 
 beats watching the destruction on the ground from the vantage point of a gunship squad firing at 
 tanks or engineers from above. Even the smaller touches make an impact, such as the authentic-looking 
 behavior of engineer squads as they enter a building or a transport. Upon closer inspection, you 
 can see that explosions don't look all that grand, and you'll find plenty of clipping issues and 
 other minor quibbles. Yet on the whole, EndWar offers a terrific visual impression, thanks to fantastic 
 unit animations and a smooth frame rate. If you're intent on purchasing the best-looking version, 
 better color saturation gives the PlayStation 3 the slight upper hand, though both versions look 
 and perform great.  

           The standard view lets you get up close and personal with your units.      

  The sound 
 design does an even better job of immersing you in battle. This is partially due to the din of 
 combat, which is loud and violent, perfectly appropriate for World War III. However, it's the constant 
 radio chatter and responses of your units that have the greatest impact, making you feel as though 
 you really are in the role of a military commander. It isn't just for show, either: EndWar's constant 
 feedback is an important tactical tool, letting you make split-second decisions that could mean 
 life or death for your squad. Unfortunately, there are too many times when crucial feedback ("Check 
 unit nine") comes far too late for it to do any good.  

  EndWar's unique voice command mechanic makes it wholly unique among strategy games, and it's this 
 innovation that stands out above all of its other features. Strip it away, and you'll find a RTS 
 game that can be fun and satisfying, but is ultimately just a bit too simplistic. But even if strategy 
 veterans won't find all the complexities they'd expect, there's something to be said for EndWar's 
 smart match types and cinematic presentation, which will hopefully keep the game's servers populated 
 for some time to come.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  Great idea on this game. I give them props on the direction that this is going. The only problem 
 is the technology has not been perfected yet. Maybe it is just the fact that my voice is too low 
 pitched. The game cannot seem to understand anything I say. I try to dispatch a certain unit and 
 the command system does something completely different. This game is basically unplayable for me. 
 I could suck on helium balloons and try playing it that way. 
  Well I think this game might be great just not for me. I am curious if any other people with deep 
 voices are having the same problem. I can tell a lot of people do love this game. I don't hate 
 it I just can't play it the way it was meant to be played. If they tweak the technology a little 
 on the sequel, and the game actually does what I am commanding it to do I might very well enjoy 
 it? At least I only spent $15 on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  as a gamer i like strategy games like command and conquer and i was exited to here tom clancy was 
 giving it a go.
  
  the mic control system actually works pretty well and only rarelly gets ure commands mixed up how 
 ever in the later missions can get hard to say all you need to so fast.
  
  campaigne got very repetitive after the first couple of missions which ment for a crap replay value 
 and graphics at times got a bit crap. the good things were that you have a wide range of wepons 
 and that you can pic what side you are out og america england and russia.
  
  online play was rubbish and never really offered anything new to keep you playing
  
  not a 
 game i would strongly reccomend its more of a 1 week rental.
  
  in my opinion it was a let down to the clancy franchise which has great game like rainbow 6 , ghost 
 recon and my new favourite hawx atleast they did not muk up that one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicHat1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  The PS3 hasn't had many RTS games so far, something that will change in 2009 with the likes of 
 Stormrise or Command and Conquer. Tom Clancy's End War, released in 2008 had a chance to establish 
 early popularity and a standard for others to follow, using Voice Control as it's main draw but 
 I played without and suffered no problems for it.
  
  The battles themselves are good, while the rock-scissors-paper system isn't original, it works 
 well. The battles force you to adapt your forces to what is going on and makes you think. I find 
 the infantry or engineers are the most powerful units if you can get them in cover, they they become 
 very hard to kill, making them ideal for defense. Of course lack of mobility means leaning too 
 heavily towards your foot soldiers means you can end up handing the initiative in the battle and 
 in some maps, no cover means they get exposed and destroyed quickly. It is a case for all unit 
 types, if used properly by using conditions and working with others units, they will be invaluable, 
 used poorly and you will lose. No lag during single-player during the battles, good graphics and 
 it is a pleasure watching the units fight, listening to them respond or give warnings. One of my 
 favorite moments was when someone one my marching engineers talked about her grandfather's 60th 
 birthday the week before and how she had to miss it, a touching moment before the fighting started. 
 The need to respond, readjust and think your way through the hectic battles makes for a good, enjoyable 
 game once you get down to that part.
  
  Outside of battle, the brought upgrades for the troops makes a noticeable improvement in battle. 
 The prologue is good, an entertaining story with some humor, though choice of villains is rather 
 stereotypical. It should probably should teach about use of WMD's, grouping the troops, artillery 
 and command jeeps rather then leave it to the loading screens but it does give you plenty of information 
 over why the war started and how to play the game. The campaign mode merely gives a minor news 
 item but your aide can give useful pre-battle information and your commander gives useful information 
 on your objective, the opposing commander and a nice little speech. If there is any replayability 
 of campaign mode (other then if you really like the game) , it is to sample the different commander 
 each faction has.
  
  There are problems that mean the game is not as good as it could have been. Once you get beyond 
 the prologue, there is no storyline at all, which after the entertainment of the prologue, is a 
 comedown. A story for each faction would have added some replay value to the campaign mode and 
 you would be nice to feel more involved in how the war goes. In the briefing screen before battle, 
 the Generals can be erratic when deciding if war goes well or war goes badly which is a little 
 confusing. During same briefing, it only shows uplink points for certain battles which is not very 
 helpful. Without that information, I once put infantry in a precious early slot to discover we 
 controlled two of the four uplinks, very frustrating. The difficulty mode starts off as normal, 
 having played it it seems like they made an easy mode and called it normal, why the need to do 
 that? There are relatively minor things that don't detract too much from the fun of battles but 
 there are some things that do hurt the game considerably.
  
  At the end of battles, when it says press x to continue, it won't be ready for quite some time 
 due to the considerable loading times. This can be rather disconcerting and made me feel it had 
 crashed but eventually, after waiting a few minutes and pressing x then waiting again, it worked. 
 The music during that wait is load and more then once overshadowed voices set at max which had 
 slight effect on my understanding of the prologue story (which contains no subtitles) . Then there 
 are the WMD's, might be fun with a friend but absolutely frustrating during single-player as the 
 enemy wipes out a lot of my force as I am on brink of victory. All this does is stop me pushing 
 on after capturing the required amount of uplinks and simply go onto the defensive to wait for 
 the timer to end. Nothing wrong with being forced to defend, it is great when the opposing commander 
 is good enough to do that. However it is needlessly annoying when forced to do it because the game 
 punishes aggressive commanders by throwing in a devastating WMD for the losing side.
  
  The game works and is fun because the battles work well thanks too good graphics, excellent small 
 touches and a good system but it is too short and too lacking in storyline for me to call it a 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-don123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  The game is great and has lots of detail. It actually feels like you are in charge. If you like 
 strategy games then you'll love it. If you don't like strategy games, you may still love it. It 
 amazing online too. There are territories in different countries and just like real life, everyone 
 online has to choose who they fight for, Russia, USA, or Europe. Say you choose USA then there 
 will also be other USA guys online then in a game you and a guy from your country will control 
 a army's of battalions against another 2 online people. You don't need a mic but it can make things 
 a bit easier for example instead of clicking you say to your mic, 'advance' or 'move out' for example. 
 You can also dicuss what to do with your team mate. You fight for territories in different countries 
 and aim for world domination. There are helpful tips during loadings. It is confusing at first 
 but you will definately get the hang of it after a few goes.
  Anyway, Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Endwar, I must admit, does an excellent job of bringing RTS, a usually PC only type of game, to 
 console. And for a new series its not all to bad. The games visuals are decent and its story is 
 pretty typical Tom Clancy, but where it really sticks out is in the voice command system, which 
 I must admit works quite well. The unit factions are all varied and work well when organized together. 
 The game, although decent, has a considerable amount of flaws. The first most noticeable is how 
 slow everything goes at first. A battle takes forever to really get going. Second thing I had a 
 problem with was the lack of variety. It all gets very bland after a while. Multiplayer is decent 
 but definitely not the games strong point. Overall rent it and see if you like but I cant blame 
 you if you hate it........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holy_Terra
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  Right first off you end up buying this game with loads of hyped up reviews and a very new thing 
 voice command truly magnificent.
  
  that is what I thought when I saw gameplay reviews and when I bought it and opened it for Christmas...
 
  
  I was WRONG. Open it and mic is fidgity and guess what 14.99 spent on it wasted as it doesnt work. 
 Ok I can cope with that besides The game itself is said to be amazing world war 3 atmosphere thought 
 many games focus on that kinda thing this one has all new gear yet realistic at same time. However 
 I start the game's single player and asked to make my mic work this is when i realise that it doesnt 
 work and p***es me off. Then I end up having to use the controller. Then you get no story all you 
 know is oil is out Russia has pissed off to go play with itself the EU is finally the EU and europe 
 is actually in it not everyone who is near the mediterranian and the USA is advanced more than 
 any other is. So you start off killing loads of terrorists because they are a threat to peace (no 
 surprise there, there is no such thing as a tom clancy game with no terrorists) . It gives you basics 
 and I learnt to handle the game fairly well. Then after all the terrorist bit you have to chose 
 your faction that you join spetsnaz guard green (russia) EU enforcers corp (EU=rubbish) and JSF 
 (USA unfortunatley counter balances all the rest) . Right when you do instead of having the magnificent 
 maps that I saw in gameplay you end up having to attack where the computer wants you to. So as 
 Russia i attack EU and win because the fight was very one sided. Then somehow EU attacks Moscow 
 without going through any territory... Ok small problem strategically and pretty unrealistic you 
 have to defend moscow in an uplink game pretty fun infantry are main component and take uplinks 
 for your side against european fools. However defcon happens when i start winning and all my troops 
 are destroyed. Ok fine I may have sworn a bit but I was still in the match and wait for reinforcements 
 and order them and rejoice in the fact that I can launch my vacuum bomb at them... no kills by 
 it... somehow it kill no one and enemy take all uplinks... I repeat this many times so i give up 
 on single player which is bollocks.
  
  Right multiplayer things improve but still a rock paper scissor thing happens with vehicles ie. 
 helis beat tanks, tanks beat transports, transports beat helis.
  kinda lowsey and unless you have headset you can talk with the other player on your side making 
 your attacks uncoordinated and usually failing... Then you have destruction battles one side defends 
 key installations and other defends basically just load up with tanks and they cant kill enough 
 of your troops to win. Right so far I have been criticising it... So I will keep going...
  It screws up yet again with which army you join I think 52% of all players last time I checked 
 were JSF and 28% spetsnaz (like me) and 22% EU (spases)
  EU always loses there attacks are a lot weaker than the others every troop is weaker than JSF and 
 Spetsnaz. Oh EU has electromagnetic warfare= crap it does same thing that airstrike does ruin tanks 
 and disable stuff so why not just use airstrike? SO EU is rubbish luckily Spetsnaz are good and 
 do look fairly cool as do JSF but Spetsnaz get pwned by JSF because they are better.
  
  Only thing that does some good for the game is 2 vs 2 battles they are fairly fun but only when 
 you win it goes boring if you lose because your units keep drawing on dying and if you leave game 
 you look like a **** It makes you feel special when you call in more gunships and stuff but the 
 way they come into the battle is a little unrealistic 4 heavy tanks in a helicopter... Even I dont 
 think it will fit let alone fly same with transports infantry rapple down... Why not just land 
 the heli they arent in a hotzone? (unless you a retard and let the enemy get there) . WHat is good 
 though is the scenery and graphics they are very good and I was surprised by tem I hadnt seen graphics 
 that good since MGS4 (apart from MGS4 actually has a storyline and is fun) .
  
  In conclusion I was a retard to buy this game the mic doesnt work and I wont complain to Sony (because 
 I aint French) . So this game will collect dust on the shelf because it is not a classic. If you 
 want a strategy game buy world in conflict old but alot better than this. Ok last this games single 
 player is rubbish and so is the multiplayer but not to the same extent and as for keeping troops 
 being upgraded and being made better that is just annoying and they usually die anyway. Also last 
 but not least the scenery is good and really fun to blow up on Defcon ^^ especially in Capitals.
 
  
  Game=Rubbish that is why I have given it this very low score I expected better from a Tom clancy 
 game but recently they have been graphics and no fun anyway I know many of you wont agree but if 
 you bought the LTD pack for $44.99 you would probably cry too. Anyway crap game and I probably 
 wont buy another Tom Clancy game unless they actually start handing them out for free. Btw I havent 
 given a review this bad ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3eyerock
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games ever. why isn't the game on the the top ten. gamespot there is an 
 error tom clancys end war isnt on the top ten games. if i open the games i will start playing until 
 my new headset's battery dies then when it charges i will do it agian. i dont beleive the games 
 isnt on the top tens. i think this game is close to resistence 2 and call of duty. when i get a new 
 game that is good i will play the game without cheats and beat it. then i will play it agian with 
 cheats until i get bored. then it's time to buy a new game. this is the game that i will play forever 
 becuase it has story mode schirmish and online. ubisoft siad that they will keep updating the game 
 until is more than perfect. the game is already perfect just poeple need to know how to play. my 
 cousin played a game and siad it sucks. then when i played it i liked it and i know how to play 
 unlike poeple who like to play for 5 seconds and say its bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakept69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  End War is a RTS game designed for consoles. The inovation here is not the headset. You can play 
 the game well even without it. All that talk about if you don't have and headset you will lose 
 because your slow is nothing but trash.
  
  End wars inovation comes by making it a "slow" RTS. This can be either good or bad. After you order 
 a unit to move it takes them 1-2 seconds to respond and so on. This makes the game move more slowly 
 so even with a controler that is slow you can play well.
  
  Another thing that is diferent is the micro management. In games like Company of Heroes micro is 
 a must. Here the strategy takes a diferent turn, flanking a tank unit with another tank unit won't 
 give you much of an advantage. However going in with tanks to draw atention and then use gunships 
 for the real damage will work wonders.
  
  Another thing to notice is the life of your units. Here units are hard to kill, and they have shields. 
 This means that if you just atack retreat and atack, you won't be doing any real damage. So to 
 actualy kill an enemy you have to use the combat chain, and keep the pressure.
  
  This is not really new, in other RTS spearman allways beat cavalry. This is also valid in End War. 
 However some units may be good or bad depending on where they stand, infantry must make use of 
 cover.
  One thing to notice is the AI. If you order your units up, they will automaticaly atack any enemy 
 they have advantage agaisnt. For example if you move your gunships and tanks up and encounter one 
 enemy tank and one trasport unit, your tanks will automaticaly engage the transport while your 
 gunships will atack the enemy tanks.
  
  One thing to take notice is that this game is online. If you won't be playing online it is only 
 worth half. Its like playing COD4 offline only. If you get this game, do yourself a favor and play 
 online.
  
  Graphics: 9.0 - Some minor quirks prevent the 10.0
  Gameplay: 8.7 - Much better than you would expect.
  Sound: 7.8 - "Bang", "boom", everythings 
 here. Nice chat too.
  Online: 9.4 - Unless you play online you never played it.
  Overall: 8.8 - May not appeal to everyone. Others will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack652
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was overlooked way too much. This is a great game and any person that likes strategy 
 games should at least rent this game. I like the way that it is in real time because that is what 
 keeps you into the game. The fact that you cant walk away from because something might happen and 
 you miss it. You also have a decent variety of units that you can choose from and I really like 
 that because there are some games out there that you only have 2 or 3 units that you can use and 
 I hate that so good job to you on that one Ubisoft. Another thing that people are griping about 
 that is really making me mad is that the story mode SUCKS!!!.... What, who cares youve got online 
 and you can play against the COM all day so stop your whining.
  Only if Ubisoft would have used the voice command idea just a little bit sooner and some of the 
 games like the vegas series could have been 5 times better. I like the different terains and different 
 maps that you can battle at like paris. Nothing sounds better than waking up on saturday and visiting 
 and destroying Paris at the same time. HAHA . But all in all I really wish the critics could have 
 given this one just a little more thought than they did because they rated a really good game lets 
 face it not so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sksk3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  i dont get why people claim that its too simple. well maybe the concept is simple, but the battles 
 are intense and extremely complex. the main objective of most battle is to capture uplinks, simmilar 
 to command posts in other games. you have to capture them, and so does the enemy. you have a few 
 different uits to chose from, and you must manage all of them, or you will lose them. if they are 
 listed as "incapacitated," a evac helicopter will be sent out to save that unit for repair for 
 another battle. the regular infanrtry will get destroed without proper support, and its amazing 
 that they can take cover in buildings, behind a wall, etc. these units in cover can do some serious 
 damage to enemy units, especially the engineers. you can get command points by killing enemy units 
 or taking uplinks, which allows you to call in reserves, airstrikes, nukes, etc. you can only command 
 a brigade of men, so reserves are limited. if too many of your units die, you will go through your 
 reserves quickly. the voice command is great for very fast unit movement and command. with just 
 a simple phrase, the unit will understand and perform your command. if you reach the "defcon" phase 
 of the battle, usually near the end, you can destroy the uplink so that i cannot be owned. you 
 can also launch a nuke if you are about to lose, but it must count because then the other side 
 can launch a nuke. 
  the bottom line is that you must have some sort of stratagy to capturing the uplinks, as well as 
 defending them. if you still don't understand how the game works after the prologue, return the 
 game to the store immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgeek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  EndWar's ambitious, but it doesn't deliver the fun gameplay that you would imagine. Graphics:8.5/10
 
  Theme:9/10
  Gameplay:6/10
  Overall:7.5/10
  It had everything, but the game just didn't live up to the substance. I sit here righting this, 
 a sad gamer whose every "unit one go to alpha" is understood as "unit one go to delta". I might 
 have liked it if the game had a shorter "Prelude to War" story but it just seemed to go on and 
 on and on. I chose. Russia because of their good looks and power, U. S. just to (don't know just 
 didn't want to) , and Europe was just so (Third Reich, no offense to anyone reading this) . So my 
 advice is to buy the game but don't expect to make the world bow down to you as quick as you hoped, 
 at least 10 hours of frustrating game play. Some thing I liked was that there are some Scott Mitchell 
 being General, That's working up the ladder all the way from Captain, Third Echleon giving the 
 info to him and so on and so forth. Excelsior! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerofall167
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  A great game that is overlooked. It has many innovative ideas. The game is fun in both single and 
 multi player. There are very few flaws. One being that the factions are to similar and so picking 
 one really doesn't make a difference. Hopefully when End War 2 comes out Sega implement different 
 soldier's abilities and types. I have enjoyed the game and community as most of the individuals 
 that play this game are adults. The single player is almost impossible to beat at hardcore and 
 so making it a challenge. The multiplayer is limited by their ranking system, as a level 12 player 
 can play a level 1 in certain matches. This is frustrating when you first out, but after awhile 
 revenge takes place. Overall a great game that will be probably have a loyal following of the series 
 for awhile. This game is a gem to should not be passed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  The Tom Clancy games have been around for just over 10 years now and have covered the first person/ 
 third person type of game and the stealth games with the splinter cell game. But this is a game 
 that jumps out of the box and tries to be different.
  
  The idea for the game is to make a realistic real time stratergy (lets just refer to it as RRTS 
 to make it easier on my fingers) . There are 3 playable factions, there aren't very many characteristics 
 that set them apart from the rest, namely the fact that all the units are similar except for the 
 sprite they use, if there is one thing that sets them apart it would be the super weapons, these 
 monstrosities set a large portion of the battle field to chaos and destruction often killing one 
 or 2 of your own units, these only come into play when you either loose the battle or the so called 
 "re-enforcement clock" hits zero. 
  
  The campaigne in the game is basically just a tutorial of the online mode theater of war, you choose 
 one of 3 factions and try to dominate the world before your enemies wipe you out, the probleme 
 is that the battles seem repedative, you have 4 game modes on 40 maps, there are a large variety 
 in the map layout, from arid regions, to suburban areas and a military base. Once you have played 
 single player you can play the online theater of war which is online campaigne mode that pits you 
 against several other players, you get one move every day and you got to either attack or defend 
 the enemy.
  
  In both the theater of war and single player you get access to the unit upgrade screen that will 
 allow you to make units in your army faster stronger and even give them a secondary attack, which 
 gives you a good feel that there is variety in the game, to earn credits either win or loose a 
 game, with the scale tipping both ways you won't feel cheated.
  
  All in all, despite the under welming single player and the identicle factions it is a great game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHSleadtrumpet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  EndWar is a truly fantastic game that is all innovation. However, it's disappointing how the multiplayer 
 is. You can literally do nothing but air strike your opponent to win... that must change. I also 
 wish there would be more voice options such as "Garrison that building". I hope that if the publisher, 
 Ubisoft (under the Tom Clancy umbrella) decides to undergo a similar project, the multiplayer will 
 be more intense and straight forward like Call of Duty 4's multiplayer. It's pretty easy and simple 
 to learn how to play, and the plot truly represents Tom Clancy's creativity. It's good. Graphics 
 could be better but they are still pretty good. It's pretty cool how the Theater of War feature 
 works, but it takes too long sometimes to find a game. As for the maps, they are pretty big for 
 an RTS. The combat mechanics (gunship beats tank, tank beats transport, transport beats gunship) 
 is fair but unrealistic. And there is no defense for an air strike... a big turn off. But don't 
 get me wrong, this is a GOOD game, but if the would polish these flaws, it would be near perfect.
 
  /The lack of a single player story mode aside from the "World in Flames" mode was my biggest concern.
 
  
  
  
  Overall, it is extremely fun and addicting. Good job Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oflow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  
  While the game seems very simple since its a basic paper, rock, scissors format (just like World 
 in Conflict) the game play actually gets more advanced when you go online and join the global campaign. 
 The thing that makes the game is the ability to join in this campaign where all the players are 
 actually contributing to a real-time WWIII campaign. When you play, your units can actually survive 
 from battle to battle and they gain experience and you gain money to purchase upgrades for these 
 units. 
  
  The game really shines when you get the upgrades like air strikes, snipers, electronic warfare 
 and WMDs. So what seems simple at first does require some degree on microing just like other RTS 
 games.
  
  If you liked World in Conflict, I would definitely pick up this game. Its basically like WiC but 
 better, and its tailor made for consoles another plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Hear is a quick rundown of the pros and cons of the game if you don't want to read my review completely 
 
  
  PROS: the whole idea of voice command in an rts has been an ambition of many titles like End War 
 and it works considerably well.
  an elaborate upgrading system for your troops is a nice feature. thats about all I can say is good 
 about this game. 
  
  CONS: For being on the Unreal graphics engine, it looks pretty bad (if that matters in you) The animations 
 on things like destroyed vehicals are are terrible. it just expoldes in a pile of chard. They use 
 the same animations over and over again. Story has no point and is very boring. Statagy in the game 
 is not very complex which it should be in a REAL TIME STRATEGY!!! Battles are very repetitive.
 
  
  Ok, if you are still reading you really must like long reviews lol. Back to my review. I got hyped 
 about End War when I saw it at E308 (from gamespot of course) As always stage demos make you think 
 that the game is the best thing ever; boy was I wrong. From the moment it put it in my ps3 I stated 
 to fell bored. I urged myself to keep playing thinking it will get better just wait. News for you 
 it didn't. I played until I couldn't take it anymore and I just traded it in to get my money back. You 
 may be thinking to yourself,"why did this guy give this game a 6.5 and not a 0.1? Being the generaly 
 nice guy I am I will tell you. I havn't played a good rts on a consle in years and this is Not 
 perfect but if you don't care about the stuff I mentioned in this review than you will like it. 
 But you won't love it to the point where your review of this game give sit a 9.0. This is my opinion, 
 hope this review helped! email: red_dawn345@yahoo. com PSN: Altairian 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw a preview of this game I was like... WOWWWWW!! I really thought it was going to 
 be a kickas game, regular first person shooting game.
  I added to my tracked list and time passed by and new stuff started to come out, new videos, iterview 
 and all that kind of things.
  Finally the demo came out no too log before the video game, so every1 can have a little taste of 
 the game.
  Noooo, noo, no this is like playing those little green little soldier that i had when I was little. 
 I personally thought it was a little hard to control your squad. Some people might like it but 
 this is a totally off the real first person shooting type of game.
  I will say rent it first....
  I am just simply not getting it and neather renting it, the demo 
 was enough to see what a crapy game this ended like.
  The promo videos are amazing but anyways.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  The end of oil may be bad news for motorists, but it's been solid fuel for game developers, who 
 seem to agree that the result will be superpowers jabbing nuclear fingers at one another. THQ's 
 Frontlines toyed with the idea earlier this year, and now it's Ubisoft's turn to speculate on what 
 might happen if Russia, Europe and the USA find themselves squabbling over diminishing natural 
 resources.
  
  If that's well within the Clancy comfort zone, however, EndWar itself is not. It's a console real-time 
 strategy game, attempting to get around the issues that have dogged the genre outside of its PC 
 home for years.
  
  Developer Ubisoft Shanghai goes about this in two ways. The first is an intuitive two-pronged control 
 system, ideally suited to the demands of the armchair strategist, designed to overcome the relative 
 limitations of the control pad. Players command their forces with a superbly implemented voice-recognition 
 system, in conjunction with a refined context-sensitive set of pad controls, and both elements 
 are precise and fast. The lack of mouse control is no longer something to curse in the heat of 
 battle.
  
  The second part of the plan is to change the focus of the battle altogether, and zone in on small-scale 
 skirmishes rather than traditional resource-gathering and research. Instead of zoomed-out overhead 
 views and landscapes shrouded by the fog of war, the action is presented relatively close up, from 
 a crisply detailed albeit somewhat bland 3D viewpoint just above and behind whichever unit you've 
 selected. You can move and rotate with the left and right sticks, flick between units with the 
 d-pad, and issue basic context-sensitive commands by moving a cursor over your target or location 
 and clicking on it.
  
  The actual combat, meanwhile, operates on an easy-to-follow rock-paper-scissors principle, where 
 transports beat choppers, choppers beat tanks, and tanks beat transports. With just seven unit 
 types to worry about (riflemen, engineers, artillery, command vehicles, tanks, transports and gunships) , 
 tactics are intuitive. You may well discover that riflemen, for example, are effective placed inside 
 buildings first rather than fighting in the open, and good use of cover and sensible unit placement 
 becomes important once you understand each unit's weaknesses, and the demands of certain mission 
 types.
  
  On the whole, EndWar is at its best when it keeps things simple with clearly defined roles and 
 abilities. By the time you're dealing with 12 units and multiple abilities, however, the slick, 
 streamlined feeling of the early game is lost among fiddly nannying, and the player AI doesn't 
 help with a few dim choices, like infantry units unable to stand on the right side of cover or 
 take up new positions when theirs is blown. Pathfinding can be more than a little irritating, with 
 units prone to blunder into danger when an evidently safer and equally swift route exists, and 
 units regularly slide around trees and get in each other's way. When this happens in a combat situation, 
 it often means a suicidal ceasefire while they untangle themselves. And having to dictate to a 
 unit to use their special ability every single time is a waste of time, and can be exasperating 
 when you feel like you ought to be focusing on more important matters.
  
  Making a genuinely accessible real-time strategy game for console owners is definitely a worthy 
 aim though, and EndWar gets a lot of things right: a beautifully slick interface, stripped down 
 mechanics, and the best voice-recognition system of any game we've played. It's got plenty to offer 
 armchair strategists, but balancing issues, pathfinding and AI niggles and a disappointing lack 
 of variety in factions stop it just short of its obvious potential. It's lacking a bit of Clancy 
 magic, then, although we'll be interested to see where Ubisoft takes it from here.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcari
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Endwar creates mixed emotions. At first, the feeling that you're actually in command, giving voice 
 commands to your troops, commanding them to attack from off-camera. The graphics are smooth and 
 shiny and the effects are great. The voice commands work remarkably well, even when you get over 
 the exitement and realise that you don't have to shout every order (though it is more fun that 
 way) .
  
  Then, the realization sinks in that all this eye-candy and gimmicky-goodness is only used to hide 
 the fact that the game has all the depth found in 90's era budget RTS games. 
  
  The number of tactical option is extremely limited, and the only decisions that have to be made 
 is when to send in which unit. After that, all you can do is cross your fingers and hope for the 
 best. In the end, battles are not decided based on tactical insight or skill, but on who can command 
 the fastest and which units are the highest level.
  
  This shows a problem with the game. Traditionally, RTS and FPS have always been a level playing 
 field, where victory was decided by who had the most skill. This is not the case in Endwar, where 
 victory goes to whoever has put the time in levelling up their units. The learning curve is so 
 shallow that someone with two hours of experience knows just as much as someone with 200. 
  
  However, the major problem with Endwar is that you still need the controller to give advanced 
 orders. You can't order an infantry group to garrison by microphone, for example. This brings us 
 to the most obvious shortcoming of Endwar: it's clunky, annoying controls. As soon as I tried commanding 
 ith the controller, I started longing for my mouse. Where C&C3 found a good approach to ordering 
 units around, Endwar just frustrates you with it's slowness and poor interface. 
  
  Now, I'm not saying that Endwar is not a good RTS, because that depends on your perspective, it's 
 easily in the top-5 of console-RTS games. Unfortunately, that's not because it's so good, but because 
 the console RTS market it tiny. 
  
  The rating is based on comparison with the whole RTS market, which is mainly PC based. In that 
 field, Endwar is an average, run-of-the-mill RTS, not worth getting overly exited about. With the 
 console RTS genre in it's infancy, Endwar is king of the pre-school, but it can't compete with 
 the big boys of the PC RTS market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxon_Ro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  I think the Gamespot reviewer was disenfranchised regarding the story. Other than the lack of story, 
 it's perfect.
  
  Paper-Rock-Scissors game play is there, but intended. Show me a worthwhile tactical strategy without 
 the system. This is not a bad thing.
  
  They do play similar. This is not only an intended aspect, but ideal. Were it a single-player focused 
 game, then yes, I would want greater diversity. This, however provides excellent balance in its 
 multiplayer.
  
  The voice command system is amazing and rarely misinterperates a command and, if you understand 
 how to employ your voice, you need only touch the trigger and the stick when playing. 
  
  The backdrop is an eerily plausible one that you could easily see as being the real stage of WW3. 
 The amazing multiplayer provides a fun escaped to this pseudo-reality.
  
  The only real beef one could have is the lack of story line given it being a Tom Clancy game. If 
 you are like me, however, this will be far from a deal breaker as you can imagine your own war 
 while you decimate the enemy in multiplayer.
  
  9.5/10.
  
  A must play, if not own... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clankwise
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is good and as I mentioned if you know what it is then it wont disappoint. The voice command 
 is better then the demos voice command so don't let the demo turn you down. Action is amazing which 
 depends if you are using binocular or not because without you will just see your people shooting 
 still it is a strategy game and you should focus on strategy. A sense of pride comes with every 
 battle and the difficulty will vary. Some missions might be easy others hard but it has good difficulty 
 settings which can be changed during the theater of war.
  Either way this game is high on strategy and fun. So if you want strategy and have a crappy computer 
 get this it is awesome. Unfortunately voice command will rarely (Only a couple times) mess up sending 
 units to their death hopefully you will notice it and fix. People is where the fun is at unlike 
 ai people wont hesitate to flank you and attack your un defend base as well as air strike you to 
 death. This isn't bad just annoying as lvl 3 air strike kills units with one blow but it adds to 
 the fun. Its not perfect but still worth playing you might actually like it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
