-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/rainbowsixvegas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive tactical action that requires the realistic use of cover.
 Fast rope out of helicopters, rappel down buildings, and smash through windows like a real commando.
 Beautiful visuals that let you battle in a glittering first-world setting.
 Incredible amount of multiplayer content with a wide range of cooperative and competitive games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sixaxis motion controls feel tacked on and annoying.
 Story features some standard plot devices and lacks a satisfying ending.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,838 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rainbow Six is reinvented and reinvigorated for a new age thanks to beautiful visuals and top-notch 
 tactical shooting action. 

  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the very best Xbox 360 shooters of the past year, so it was only a 
 matter of time before Ubisoft brought it over to the PlayStation 3. Thankfully, the PS3 version 
 is just as good as the Xbox 360 game, and it even packs a lot of content that 360 fans had to pay 
 extra for. The result is one of the very best tactical shooters made to date.  

  In Rainbow Six Vegas, you play as Logan Keller, the leader of one of Rainbow's elite three-man 
 counterterrorist assault teams who is called into action after an operation in Mexico goes bad 
 and, for some reason, the terrorists strike the casinos and high-rise hotels of Las Vegas. Your 
 job is to stop them and ascertain their intentions, which involves the standard McGuffin device 
 that will kill millions, and a secret military base hidden inside a massive hydroelectric dam. 
 The story borrows a few too many plot twists seen in other Ubisoft games, namely Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter, and the lack of a satisfying resolution makes the plot feel like a paper-thin reason 
 to battle an army of terrorists in Las Vegas, of all places; but this is all easy to overlook, 
 because the combat in Rainbow Six Vegas is simply excellent.  

           Viva Las Vegas and all that in Rainbow Six Vegas.      

  What elevates this chapter 
 of Rainbow Six is the cutthroat tactical combat that relies on the use of cover. In Rainbow Six 
 Vegas, slabs of concrete are your best friend, along with the edges of doorways, slot machines, 
 the sides of SUVs, and pretty much anything else solid that you can put between yourself and the 
 enemy. By moving up to those objects and holding down a button, you can "hug" the cover and then 
 poke your body out from the sides or the top to shoot at the enemy before ducking down again. Or, 
 if you're under heavy fire, you can poke your rifle around the corner and fire blindly to keep 
 the bad guys at bay. The game seamlessly transitions from first-person to third-person perspective 
 when you do get behind cover, so you get a very cinematic effect of watching yourself huddle while 
 bullets impact around you.  

  You don't fight alone in Rainbow Six Vegas, either; you're usually accompanied by your two teammates. 
 The artificial intelligence does a great job of controlling these agents as they follow you. Pathfinding, 
 for instance, is very rarely a problem, as they can navigate the cluttered environment effectively, 
 and they use cover just as well as you do. Controlling your teammates is simple, too. By simply 
 pointing at a spot on the ground and tapping the X button, you can tell them to move to that position. 
 Point at a door and hit X, and they'll "stack up" to it, or get into position to clear the room. 
 Hitting down on the D pad tells them to either hold place or fall in behind you.  

  While the basic controls are pretty easy to pick up, Rainbow Six Vegas does have some weird default 
 settings on the PS3 that seem unintuitive. No problem, as you can select the tactical control setup 
 in the options menu, and that is similar to the excellent Xbox 360 control setup. Vegas also features 
 support for the Sixaxis motion controls, though it feels completely tacked on and adds unnecessary 
 complexity to what should be a simple task. The motion controls are used for when you snake a camera 
 underneath a doorsill to scout the other room. You must move the Sixaxis in order to move the camera 
 around, though the controls are so touchy and clumsy that the process of targeting and calling 
 out enemies is a pain. Even worse, the motion controls don't adhere if you selected the invert 
 Y-Axis controls in the options menu, so every time you use the camera it reverses what you're used 
 to. This makes for an annoying, though not game-killing, issue.  

  What promotes Rainbow Six Vegas over its predecessors is the sensation that you're really playing 
 as an elite commando. For instance, these new Rainbow agents borrow a page or two from Splinter 
 Cell's Sam Fisher, and you can play in a highly mobile and agile manner. You can quickly rope out 
 of a helicopter onto the top floor of a skyscraper, run over to the side, and leap over the edge 
 on a rappel line, all in a few seconds. While on the rappel line you can hang upside down, lower 
 yourself far enough to see into the target room, then call out the location of the terrorists inside. 
 Then, on your command, your team will burst through the window and clear the room. This isn't just 
 a mere gimmick, either, as the levels are designed so that most rooms have multiple points of entry, 
 so you can determine your takedown strategy for each one. Admittedly, one of the contrivances in 
 the game is that bad guys in a neighboring room seem unaware of all the gunfire and explosions 
 going on down the hall, but at least this lets you execute textbook takedown after takedown throughout 
 a level.  

           Conduct attacks in the dark using night vision.      

  On the normal difficulty level, Rainbow Six Vegas is a moderately challenging game, though it's 
 fairly forgiving thanks to the fact that you can absorb a fair amount of damage before you die. 
 There are no health packs or health meters to worry about. Instead, when you take damage your vision 
 begins to blur, and if you take too much damage you die. However, if you manage to find cover and 
 avoid getting shot for a few seconds, your vision begins to clear and you'll be back at full health. 
 This lowers the frustration level considerably, as you don't have to worry about rationing the 
 health meter.  

  However, if you ratchet up the difficulty setting to "realistic," Rainbow Six Vegas becomes an 
 incredibly tense and difficult experience -- in a good way. In realistic mode, the amount of damage 
 you can absorb before you die is much lower than in normal mode, and this makes you rely on using 
 real-world tactics and playing a lot more conservatively (and, well, realistically) . For instance, 
 instead of charging across an open area like you might on normal difficulty, you'll probably want 
 to pop a smoke grenade to provide concealment; otherwise, you'll get cut down before you get halfway 
 to your destination. Realistic mode will result in you dying a lot, but when you do, you'll realize 
 more often than not that it's because you did something stupid, which means you get to learn from 
 your mistakes and be smarter for it.     

   

  Speaking of dying, the game uses a checkpoint save system, so when you do die, you'll get a chance 
 to start back at the latest checkpoint. While you can quickly heal fallen teammates in single-player 
 by injecting them with the magic medical serum if you get to them in time, if you fall your teammates 
 won't be able to save you in the similar manner, so it's back to the checkpoint. At least the checkpoints 
 are reasonably spaced, and there's usually one before ever major set-piece battle, which is helpful. 
 Most of these larger battles are fairly scripted, but they're pretty intense nonetheless. Bad guys 
 come rappelling down from above, and the AI in general is good about using cover and grenades as 
 effectively as you do. There's nothing quite as eye-opening as seeing a frag grenade land right 
 next to your character, or as frantic as trying to get away and behind cover before it explodes. 

           Wait, where are the slot machines?      

  The single-player campaign in Rainbow Six Vegas isn't quite as lengthy as in many other realistic 
 shooters, but the game compensates for this by having such interesting and repayable tactical battles. 
 You can go back again and tackle the game in realistic mode, or you can experiment with different 
 approaches. And there's plenty of replay value to be found in the extensive multiplayer suite. 
 The single-player campaign can be played cooperatively on PlayStation Network, both in story mode 
 and in terrorist hunt, which pits you and your buddies against a bunch of randomly placed terrorists. 
 You can also play with up to four players cooperatively, which is an interesting number since the 
 single-player campaign features only three Rainbow agents at a time. Still, realistic difficulty 
 is tough enough that you can really use effective team tactics to tackle some of the harder missions, 
 and there's something very cool about being able to strategize with your buddies while in the middle 
 of a fight. The only setback to co-op mode is that instead of automatically loading the next level 
 in the chain when playing in story mode, the game recycles the existing map. You have to set up 
 the server ahead of time to advance to the next level in the story, or load it manually.  

  In addition to co-op, the PS3 version of Rainbow Six Vegas features an incredible amount of multiplayer 
 content. It features all of the content that appeared in the Xbox 360 version, as well as that 
 version's two downloadable content packs, which translates into an impressive amount of maps and 
 modes. Retrieval is a particularly good mode, modeling itself after the typical capture-the-flag-style 
 game, and featuring respawns so you don't have to sit out if you get killed. There are a number 
 of modes that feature no respawns, if you want the "authentic" Rainbow Six experience of no second 
 chances. The levels themselves are adapted either from the single-player campaign or created specifically 
 for multiplayer, such as a university library that's alluded to in the story. The action in multiplayer 
 is just as intense as in the single-player game, especially since you can use the same cover tactics 
 that you used in the campaign.  

  What's also interesting about multiplayer is the persistent character that you can customize over 
 time by unlocking new weapons, armor, and accessories. For instance, you can unlock tougher body 
 armor, though the downside is that it lowers your mobility. Body armor comes in various pieces, 
 such as the torso, shoulder pads, and legs. The weapons in multiplayer are all taken from single-player, 
 and there's a healthy assortment of real-world and prototypical military gear in here, divided 
 into shotguns, submachine guns, light machine guns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles. Each weapon 
 can be customized individually with various scopes or sights, and there are various grenade types 
 that you'd expect, like fragmentation, smoke, and flashbang. Unfortunately, the PS3 version lacks 
 the face-mapping feature seen in the Xbox 360 game, so you can't add your face to your avatar. 

  Rainbow Six Vegas sports some excellent graphics, as you can battle it out in a glittering, first-world 
 setting. The amount of detail on everything is impressive, but it's almost photo-realistic when 
 it comes to your Rainbow troopers, as you can admire all the high-tech gear these commandos bring 
 into a fight. The beautiful visuals certainly bring the diverse Vegas casinos to life. They're 
 all fictional, of course, as no real-world casino would want to have its virtual counterpart shot 
 up in a game such as this. However, if we do have one lament, it's that that the game doesn't really 
 make the most of its Las Vegas setting. Sure, you're fighting it out inside casinos full of slot 
 machines and card tables, but you get the feeling that the game could have been set anywhere else 
 and it wouldn't have made much of a difference. But if you're going to set a game in Las Vegas, 
 then set a game in Las Vegas with an Elvis song or two, or at the very least a Wayne Newton tune. 
 Las Vegas is an over-the-top and surreal experience, and Rainbow Six Vegas doesn't quite capture 
 it. The overall frame rate is very close to that of the Xbox 360 version, though the loading times 
 are the same, even though the game does cache information to the PS3's hard drive the first time 
 you start it up.  

           You'll feel like an elite commando playing this game.      

  The voice acting in the game varies, with the lead character sounding a lot like an angry version 
 of the executive officer from  Star Trek: Enterprise , but for the most part it's all about the 
 evil terrorists making evil threats and the good guys spouting all sorts of hoo-ha. There are helpful 
 voice cues, such as when your teammates yell out that they're swapping magazines, which means you 
 need to provide cover while they're otherwise unable to fire. And the bad guys are pretty helpful 
 about yelling out their tactics to one another, though the game's premise has many of them being 
 ex-Special Forces, which is an awfully rookie mistake. The sound of guns firing is pretty authentic, 
 though at this point every realistic shooter has the same level of effects. Still, the game sounds 
 as good as you'd expect.  

  Rainbow Six Vegas for the PS3 is an excellent game for those who like cutthroat tactical shooters 
 or intense multiplayer action, and it makes for an incredible value with its rich single-player 
 campaign and considerable multiplayer content. Thankfully, Rainbow Six Vegas ignores the city's 
 official motto; if everything that happened in Vegas stayed in Vegas, then we might have been deprived 
 of this excellent, immersive tactical shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (211 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fyrmest
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas for the PS3 is a fantastic tactical shooter, the best for now in it's category.
 
  
  The graphics for this game aren't bad but dated, given the fact that there are many games out that 
 have a more superb quality. Leaving out graphics, the gameplay was worked on very well, offering 
 a huge range of commands, which most of them are based from military perspective; take cover, crouch, 
 blind fire. This game also offers quite a range of weapons from shotgun, pistol, rifles, snipers 
 as well as a small range of armours available online that is to be unlocked according to the players 
 current rank. The ranks are based on US ranks; private, sergeant and lieutenant etc. although it 
 appears to be ranked unaccordingly. 
  
  The single player campaign, where the player assumes the role of Logan, delta operator along with 
 two other members battling terrorists throughout areas such as borders of mexico, streets of las 
 vegas using a wide range of conventional weapons - players can pick all sorts of weapons when near 
 a military green supply case which is scattered throughout each mission in specific locations.
 
  
  The multiplayer is a fun addon I believe, it is where players can create a customizable sex, ethnic, 
 face paint along with the mentioned weapons and armour which quite a few is only unlocked according 
 to rank. Maps available on muliplayer are quite fun as their is quite a range with many modes which 
 include team sharpshooter, survival which modes have different rules applied to them where players 
 are to blent accordingly.
  
  Overall, this game is a great game but lacks many, many, many improvements. Split screen co-op 
 has a very disgusting approach, players are placed on a split vertical screen which the general 
 population would prefer horizontal or something alittle better such as shown on the Resident Evil 
 5 Split screen co-op. The game also lacks patching and has not been patched for a very long time; 
 there are still many glitches lingering around multiplayer, presumably on singleplayer as well. 
 Also the inbuilt entitlement/achievement system where players do tasks such as rank up, kill 500 
 terrorists to unlock is broken, they have been informed and fail to reply or update it especially 
 the '"infamous" Special Operations. Last but not least, they have made very small fixes when porting 
 the game from 360 and failed to improve what players have been talking about throughout the game's 
 release; horrible AI system or so called bots. The AI on Terrorist Hunt has always been a pain 
 for players online, they are given autoaim and there is no chance to sneak up behind them in most 
 occaisions. They also shoot you through walls, sometimes the last AI remaining on the map fails 
 to approach the player even though noises/gunfire/grenades have been made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowerclassbrat7
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up from the Target clearance rack for $7.00 usd. 
  My initial feeling was hey what a deal, great find but I must I admit I was wrong. To the point 
 the game is almost unplayable as the detail or should I say defining lines are missing or washed 
 out. I adjusted my contrast, color, brightness per the manual but to no avail. I tried to like 
 this game really I did but the enemies blend in with buildings. I don't believe this camo, if you 
 will is by design. Actually I almost certain it's not. It's very frustrating when the only way 
 to determine if an enemy is in front of you is by transition of your gun sight from white to red. 
 
  
  This title is circa 2007 so it wasn't a "launch title" for the ps3, but it was pretty close. This 
 fact may explain the unimpressive graphics. I wish I had been able to squeeze some value from this 
 game, but all I was able to squeeze was the nasal bone between my eyes in hopes relieving the game 
 induced migraine. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I was never a large fan of Tom Clancy's games; I was easily frustrated that enemies didn't go down 
 as easy as I felt I did. This was also coupled with the completely preposterous, disjointed storyline 
 that some grow to love where i just grew to detest. However this all changed for me as soon as 
 i got underway in R6V, Although this game is slow to start, once it does it just gets better and 
 better and to top it off, it has a perfect multiplayer to accompany it.
  
  It seems a shame then that COD 4 and the likes tend to get mentioned above R6V, admittedly COD 
 4 Was an amazing game and its multiplayer was top notch, i was more impressed by Rainbow's pretty 
 much complete customization of your character, from your head gear to your camo to the customizations 
 for each weapon. 
  
  R6V is slow starting off though, the tutorial level and the subsequent level almost put me off 
 the game alone, this was because it was long, and the environments were uninspired, somewhere in 
 Mexico, not the bright lights from the city of sin that were shown on the front cover.
  
  However once you begin jetting off to various casinos and other places around a fictional Vegas, 
 things get interesting, the compact casino's lead to some memorable fire fights and things get 
 pretty intense when the slots machine your hiding against blows and smoulders from an enemies shotgun 
 blast, sparks flying everywhere. The tactics in rainbow six are also top notch, contraire to previous 
 titles, everything you do on this game is on the fly, you don't know where enemies are you don't 
 know how many civilians are in the building, as terrorists are bombing Vegas and you don't have 
 time to plan missions.
  
  While I'm sure that this will be a problem for some R6 fans, who like to plan meticulously, i found 
 that without all the planning the games didn't seem as disjointed and quite frankly i'm glad they 
 got rid of it. However just because you don't know much about the place before you enter, doesn't 
 mean your completely clueless once inside, a map in the top right hand corner shows enemies once 
 they have fired at you and you get some pretty cool 'toys' to play with. Such as the snake camera, 
 this slides under doors and lets you tag two enemies, these tagged enemies will be priorities for 
 your ai team mates. 
  
  The other cool thing i found which was different from any other game that i had seen was the helicopter 
 ride to each mission, this essentially serves as a part loading screen, you can choose your weapons, 
 gear, everything you want for next level, and it really does add a sense of realism to R6, something 
 I'm sure the developers were going for.
  
  The AI in Rainbow six is better than in most shooters, and is on par with COD 4's AI at least, 
 enemies flank your team, shoot blindly to try and suppress you, and throw grenades in a blind hope 
 they will hurt you. Your supporting crew throughout the game are even better, you command them 
 with the X button and can give them a whole range of commands such as breaching a door, using a 
 flash bang then entering a room, or just entering a room clearing it and continuing on. A good 
 tip introduced into R6V is instead of your team mates dying, they will end up on the floor and 
 you have to race over to them to inject them with adrenaline, another cool feature i thought.
 
  
  The storyline in Rainbow six is also comparatively better than its predecessors, gone are the plans 
 for world domination (well almost) and gone are the cheesy main villains, instead is an intricate 
 plot that involves you as far as FPS shooters can.
  
  The graphics in Rainbow Six are top notch, really high quality, although like all games there are 
 the occasional bland textures, and sometimes the game does look slightly grainy, although I'm not 
 sure whether this is deliberate or not, the lighting is good and most of the environment surrounding 
 you is realistic, cars blow up when shot a lot, bullet holes riddle the walls etc.
  
  The game itself also switches to third person when you press L1 against a wall (cover) this is 
 useful as you can see if any part of you is sticking out, it also looks extremely cool seeing Logan 
 in great detail as the cover around him is shot to bits.
  
  The weapons in Rainbow six, both in single player and multiplayer, handle like they should, its 
 realistic and they are well balanced as well, it's a nice touch being able to use a variety of 
 scopes, from a hunting rifles to a snipers scope on a regular assault rifle, giving you the feeling 
 the gun has been tailored specifically for you. 
  
  Rainbow six's multiplayer is amazing, for want of a better word. The customisation as mentioned 
 is limitless, and you unlock new weapons to use as you progress through the rankings, the difference 
 between this multiplayer and COD 4 (sorry i keep comparing it to COD) is that it has a lack of 
 perks and it also gives you all the attachments for a weapon straight away. 
  
  The multiplayers itself contains the standard array of games, deathmatch, team deathmatch, attack 
 and defend, and a whole host of others, the maps are taken straight from the single player but 
 edited slightly to make it more accessible for large matches. 
  
  There were only two problems i found with the multiplayer, one was that because the servers are 
 worldwide, instead of continental, i often found that i suffered from major lag while playing on 
 an american server, something that was antagonising me greatly, i often had to quit a game and 
 find another.
  
  The other problem was that you had a lot of people that spawn camped, this wasn't a problem in 
 the larger maps, but in the smaller maps it really got frustrating as you respawned only to be 
 shot to bits quickly, it would have been nice if ubisoft had made it so you respawn in a safe area.
 
  
  Rainbow six is now only 18 on play. com and frankly is one of the best bargains you can get at 
 the moment, its thrilling single player combined with an amazing (though sometimes frustrating) 
 multiplayer, make it a game i can't help but recommend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burstlimit514
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!!! Best first person shooter ever. Their are only a few errors with this game 
 and they will be mentioned in my review. Ill start off witht he campaign. 
  
  It has a great story. Irena is leading terrorist on a rampage through las vegas and you and your 
 team have to stop her. Their is one scene that makes u gasp and hope for the best but i wont tell 
 you have to buy the game. :) You can tell your 2 teammates what to do all with the directional 
 buttons and the X. You can tell them to move to cover or go here and to stack up on doors and then 
 you can snake cam. It is pretty much where you look under doors and tag enemys then pick the best 
 entrance like breach and clear or flash and clear. Your teammates can still die from these terrorists 
 (who are very smart by the way) but wont be dead immediatley. They will lie on the ground and ask 
 for help but are in danger of losing blood and dying or being shot. So you have to give them adrenaline 
 fast. The guns are in variety so you have plenty of choices for grenades gun types and scopes.
 
  
  The online play is where the action is. No one does this one game mode called assasination anymore 
 though. Sadly even though it is fun. People do attack and defend the most which is where their 
 are 2 teams. Assult and defend. In most cases it is keeping a package from getting to the extraction 
 point but in other times it has hostages to save or defend. The main mode is in a casino where 
 one team trys to keep a package safe for the time limit. While the other trys to take it. Their 
 is also team death matches and death matches. AND dont worry the game has 4 player co-op story 
 and also terrorist hunt. Terrorist hunt is where you and your team hunt down terrorist and kill 
 them all. But it is not the easiest mode because the enemys randomly spawn places. You can get the 
 most out of this if you have a headset. It is reccomended since in online people talk alot.
  
  The game does have errors. Sometimes enemys don't die and glitch and the graphics are not the 
 best but are good enough. The online suffers lags sometimes and their are annoying people on bluetooths. 
 If you buy this be sure to add me- Miles514. But first have a bluetooth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  The Good:
  Graphics are quite good
  Online with friends
  
  
  The Bad:
  Some linear levels
  Enemy 
 and Ally AI system
  
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is an ok 1st person shooter. Definitely a game I was expecting so 
 much of. The graphics are good but at times feels as if it looks all fuzzy. The game-play is not 
 as exciting as I thought I would be. The enemy and Ally AI system is a joke. The enemy all know 
 where you are even if you stealth kill one enemy. Terrorist mode is a joke. Realistic mode means 
 the enemy will just ran at you without caring if they live or die. Your Ally team mate in story 
 more run in front of you not caring if you shoot them. Game over is something you will see a lot 
 in Rainbow Six Vegas due to poor AI system. It has good sound effects and voice acting. The online 
 multiplayer is ok at time. Rainbow Six is definitely a game that is good to play with your friend 
 where you can work together, but when playing with people you don't know it's hard to communicate 
 with people that just want to run about and kill anyone they see, even there team mates. The game 
 will probably take you about 10 hours to complete and you'll probably not play the story mode again. 
 Overall Rainbow Six is an OK game but nothing good. Rainbow Six 3 for the XBOX is still my favourite 
 in the series. 
  
  Graphics  7/10
  Game-Play  6/10
  Sound effects  7/10
  Presentation  6/10
  My Say  6/10
  
  OVERALL  6.5/10
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdogtim7
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been somewhat good, if you could see anything in your surroundings, i mean, 
 even hardv to see outside, which is rediculous. I tried tv contrast and brightness, but just washed 
 it out. luckily, I sold my copy on ebay for more then i paid for it. This game is about your memory 
 of wher you ave come and gone & who and what was there, just like Nintendo 64 games. if you are 
 good at remembering where each bad guy is then you'll do fine. it just seemed so low on AI, that 
 i couldn't stay interested anymore, enough so, that i will not even try the vegas 2 game. However, 
 I do have friends who have won awards playing in tournaments for this game, so i imagine if you 
 play it enough, then you can become excellent and well aquanted with each weapon and where they 
 should be used. I just didn't have the patience or time to go through all that for a 1st person 
 shooter, when I can be playing COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redd_0332
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  When i first got my PS3, it was around the time that internet gaming was oh so very popular. People 
 all around me were tlaking about RB6 and GRAW2. I thought it was all over rated, so i simply smiled 
 and shook my head in agreement. It wasn't until i finally purchased my first FPS game for my PS3, 
 that i really understood just how much fun the internet gaming truly was.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: When i first recieved the game, i stuck to single player, afraid to play on multiplayer 
 and be powned. Single player was alot of fun. Its been awhile, but if i remember right, you basically 
 start out responding to an attack on a casino in Vegas. You fly in and do your thing with your 
 group of three.
  While in story mode, the game is great. The story is pretty good, the difficutly is just right, 
 and the controls feel so natural. You have the ability to control your group and command them barege 
 in through a closed door and take down any terrorists that occupy the next room. Pretty fun, but 
 the game really gets its rep through the Multiplayer online mode.
  
  Multiplayer: Online, the gameplay is easily 100x's more fun, in my opinion. The thrill of charging 
 into the main room of the casino, guns blazing, or the rush of hiding out in a corner waiting fun 
 someone to run past you, and killing them without them even knowing what hit them. Then rotating 
 spots so the next time they enter the room, your not in the same corner, they're lost and confused, 
 then pop them from behind again. I never got tired of that. My favorite was setting up explosives 
 by the doors and waiting for people to open them, then blowing the characters to pieces. Man... i 
 loved this game.
  
  Overall this is just a great game. If you're not too sure about FPS's or online gameplay, pick 
 up Rainbow 6 vegas, its like $20 or $30 by now im sure, it was $30 when i picked up a copy. You 
 wont be disappointed by this game. It was addicting from square one. The first person mode was 
 pretty fun, but the multiplayer mode was epic.
  
  IMPROVEMENTS: Although there was not much to complain about in this game, there were some needed 
 improvements here and there. For example, im not sure if it was just my copy of the game or what, 
 but the game would freeze or drop altogether periodically. Although it did not happen alot, it 
 was annoying when it did happen ( PS it is important to have fast internet connections when playing 
 this game, some people just couldnt figure that one out..) . Also, i think they should put minimum 
 requirements for internet connection speeds for people to create games. It was a drag to join a 
 game where it took a minute from pulling the trigger to bullet impact. The only other thing that 
 i think would be awesome is bigger multiplayer rooms. Supe it up to Resistance and thier huge 40 
 player rooms. That would be epic ( i havent played vegas 2 online yet, so im not sure if the rooms 
 are bigger) .
  
  Overall the game was great. Any FPS fan should go out and pick up a copy. 
  9.0 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the first shooters I had picked up for my PS3. I was greeted with a game that 
 at first seemed really hard, but once I got the hang of it, it became fun. One of the bonuses that 
 the game has is the Co-op. You can play through the story with a buddy offline, and do terrorist 
 hunt. Or you can do that online, but not splitscreen, only with the other players online. This 
 game has a good variety of maps, weapons and items, each with it's own customizations. This is 
 a good game, but takes a while to learn to play, so don't expect to master it in a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Order26
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  = Surely, I rate it 5. With the cool textures and especially the smooth visuals of each A. Is, you 
 can totally rate it 5. The enviroment, it looks quite real, and the plates are really shattered 
 into pieces. The helmet really looks totally realistic. Your eyes will totally pop with its newly 
 upgraded graphics, very dramatic. Srsly, I rate it 5, because the High-Def graphics will totally 
 rule your TV set. Without the HDTV, I rate it 4.5.
  (NOTE: The only problem is the scope of non-sniper guns, the hole is quite big.)
  
  Sounds:
 
  
  = Srsly. The voice-acting is good, but needs a very little acting-lesson, basics actually. As for 
 the blowing effects, yes it's totally real for explosive effects w/ your speaker with subwoofer 
 on, your parents will totally shout on calling you. And for using some headsets, be sure you won't 
 turn the volume to full, because the fire-fight sound effects, especially the explosion-effects, 
 will totally own your ears and you won't be able to hear. Srsly, the sound effects is totally great, 
 not awesome, but great.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  = The new protagonist, Logan Keller, will be your character. Totally, it will change the whole 
 Rainbow Six game you've ever known, especially Lockdown, with the new reincarnation-life system; 
 you can totally escape from certain-bullet-death. You can say, it is the same system of the Call 
 Of Duty series and Ghost Recon. As for your view in your TV when you get hit from a bullet, or 
 even grenades, the vision of the character changes for 1 seconds, IF you escape your beating time 
 with bullets, still the same as Lockdown right? Well, when you blind-fire in corners, your view 
 wouldn't be a first-person; it will be a third-person view, so you can easily shoot some A. Is. 
 And oh, I almost forgot, the A. Is has been modified to be more aggressive than the A. Is from the 
 old games. So, watch your back, always.
  
  Replay:
  
  = Want to be a Rainbow operative? Then, play the game all over and over again. Srsly, you can play 
 this game for hours. The game last for many days. So, keep your hopes up to be the ultimate leader 
 of the Rainbow.
  
  Overall:
  
  = For my last words, the game is totally awesome for the current-gen consoles. Especially the game 
 is set to be in Las Vegas, where rich people lives, and they want to be saved from the experts, 
 the Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dairyboy3065
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Good
  
  Great Mix of stealth action and Close Combat, Long Single-Player, Great Multi-Player, Has a lot 
 of strategy in the game
  
  Bad.
  Sometimes to hard for beginners, Levels sometimes are frustrating, your teammates might hurt you 
 more then help you, Story makes no seance at all.
  ============================================================
  OK let's get this straight.
  
 I got Rainbow Six Vegas on high hopes.
  It was really boring at first until i got to the real "Vegas" part. But then it get's really draggy 
 from there on. It's fun to climb down walls, kill people with a sniper, tell your teammates to 
 do stuff you want. But sometimes it just get's to boring... Really Boring...
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story
  The story is begins in Mexico. 2 of your rainbow members get kidnapped, and you can't rescue them 
 right then, so you retreat. Then you and a new team need to stop terrorist attacks in Vegas. (makes 
 no seance at all) . And the story goes on from there on. Now in the story there will be really draggy 
 parts, like when about over 50 guys are coming at you once. Or when the story really makes no seance 
 what-so-ever. And there are some really fun levels like when you need to rescue a hostage, or climb 
 down a casino in Vegas...
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay
  Here comes the great advantage of Rainbow Six Vegas, the gameplay. Now when you first plug in the 
 game, and if you've played COD4, or other fast paced action games like Halo, you'll find that this 
 game is way slower. Not slow in frame rate, but in gameplay wise. The enemy's are way less, you 
 have only 2 people to help you. And you need to choose wisely, weather to shoot or not to shoot. 
 That's why it's a strategy game. During the gameplay you'll find that the enemy's are really, really, 
 really, really... DUMB.
  You can't find any dumber A. I in any other video games! And also there are no close combat moves 
 what-so-ever! SO if an enemy comes close at you, you die ^^
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Multi-Player
  Now i only played little of multi-player cause I'm still hoocked on COD4. But on word... GREAT. 
 You might thing that every1 is stuck on COD4, well not really. Like me i have some times that i 
 play Multi-player on Rainbow Six Vegas. But beware, it's harder to find games for Rainbow six then 
 COD4. The best multi-player mode is, "Co-op Story". Play the story mode with any1 online! Great 
 fun if your with good players!!!! And if you don't have Internet, just play with a friend right 
 next to you! It's also great fun to play Co-Op terrorist Hunt! Original and really challenging (sometimes 
 to challenging) .
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics/Voice Acting
  Well, it's kind of dated... Never mind, it's really dated. The graphics are not bad. But again Compared 
 to COD4 it's kind of bad. I guess it came out be4 COD4 came out. And in Voice Acting... Really good 
 i guess. I mean I've seen really bad voice acting on a lot of games and on a lot of movies. But 
 this one is pretty impressive. 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Extras (re-play value, Extra game modes)
  ... In re-play value... Like any other Ubisoft games, NO. No re-play value at all what-so-ever. If 
 you DO re-play the game, play it with a friend or online, that's the next best way. And on extra 
 game modes, expect nothing. Except Multi-player and so on. 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Over all
  
  My over all score for this game is 8.0/10.
  I got it in high hopes, but lost a lot but still have some hope that this game will be much more 
 appealing to me when i play it next. Thinking compared COD4, this game is a puny little punk. 
 
  
  Story - 7.0
  Multi-Player - 9.0
  Extras - 6.0
  Graphics - 7.0
  GamePlay - 9.5
  Voice Acting - 7.0
  Overall Appearance - 8.0
  
  Overall Scoore = 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is cool, the controls feel just fine, and the action and fun is worth the $30 you spend 
 for the game.
  
  Rather than talking about the good aspects of the game, i'll talk about the issues I found. First 
 off, the graphics are unimpressive, textures look too plain and character models are ugly, not 
 to mention that shadows aren't well defined, probably the graphics are the worst aspect of Vegas, 
 and it's a shame because the rest of the game is really cool.
  
  Another issue is that the game is too buggy, a good example are the ropes you use for rappelling, 
 they move in a... weird way... more like they're having seizures or something. Also, when aiming 
 with the 6x scope with the MP5, you see some weird thing flashing on the bottom of the screen. 
 Oh, and weapons dropped by enemies often get stuck in walls and such.
  
  Enemy AI is incredibly stupid in my opinion, either they run out of cover to shoot you or they 
 stick their heads out until you kill them (by the way, enemies die rather too easily in normal 
 mode, but the game is too freaking hard in realistic mode, however, there are enough enemies to 
 make up for the easy kills, you'll even die quite a good amount of times) . While friendly AI is 
 a lot more intelligent, they often get in your way: let's suppose you enter a door and see a bunch 
 of enemies who start shooting at you, your first thought is to go back and take cover, but your 
 stupid friends are in the way trying to exit the door, and thus, they get you killed.
  
  I really liked the game, you have to be very tactical and take cover, breaking in a casino through 
 a window and clearing the room is something awesome, but i really expected more from this game, 
 partially because a friend of mine told me there was a lot of customization for your weapons and 
 character. Yeah sure, weapons are only SLIGHTLY customizable, and you can only customize your character 
 in multiplayer... and it's horrible, they got the concept right, but there's some problems I don't 
 feel like mentioning, and your character isn't THAT customizable anyways.
  
  Despite all these problems, is a great game with great gameplay, not to mention it's full of action, 
 and anyone who likes tactical shooters should give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Re-reviewed:
  
  Las Vegas Nevada is in trouble from a Hispanic terrorist named Irena and who else can put a stop 
 to her but none other than the Rainbow Six team? The series makes its first appearance here in 
 Vegas.
  
  The gameplay is fun to play in R6V. Slow-paced, squad based team maneuvering will please fans of 
 the genre. While team AI and enemy AI are quite stupid at times, the tactical challenge still retains 
 its value with a nice combination of third-person view shooting/cover system and first-person perspectives.
 
  
  Visuals in R6V are exceptional, depending on the settings of the mission being played. Walkthrus 
 at alleyways and pale colored city streets detract from the experience, while a terrific gunfight 
 at vibrant casinos and the famous Fremont Street are the graphics' strongest points. Some textures 
 are great to look at, though many of them are a bit blurred and bland to the eye. 720p is the only 
 playable resolution, despite the fact 1080i is written as supported on the back of the game cover. 
 Playing in 1080i results in blurrier visuals and makes the noticeable aliasing found in 720p more 
 magnified. Suffice to say, I must admit that the lighting in the game turned out to be more complex 
 and dramatic than Rainbow Six Vegas 2!
  
  Online play was destined to be the game's main bulk and true replay value, with nice unlockable 
 weapons, armor and colored camos. Unfortunately it never turned out to be the case, as the biggest 
 hindrance seems to have been the poor multiplayer menu and matchmaking service. The game never 
 had a proper server list and lobby. Simply put, one never has control over what server to join 
 in the matchmaking process. Furthermore to add to the hassle, joining a game-in-progress was never 
 implemented, forcing new incoming players to wait in spectator until the current match finishes. 
 In addition, minor bugs such as sound glitches and loopholes (where a machine gun firing goes on 
 forever) , rampant server lag, unpatched map exploits with cheaters teleporting, and game crashes 
 to the XMB abound throughout.
  
  That is not to say Rainbow Six Vegas is not a great game to play offline. While the story is uncomplete 
 until you actually play its prequel, 2008's R6V2, the single player campaign here ranks as the 
 best of the two. While the online is virtually dead in 2008, a few rebel players can be found to 
 play TDM, Attack and Defend, and Terrorist Hunt Presidio. Great game to pick up at the bargain 
 bin. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falkien06
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas changes the series with multiple new features, such as a new health system where 
 the player regenerates health while not taking fire. Though the game has no running which does 
 hurt the game quite a bit. Think about it a shooting game no running... Though the hidden wall 
 perspective is amazing and that unique gamestyle worth playing. The perks you choose are really 
 neccessary in this game and the plan to camp is really large in this game. The player also has 
 various skills, such as the ability to rappel up and down buildings while shooting and the ability 
 to fast rope into an area. This game has 10 game modes Survival, Team Survival, Sharpshooter, Team 
 Sharpshooter, Retrieval, Co-op Terrorist Hunt, Attack & Defend, Co-op Campaign, Assassination, 
 and Conquest. Multiplayer mode supports up to sixteen players.
  
  On the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 version there is a ranking system, in which the player starts 
 with a certain amount of weapon and outfit choices.
  The ranking is very difficult to level up similiar to the Battlefield 2 in other words. Overall 
 this game is very interesting and a game you can play for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Many people liked the 2nd game better, many people liked the other Rainbow Sixs for Xbox better 
 but when you take a good hard look into this game it is truly better than the 2nd. You play as 
 the Rainbow 6 team (same as the second.) During the story mode you will do missions that involve 
 stealth, recon, and hostage situations. During one part of the story your friends (I'm not saying 
 who) get captured my the bad guy. You then spend the rest of the game getting them back. The online 
 in this game is good and possibly better than the RSV2's online play. A lot of this game is fancy 
 moves and technique. In online you can play at like 10 + maps and 10 + modes of play. You might 
 not "have time" for this game if you have truly/proven better games like GTA4 or COD4 but this 
 game is likely going to give you some fun times. The difficulty for this game is hard to choose 
 because it depends on your own ability. The only thing that I didn't like about this game is the 
 online scoring system, you don't really know when you are going to level up.
  
  Verdict: Don't rush out to buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluefishhead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas was the first game I bought for my ps3, aside from the two i got with it. I 
 got it for just 17.99, and it was probably the best 17.99 I have ever spent. 
  
  The campaign's superb level design, with it's multiple paths through levels give you a real sense 
 of control and choice. The levels themselves are beautifully created, with sprawling casino floors 
 and construction area's. The casinos are also well varied with different themes. The first casino, 
 a "traditional" casino, with plenty of slot machines and blackjack tables is an extremely attractive 
 level, extremely colourful, with bright lights and flashing things. The AI in here shows just how 
 intelligent it is, attempting to flank you and using suppressing fire to allow their team-mates 
 to move.
  
  The other casinos are all very interesting, with a gothic cathedral styled one and an oriental 
 styled one. However the game doesn't really get started until you leave the casinos and start on 
 the construction sites etc. 
  
  If the game has one flaw it would have to be the inconsistent and often annoying friendly AI. Although 
 they are very useful and can be sent to do a variety of tasks, stack up next to doors, take cover, 
 defuse objectives etc. at the touch of a button, they are useless in firefights. They just sit 
 behind cover and let you kill all of the terrorists, that is unless you use the door opening hotkeys. 
 Telling your squad-mates to "open and clear" some how makes them nearly invincible and deadly accurate, 
 and can easily clear a room without your help. However, if you go into an area without a door, 
 you have to do all of the work by yourself.
  
  Despite this flaw it is still an exceptional on and offline game. With the online being similar 
 to Call of Duty 4's, but slightly more tactical.
  
  Definitely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  As one might expect, the graphics are excellent although not groundbreaking. There's a great deal 
 of exquisite detail in each and every environment, and that includes everything from the characters 
 to the dumpsters in the streets. It may not be the cleanest visual presentation to date on the 
 PS3 - that honor probably goes to Ninja Gaiden Sigma - but it's certainly one of the most accomplished. 
 There is some graininess and texture issues here and there, especially in those gritty outdoor 
 battlegrounds, but that's a minor complaint and doesn't significantly decreases the graphical quality. 
 All in all, with such great detail, coloring, and impressive attention paid to even the smallest 
 feature, Rainbow Six Vegas is a very pretty title that's not without its fair share of visual anomolies. 
 But due to the picturesque reality of the visuals, you always feel as if you're part of the action 
 on screen, which this game does very well on the whole.
  Rainbow Six Vegas is, perhaps as expected, a highly accomplished and wildly entertaining title, 
 one that should offer anyone many hours of fun. The single-player campaign is both challenging 
 and satisfying, the online multiplayer is fast and furious (fans of Resistance: Fall of Man should 
 give it a try, even though it's slightly more sensitive due to its pseudo-sim nature) , and it looks 
 and sounds exactly the way it should. A few small errors here and there don't override the excellent 
 control, and while we weren't blown away by the gameplay, the fact remains- we had a blast playing 
 it. If you were hoping for something good out of Vegas, for the most part, your hopes have been 
 fully realized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  For a while, it looked as if Rainbow Six was in danger of losing its identity, thanks to screaming 
 message boards proclaiming, "It's too hard," "It's too slow," and "I want an energy sword." The 
 result was 2005's Rainbow Six Lockdown, a run-and-gun arcade game take that would make Tom Clancy 
 blush. With Ubisoft Montreal back at the helm, Rainbow has been reined in to pay homage to its 
 roots -- squad-based combat with a healthy dose of slow and deliberate room-clearing tactics. At 
 the same time, Vegas has been infused with some new, more mainstream elements like a regenerating 
 health system, streamlined controls and open, sprawling environments. The result is the most accessible 
 and among the most satisfying Rainbow Six titles yet -- a treat for former Delta Force operatives 
 and acne-ridden Halo gamers alike. If only there were more strippers.
  
  What Vegas lacks in lap-dances though, it makes up for in hard-as-nails realism. Like every Tom 
 Clancy title, Rainbow Six is Clancy-proofed, meaning that every weapon is accurate in appearance, 
 reload time and recoil. If the Glock 18 can't be customized with a silencer, then by God the Glock 
 18 won't be customized with a silencer. Even on the outfitting screen, the weapons look exactly 
 like their real-life counterparts. We know because we googled. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This is another way of playing now!!! When I first got it I was like ok I want to see what all 
 these people on gamespot are talking about.
  This game is so much fun but at first when I started it I felt like I suck but it was that I wanted 
 to do everything fast, kill my enemies and keep going. It is not that way you have to plan, look 
 around, spy etc you got to think a strategie to keep going and don't get kill.
  So far I think im a little bit more than half through the game and in my opinion ill give it 9.5 
 out of 10.
  Where is the 0.5 missing because even though this great game, terrorists and war stuff I thought 
 the online playing was going to be awesome and addicting like it was on RESISTANCE but in my opinion 
 multiplayer is a little sucky.
  In general everything on the game is enjoyable the graphics are sweet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  With the 6th installment you would think this series would be dying off and it is 
  
  The Good: Good and varied selection of weapons such as machine guns light machine guns pistols 
 shotguns etc which can be customized also a good selection of gadgets such as night and heat vision 
 goggles. Nothing beats sliding down a rope out of a helicopter jumping through windows and the 
 like. The cover system works well and you'll need it as the AL are pretty intelligent. The aiming 
 recticle is perfect. Being able to change to a 3rd person shooter varies things up. Good length. 
 This game has the best co-op multiplayer I've seen in a few years
  
  The Bad: Pretty horrible and predictable story with a even worse ending. It doesn't make full use 
 of it being in LAS VEGAS. Bad graphics I don't know what gamespot were thinking when they said 
 the graphics looked good. This game is supposedly TACTICAL it's not the only tactical thing about 
 this game is that you tell them to search and clear. Your teamates are pretty dumb they get injured 
 every couple of minutes and then you have to risk your own live to save them which usually ends 
 up with you dieing as you can't take much damage and is made worse by the bad checkpoint systemRepetitive 
 this is what made this a 7.5 you just send your team in to ambush after ambush after ambush. 
 
  
  This game has more bad then good but it still warants a purchase as it's one of the more cheaper 
 ps3 games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidesnake2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  What the Tom Clancy Team did for Vegas 2 should have been done on Vegas, and then improved if not 
 altered in Vegas 2.
  
  What i have to say for this game is it is Very good from beginning to end, all that action, going 
 through a storyline which was at first like.... what?... to.... Ohhhhh.... and so fourth. Vegas puts 
 you in the eyes of the teams member Logan in which you command your teammate what to do and what 
 to check in order to have a successful campain in the storyline mode. The guns are as accurate 
 as you can possibly get out of a FPS with cover system first ever on Next Gen Systems, The story 
 get twisted by the second half of the game, which ever half you can think of, and believe or not.. enemies 
 are as smart as you put them to be. I mean TATICS PEOPLE!!!!, you need Planning and Tactics to 
 get through this game... if you don't have it.. just run and gun and see how long you last. 
  
  All in All, this game deserves what the people give it.. so i agree. (plus this game is addicting 
 anyways.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has lots of goods whether it is the campaign or the multiplayer. The campaign is very 
 good. Story is good. Communication with your teammates are very good and realistic. The campaign 
 was kinda short tho even tho i didn't play the game everyday. The shooting is realistic. You need 
 to play as you are in real life. I had concerns about the graphics tho didn't suit the hd. The 
 graphics aren't that good. Sound is ok. Gameplay is great. You can order your teammates what to 
 do. And plan your attacks to be successful. Multiplayer on the other hand is great. It was one 
 of the best multiplayer when the game came out. Multiplayer is fun, with lots of different selections 
 and maps. If you didn't play rainbow six vegas you should definitely pick it up. 
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Graphics: 7
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  Value: 9.5
  
  
  Overall: 
 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-Nerd_Gamer
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that Rainbow six vegas was the worst game I have ever bought in my life. It was the 
 most wastelful sixty bucks i dished out. First of all the graphics look like crap. The enviroments 
 look like cut out cardboard, and everything is so darn hard to see. Next is the gameplay. The feeling 
 of shooting people is pretty good, but the sounds that come out and the a1 is terrible. The a1 
 are more like moving targets at a shooting range, not humans that dont want to die. Next is the 
 voice acting. The people who hired the voice actors could of done alot better job. The voices are 
 sooooo mediocre and just plain out terrible. I have no idea why gamestop gave it a 9.0, That is 
 definitely not deserved. Maybe it got a good score because its endorsed by the renowned tom clancy, 
 but honestly a guys name on a box is not going to make up for the substance inside of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeHuntre
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the BEST multiplayer [and Online] games for PS3.
  this game contains many online contents that are not in many games.
  u can select ur characters 
 Equipment, Armor, and even CLOTHING!!!
  u unlock things as u play online and as u play online, u will upgrade ur rank which unlocks new 
 equipment and Clothing for Multiplayer. There are many Match types for online. U can play cooperatively 
 and many more differetnt match types like Conquest, and sharpshooter. this game can be fun when playing 
 split screen. But Single player mode gets Boring. u keep on doing the same thing. This game is better 
 than many online multiplayer games in PS3. 
  there are many new futures that arent nn many first personn games .
  like taking cover, Rappeling 
 down, fast rope, u can even command ur team.
  The two best online games are Call of Duty 4 And THIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  I was a Clancy fan a long time ago, but the formula got old real quick. The same applies here, 
 somehow some terrorist organization threatens the world, you must end it. Fight in rigid, non-interactive 
 environments, quite dull to be honest, and the combat is boring, unless you're online or playing 
 co-op.
  
  This game is played by trial and error, and many times the AI is ridiculous along with certain 
 trigger actions. For example, let's examine the stand alone missions such as terrorist hunt. To 
 make it fun, I upped the terrorist count to over 30+. On a particular map, a bunch of them rush 
 you at the beginning, easy to prepare once you die on the map several times, you know what to expect. 
 An example of a triggered event is when I fast-roped on the same map, and whenever I'd fast-rope, 
 you can bet that a terrorist will pop out of a door and make his way over to where you'll climb 
 back up. Sometimes you'll turn away and in the blink of an eye, BAM once you turn right you're 
 close to dead because somehow there are now 3 terrorists there shooting at you. Also when I made 
 my way stealth and hid behind a wall, BAM more terrorists come running out shooting all over the 
 place, and it's very tough to target them all and take them down before they fill you full of bullets... and 
 this is when I'm THIS close to finishing the map and have been quite lucky so far, very frustrating. 
 The single player campaign is no different, the colors look like this was designed on a lesser 
 system and the plot can be laughed at (involving Mexico again) .
  
  If you're a Tom Clancy fan, you may like this game, but if any of the above doesn't appeal to you, 
 you're better off steering clear of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DX_HBK_HHH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Ok so this won't be a complete review as i don't have the time but it will be a little insight 
 into what i think of one of the best shooters still around.
  
  (this is a review for the multiplayer)
  
  First off like with any-other shooter you start off 
 with crappy weapons, crappy armour and not a clue what the hell you are doing which makes it a 
 lot easier to end up with 3 kills and 12 deaths.
  
  The mutiplayer sees you play with 14 other guys (including you) from around the world in a series 
 games including-
  
  team sharpshooter- two teams compete by hunting each other to see which team will rack up the most 
 kills
  
  attack and defend- two teams fight for control of an objective; one team assaults the location 
 to gain the objective while the other defends the objective
  
  sharpshooter- free-for-all combat
  
  to name just a few. You will eventually get the hang of 
 the game but looking at what others do or by your own mistakes.
  
  Each match you play you will gain experience which will then go to you ranking up and unlocking 
 new weapons, armour, camo, equipment i. e gas masks or a lovely tash. This is a really good way to 
 get you to keep playing and unlocking new things and quite exciting.
  
  Eventually you will reach the Elite level (highest rank in the game) but this is where things fall 
 down on the mulitplayer side of things. Once Elite is reached there is no real incentive to play 
 on as you don't unlock anything else and by that time you are probably bored with it anyway.
  
  The multiplayer had some great maps Calypso Casino which me and my friends played a lot, Lvu 
 Campus another great map for team-sharpshooter, Presido for Tango-hunts and these where the maps 
 that anyone seemed to ever play.
  
  So all in all a great and exciting multiplayer of a once great game with some flaws .
  8.5/10
 
  and once again this is a short review for the multiplayer on Rainbow 6 Vegas!!
  Can't wait for Vegas 2!!
  Be sure to check back for more reviews whenever i have the time.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampiricShoe
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Good game, working formula, horrible story, sub-par graphics even compared to those that came out 
 in the same time frame.
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas in a nutshell folks.
  
  Game started out with such a weak story I couldn't be bothered to follow or finish it. Although 
 I did spoil it for myself by reading all of it :) . Everything in the game works fine, good amount 
 of gun selection and the online avatar customization works well. Though unless you want to be screamed 
 at by in a foreign language (usually an Asian one, sorry I have a hard to distinguishing) steer 
 clear. The actual gameplay is a bit drab, doesn't do much to think outside the box but sticks the 
 winning formula. Everything runs smooth and cruises right along quite well.
  
  -! Verdict!-
  
  I would hold out for the second installment if possible, not worth more than 
 a rent nowadays.
  
  Personal rating: Thanks, but no thanks.
  Overall Rating: Solid renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I know tons of hype goes out to a series called "HALF LIFE" for reinventing the "Shooter" genre. 
 But lets be honest, if you wanna reinvent the shooter then you gotta go with something that allows 
 you to shoot and still have some fun. If you want a thinking mans shooter then pick up Rainbow 
 Six. You get to infiltrate, command and blow the enemies head off. Sounds like fun, well it is! 
 And its not easy! Clancy's Vegas is a sight to behold and plays Smooth, with a great "Duck and 
 Cover" feature. No destructable cover but still a game u gotta get your hands on. It highlights 
 great AI on both sides, good looking graphics and like I said just hard enough to keep you from 
 mowing down the opisition but at the same time not making you go mad..... If you get a chance to 
 pick this title up. Make sure you do, and remember part 2 is right around the corner. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakey_shane
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Although i am running it through a HDMI cable it looks like someone has smeared Vaseline on my 
 TV screen. The game play is great and the cover system has been pinched by other games which is 
 a compliment.
  I haven't played this on-line much as i feel the numbers are dwindling but when i have played it 
 on-line i haven't had connection problems as much as conflicts with other payers.
  
  
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many 
 words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how 
 many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many 
 words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many words are 100 words eh?
  Jees, how many 
 words are 100 words eh?
  
  I will definetly get VEGAS2
  
  words words words (x100?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolishev
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  When i got this for christmas i thought it would be horrible, as the only other tom clancy game 
 i had was ages ago, i played it on singleplayer, it's got some nice gameplay, and the graphics 
 and such are good, the storyline is also good, but the multiplayer, it was really good!, it has 
 headset support, so thats a bonus, and if you play around with the weapons you find a weapon that 
 suits you. (Mine is the FAMAS) and overall its great, but the exp system is not a good, five red 
 bars is all you get, and once you get to the higer levels it only gives you a vuage idea where 
 you are, also there is no server list, but your friends can invite you and such, so thats ok i 
 suppose, i recommened it, hopfully TC: RSV2 improves the EXP system, Eh? Also you can customise 
 your player, that's also quite good, although they need more options to customice your player, 
 also on COOP terrorist hunt there is a distintive camping point, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game was great in many ways.... the weapons are very customizeable and the controls are very 
 user-friendly. Ubisoft has jam-packed the AI with clever ways to annihilate you. Your team is fearless, 
 and actually kills people, and actually gives you great cover. The night vision remains clear even 
 in lighted areas, and the heat vision is so precise, that if you see a dead body, there will be 
 no heat, and you will not see it. Thats detailed. Also, this game deserves an award for the most 
 exciting door opening action. Literally. I mean, if you see a door, you can hear through it, use 
 a snake cam, tell which enemies you want to take out first and second to your teammates, and either 
 breach the door and clear the area, grenade, flash, or smoke. And it looks so awesome. Also, this 
 can lean toward more of a special-op game, or a an all-out swat assault by switching your team 
 to infiltrate mode (only return fire) or assault mode (kill every enemy in sight) . You also have 
 a silencer. I also found it extrememly challenging...... probably because i played it on the hardest 
 level and barely made it, but this game is great.
  
  This game is one of the most intelligent action shooter available on the ps3. I cant wait until 
 Rainbow Six 2...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomnia37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  What make this game a great shooter?
  
  -I like the fact the before mission you can select and customize your weapons.
  -the squad based 
 commands are simple and effective.
  -The duck and cover systems is the best out there. I love that there is a cross hair while you 
 are taking cover so you know exactly where your gun is going to be shooting right when you lean 
 out to shoot.
  -The single player campaign was a good length and fun.
  
  This is one of if not the best squad based shooters out there, but what could have made this game 
 better?
  
  -The shooting is rewarding but it lacks compared to other great shooters. After shooting someone 
 theres little to no hit response of the enemy getting shot down. There were times where it looked 
 like the enemy completely disappeared after getting shot.
  -Sniping is almost useless in the game due to most encounters are indoors or small areas.
  -it 
 kind of bothered me that if you want to pick up more ammo from fallen enemies it has to be from 
 the exact same gun. for example if you were carrying a G36C, you had to get ammo from an enemies 
 G36C and not just any assault rifle.
  -perhaps the biggest disappointment was the Terrorist hunt mode. Right away you think you'd be 
 hunting the terrorist but its the other way around. I was expecting that they would randomly spawn 
 on the map and you had to hunt them down. But actually they usually spawn very close to you and 
 they end up hunting you down!
  -Locations of the enemy doesn't stay on the map. 
  -Was hoping there was a way to give commands via the map to ur squad.
  -No offline deathmatch. 
 
  
  Right now I am playing through RSV for the second time and I am looking forward to the sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxcooper24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  First off I love this game. The single player is difficult compared to a lot of other games. You 
 have to have patience and actually try at this game. COD4 isnt that difficult and is really easy 
 to pick up online. Rainbow however is difficult because a lot of people kick you out of games when 
 your a low level! How are you supposed to level when you a level 1! Another problem is connecting 
 to games and the host. It takes forever. I wait and wait then i get into a game and have to wait 
 even longer to play unless your ready at the menu. This game is not as fast paced as COD4 online. 
 It is also a lot harder to gain levels. You can gain like 15-25 levels in your first day at COD4 
 but when you play Vegas oh yes it take a very long time to get to the max level! If UBISOFT fixed 
 the online then it would have gotten a 10. Online is almost everything now. Everyone wants to play 
 online well almost everyone. When i buy a game that is the first thing i look for and a lot of 
 my friends too! UBISOFT FIX THE ONLINE PLEASEEE!!!!!!! MAKE SOME PATCHES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  
  Good:
  - A cover system that works and makes firefights realistic
  - A good, sold, long campaign that spans at least 20 hours.
  - Good variety of weapons
  - Online 
 is fun most of the time.
  - Squad commands work at your squad will help you all the way!
  
  Bad: 
  - Most levels won't compel you to come back and try again, although there are multiple 
 ways to go through them 
  - A few bugs online 
  - No melee or jump
  - Graphics aren't bad but could be improved.
  
  When you think of shooter you think of yourself 
 either bricking it from mutants/aliens or making nazis die. However, you would rarely think yourself 
 playing a team of N. A. T. O soldiers in Vegas WITH a cover system. If you do then this is your game 
 but if you don't, this is still a great game.
  
  It starts as you track down a terrorist leader (in an fantasy dream you woudn't imagine that person 
 to be female but she is!) who is helping to smuggle imigrants across the border. As you hunt her 
 down in a cave it caves in (SHOCK!) and your 2 teamates are captured. And then your'e brought to 
 Vegas under orders. No more spoilers as anything else would ruin the game! 
  
  The gameplay is solid. You can send you 2 teammates to take cover, open a door or attack a specific 
 enemy. This works very well.
  
  Online is pretty good although it suffers from some bugs. The co - op is good but the versus is 
 even better. Thebest mode is attack and defend which involves one team to defed a certain piece 
 of equipemnt whilse the other defends it.
  
  Overall a solid shooter with a few flaws (no melee for instance!) , but none the less offers a great 
 expierience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  All in all this is a pretty good game, It does however have its failings.
  The story is alittle boring and more than alittle 007 cliche.
  to sum it up shortly, some terrorist 
 chick is trying to blow up sin city...
  And thats about it. you and your team of elite rainbows have to stop her.
  your team consists 
 of 2 others an "electronics expert" who is possibly the slowest hacker i've ever met, and your explosives 
 expert.
  neither of which you ever feel very attached to.
  The combat in this game is very fast and very fun in the more intense firefights. Not to mention 
 that this one of the most graphically beautiful games i've played to date. Another Gripe i have 
 is the weapon selection.
  personally i played through the whole game using the same
  assualt rifle/shotgun combo. It never really gave you the chance for a good old fashioned sniper 
 mission which saddend me greatly. Also the "strategy"
  of moving your squad and clearing rooms didnt feel very deep, but kind of forced to me and was 
 never really very fun. I can't say much about the multi player as I only got to play with it for 
 a few hours. But the time i did get to use it. it was faster and crazier and insanely fun.
  Anyway i would advise renting this game before a buy since it is quite short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok I have played the game recently after reading and watching so many reviews about it saying how 
 good it is and it is worth buying. 
  
  Let's start by the GOOD: 
  The game play is amazing; it is realistic with tons of options to do an objective. Also there is 
 a wide range of weapons so the player can get very creative. Multiplayer is good, tons of modes 
 to play with your own character again u can get creative there. You level up in multiplayer which 
 gives u a reason to play and have fun. As u level up you get new weapons and new cloth and other 
 stuff so it's worth the online experience. 
  Taking cover in the game is amazing and realistic so you can shoot from almost behind anything. 
 
  
  The BAD: 
  The game graphics are realllly bad. Even on full HD the player will not get the good graphics although 
 Ubisoft could have done much better on that issue. 
  The Sound is sometimes low so you can't hear you team mates in single player. 
  The Ai is sometimes 
 dump and it gets obvious sometimes. 
  The LAG in multiplayer is unbelievable! If you are spectating you will notice so much lag and so 
 many glitches in the game. 
  
  Over all the game is worth playing, BUT THE BAD GRAPHICS takes alot from the experience. 
  Rent 
 it first and see if you will like it or not. Give it time and it will grow on you
  Don't believe too much of the hype until you try it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  My second shooter on the PlayStation 3 hit me as a bit of a shocker. After playing the fast paced 
 arcade like shooter Resistance, I was hit with Rainbow Six Vegas, which is a completely different 
 style of game. It is completely tactical, not your run and gun shooter. This took some getting 
 used but after a while I began to enjoy it. Obvious notables are that it is near impossible to 
 hit someone if you are running. Pretty much the only way to play the game effectively is to use 
 the cover system, which was implemented very nicely, especially for a first person shooter. So 
 in that regard the game becomes very fun, as it is very realistic in terms of how you have to play.
 
  
  Online can go up to 14 players, and communication is somewhat important. The ranking systems and 
 unlockables is what motivates someone to keep playing. Characters are fully customizable. You choose 
 the size and color of equipment according to body parts, and according to what you want. Heavier 
 equipment allows for more protection but obviously slows you down. Guns are also customizable and 
 the higher you rank up, the more you unlock and have as options for your customization. So the 
 online system is very deep and makes you want to play. 
  
  While not the most flat out fun shooter, it is very deep, however I don't think the style of play 
 is for everyone. If you do get into it though, it is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I got addicted to this game within minutes. The cover system is so awesome that I sometimes do 
 it just to look cool. The gameplay and customizations are some of the best in a shooter. What makes 
 this game superb is the fact that there is so much variety. The story mode is there for you to 
 play which lets you command a squad of your own. There is 2 player offline mode which lets you 
 fight along side a friend and do a terrorist hunt. And then there is the online mode which is the 
 best part. The one bad thing about this game which is the reason is didn't get a hight score is 
 the graphics and framerate. I was very disappointed the the detail and speed of the game. The game 
 often lags which can get you a little frustrated and the loading times are extremely long. But 
 that shouldn't stop you from getting this game. I consider this a must buy for true shooter fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is one of the best FPS out there, i would say that after Call of Duty 4, Raibow 
 Six: Vegas should get your money if you are looking for a thrilling and unique experience.
  This game is one of the best ps3 games out there, and ps3 version of the game looks even crisper 
 than the xbox 360 version, so, IMAGINE!
  .When speaking about the unique experience, we are talking about stunning visuals, and one of the 
 most playable games out, you can really fel like a comando thanks to gameplay, which is unique 
 too.
  .You can rappel down walls, you can order your team ehat to do, and you need to elaborate a specific 
 plan on how to enter a room, otherwise you gonna be dead!
  .Visuals are awesome but when displayed in 720p, this game can also run at 1080i, but as it upscales 
 it look really washed ou.
  .Rainbow Six: Vegas lacks frame rate problems, and now, it is waiting for you down at gamepot for 
 you to give it a try, you wont regret it!
  .Multiplayer action is awesome and addictive.
  .Rainbow Six: Vegas is one of the best FPS ever created, and a must buy for all FPSS lovers, TRY 
 IT!
  
  (I WOULD RATE IT 8,7) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  In this game you have to take down terrorists in Mexico, Vegas and the Hoover Damm using the help 
 of your two colleagues. But you can't just go in guns blazing, you have to use cover and strategies 
 like flanking, flash-bang, smoke grenades, etc.. or you will die quite often. The gameplay side 
 of this game is good enough but the presentation or overall feel of the game left me wanting more. 
 The game doesn't feel next gen.
  The graphics are just above average: lighting isn't amazing, textures are bland and overall detail 
 is so-so. The sound is somtimes broken aswell, although they themselves are good (gunfire, explosions, 
 voices etc...) , at some ponits you can be beside an open door and anothr guy is at the other side 
 shooting and the sound is muffled as if the door is shut. Gameplay can gt a little repetitive. 
 All you do is enter a room, take cover, shoot enemies, move to next cover, shoot more enemies and 
 move to the next room, again and again. I would've liked more set pieces and variety. Another thing 
 that bothers me is the lack of civilians. There are a handfull of moments where the terrorists 
 are holding some hostages, but appart from that the only civilians you see is a family cought in 
 the crossfire. I thought Las Vegas is packed with turists.
  Sounds like i don't like the game, but actually i do. If you like shooters like me you will definately 
 enjoy this, but don't expect anything new or jaw-dropping or you will be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  
  First time I saw screens, reviews of it on TV and internet, I was wow I have to get this game when 
 I'm going to have a next gen console. After a few months, Ubisoft decided to import Vegas on Ps3 
 and the reviews were also excellent. Remember it came out in June for Ps3 and it was rated superb. 
 I decides to buy it at 25$ when it was Christmas Eve and when I've got it, I was excited to try 
 it. Result = Big disappointing!
  
  I'm going to begin with the good things. It takes place in some parts of the game and the casino 
 feeling is nice. You can play online and multiplayer mod. Finally some parts of the gameplay is 
 great, like covering and shooting while cover.
  Now the bads!! When I saw the graphics of the game at the videos and reviews... it was incredible. 
 But I don't know why, the graphics were looking bad and a bit non finished on my 50 inch plasma 
 TV with the high definition cables.
  The sound can be horrible at some places. Even if there is a online and multiplayer, it is really 
 bad. I played once online and it was crap. I also played once in the multiplayer and co-op mode 
 and it's also awful. 
  And finally the thing that I hate the most about this game is........ THE LOADINGS!!!! There incredibly 
 long: when you die there is a two minutes loading, when you change mode, there is a two minutes 
 loading, when you change location there is a two minutes loading. And online its more awful. It's 
 a one kill battle and when you die, you wait like five minutes waiting for the others and because 
 of the loadings.
  I don't know why, but all of the Playstation Ubisoft games have long loadings and when I see them 
 on the Xbox versions, it isn't !!
  
  So... what I'm trying to say, it's I didn't like this game and will sell it at anybody who wants 
 to buy it at a good price so I couldn't lose a lot of of money with it.
  If you loved this game, good for you, but I would like to know why. There is a plenty of good games 
 that is way better than this one and that came out before it. For example: Resistance: Fall of 
 Men or Motorstorm.
  I just hope that the Vegas 2 will be better, but i wont buy it. I'll rent it and then see...
 
  Thanks for reading my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Simply put Rainbow Six Vegas the greatest tactical shooter since Socom. Even more so with the best 
 cover system in the business, something I wish all shooters would have, like the Call of Duty series. 
 But apart from the excellent cover system, your teammates AI behave realistically, following your 
 every command and positioning themselves accordingly, from breach and clear commands to covering 
 your back, these are real commandos for sure. The enemy AI ain't no slouch either, these mean terrorst 
 have there own training boot camp and can rip you in half if you're not careful, especially in 
 realistic mode. Graphics wise, I hear a lot of people complaining about how bad it looks in 1080i, 
 but this game was ported with 720p in mind not 1080i. So unfortunetly you have to manually set 
 the mode in settings under 720p. But the graphics look fantastic, I personally think it looks better 
 than the Xbox360 and the reason is the color pallette, it looks much more realistic than the 360's 
 lollipop colors, especially in the casino. Everything looks so define and sharp, even the lighting 
 is on par with the 360. Of course you have to have a quality HDTV to appreciate this. The sound 
 is also top notch. One last thing I forgot to mention, is that there is a third person mode when 
 activated via a code, and let me tell you, it's like playing a new Rainbow Six, I personally prefer 
 this mode than first person as not only can you see yourself but you can observe your surroundings, 
 it's just so much better. To conclude, apart from rarely framerate dips, this is one fantastic 
 port, but most importantly one of the greatest FPS ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is a squad shooter. You play as a leader of a rainbow six team, a highly effective 
 killing squad. That handles terrorist, bomb threats, and pretty much any major occasion. You find 
 yourself starting out in Mexico City trying to locate a certain terrorist, of course a lot of things 
 go wrong and you called into Vegas. Where most of the game is played. 
  Good things; 
  the story is pretty similar to lots of other, but is still intertaining. If you have played any 
 Tom Clancy games then you know that the action is intense and realastic. There is also a good challenge 
 to the game, you have to use stratgey with your team to achieve your objective. You can preform 
 lots of cool moves that really come in handy in the story. Also has some real good co-op. The online 
 mode is fun, it just takes a little while to get use to it. The graphics are good, and the environments 
 are great. The sound effects are great. also the controls are perfect. 
  Bad things:
  the online is fun, but it can get boring or frustrating real fast. I wished they would have had 
 a 4 player co-op. but of course that's not a defect with the game, its just something that I would 
 have like to see. Not really much of a replay value. Once playing thru it, there's not much reason 
 to go again. The story ends for the 2nd one. 
  Over all;
  Of course if you have not played the 1st one, then now is the time, because you can find it kind 
 of cheap and the 2nd one is right around the coroner. and it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The first timei played through i thought the game was over rated. i let it sit for several 
 months before finishing it but by the time i finally did I wanted to play it again. I'm currently 
 half way through on realistic difficulty and its not too hard.
  
  Positives: The online and offline multiplayer is awesome. Great to play with friends that are at 
 your house or over psn. Graphics and sounds are pretty good. The gadgets and style of gameplay 
 make the game great. Many different game modes for online. Has medals and trophies which give you 
 incentive to play again.
  
  Negatives: Multiplayer could benefit from showing a list of rooms rather than sticking you a random 
 room. Could keep track of stats online like RFOM.
  
  Final Thoughts: Definitely a must have. There isn't that many people online anymore but if you 
 have a buddy to play with its a great game and this isn't a game you will beat in 10 hours. I think 
 i counted 26 levels.. well 6 major levels that are split into smaller levels. 
  
  Rent or Buy??
  Buy.. Definite replay factor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guile_charlie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Other than the short, short time I spent at my friends house playing multi-player, this is my first 
 time actually playing any Rainbow Six game, although I have had plenty of time with Ubisoft's other 
 franchise, Splinter Cell, so my expectations were very, very high! My impressions of this tactical 
 shooter were unsurprisingly quite pleasing to say the least, but how well does the PS3 version 
 hold up to the 360 version?
  
  I'll tackle graphics first, then control, then the meat of the game itself. I have not played any 
 online or offline multi-player as of yet, but expect some additions to this review very soon!
 
  
  To start things off, I've noticed a "trend", I guess you could say, in multi-platform games as 
 of late. It seems that, although the Playstation 3 should be "leaps and bounds" above the 360, 
 games released on both consoles shine a little brighter on Microsoft's console. Rainbow Six: Vegas 
 is a wonderfully looking game on either system, but the 360 version looks cleaner and has a flawless 
 frame rate (compared to the PS3 version in which the framerate dips a little sometimes for almost 
 no reason...?) . When I first looked at the in-engine graphics, I said to myself "This isn't what 
 I expected from a PS3 game", but after a couple of hours of play I said "Okay, the graphics are 
 still better than anything I've seen on the PS2 and XBOX". Make no mistake, this is still definitely 
 a next-gen looking game and the actual characters have the most amount of detail to them, and it's 
 outstanding, but It's just a shame that the PS3 version is behind the 360 technicality wise, even 
 after having about a half a year of more development time.
  
  Now that I've gotten the graphics out of the way, the control works perfectly for this type of 
 game. I've always preferred the PS2's Dualshock 2 to the XBOX controller for every type of game, 
 especially FPS', and comparisons of the PS3's SIXAXIS to the 360's controller are no different, 
 although this time around, the XBOX does have a better refined controller than in the last-gen. 
 Resistance definitely uses the controller's motion sensing to better effect than Vegas. I just 
 wish that using the motion sensing didn't feel like they were added just because they were available. 
 Other than that, the button mapping is perfectly comfortable and easy to get used to.
  
  The level design is amazing and all the environments are exquisitely detailed. Almost everything 
 is destructible and the use of cover is some of the best I've experienced since Namco's kill. switch! 
 I especially love how seamlessly the camera changes from 1st person to 3rd person while covering! 
 The actual game makes you feel so freaking bad-ass!!! Simply put, you can play pretty much any 
 way you want. One minute I felt a little like Sam Fisher using night vision goggles to easily spot 
 enemies from roof tops and sniping them down with a silenced rifle, the next I was waging all-out 
 destruction in firefights similar to that of F. E. A. R. or Call of Duty 2!!! This is the best balance 
 between careful sneaking and over-the-top visceral action my hands, ears, eyes and nervous system 
 have ever experienced in a game to date! The weapons are outstanding and so, so fun to use! The 
 mechanic used to switch between accessories like silencers, laser lights and scopes and the ability 
 to switch how many rounds are fired with each click of he trigger on guns that support it on-the-fly 
 is fast and easy. As said above, I haven't gotten a chance to try any multi-player online, and 
 I've only played offline co-op on the 360 version (which is amazing, by the way) , but I have not 
 experience enough to include a section in the review for multi-player, yet. I expect the PS3 version 
 should be excellent since it comes with some extra multi-player modes and maps not defaultly available 
 on the 360 version.
  
  Bottom line, if you own any next gen console and like shooters, Rainbow Six: Vegas is a must own 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNForget
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Fond memories of Rainbow 6 Raven shield & Athena Sword (for me the landmark games that catapulted 
 the Rainbow 6 franchise into greatness) gave me high hopes for Rainbow 6 Vegas. Unfortunately this 
 game fell far short of my expectations, but the core principles of the game still remain.
  
  First the visuals: The visual aspect of the title/splash screen is absolutely atrocious. You're 
 shown a rotating Las Vegas cityscape that quite frankly looked like it was done by a rank amateur 
 in 3D Studio Max. Seeing this stunned me and I began to have that sinking feeling. Fortunately 
 the in game visuals are far better (not fantastic but tolerable) . Cut scenes and other "eye candy" 
 are NO WHERE to be found. Finish the game? Well you're treated to the same stunning cityscape that 
 you were greeted with when you first turned the game on, only with a credit roll.
  
  Gameplay: Most of the gameplay is actually quite good. AI is impressively adept at attempting teamwork 
 to flank you or flush you out of hiding. If you pop out to shoot they will go into cover or fire 
 from a different position. Your team AI does what you want them to the vast majority of the time. 
 Although once I wanted them to just go to the bottom of the stairs and they completely overshot 
 the mark going down a hallway and getting themselves killed in the process.
  
  The weapon loadout is a little on the light side and not very customizeable (I really wish they 
 included the VSS Vintorez) , still I appreciate being able to pick a different scope and the few 
 accessories that are available. 
  
  The "thermal goggles" are complete garbage. You will barely be able to make out your surrounding 
 environment and you WILL NOT be able to see enemies behind any walls. This has got to be the all 
 out worst gadget ever put in a game... what happened to the great thermal goggles in previous RB6 
 games?!? The "night-vision" isn't great either. In some cases you'll be in a room that is shadowy 
 and dark, turning on the night vision will only turn everything a shade of green. The snake cam 
 is ridiculous; you'll "snake" it through a door but have no way to move it around. This prevents 
 you from pointing it at targets (even though they are in plain sight) and designating them for 
 your team.
  
  One level makes absolutely no sense to me. You're forced to traverse a dark level all the while 
 with no night vision goggles. By trial and error you take pot shots at your enemies until you reach 
 the end, at which you get you weapons and gadgets back. What is the point of this???
  
  Controls: You command a team of 2 (Rainbow 3??) around using a very simple control schema and your 
 given a Gears of War style duck and cover system. I actually like and appreciate the simple yet 
 effective control scheme. You're also given the ability to "blind fire" in the approximate area 
 of your reticule while remaining under cover. This feature is 100% useless. You never hit anything, 
 even at reasonably close range. What was this for? Suppressive fire?? Totally unnecessary. The 
 ability to run seems like a logical addition in a game where people are shooting at you, but alas, 
 this "special" ability was overlooked in the game.
  
  Sound: Rather disappointing here, most weapons sound the same, and thus feel the same. The exception 
 is when they are silenced I did notice some bigger differences.
  
  Online: It couldn't be much worse. Instead of a server browser where you're able to pick and choose 
 a server with a decent ping and with some players in it, your left with a "searching" dialog. If 
 and when something comes up you'll be dropped straight into a game. I tried several times and was 
 successful a couple times, only to be dropped into a game with "a couple" people in it. It's partly 
 the fault of the design, partly the fact that no one is apparently playing this game anymore. Best 
 to go online together with a group of your friends, rather than search for a pickup game.
  
  Despite what seem like big flaws (and some of them are) I still enjoyed the game and appreciated 
 it for what it is. If you want a real Rainbow Six experience though stick to PC for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell-Fire21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  If you're familiar with the Rainbow Six titles courtesy of Tom Clancy, then you will know the overall 
 nature of your role while playing Rainbow Six Vegas -- you and your team strategically move from 
 area to area picking off your enemies while reaching your objectives. As plain as that sounds, 
 getting there is a whole different ballgame. With simple and effective controls, a large arsenal 
 of weaponry at your disposal, and a less-than-average A. I system you have to face, Rainbow Six 
 Vegas is not just another tactical shooter to run through. The graphics certainly stand out to 
 impress especially in the level designs and environments, and the character models aren't half 
 bad either. Vegas has PLENTY of flashing lights, neon signs and slots machines to dazzle whomsoever 
 comes to visit, and Ubisoft did a fantastic job on bringing that into the game. Detail on weapons 
 is a major eye-candy in this game, for Ubisoft went out of their way with as large as the arsenal 
 is, to make every weapon as similar to the real thing -- while at the same time, each weapon performs 
 differently in all categories. Don't be surprised to notice most (if not ALL) vehicles in the game 
 are from Dodge. Sound effects are simply top-notch throughout the entire game, everything from 
 muzzles, bullet ricochets, glass breaking, explosions etc., you won't be displeased. The score 
 while traversing through Vegas is more miltarized than a natural backing of the Vegas theme, but 
 it's not a large draw back at all. Gameplay is for the most part seamless, as you use a concise 
 cover system to engage your enemies. Your enemies aren't stupid either -- they'll wait for you to 
 expose yourself to grant them a decent shot, and sometimes they'll take advantage of your cover. 
 Not to worry though, as the controls are set to just about every standard FPS on the PS3 system, 
 so it's easy to pick up the game and get right into the action without worry of accidentally getting 
 yourself (or your teammates) shot. Teammates do their jobs quickly and effectively, with an occasional 
 "why were you just standing there" moment or two, but overall when you tell them to execute an 
 order, it generally ends in a good result. You won't spend too much time focusing on the story, 
 which is probably the weak point of R6V, but it does carry you along the purpose of what you're 
 doing while things are going on (without confusing you at the same time) . Overall this game will 
 appeal to most FPS fans, and is definately worth buying. Rainbow Six Vegas is easily one of the 
 best titles on the Playstation 3 console system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  +Great graphics
  +Very intense
  +Great online multiplayer 
  +A very interesting premise, not seen in many war shooters. (Basiclly, it's not set in the middle 
 east, asia, africa, or south america, but here in the united states.)
  +Fairly long campagn mode, and difficult enough for it to last.
  +Really well done cover system, 
 and maybe the start of the covering system rip-offs in many other fps games.
  +Create a character and take him or her online. 
  
  The Bad:
  -Difficulty and sometimes long 
 seperation of checkpoints can make the game a little frustrating at times.
  -Online play might get a little stale
  -For a Tom Clancy game, a guy who writes novels for a 
 living, the story could be alot better, and the characters more interesting. 
  -Removed alot of the stradegy, planning, (but not all) and cool characters from old games. 
  
 
  The Ugly:
  *Apparantly all the cars in Las Vegas are Dodges
  *Though the location and premise is good, it seems a little ridiculous. 
  *Online play is getting 
 so old for people, most people play by new rules for games created by the people. 
  *The main character.. and the cliffhanger ending.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is the latest instalment 
 in the Rainbow Six franchise. This one takes the series, and flips it on it's ear. All the characters, 
 are gone, going across the world, is done, and the planning and trial and error nature is no more. 
 
  
  Instead of have a less realistic, but still not arcade like shooter with an awesome cover system, 
 and the occasional rappeling. Switching your team is a thing of the past as you are always (except 
 one mission) accompined by 2 other people. At the beginning of the game your two teamates are taken 
 hostage, and you have to get them back. 
  
  They happen to be in Las Vegas, where a group of mexican terroists are executing a VERY large scale 
 assault on sin city. You haul back to sin city, and then the rest of the story mode is one night 
 of progressing through Las Vegas, killing tons of bad guys. 
  
  So you go through Las Vegas streets, and Casinos, and even the back areas of the city. The whole 
 story is pretty predictable, and a little ridiculous. 
  
  Multiplayer mode is pretty normal. You have the Deathmatch, team deathmatch, Survival, Search and 
 Destroy, Attack and Defend ETC. The cover system makes it a little different than other FPS, and 
 for that, it does have a really great online multiplayer. 
  
  Including in online mode is the ability to make a character, equip him or her with many different 
 types of clothing, accesories, and camo colors, and take them online to play against other people. 
 But to get many of the options available for you character, and many of the weapons of online play, 
 prepare to play the game A LOT. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas shows us a little of what next gen fps can do. Too bad games like COD4 have surpased 
 it by now. But if you haven't already tried this, it's defintely and exciting game, that probably 
 shouldn't be missed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxism67
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  What a piece of supermarket trash this game is. It is simply amazing that the "editors choice awards 
 this game a 9/10 when compared to a game like COD 4. The editor states that there are "beautiful 
 visuals" - where are these beautiful visuals? Playing it on a 46 inch flat screen the visuals are 
 lifeless and gritty at best. I would have to say that this game is the worst of all shooter games 
 to ever come onto the market! If you want real action, a great plot, and an interesting realistic 
 display of weapons, don't bother with this mediocre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin let me acknowledge that I bought this game for almost one sole purpose: the co-op 
 campaign. It's my favorite aspect of gaming and I heard that it was good so I decided to try it 
 out.
  
  Let me also say that this is not your typical FPS nor is it your typical R6... not like the old 
 ones -- but it is still very enjoyable. Enough to warrant a 9/10 in my book. Beware that I tend 
 to jump around in my review...
  
  The graphic's are pretty darn good. When using a sniper rifle I see the blood explode when I connect 
 with a hit to the chest and I just witnessed my buddy completely blow someone's head off with a 
 shotgun... pretty good with hit detection. The levels look good, the lighting is well done and 
 the characters look fantastic. I think the grenades/explosions could have been done better but 
 that doesn't detract from the game at all.
  
  The sound is very enjoyable. The AI calls out some funny things to each other while trying to flank 
 you and the guns/explosions sound awesome -- all the way down to the squeaking of doors.
  
  The controls are tight and easy to get used to. Not much of a difference from other FPS's minus 
 the squad control. The cover system for this game is easy to use and very effective. By hitting 
 L1 you can take cover and then designate blind fire to keep enemies' heads down.
  
  The AI is absolutely awesome, in my opinion. They throw plenty of frag / flash grenades and they 
 are fairly advanced at using squad like tactics. Often you'll hear "cover me!" and a long burst 
 of fully automatic fire will keep you pinned down as another enemy rounds the corner to flank you. 
 Your sqaud does pretty well in its own right and makes the game enjoyable and pretty realistic.
 
  
  Another good thing is the fact that you don't have to tackle a mission any one way. Want to repel 
 in through a window of a building? Go for it. Want to go and take the fire escape instead? Go ahead. 
 How about fast rope straight through the roof? Also an option. And in multiplayer you and your 
 friend can take seperate paths... for better or worse outcomes.
  
  The multiplayer, by the way, is fantastic. Doing a co-op terrorist hunt or campaign is fun and 
 you have the option in the campaign to allow respawns (and even designate 3, 5, 10, or infinite) 
 but if you die while your partner is dead, you have to restart from the last checkpoint. Take notice 
 that there aren't a lot of checkpoints, either... and terrorist hunt co-op (or by yourself) is VERY 
 challenging, imo, even on normal difficulty. Definetly a challenge you can come to enjoy --- makes 
 the game great at replayability.
  
  This is NOT your everyday average FPS. It is NOT a run-n-gun game, as that will get you killed 
 fairly quickly. It is squad based and requires you to be _tactical and practical_, not a lunatic 
 with a lot of health bars. I'd say the best comparison for this game would be something like SOCOM 
 crosses with Call of Duty 4... tactical action that is fun and addicting to play. IMO it is a 9.3 
 or 9.4/10 when you have a second person to play the campaign with you.
  
  All in all... 9/10 is perfect, kudos to GS for getting this one right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameowar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  The game starts out down in mexico, not in vegas. the enviroment has great graphics. the language 
 is rough, but you can turn it down. The city of vegas is amazingly detailed The gear is in great 
 detail. the enemies actually try to take cover which makes it harder to kill them. The terorrist 
 hunt is a great spot to try to improve your game. the lenght of the story mode is a little short, 
 but well worth it. I have not tried the online play so I don't know how that is but I hear that 
 it is great. the split screen mode is good if you have a large television 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcat888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Rainboy Six Vegas was planned to be release at the same time as the PS3's release. Although, this 
 is not entirely a bad thing. In the extra months, Ubiosft was able to include a handful extra multiplayer 
 maps. I have played the PS3 version and the 360 version, and I cannot tell the difference in visuals. 
 It looks good on each system. One gripe I have for the game is the sound. It's funny to hear what 
 the terrorists say, the guns sound great, but while I was playing online, an enemy was shooting 
 at me, then the sound of his gun started to loop. I'm not sure if this was an isolated problem, 
 but it was happening to me time after time. What makes this game different than other FPS's is 
 the cover system. The cover system works so well in many ways. In the tap of a button, your character 
 takes cover of whatever he is closest to. You can see around corners without exposing your body. 
 The graphics are also very good. Although, when I was playing online, some of the levels and the 
 character looked like a PS2 game. Online play is very fun, it has the standard DM and TDM, and 
 other normal MP game modes. I found myself playing this game over and over for the online Co-op 
 mode. This is a very fun game and I recommend it to anyone who likes First Person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coruscant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas starts, for some reason, in a ghost town in Mexico. This confused me slightly at 
 the start but I just presumed it had some major connection to the plot. As it turns out, it doesn't.
 
  
  After spending some time in Mexico, you finally move into Vegas where you find a hostage situation 
 taking place. At this point the Mexico part seems really pointless and just a bit of filler - and 
 it is, really. It doesn't really add to the plot and so I think that it should not be in the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is quite good, with a fairly standard controller setup that is relatively easy to 
 use. The only thing I found annoying is having to hold down buttons while switching weapon or putting 
 a silencer on your gun. It also uses a good cover-shooting system, which enables you to kill enemies 
 from the relative safety of cover.
  
  The graphics are really good but can get in the way slightly when you finally get to Vegas, where 
 it's sometimes too bright to really see well.
  
  In conclusion, the gameplay and graphics are really good but because of the almost-pointless Mexico 
 missions, I'm only giving it a score of 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGNS_GRMR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas allows you to be a real commandor, and you will feel like one. its a cool game, 
 and you can do a lot.. for example; rappel down big buildings and break in and get your teammates 
 do the job, and you can use a really realistic kind of cover, so it gives you a blend of first 
 and -third person shooter, use a really wide range of weapons and custmize them like u wnat them, 
 control your teammates and rescue the civilians from getting executed, use snake cam to look under 
 doors and discover enemies before you break in and lots more...
  the online is good too, when you get in better rank, you can get new outfitting and armor.. the 
 only bad fthing is that there are not many checkpoints. so if you die and you have nearly done 
 the mission, you must start from the beginning again
  
  9.5 is my meaning... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steinberger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay for this game is probably one of my favorites. The cover system is revolutionary for 
 tactical shooters and adds so much depth to the game in my opinion. There is a ton of replay value 
 in the campaign itself, but you also have all the online features like co-op campaign, co-op terrorist 
 hunt, quite different team based and fre for all scenarios, and for instant action you have terrorist 
 hunt. The persistent elite character system is good motivation to play harder games to get more 
 experience.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are wonderful. A lot of people say that the ps3 version's graphics are a little worse 
 than the 360's but I think the character models look much better on the ps3 version. The beginning 
 of the game can be somewhat difficult to see with the changes from very bright to very dark areas 
 but, it's very realistic.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is good. Not earth-shaking but very decent. The weapons sounds are very realistic to 
 their real life counterparts. I do wish the echo and reverberation where more dynamic to your environments 
 though.
  
  Controls:
  While the controls are good for the PS3 version, they aren't quite up to par with the 360 version. 
 The analog movement is more precise but, isn't quite as smooth, and I'm not a big fan of having 
 the default fire and cover buttons being on R1 and L1. I'd prefer them to be on the triggers L2 
 and R2 than on the others. You can switch the cover to the trigger but I haven't found a way to 
 have it like that on fire button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IE_Tho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Vegas definitely is worthy of the Rainbow 6 title, and fans of the series will recognize it as 
 the best installment yet. The single player story mode is juiced up a little with unique levels 
 revolving mainly around fictional casinos in sin city, but otherwise, is nothing really too incredibly 
 great. Game play throughout the campaign is fairly fun, and it keeps you more interested in completing 
 it than the actual resolution of the story. The game also offers several other modes of play, including 
 the popular terrorist hunt, with co-op features for both the terrorist hunt and the story lined 
 campaign. The on-line modes are also great fun if you enjoy the game mechanics, but in my opinion 
 nothing compares to tactically breaking into a room of terrorists and dropping them all with your 
 buddies.
  
  It's my opinion that if you're looking for a solid console shooter, and you have an extra controller 
 and a buddy, this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Apart from Lockdown this would be the first Rainbow Six game I have owned. I only actually played 
 something like the first half of the first mission of Lockdown and loved the idea but never found 
 time to play it. So I bought Vegas and I love it! The game makes a great change to the average 
 FPSs nowadays since it isn't just run in blastin away and sometimes ducking behind conveniently 
 placed crates.
  
  You take the role of Logan Keller who is the leader of Team Rainbow. Along with Jung Park, your 
 Electronics and Recon Specialist, Michael Walter your Heavy Weapons and Demolition expert and Joanna 
 Torres, your Information Officer as backup you infiltrate casinos, hotels and other buildings within 
 Las Vegas that have been taken over by a group of international terrorists that pretty much want 
 to take over.
  
  The gameplay is great. It's your usual FPS controls with a bit extra added on. With night, and 
 thermal vision you can easily spot enemies and take them out one by one. You also go into a semi-third 
 person view when you hug surrounding walls/crates etc, where you are able to peak round or over 
 any part of it making it a lot more efficient than just crouching behind it. One of the gadgets 
 is a snake cam which you use to peak under doors to see what and who is on the other side of it 
 Sam Fisher style. This takes advantage of the new Six Axis controller allowing you to tilt the 
 controller to move the camera around making it more interesting than turning a crummy old analogue 
 stick around, but this is the only feature of the game that uses the six axis motion control. With 
 the ability to order your team about you find yourself hardly ever needing to fire your gun especially 
 if your team throws a grenade into a room just before infiltrating it. Sometimes you may get into 
 situations where you can't throw in hand grenades and run in guns blazing since there may be hostages 
 in there that need rescuing. But you have to be quick about it, the terrorists may get fed-up by 
 the hostages constant cheek or may get bored and decide to show off by killing a hostage or two 
 so plan your approach wisely and QUICKLY! 
  
  As far as graphics go, they are pretty good and as for sound, it could be better. I find myself 
 constantly turning the TV up to try and hear what your two partners are saying to you over the 
 radio, because they are way to quiet only to then be blasted away by your support team speaking 
 to you from the chopper, which is a lot louder.
  There are many guns to use, which you can customise with a range of scopes and other items making 
 the guns more efficient.
  
  Now time for the bad parts of this game. The game is long and repetitive. You find yourself 10-15 
 hours in and still just trying to get from one side of a room to the other ducking and dodging 
 bullets and grenades fired and thrown by the enemies only to find a few more hostages that need 
 rescuing and perhaps some new information on the terrorist group, and because the storyline isn't 
 exactly complex you can't help but wonder whether your really need to still play the game, and 
 whether the game is ever going to end, and then all of a sudden it does! It literally just suddenly 
 ends leaving it on a semi-cliff hanger! And since the storyline isn't that involved I found myself 
 getting bored halfway through and started playing something else. Then I decided to go back to 
 it a month later to continue playing and finally managed to get through it.
  The online multiplayer isn't exactly brilliant either. It just turns into a run around killing 
 everyone in your way kind of multiplayer, similar to resistance but a lot worse, since the speed 
 of movement and controls are set up to be a stealthy infiltration game rather than a kill 'em all 
 frenzy sort of game. You also can't go to a room in the lobby and choose a game to join like normal, 
 you are just put into a game just like the ranked game feature in Resistance: FOM. This terrible 
 recipe combined with the occasional lag can create a rather bad attempt at an online multiplayer 
 even with its character customisation and rank features. In fact the only part of the online multiplayer 
 I manage to find enjoyable is when your working with other players rather than against them in 
 something called terrorist hunt. (This is basically where you, and who ever else may be playing 
 with you, have to find and eliminate a certain amount of terrorists within an area.) As far as 
 offline multiplayer goes it is actually a lot better since you can't play against your friends 
 only work with them in a 2 player co-op campaign game, and 2 player terrorist hunt, which is also 
 single player.
  
  Even with the disappointing online multiplayer experience I would still give it an 8 out of 10 
 for its brilliant offline features even if the campaign gets a bit boring after a while. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddashboy242
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I found Rainbow Six Vegas to be one of the most addictive 1st person shooters I've played for a 
 while. The graphics in this game is freakin wicked (SD or HD) you'll find this games visuals to 
 be stunning. The story mode does a great job keeping you interested and wanting to play to the 
 end. The artificial intelligence in this game is smart they'll flank you or take cover if fired 
 at. Multiplayer is where you'll spend most of your time playing this game. You persistently customize 
 your player to appear in online matches where you rank up & achieve awards. Overall this game is 
 just plain fun the only problem i had with this game is i feel the ending was not as satisfying 
 as you'd want it and when playing online you'll spend alot of time waiting to enter a game, besides 
 that i recommend this game to all PS3 owners!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orion2228
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Ive played this game for quite sometime now, And have had good and bad experience with the game. The 
 story mode kept me excited for a little while but only a little. I found myself falling asleep with 
 all the waiting S-L-O-W loading times that only a commodore 64 could truly compete with.
  The on-line aspect sounds exciting until you truly experience playing the game for some-time to 
 find that you get booted to the ps3 main screen every now&then plus you cannot pick on-line rooms, And 
 you know how frustrating it can be to wait wait wait to join a room only to be kicked out by a 
 10-yo.
  I rate this game 7.5 as is, Get rid of the bugs could have been a 9.0. Nice try but no cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcburger99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas for the Playstation 3 is an amazing Tactical Shooter game. 
  
  The Good: The graphics are wonderful and the game plays great. The online mode can easily keep 
 you on the edge of your seat playing for hours. The campaign is also very fun. 
  
  The Bad: There are a few glitches, frp issues, and also the story-line just seems like a bad excuse 
 to fight in Las Vegas against terrorists. Not so great sound quality
  
  Nonetheless, this game is absolutely awesome. It plays great and can keep you playing and having 
 fun for days. For all PS3 users, i highly recommend giving this game a chance, it will be well 
 worth your time and money
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SFFederation
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Tom clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas was my 3rd Tactical Shooter game for the PS3 and it wasnt dissapointing. 
 I like How you can custimize your character armor and how much it weighs, the color of your armor 
 because i like all the different colors of camo and also when you become an elite you get to custom 
 make you camo any color you want, all the cool stuff you get to wear like the boonie hat and the 
 glasses and the blancava and many more items. The only thing that i didnt like was it took a long 
 long time to load and a long time to get in a match online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xionethic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game is good, it is indeed, with the new settings in Vegas etc... and it is not always slow-paced. 
 The game itself has decent graphics, luckily no bad frame drops (thank god port works out ok) .
 
  
  The game feels some what like a repetition, not exactly "re-defining" anything, just a recreation 
 of a shooter game thats pretty boring if your not a huge fan. The game's difficulty is just right 
 (especially for me, first timer using an analog stick for aim) . This game does not support mouse 
 and keyboard : ( what a shame. Never the less, it is a good game, not "must have" but you can play 
 it for a few hours of solid fun, then its going to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Tom clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas was my first shooting game for the PS3 and it wasnt dissapointing. 
 I like How you can custimize your character armor and how much it weighs, the color of your armor 
 because i like all the different colors of camo and also when you become an elite you get to custom 
 make you camo any color you want, all the cool stuff you get to wear like the boonie hat and the 
 glasses and the blancava and many more items. The only thing that i didnt like was it took a long 
 time to load and a long time to get in a match online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gally66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't think i have ever had this much fun playing a team based shooter. good A. I. great length 
 to levels, and the whole game. greaphics are incredible, up to snuff for the PS3. Great story that 
 keeps you guessing until the very end. Leads you up, and keeps you interested. Fairly difficult, 
 perfect really, but with a harder difficulty for true rainbow operatives. Terrorists give you a 
 challenge, showing great accuracy and awareness. Online play is good. Only fault may be that when 
 you kill a terrorist they will sometimes go into a crazy vibrating fit on the floor for a while. 
 Overall a great game and one that should be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  RSV puts a new genre on the FPS, using tactics and team strategy rather than most "Rambo" first 
 person shooters that you can find out there.
  
  The graphics are awesome, lighting is jaw dropping, plus the background music, sound effects and 
 beautiful environment make this game near perfect.
  
  The only drawback of this game is the short single campaign mode. I understand that there is a 
 multiplayer bundled, but like most gamers, I prefer to play single, finish the story and repeat 
 it in realistic mode.
  
  Besides the short single player rant, eveything in this game is perfect. Can't wait to play the 
 next RSV.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was the first game I got for my PS3. It was so amazing, it made me think that 
 the PS3 was going to be freaking amazing, even though we all know how poorly it's doing right now.
 
  
  Graphics (9/10) :
  Overall, the graphics are pretty damn good. The graphics on the PS3 aren't as great as the 360, 
 especially the faces, but it's hardly noticeable. The explosion are great... I mean GREAT. The only 
 thing that could be a little bit better is the lighting effects and more character models in single 
 player. Single player has better graphics than multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay (8.5) :
  This game really feels like your in a modern setting fighting against terrorists. It is slightly 
 repetitive. Some features like running and jumping are missing, but no biggie. Also, the story 
 mode is great and is even better with co-op with some friends. The cover system is a big plus.
 
  
  Sound (8.5/10) :
  I don't know if it's just me, but it seems like they are barely any sound effects. There are plenty 
 of voices, but no sound effect really. Even though it's missing some sound effects and sometimes 
 it sounds like an enemy is shooting far away from you even though he's a few feet in front of you, 
 it's still amazing.
  
  Final Comment:
  Rainbow Six is definitely a favorite of mine and I can't wait for the next one, if there is a next 
 one. After play RSV, I have high expectations for the next game. 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the Rainbow Six Series, I have always been extremely disappointed with the console 
 ports. This time I was extremely surprised at how well made this game was.
  
  Single player is the usual crap they serve up to us console gamers. The same boring storyline, 
 the same gameplay and the same lack of depth. If this all you are going to play, your money is 
 better off elsewhere. The complete lack of planning that the previous games had really lowers the 
 fun of single player.
  
  But luckily thats not where the game ends.
  
  The online component is good, but not where the game shines in my opinion. There is alot of multiplayer 
 action to be had, with loads of game modes. You will have no trouble finding opponents. Unfortunately, 
 give an idiot a microphone and you get just that, luckily you can mute them. But like usual, any 
 popular shooter and you will have those same losers, team killing and just being **** If thats 
 your world, then you will love it. I am sure if you got friendly players, wanting to play the game 
 properly you would have great amounts of fun, but unfortunately that doesn't happen much.
  
  Where Rainbow Six Vegas really shines is co-op. Whether Co-Op missions or terrorist hunt, the 
 game is at its best. The game steps up in difficulty and you will find yourself needing to work 
 together or you will fail miserably. But this only adds to the level of fun.
  
  There is a wide variety of weapons, which adds alot of replayability to the game. And it was great 
 to see you could finally pick up the enemies gun.
  
  It is disappointing that there is no 4 player compatibility, this would have made the game oh so 
 much better.
  
  While single player isn't worth the price of the game, Co-Op certainly makes up for it. While Online 
 multiplayer isn't my cup of tea, I am sure that it will appeal to a huge audience.
  
  This isn't by any means a tactical shooter, it is certainly a great game. Hopefully they will build 
 on this and improve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yungswift44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  ok im going to jump right into this. graphics 8/10.
  its a pretty beautiful game lights are vibrant, character models are pretty good, im playing it 
 on Sdtv and it still looks great, i think the multiplayer models are pretty blah though still great
 
  Gameplay 10/10
  yes the gameplay is soo great. easy controls SMART AI. they WILL flank you. use cover and blindfire. 
 your team is pretty smart also and help out ALOT. also once you start it jus grabs you . play it 
 on realistic for the full effect... trust me
  Story 6/10
  typical stuff really just set in vegas
  replay 8/10
  oh yes i plan on playing this alot, terrorist 
 hunt is soo fun and feels slightly like a different game, online is amazing although there are 
 no lobbies for ps3. and even the single player will call you back trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  My past experience with the Rainbow Six series has been limited. In fact the only other game I 
 have is Rogue Spear for PC which I didn't much like. What presuaded me to buy this game? Nothing 
 having to do with Rainbow Six. Infact, it was the Ghost Recon demo on PSN that had me looking for 
 it.
  
  The game grabs hold as soon as you fire it up, whether you decide to jump straight into Multiplayer 
 or go through the storyline. Online offers many different modes, Online Terrorist Hunt, Online 
 Story Mode, Adversarial Modes... Its all there. Offline is just as good, the tactical action is 
 wonderful. Using cover in the game is something that will be copied and used in games for a long 
 time to come. This isnt exactly as innovative though as people would like to think. Much the same 
 thing had been done in The Godfather a year earlier. The story is only so-so, but thats not really 
 the reason to play the game right? It pits you trying to save Las Vegas from a Mad woman who also 
 has kidnapped your former squadmates. Maps are wonderful, using different themed casinos and other 
 locals as backdrops was a very good change of pace from other shooters using the dead future/past 
 look. Weapons are great, however there isnt enough variety to them. There are a LOT of weapons, 
 but only a few unique feeling ones. Many feel the same as others in their catagory.
  
  Hows the game stack up to other shooters on the PS3? Of all the shooters out currently that I've 
 played I would put it at or just below the top. The only one I think could be considered above 
 it is Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartantec1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  When i checked game spot review and score i was convinced it was a great next gen tactical shooting 
 action game. But a few key things of the game i am totally disappointed with.
  
  As soon as i put the game on the ps3 it took 3 minutes to start and as i eagerly waiting to see 
 the game i time i started seeing the cut scene and the game i realized the graphics have been modified 
 to give it a blurry effect which the developers might have thought looked good but unfortunately 
 does not match the game setting.
  
  All the weapons are solid with their customization, the game play like switching to 3rd person while 
 hiding from enemy fire in various obstacles, thermal vision, squad command are good. But the plot 
 and the ending is uninteresting and very disappointing. ME being a single player type never enjoyed 
 the multi player features. I find mostly only the game play amusing and inventive.
  
  Therefore from my experience buy this game if u want multi player if u want single player experience 
 there are fun situations like hanging from the outside of a sky scrapper but overall the long loading 
 times, blurry bogged down graphics, short game play and most of all the deadly disappointing to be 
 continued... ending might make u never buy a rainbow six game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  this is a great tactical shooter. loads of custimization including armor, camo, guns, and games. 
 there is a long campaign with a cliffhanger, although u feel pretty special when u beat it. on 
 online, there are a numberous amount of maps and game modes that come along with awards. the ranks 
 are just like military (pvt, pfc, spc, cpl, sgt, ssgt, sfc, msgt, 1st sgt, sgt maj, 2nd lt, 1st 
 lt, cpt, maj (im currently here) , lt col, col, and elite.) once u reach the rank of elite, you 
 get to make ur own camo using a variety of colors. no 2 elites look the same.
  
  the bad thing is how u join a game. it is often difficult to join a good game, and if u do u are 
 sometimes sent back to the xmb because of a glitch. this game is still great, and should defiently 
 be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  Vegas was one of the better shooters i have ever played. most shooter games feel too much like 
 a run up to the guy and shoot em style gameplay. Vegas had a good amount of realism to emerge you 
 into the game. the game play is very solid and i enjoy it more on a co-op mission than single. 
 in the single player mode you command two other computers, they help you shoot, and clear entry 
 ways before you enter a room, making it easy to get through levels. the story didn't really do 
 anything for but the levels keep you wanting to go on.
  
  i wish they could have done the co-op a little bit better, the story is pretty much taken away 
 when another player joins and loading from where you last left off is kinda awkward, even though 
 the game is great the menu ergonomics could have been much better.
  
  in my opinion one of the weakest aspects of this game was the weapon selection, i feel as if most 
 weapons did the same thing or it was so similar that it didn't really even matter, since my knowledge 
 on guns isn't very high i found it a little difficult choosing which ones or why they even felt 
 like they had to have so many. but overall, very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrison91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  rainbow six vagas is one of the best games on ps3 sure it's not an exclusive but it's much better 
 on ps3 you get some more map when i first got this game i heard it was a short game so i put it 
 on realistic mode and it toke me a while to complete because some of the last levels had much more 
 advanced enimes with armor while the first few missions had you running around shooting people 
 that had no armor so the game gets harder as you would expect. But in this you can comand your 
 team mates to distract the enimes while you sneak up on them for the back door.
  
  also the multiplayer is worth spending some time on you can play co-op or just have fun killing 
 you frends and family you can customize your wepons to suite the battle e. g. attach a sniper scope 
 to a ak-47 or a laser site.
  
  warrning spoillers
  the most annoying thing is the end is to be continued... where one of your first team mates from 
 the first chapter turns against you and steals your hellecopter. also during gameplay you team 
 seams defence less and keep get in shoot a falling over in the line of fire so you have to save 
 them while being shot at you could kill all the enemies first but you only get a serten time to 
 save them so use a smoke grenade so the enemies cant se you but this dosnt all ways work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhunt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy game for all Ps3 and xbox360 owners. first of all i like to say is that Rainbow 
 Six Vegas on the Ps3 looks hell of alot better then the xbox360 version even if it got 1 more point 
 higher then Ps3 the texure of the weapons look 10x more real listic then xbox360 the visual effects 
 on the maps are more better the way your character looks more clear the facial hair seems more 
 real on the xbox360 it looks completely fake like it was glued on there. As well the blood seem 
 to have more texure to it then the xbox360 overall the Ps3 beats the xbox360 version in graphics 
 the gameplay is the same kick's ass the only thing i dont like about you dont get to choose your 
 game you want to join it chooses for you very dumb i think but i can get by it. the terriosts seem 
 the same angry and want to gang bang you lol.
  
  Some of the onlin on the Ps3 version can be laggy only beacuse it depends whos hosting but when 
 im on online i dont get any lag my teams get it all lol
  
  overall Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game for xbox360 and Ps3
  and cant wait for the next one 
 they make gunna be bigger louder
  and more blood damn terriosts they owed my money!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Although this is the first rainbow six game I have ever played, I am aware that it departs a bit 
 from the rainbow six universe.
  It removes the component of mission planning before action, what I believe isn't bad at all, because 
 this is not exactly an hard core tactical game. That said, I am going to review this game as a 
 lone game and not as part of a series I don't know very well.
  
  The plot is quite simple. Terrorists attacking Vegas, must kill them. Followed by a big twist and 
 an open ending. Simple.
  
  Fortunately, the strengths of this game are in gameplay itself. You command a three man squad of 
 elite commandos and you'll go through the missions essentially clearing areas of terrorists and 
 occasionally freeing hostages and disarming explosive devices.
  
  There is a wide array of tactical options for your squad and that is what makes the game worth 
 it. The game exccels in this point with entry tactics were you can order your squad tom perform 
 different actions when entering dangerous zones. Also, there are also different paths to accomplish 
 a goal and different entries to the same area, therefore you can try different options or even 
 enter through one access while ordering the squad to enter through another, this causes great confusion 
 to the enemies. Technically, the graphics are superb and there are lots of cool effects to be found, 
 however, I was borderline disgusted with how fast bodies disappear, it's just a matter of seconds, 
 what completely destroys the suspension of disbelief.
  
  Sound is great aswell, with terrific effects for gunfire and bullet impacts. However voice acting 
 is a bit off and some music that shows up ingame is just plain unnapropriate.
  
  Finally what I really didn't like is the last few minutes of the game. Most of the game is about 
 tactical freedom, it's what makes it fun, however, in the last moments, the game turns into a completely 
 on rail experience where deviation from what is planned causes instant game over without logical 
 explanation, it becomes very very frustrating and I almost gave up before finnishing the game.
 
  
  However, in the end, this is a very solid shooter that simply couldn't get over a few rough edges, 
 but is still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I don't do alot of reviews, so I'll keep this brief. I enjoy the game, but I find the graphics disappointing. 
 I'm using an HDMI input to a 1080p 52 , and compared to other PS3 games the graphics look flat, 
 dark, and uninspired. Perhaps it's because I've been playing PC games such as Vanguard, HL2 ep.2, 
 and the UT3 demo that my expectations are too high for a console, but I've played several excellent 
 looking games on the ps3 so I know it's capable. Also, I am surprised to know that it uses the 
 UT3 engine. Gears of war looked very good for a console game, and UT3 is quite impressive, but 
 this game lacks a certain crispness that I had expected, just as when you watch standard TV on 
 a HDTV and it looks grainy and flat.
  Graphically, one other disappointing note is that when you go to Video options, it just gives you 
 a white/black/gray scale, and tells you to adjust your monitor!!! Uhh, NO! I spent a long time 
 adjusting my TV settings, and to change them and change them back for one game is unusual, when 
 typically games have brightness, contrast, and/or gamma adjustments built in to the game themselves! 
 I found that lack of a feature almost offensive to me as a consumer and AV enthusiast.
  In conclusion, the game is fun, my gripes are technical; it's a fun game that seems like a quick 
 port from the PC. In hindsight, I wish I bought it for the PC instead :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  This game is extremely fun. It's one of the best online games out there. But the single player 
 campaign was a big let down. It was short, and overall, it wasn't that fun. However, online is 
 great, tons of ranks, tons of weapons, and tons of maps.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This game looks good. Good have been better, but overall, it's a good looking game.
  
  STORY
 
  BOOOOO!!! Man was this story bad, it was the same thing over and over, rescue hostages before 
 the building blows up.
  
  This is a great game if you're looking to have a fun time online, but if you want a game with a 
 good story mode, this game isn't for you. Overall, it's a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancey's Rainbow Six Vegas is all about realism, like most of Tom Clancey's games. Rainbow 
 Six Vegas provides you with an awsome story along with one of the best multiplayer modes i have 
 ever played!
  
  In Rainbow Six Vegas's campaign mode, you are Logan Keller, the leader of Team Rainbow and your 
 trying to pursue a group of terrorists lead by Irena Morales, but you eventually realize that she's 
 a far greater threat than ever imagined. Along with your squad, Gabriel Nowak and Kan Akahashi 
 who are eventually captured and replaced by Jung Park and Michael Walter, you basically go level 
 by level simply completing the objectives given to you by Joanna Torres, your information officer, 
 while trying to kill many terrorists who try to stop you. Most of the game is played through casinos 
 that are being attacked by terrorists. And of course you can control your team as you play by telling 
 them where to go, by simply pointing at where you want them to go and hitting the X button. You 
 can also tell them to go silent which tells them to put there silencers on, have them either on 
 assault or infiltrate mode which gives you different options when you try to flank people on the 
 other side of doors. And when one of your teammates are down you simply go up to them and use some 
 kind of a shot you stab them with to heal them. You can also use your snake cam to peek under doors 
 and target people for your teammates to go after in a certain order.
  
  But campaign isn't all you can do. You can also play another mode called Terrorist Hunt, where 
 you can just go about a selected level and try and clear the entire area from terrorists. You can 
 also select the options of the match before you start. They include changing the density of how 
 many terrorists are in the level, choosing who you are, having the difficulty on either normal 
 or realistic, and choosing what weapons you start with, which you can also do in campaign mode 
 before you start a mission. The weapons include all sorts of pistols, shotguns, sniper rifles, 
 assault rifles, light machine guns, submachine guns, grenades, and a shield if you unlock it. You 
 can also add different scopes and other accessories to your guns after selecting them.
  
  The gameplay of this game is extremely fun but you can die real fast if you dont take care of yourself, 
 which is very realistic. Your ammo is limited of course and you can switch off between your two 
 main guns, pistol, and two grenades. And theres also a covering system that allows you to hide 
 behind practically anything and either peek over and shoot a target or just blindly fire to try 
 hitting your target so you wont get hurt, which is also very realistic.
  
  As well as doing campaign and terrorist hunt single player, you can also do them with a partner 
 on multiplayer. Except in campaign, you dont have a team, you just have your partner, but you can 
 still pick your character though. And online you can play more game modes with more people as well 
 as creating your own character, where you can take a picture of yourself and put into the game 
 as your created characters face, which can be pretty cool if you know how to do it.
  
  The only things that stopped this game from getting a 10.0 is that its only 2 player and you cant 
 have a team with you on single player terrorist hunt. But besides those few small flaws, this game 
 is a must have when it comes to first-person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredrichards3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have no idea how this game has scored so well? I have just completed the single player mode and 
 it has been so frustrating. I won't explain too much about the game because if your a tactical 
 shooter fan of other rainbow 6's or games like splinter cell you would know what to expect. So 
 ill get right to the parts that will annoy you. (they annoyed me)
  
  This game has very very poor graphics, the textures are very plain and are the type you would see 
 on the ps2. . Spotting enemies in this game is hard due to the useless night vision goggles that 
 don't work hardly at all. Even the heat goggles only work on very short distances which makes this 
 game frustrating when confronted with enemies that you thought you checked for. The two man team 
 that you are in charge of are quite simply a bunch of monkeys. They will constantly get into fire 
 fights and sit there taking bullets in the chest instead of finding cover which is usually 1 or 
 2 steps away. This is bad because if they die, well so do you, or if they get hurt you have to 
 go and heal them before they die, which 99% of the time is in the plain open with no cover. Another 
 thing which is crazy about this game is that the ability to shoot out lights is non existent, (you 
 can't do it) hang on a minute I thought these guys were the best of the best, the elite, better 
 than swat. well obviously not?
  
  The weapons are a bit of a joke in this game as well, you have the choice too change between silent 
 and loud which is a good thing, but at no time during the game does this ever seem to be an advantage. 
 Also, between levels you can customize your weapons for the next battle. This is also a joke because 
 you are customizing your weapons before you even know what type of battle you will be in (close 
 range or long range etc) . One of the weapons you can choose is a sniper rifle which is the most 
 useless weapon in the game, there is not one level in which this weapon will be used or needed. 
 All the fighting is close quarters with a little medium range shooting at times. The sniper rifle 
 is nothing more than the token gun in this game. another weapon issue is that you will always finding 
 yourself out of grenades, smoke grenades and flash bangs. you only get them between levels and 
 this can be a long time. I was constantly running out even though i was using them sparingly, and 
 I always needed them to pass hard stages of the game. Quite simply this game is a disappointment 
 ,the graphics are cheap and the game is very one dimensional. if you have nothing else to do or 
 play i would go and hire it as it is not worth your hard earned cash, save your money for haze, 
 ut3 or killzone2. if this game had clear graphics where i could actually see stuff i might have 
 actually liked it a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackconlon5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is reinvented and reinvigorated for a new age thanks to beautiful visuals and top-notch 
 tactical shooting action.
  The Good
  Intense tactical action that requires you to use cover realistically Fast rope off of helicopters, 
 rappel down buildings, and smash through windows like a real commando Beautiful visuals that let 
 you battle in a glittering first-world setting Impressive multiplayer suite supports a wide range 
 of cooperative and competitive The Bad
  Story features some standard plot devices and lacks a satisfying ending. It's pretty easy to imagine 
 that plenty of eyes rolled when Ubisoft revealed that the next game in the Rainbow Six franchise 
 was going to be set in Las Vegas. It sounded like a move that only the creatively bankrupt would 
 undertake, and the Rainbow franchise is certainly getting up there in terms of years. It also seemed 
 kind of fitting, since Vegas is where all the washed up entertainers eventually wind up. Well, 
 any such notions are a big mistake, because this new Rainbow Six is like the new Las Vegas. It's 
 refreshed, reinvented, and ready to take on the world, and it's also one of the best tactical shooters 
 on the Xbox 360 to date. You'll go from the slums of Mexico to the glittering casinos of Las Vegas 
 in this intense tactical shooter.
  In Rainbow Six Vegas, you play as Logan Keller, the leader of one of Rainbow's elite three-man 
 counterterrorist assault teams who is called into action after an operation in Mexico goes bad 
 and, for some reason, the terrorists strike the casinos and high-rise hotels of Las Vegas. Your 
 job is to stop them and ascertain their intentions, which involves the standard McGuffin device 
 that will kill millions and a secret military base hidden inside a massive hydroelectric dam. The 
 story borrows a few too many plot twists seen in other Ubisoft games, namely Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter, and the lack of a satisfying resolution also makes the plot feel like a paper-thin 
 reason to battle an army of terrorists in Las Vegas of all places, but it's easy to overlook because 
 the combat in Rainbow Six Vegas is simply excellent. What elevates this chapter of Rainbow Six 
 is the cutthroat tactical combat, which is far above anything seen in the series. The combat elevates 
 the action for shooters in general, but Rainbow Six Vegas happens to arrive on the heels of the 
 superb Gears of War, and it's eerie just how similar the combat systems in both games are. It's 
 hard to say that one cribbed from the other, since both games were in development at the same time, 
 but it's easy to get the feeling that the maturation of tactical combat is an idea whose time has 
 finally come, and the result is a lot of intense action as you scramble for cover from all the 
 bullets headed your way. In Rainbow Six Vegas, just like in Gears of War, slabs of concrete are 
 your best friend, along with the edges of doorways, slot machines, the side of an SUV, and pretty 
 much anything else solid that you can put between yourself and the enemy. By moving up to those 
 objects and holding down the left trigger, you can hug the cover and then poke your body out from 
 the sides or the top to shoot at the enemy before ducking down again. Or, if you're under heavy 
 fire, you can poke your rifle around the corner and fire blindly to keep the bad guys at bay. The 
 game seamlessly transitions from first-person to third-person perspective when you do get behind 
 cover, so you get a very cinematic effect of watching yourself huddle while bullets impact around 
 you. If you're in trouble you can blind fire around corners to keep the bad guys at bay.
  You don't fight alone in Rainbow Six Vegas, either; you're usually accompanied by your two teammates. 
 The artificial intelligence does a great job of controlling these agents as they follow you. Pathfinding, 
 for instance, is very rarely a problem, as they can navigate the cluttered environment effectively, 
 and they use cover just as well as you do. Controlling your teammates is simple, too. By simply 
 pointing at a spot on the ground and tapping the A button, you can tell them to move to that position. 
 Point at a door and hit A, and they'll stack up to it, or get into position to clear the room. 
 Hitting down on the D pad tells them to either hold place or fall in behind you. In fact, the controls 
 for the game in general are pretty intuitive and simple, and we found it effortless to do complex 
 tasks, such as snaking a flexible camera under a door, calling out the targets inside to our team, 
 and then executing a simultaneous takedown from two different angles. What also promotes Rainbow 
 Six Vegas over its predecessors is the sensation that you're really playing as an elite commando. 
 For instance, these new Rainbow agents borrow a page or two from Splinter Cell's Sam Fisher, and 
 you can play in a highly mobile and agile manner. You can quickly rope out of a helicopter onto 
 the top floor of a skyscraper, run over to the side, and leap over the edge on a rappel line, all 
 in a few seconds. While on the rappel line you can hang upside down, lower yourself far enough 
 to see into the target room, then call out the location of the terrorists inside. Then, on your 
 command, your team will burst through the window and clear the room. This isn't just a mere gimmick, 
 either, as the levels are designed so that most rooms have multiple points of entry, so you can 
 determine your takedown strategy for each one. Admittedly, one of the contrivances in the game 
 is that bad guys in a neighboring room seem unaware of all the gunfire and explosions going on 
 down the hall, but at least this lets you execute textbook takedown after takedown throughout a 
 level. On the normal difficulty level, Rainbow Six Vegas is a moderately challenging game, though 
 it's fairly forgiving thanks to the fact that you can absorb a fair amount of damage before you 
 die. Rainbow Six Vegas uses the same kind of health system found in Gears of War and other shooters, 
 so there are no health packs or health meters to worry about. Instead, when you take damage your 
 vision begins to blur, and if you take too much damage you die. However, if you manage to find 
 cover and avoid getting shot for a few seconds, your vision begins to clear and you'll be back 
 at full health. This lowers the frustration level considerably, as you don't have to worry about 
 rationing the health meter like you did in this year's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Another 
 cool element is the feeling that you're a highly mobile commando, capable of rappelling into danger 
 on a moment's notice.
  However, if you ratchet up the difficulty setting to realistic, Rainbow Six Vegas becomes an incredibly 
 tense and difficult experience -- in a good way. In realistic mode, the amount of damage you can 
 absorb before you die is much lower than in normal mode, and this makes you really rely on using 
 real-world tactics and playing a lot more conservatively (and, well, realistically) . For instance, 
 instead of charging across an open area like you might on normal difficulty, you'll probably want 
 to pop a smoke grenade to provide concealment; otherwise, you'll get cut down before you get halfway 
 to your destination. Realistic mode will result in you dying a lot, but when you do, you'll realize 
 more often than not that it's because you did something stupid, which means you get to learn from 
 your mistakes and be smarter for it. prev next 12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pfletcher728
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The online play is fun, but gets quite laggy at times. The online server isn't really all that 
 great and there are a few dumb glitches that get really annoying. A lot of fun especially to play 
 as a team. The game requires a lot of teamwork and skill to become good at. Too many people rank 
 up to get the weapons. The weapons rankings are inaccurate and some of the kills are b/s in the 
 game. The first game in the series that I have played and I enjoyed it pretty much. The game just 
 got boring after playing it every day for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  WOOHOO!!!!! Another awesome Rainbow Six game by Tom Clancy! Tom Clancy is a awesome mastermind 
 at making stealth and war games. This is another war terrorist and counter terrorist third-person 
 shooter. The graphics are awesome too. The multiplayer will keep you playing for hours on end........................ 
 REALLY!!! IT'S THAT IMPORTANT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So you may think it's another worthless Rainbow 
 Six game. Same old same old.. Well it's not it's even BETTER!!!!!!!!! It's really that great. I'm 
 still playing and I got it like 3 months ago!! I'm still playing! My favorite multiplayer
  mode is V. I. P. So, in a nutshell, this game is  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitesavior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  The first game i played on rainbow six las vegas was with my friends. We were playing coop story 
 mode split screen and got bored quickly. After this i put the game away for a while but it was 
 recently when i got playstation network i played online i was amazed. besides lagging sometimes 
 the multiplayer was awesome. Its just the annoying way of joining servers how theres no server 
 list. Lots of ps3 games are like this now and really blow me off but besides that with all the 
 customization in the game it is a good game. i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zantam03
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six &amp; Tom Clancy. In all honesty, I always tried to stay away from anything related 
 to these two names. However, I kind of didn't had much choice when I bought my PlayStation 3 and 
 found out there were not many games to choose from. Because of that, and because of being persuaded 
 by some friends I decided to buy the game.
  
  I took the shiny Blu-Ray Disc out of it's cover and pushed it in my PS3. Only a few seconds later 
 I received a game-invite from a clanbuddy of mine (the game makes use of your PSN-buddylist) . I 
 accepted the invite and went online.... HOLY C**P - is this a PlayStation 3 game? were actually 
 my first few words when I came online. The (online) graphics are really below par. (examples: the 
 clouds don't move, lightning effects are bad -especially on the original X360 maps, and the texture 
 detail is really low!) . For some reason I really didn't like the game at first, your character 
 moves really slow, the graphics were just bugging me and there are tons of long loading times (whenever 
 u switch maps but also everytime you return to your main menu!) But slowly the game started to 
 grow on me, I got to know the maps a bit better, and found out you can customize your character 
 (for example: you can add or remove armour, adding it makes your character slower, but he can resist 
 more bullets and removing armour makes your character faster and more difficult to hit.)
  
  To keep the online part fun, Ubi Soft added a lot of game modes, like Sharpshooter (Deathmatch) , 
 Team Sharpshooter (Team Deathmatch) , Survival, Team Survival, Attack &amp; Defend, Retrieval (similar 
 to Capture the Flag) and also a Co-op Story mode and a Co-op Terrorist Hunt mode amongst many others. 
 Anything to keep you entertained for a while.
  
  However, the offline part was lacking. In my opinion it wasn't gripping or inviting. (I'm not English 
 or American, but I hope you know what I mean) . It wasn't even inviting when I was halfway through 
 the story mode and in the middle of its story. The graphics were a lot better though, compared 
 to the online part. To be honest, I think that's all there is to say about the offline part. Everything 
 about at least 'decent' aside from the fact that it never really makes you want to play it, but 
 maybe that's just because I'm not a real Tom Clancy fan after all.
  
  For all you non-Tom Clancy fans out there (like me) : buy it now or never buy it, by the time the 
 game's price will be lower there should be a lot of other good games out.
  
  Tom Clancy fans should definately buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jermaki
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  First of all I usually shy away from T. C. games because I find them rough and unpolished. When 
 I read the reviews for this game I figured I would give a try. I have had a PS3 since opening day 
 and have not like any game that have came out since. I bought Vegas on a spending spree.
  
  I liked the look of the game. The scenery is exceptional and movement is sooo smooth. The cover 
 aspect is super sweet. I thought this game would be a little harder. I felt the enemies were two 
 few and far between, thats not to say I never died. It just wasn't that challenging. The locations 
 are what sold me on the game. Granted the sound of inside the casino's does get rather annoying 
 but everything else is so amped. You go from the bright lights of the Vegas strip to the sewers. 
 That to me makes a great atmosphere to play in.
  
  The guns are sweet, there are a few accessories to play with but I found my niche soon so I didn't 
 mix it up all that much. The weapons are easy to handle and your team is well organized. They do 
 tend to spray a lot of bullets but that to be expected. Over all, I do love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtf6
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  I first saw this game watching a video on youtube. It had all the recently released games for the 
 PS3. Now, that I have played it, I'm in love!
  The first thing I noticed was the impressive graphics, much better than GRAW 2. I have my PS3 on 
 a 5.1 sound system, and it really shows off in Vegas! I haven't tried multi-player yet, but from 
 what I have heard, it's great. The gameplay is awesome! Remember Splinter Cell, where you could 
 do almost anything thing? Imagine that, but a full-on FPS. There's plenty of weapons and attachments. 
 The A. I is almost as good as people. But your team mates have a few problems. They're too good. 
 they will clear rooms without you having to do a thing. I know this must sound good, but it's not. 
 you can totally miss out on some action. The story line is great. Terrorists in Vegas blowing everything 
 up.
  
  If your a fan of the series, or you like shooters, get this game.
  It's AWESOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Best game on the PS3 so far. The gameplay is amazing. You control both yourself and two teammates. 
 The game is based around a cover system, you hold L1 to do so, this system works so well.
  
  The story mode is great, can be very challenging on realistic mode. Its not too short either. 
 It also has a nice way for it to continune on to Raibow Six two
  
  Online play is the best thing about this game. The maps are beutiful and theyre huge, you custimize 
 your own character all his clother armor and equipment then you can play such games such as Survival, 
 Sharpshooter, Retireval etc.
  
  Overall an amazing game that will get you addicted to the online mode.
  
  I believe 9.5 may 
 have been too high so Im putting it down to a solid 9. Cant wait for RB6 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Well lets atsrt with the gameplay. Awesome and it will make you want more. The cover system was 
 so good I could never get shoot at (unless you ran behind me. Also interaction with environment 
 was a little low but wasn't needed. The physics are pretty good. Also great gadgets like night 
 vision and all that.
  
  The weapons was very real and had a whole set tgo chose from. Next is graphics which is also awesome 
 but could use a little polishing up. Like the characters. Also some areas was over did wigth red 
 or some other color. So all in all its was great. Sorry I made this short but I got to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game is very entertaining. It will last a while and online play is very simular to resistance. 
 The graphics are fairly good and sound is spot on! There are a large variety of guns and gadgets 
 that are unlockable. Also new and more powerful costumes and armor clothes to help you out online 
 and in multiplayer. Online allows you to play with and against friends, you gain ranks which gives 
 you rewards, also you can be given Medals, Ribbions, Badges and Trophys. The game is also Splitscreen 
 multiplayer which can be used on-offline. I highly recommend you to purchase this game. This price 
 of buying this game is about &pound;39.99 or $55.99 anything under is a total bargain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsodentalspy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas is a pretty decent game. The best feature in the game is the gameplay. 
 It's easy to learn and fits into the game pefectly. Tho it slows the pace of the game, but it's 
 good for an intense tactical shooter like this.
  
  The graphics are fairly good. It does contain some good characted detail, but the game looks generally 
 very blurred and unreal. And what I think, the game's Unreal Engine 3.0 makes it so. It's doesn't 
 show up in Gears, because there ain't so much colors and bright lightning in that game as there 
 are in this one. But the graphics are still pretty good.
  
  The games sound is disappointing as far as the music goes, but the weapon sound is very good.
 
  
  The single-player campaign is very short and dull. Throughout the game is going from A to B and 
 killing some dudes on the way. The story isn't great and the ending is unsatisfying as the story 
 will continue in an apparent sequel. The fights are still some great fun.
  
  The good gameplay is the strongest point in the game. The cover-system is actually even better 
 than in the gears of war. And shooting things in a game can't really feel more intuitive than this. 
 But there aren't any melee or something like that, which is a bummer but not so big one. Frankly 
 because you never quite get that close to anyone since only few bullets kill a guy in this game.
 
  
  The split-screen multiplayer isn't much fun. You can only play the campaing with two players or 
 kill some terrorist as a team in the game's multiplayer maps. So there's no local versus-play which 
 is disappointing. The online, which is much better than the split-screen (you can play online split-screen) . 
 There are many different game modes and maps which is pretty cool. But it gets very boring sooner 
 than you would expect. The dudes die within a couple of shots so every kill feels pretty much the 
 same. You can only decide your gamemode and map and the game chooses the server itself. There's 
 almost always some lag partly because the game very often picks servers from different continents. 
 So if you will often get to very laggy servers and hitting a moving target will suprisingly often 
 get almost impossible. And there's no lag when beeing a host, so they will without exceptions dominate. 
 And sometimes you will have to wait from 3-20 minutes until you get to play after connecting to 
 a server, because you have to wait the round to end. The biggest issueis STILL that the game's 
 loading times are huge. It's especially VERY annoying when you have to switch servers many times 
 because of the lag or the above-mentioned isuue. It take about 30-60 seconds to load up the online 
 lobby after dropping off a server. The rank-system is still pretty good and there are lots of nice 
 weapons to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic. Story mode is great but hard. ONLINE is where all the action and fun is. The game looks 
 awesome and is intese throughout. But there are some vital issues with this. At times the game 
 crashes and quits randomly, bringing you back to the XMB screen. Also there is no button to hold 
 when talking on your headset. This can be really annoying in the lobby's. Also there are no servers 
 you can choose from which can be an issue. The delay time is also annoying. U shoot and like a 
 sec later your bullet comes out. This can be hard espesially if your opponent is running around 
 like crazy. It would also be great if there wer some like outdoor levels like in the woods or snow 
 cause your camoflage can actually work good. The customization for your online character is fantastic! 
 There are so many features which is so in depth.
  
  Overall a great game... but it could have been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aang007
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game i have ever played on my ps3, i go online all the time with it 
 (in fact i bought it for online gameplay) and if you dont own this game i would get it the cover 
 system is something almost every FPS should have its great when your in firefights so get this 
 game and the weapons there are so realistic recoil when you aim and everything so buy this game 
 and buy it quick you wont regret it. and if you get it make sure you can go online because without 
 online i dont really know im just addicted to online gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Bad graphics? PS2 Graphics? What game are those people playing? The graphics are definetly not 
 PS2 graphics... there not spectactular but there also not that outdated. And the blurriness that 
 people were talking about, I didn't experience it... unless if they were taking damage, since that 
 is how the gameplay is. If you haven't played a Rainbow Six game and if you're a general FPS fan, 
 you might hesitate to buy this game. It's not a typical FPS, its a TACTICAL FPS... As in it's realistic, 
 and you'll be taking cover more than actually progressing through the level. So if taking cover, 
 shooting, taking cover, and repeat bores you, then this game isn't for you. Also if 1-3 shots killing 
 you gets on your nerves... Another sign to stay away.
  For those who like that kind of game, then this is a MUST BUY.
  And the loading times aren't 
 bad at all, but then again I'm use to the 21 sec load times for Fight Night Round 3.
  
  Good Points:
  Good graphics - 8.5/10
  Great delivery of the story
  Co-Op is good
  You can 
 approach a situation several ways (I. E. You can bust down the door, and go blastin away, or take 
 the steps, rope down and bust through a window and go blastin away, or snipe through a far window)
 
  AI is good - 8.5/10
  
  Bad Points:
  Multiplayer could of had a better setup, its a little difficult at times to find a game
  Framerate 
 tends to get choppy with split screen Co-Op
  You might feel lost if you start with Co-Op because they skip most of the story line out. Why? 
 I wish I knew...
  
  All in all a SOLID game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain awsome! A fantastic first person shoooter! The story mode is extremly fun, 
 for u get to control ur team mates, to sure that u make a perfect strategy. Tthe story gets harder 
 each level, so u have to be more on ur toes, or else u wont last very long. The multiplayer is 
 great, but can be doggy sometimes. It sometimes gets very annoying, for it is hard to find a good 
 game cuz there are no lobbies so u just get put in a random room. So either the game has already 
 started, or theres a sleeping host, or u get kicked becuase u dont have a mic, or u actually start 
 a game. Sometimes the game glitches and u hear the continuous gun fire, which is so annoying. The 
 good things online are : theres alot of game modes, alot of good guns, u get to unlock stuff when 
 u get higher rankings, the graphics are very good and the overall experience is great.
  I think that if ur into FP tactical shooters, this is the game to get. Right now, imo, u should 
 probably buy a used copy, if u can get ur hands on one. If you ca afford this game and debating 
 wether or not to buy it, DEFINATLY BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhushiegau
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  I played Rainbox Six Vegas on my friend's Xbox360, although he didn't have HDTV we still had a 
 blast, so I thought to myself: Hmm, What a great game it would be on PS3!! With stunning 1080i 
 graphic of my HDTV, I'll show off to my friend! I was wrong. I am embarrassed to tell him I bought 
 the game. The graphic is HORRIBLE for a PS3. After playing the demo for Ghost Recon: Advance Warfare 
 2, I thought wow, Rainbow Six Vegas should have a matching graphics!! HOORRAY~ Now I think this 
 game (Vegas) shouldn't even cost $55 for a used copy. For a PS3, you'd expect a glamorous Las Vegas, 
 with sights you'll never forget. Well now i wish I'd forget about ever purchase this game. As for 
 the game play they are similar to that of the Xbox360. The story is the same. Nothing's change. 
 I gave this game a 6.5 because of my high expectation on the graphic of the game and a PS3 game. 
 IF you do not mind playing a PS2 graphic game on your PS3 and HDTV, then this game is worth your 
 time. However, if you are like me, who bought PS3 for the graphics and ultimate visual experience, 
 this game is definitly not for you. Go try GRAW2, you'll love it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are really good. Not what I thought it would be but they are still great.
  
  The sound is top notch. Gun fire offs are very real and the voice acting is excellent. Everyone 
 has a great voice.
  
  The tilt is great. You control well and the third person mode to first person works really well. 
 The camera never gets in the way.
  
  The value is high. You should replay the campaign about two more times. Also you have online. Which 
 is highly dissapinting.
  
  The gameplay is very good. It has the stop and pop like gears of war. The campign is excellent 
 and the online is allright. It's just not adictive at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silencedbyagun
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is a game to get!. This game has excellent graphics, sounds, and gameplay. The graphics 
 are amazing. You can see the stitching on the players clothing, windows shatter realistically, 
 and explosions are a thing to see for yourself. The sounds with a decent sound system make it sound 
 like you are literally feet from the action. The gameplay is amazing. The single player is an action 
 packed experience. The AI on the easiest difficulty can be tough even for the occasional gamer. 
 Ubisoft has really stepped up unline other games for AI performance. The multiplayer is perfect. 
 Intense action. Large assortment of guns, and accessories with 100's of possibilities. 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikingsfan2772
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  o the duck and cover O HOW SWEET YOU ARE. O look there is someone around the corner peek a boo 
 biotch YEAHHHHH. so i get carried away? like your not enjoying this game. wow it is so much fun 
 even though singleplayer wasn't that great and i hate the construction yard mission. this game 
 has a great ranking system and is just the real deal online. I don't have 100 words because i don't 
 need to explain that you should definately play this game. I'll have to make this 100 words so 
 i'll just say that i love this game and everyone agrees with me. The fun you'll have is an ultimate 
 experience and by far the best rainbow six games. I know theres been like a million and this is 
 the only one i have because this game is epiclly amazing. is epiccly a word? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  this was the first game i got for the ps3 and it is awsome. In rainbow six vegas u play as a member 
 of the spec ops teem rainbow. In the game u command a squad of spec ops kinda like in ghost recon 
 but first person insted witch fits well with this game. you have a story line taking place in las 
 vegas mexico and the desert of navada. there is also a great online and terrorst hunt mode. you 
 can use alot of modern weipons like m-249 SCARS MP-7 and severl more guns and the online mode has 
 ranks and everything soo go buy this game if u like realistick war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Gameplay is amazing. From shooting around a wall, crouching behind a barrel, etc. all gameplay 
 is very realistic. This gets you into the game quickly.
  
  - Weapons selection is excellent. Pistols, shotguns, sniper rifles, sub machine guns, this game 
 has a great selection. And they are all available from the get go in the single player mode. There 
 is also a great selection of grenades, smoke bombs, etc.
  
  - Sound: in Dolby Digital, the sound is great. Bullets wiz by your head, and you can pinpoint terrorist 
 locations based on voices or gunfire.
  
  - Computer AI is good. When you send your team to clear a room, more times than not they do a great 
 job of it. The terrorist AI is also very good. They spot your movement easily and adapt to many 
 different scenarios.
  
  - The default difficulty level is perfect. Not too hard, but not too easy. Realistic mode is difficult, 
 as it should be.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Graphics are marginal at best. I was pumped for great graphics during the start up screens, then 
 it gets to the main menu and the graphics go down the drain. Menus, character editing, the entire 
 game suffers from mediocre graphics. There are some nice lighting effects, but otherwise I was 
 very dissapointed. However, the gameplay makes you quickly ignore the poor graphics. (I use a 1080P 
 Sony SXRD TV with HDMI connection) .
  
  - Online gameplay has some issues. Overall online gameplay is decent, but there are some lag issues, 
 and I found it overall too difficult (however, this is dependent on the difficulty level set by 
 the moderator) .
  
  - Some levels are too dark and it's difficult to see
  
  - Sometimes your computer teammates get in the way (AI glitch perhaps...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrybob13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  rainbow six Vegas is a great game, the single player is fun but is a little short and has a rubbish 
 ending there is a wide range of guns and gadgets, there are a few types of gun, assault rifle, sub-machine 
 gun, light machine, shotgun, sniper rifle, pistol and the option of shield and pistol
  
  there are also a few grenade types including frag and smoke.
  multi player is the best bit, offline 
 you can go split-screen and do the story or a terrorist hunt on one of the maps, online is great 
 there lots of game modes including team sharp shooter, assassination and attack and defend.
  
  you can have up to 16 players in a match, the host is in charge of what equipment is allowed 
 and the match settings. you have a rank online which builds up as you earn experience by playing 
 matches, you still get a small amount of experience for losing. as u go up in rank you unlock more 
 weapons and clothing and amour.
  
  its a great game on ps3, and the online will keep you playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madden_Master44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas might be the best ps3 game out there. The graphics are superb, the game play 
 is incredible and it sounds great too. The one down side of this game is the story. The story isn't 
 too good but it doesn't matter, Rainbow Six Vegas Will knock your socks off. Probably the best 
 aspect of this game is the online play. With so custom character creation and tons of different 
 games to play, you'll never get bored. If you are looking for a game that you can play for hours 
 and hours, get Rainbow Six Vegas. Some people worry about the difficulty of this game, it's the 
 perfect difficulty. Hey, if I can beat this game, anybody could. SO GO OUT AND GET THIS GAME, YOU 
 WONT REGRET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john1navarro
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  I liked this game. I thought it was a blast to play through, but it has it's fare share of problems.
 
  
  Now, to get the bad out of the way first, For a start, the story is VERY lackluster. They kind 
 of just tacked it on. Further more, the game just throws a To be Continued in your face. It felt 
 like they didden't want to do anymore, so they threw that in your face. Also, the Lighting was 
 HORRID. Most of the game was to dark, leaving you to use Night Vision. But there are some parts 
 of the game that are even to dark for night vision. (Most notably, the Theater.) The final problem 
 is that the game is to soft. I had to turn the volume up around half way to even hear anything.
 
  
  Now then, on to the good. The game had good controls, and everything was responsive. Shooting terrorist 
 was a blast and overall it was fun. The game also has good multiplayer. You can create your own 
 character, use your choice of weapons (From a very wide range) and even choose how much armor you 
 want. As for single player, it was great too. Though there isen't much of a story to speak of, 
 You will have a blast playing through the game, Killing terrorist and rappling down the side of 
 buildings. This is accompanied with a good soundtrack, even if it is kind of soft.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game, with a few problems. Hopefully the next installment 
 can fix these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well, it doesnt get any better than tactical shooters, and Tom Clancy does it right with 
 Rainbow six vegas. 9/10
  
  Sound: Great sound effects, great voice acting, so all around, just one of those games you want 
 to have loud to hear every gun shot and every sound effect possible. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Now in my opinion, this is where it gets hit hard. I dont understand how people can think 
 this has Superb graphics.. the graphics on this game are not clear at all. the detail is high, 
 but only until your standing right next to it. Everything seems dull and boring. not saying a warzone 
 is supposed to be bright and vibrant, but seriously, im playing at the highest resolution and i 
 get dull graphics? hmm.. 6/10
  
  Replay Value: The online is alright, kinda hard to find a match right off the bat, but you get 
 used to it. once you get the hang of the online lobby, it wil defineately keep your attention for 
 some time, although the story mode will probably only be done once, maybe twice. 8/10
  
  Conclusion: the story of the game is a great concept, and fun to play, especially when you know 
 your in vegas running through casinos, and it almost seems like a real life event. the graphics 
 defnieately DO NOT shine in this game, but overall a great tactical shooter. overall grade. 8/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballer101
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  While the single player experience is short and the ending left me dissapointed, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is a blast to play. Ubisoft implemented a very innovative cover system that works very well both 
 in single player and multiplayer. During single player, your teammates are very smart and their 
 A. I. is top notched. The gameplay is action packed and firefights keep you on the edge of your 
 seat. Though the storyline is below average, the gameplay is done too well. What makes this game 
 a true hit is the amazing multiplayer. There are multiple modes of play, completely customizable 
 characters, a large variety of weapons to choose from, a rank system, and many many unlockbles. 
 The only thing I wish they implemented is the ability to join games your friends are in. The only 
 way for you to find your friend is if they send you an invite and it can be quite annoying to type 
 up a message to your friend just so you can play with them. Though the multiplayer is a majority 
 of the time fun and exciting, it is sometimes tough to find games to play because the matchmaking 
 system is not the best. When you do find a game to play though , which is most of the time, you'll 
 quickly forget your troubles due to the fun. Rainbow Six Vegas is an excellent game and anybody 
 who owns a PS3 should have this game in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotboykel10
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  its better on the 360 just because the graphics and the sound is so much better on the 360 but 
 hontesy i think it should do better on the ps3 because its a much more powerful system hopefully 
 the Ps3 would show its true power in time but the 360 is now like gamers would agree with me that 
 like if u play a game that comes out for the xbox 360 and the playstation three its better on the 
 360 i think the ps3 hardware its awesome the playstation three could read almost atleast ever video 
 file web brower and etc. thats cool but playstation 3 has to step it up and get some games already 
 the 360 has at least 10hit games and i belvie the playstation three only has three 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmptySki
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Seven months after the release of the smash hit Rainbow Six Vegas, on the Xbox 360, Ubisoft ported 
 the game to the playstation 3. It plays and looks almost similar to the 360 version, but the ps3 
 version contains all the extras that Xbox owners had to buy. Too date, R6: Vegas, is one of the 
 best tactical shooters out on the market. The use of third person and first person combat is helpful 
 and unique. Rainbow Six Vegas is definitely the best tactical shooter on next generation systems 
 today. Logan Keller is your protagonist. He is the leader of the main assault team. In the beginning 
 of the game, Keller is sent to Mexico to fight some terrorists. Things happen to go wrong though 
 and his team is destroyed. Then the terrorists start attacking Sin City aka Las Vegas. Your job 
 is to work together with your two-man team and take out those SoBs in several casinos and buildings. 
 The story is bland and the ending is un-climatic. Rainbow Six Vegas combat and action is what 
 brings the game alive. There are only two difficulties and both are hard. The game is playing in 
 a first person perspective. However, the switch to the game is the cover system. When enemy terrorists 
 are flying bullets everywhere, you can take cover to pretty much anything (walls, ledges, slot 
 machines, chairs, desks) . Holding the L1 button to take cover, the camera switches to third person 
 so that you can get a good shot at the enemy or suppress fire and send in your teammates for the 
 kill. You can also blind fire when in need. This is the type of game where you do not run and gun. 
 If you do that. you, die. In addition, the camera switches in third person as you rappel from your 
 helicopter or down a side of a building. You can shoot while rappelling also. The graphics and 
 sounds are all right. Ubisoft did not do the greatest job in porting this game, as the graphics 
 are bland and sometimes choppy. The frame rate tends to stay stable though. The sounds are okay 
 with typical machine guns blasting and grenades going off. When going into heat vision, the graphics 
 rather get ugly. The voice overs sometimes hard to understand since they seem to low to hear. 
 Your teammates will work on command however once you send them into the fight. Rainbow has good 
 graphics, but I believe that the 360 has superior graphics when it comes to this game. The online 
 is the same as 360s. You have the typical death match and team death match (sharpshooter matches) . 
 Moreover, co-op terrorist hunts and co-op story mode. You cannot watch the cut scenes though in 
 co-op mode. If you do not have online, you and a friend can hunt offline against terrorists or 
 play the story and get awards. You can unlock awards by completing certain tasks on and off line. 
 There is no lobby so it is hard to get online with Vegas with someone that has a good connection. 
 That is the downside of Vegas, no lobby Final thoughts. Rainbow Six Vegas is certainty one of 
 the best tactical shooters gamers will ever see. The use of cover and teammates has never been 
 done so well in such along time. The impact of the terrorist bullets hitting you covered position 
 is awesome. However, make sure they do not flank you because the AI in this game is very good at 
 times. The graphics and sounds are okay, but the action makes up for it. The ending will want you 
 begging for more, but the online is there so that you can customize your own created character 
 and rank him up the military levels to elite. As you rank up, you get better clothing, armor and 
 weapons. Rainbow Six Vegas is an awesome game. Pick it up if you are not playing any ps3 games 
 right now. But I hope you are playing some ps3 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mantamus2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  I love this game, but i have played it on the Xbox 360, and the graphics are just so much better 
 on the xbox. I played the game in 1080p and on the Playstation it is very blurry, compared to the 
 crisp image on the Xbox... What a shame... Maybe it is something I did wrong, but I can't figure 
 out what. Am I the only one with this experience??? Otherwise, I think it is one of the greatest 
 FPS ever... If I had not played the game on the xbox, I would have given it a much higher score. 
 Sorry if the spelling is incorrect, but English isn't my main language... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharam
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  I was really underwhelmed with this game. Im a big shooter fan, and the easiest one to compare 
 it to is resistance. Lets compare the graphics- resistance is crystal clear but still maintains 
 a grimy post apocalypse feel. r6v on the other hand bills itslef as being set in a glittering 1st 
 world environment.... right! aside from the boredom of a lot of areas being indesturctable, the 
 whole look seems like there is a tub of vaseline smeared over the tv. and it got some gamespot 
 award for graphic quality?? how!? as far as gameplay goes the online is fine, but storymode again 
 is pretty dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hair_under
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a game everybody has got to check out. It has a short but good single player Campaign. 
 The campaign lasts about eight hours. The games story is about a teriost attack in Las vegas but 
 the game starts in mexico. But the best part is online play there are over 10 game modes to play 
 and over 15 maps. The game does not at all make use of the sixaxis. The graphics are great but could 
 of been a little better. The sound is great every gun sounds different. I would recommend buying 
 this game . t t t tt t t t t tt t t t t tt tt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ttt t t t t tt t t t 
 t t t t tt t tt tt tt t t t t t t t tt t Sorry i had to fit in 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worriors213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I normally dont play theses type on first person shooters. Actually i dont play any first person 
 shhoters that often. But this game grows on me. I actually didnt like it at first but the game gets 
 addictive after a while. The campein mode dosent last verey long it last around a cuple days on 
 normal, but on realistic mode the game is freaking hard as hell. And the multiplayer is great also. Once 
 i beat the campein mode i had nothing to do but to play multiplayer. After a cuple rounds online 
 i was even more hoked on this game. Now to the catagories.
  
  Graphics: I heard the graphics arent as good as the 360 version but the PS3 version isnt as bad 
 as everyone says it is. I mean ive seen them side by side and they are nearly identical. But i do 
 got to say the 360 has the slight advatage. But overall the graphics are Amazing.9/10
  
  Sound: Well sound in all games are good and this game isnt different \. The guns all have their own 
 sounds. The bullets ricosaying off walls and stuff. The Charecters all have their own different voices. Overall 
 the sound is great to.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplays as good as anyouther first person shooter. The cover system is good scratch 
 that the cover system is great!!! Its like gears of war maybe even funner because its more realistic 
 and you actually have to thik and stratagize on wat your next move is. And the Ai is extreamly hard 
 espacially on realistic mode.10/10
  
  over all i give this game a 9.5 out of 10 its a great game a little on the short side of campein 
 mode but the online is FUN AS HELL!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks butt... generally the graphyics are the same between both the xbox 360 and ps3 versions.. it 
 is literaly a perfect port.. but jsut like all other Ubisoft games.... it has some glitches.... one 
 of the glitches in in one casino map where when u play a coop... and if u press a button while it 
 is loading betwen the mission failure screenand the game lobby screen the game will freezeand lock 
 up the system.... the second glitch is in the online multiplayer.... sometimes when people use the 
 MTAR 21.... u get a repeating firing sound.... afterthe gun has stopped firing.. the noise will either 
 stop when the person dies.... or it wil continue to do it until the match is over... or u have to 
 reload the gameto stop the noise... but those asreboth very rare glitches..... all nd all this is 
 a great game and all ps3 users wouldlove it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgimonfire13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  I liked this game. I thought it was a blast to play through, but it has it's fare share of problems.
 
  
  Now, to get the bad out of the way first, For a start, the story is VERY lackluster. They kind 
 of just tacked it on. Further more, the game just throws a To be Continued in your face. It felt 
 like they didden't want to do anymore, so they threw that in your face. Also, the Lighting was 
 HORRID. Most of the game was to dark, leaving you to use Night Vision. But there are some parts 
 of the game that are even to dark for night vision. (Most notably, the Theater.) The final problem 
 is that the game is to soft. I had to turn the volume up around half way to even hear anything.
 
  
  Now then, on to the good. The game had good controls, and everything was responsive. Shooting terrorist 
 was a blast and overall it was fun. The game also has good multiplayer. You can create your own 
 character, use your choice of weapons (From a very wide range) and even choose how much armor you 
 want. As for single player, it was great too. Though there isen't much of a story to speak of, 
 You will have a blast playing through the game, Killing terrorist and rappling down the side of 
 buildings. This is accompanied with a good soundtrack, even if it is kind of soft.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game, with a few problems. Hopefully the next installment 
 can fix these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F_A_H_A_D
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas changes the series with multiple new features, such as a new health system where 
 the player regenerates health while not taking fire. However, the regeneration is slow in comparison 
 to other games; if the player does not move to cover quickly enough, one or two more bullets will 
 lead to death. The player's vision is also greatly impaired while damaged, similar to the health 
 system in Gears of War. Furthermore, a third-person view has been included for moments where players 
 can blind-fire around corners to lay down suppression or covering fire. Other changes include a 
 larger enemy presence and much tougher artificial intelligence, a shift in focus to where kills 
 will be much harder to obtain, a reincarnated aiming system similar to the aiming system of the 
 old Rainbow Six games and Call of Duty 3, a context-sensitive D-pad based command system for the 
 player's squad and sections of gameplay where the player will scale buildings and cause environmental 
 damage. This command system was borrowed from another Ubisoft game, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 The player can also give voice commands using the Xbox 360 headset, but team-mates are no longer 
 audible through the headset.
  
  The developers have also opted to not include any cutscenes, instead telling the story through 
 video feeds played through the heads-up display, similar to Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Most 
 important was the developers' decision to remove the mission planning feature. Also, Vegas is the 
 first Rainbow Six game where weapons can be obtained from dead enemies.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas features real world weapons (over 40 in all) , including numerous assault rifles, 
 submachine guns, pistols and grenades, as well as other tactical explosives and devices, such as 
 breaching charges and C4.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer modes have gained a lot of praise for the same tactical action as the single player 
 mode whilst adding some improvements. These include customizable characters (Xbox Live Vision Camera 
 owners can digimask their face onto their character) , the ability to choose equipment and add items 
 such as laser-sights to weapons and to choose the armor's camouflage scheme. As the player progresses 
 through online play, his/her character gains experience points after every match, and rises in 
 rank. There are ten enlisted ranks and seven officer ranks. All together there are seventeen total 
 ranks. When players rise in rank, they will unlock new equipment and weapons, intended to offer 
 more options for customization without putting novice players at a disadvantage. There are currently 
 ten multiplayer game modes; Survival, Team Survival, Sharpshooter, Team Sharpshooter, Retrieval, 
 Co-op Terrorist Hunt, as well as four new modes, Attack &amp; Defend, Co-op Campaign, Assassination, 
 and Conquest. Multiplayer mode supports up to sixteen players, when Dedicated Server is selected 
 during the match creation process, the host can sacrifice his ability to play and dedicate his 
 connection fully to the other players to improve overall connection performance and reduce lag 
 issues. With the use of the Dedicated Server option, up to sixteen players can compete in one match, 
 excluding the hosts presence. Hosting a match on a Dedicated Server with all sixteen players also 
 unlocks an achievement called Master of Ceremonies for the game. Each mode can also be customized, 
 by changing options such as the number of respawns each player gets and restricting certain equipment 
 and weapons. It is Rumored that a sequel Rainbow 6 Vegas: Bishop is in the works.
  
  Plot
  
  The player begins the game as newly appointed Rainbow team leader Logan Keller, with two squadmates, 
 Gabriel Nowak and Kan Akahashi, on a mission in a Mexican border town in the year 2010. Joanna 
 Torres, Rainbow's intelligence officer, briefs them on their mission; their objective is to arrest 
 Irena Morales, a terrorist ringleader. As the team reaches its landing zone in a helicopter, Logan 
 fast-ropes down first, but the helicopter and the rest of the team is forced to retreat as a rocket-propelled 
 grenade barely misses them.
  
  Separated from his squad, Logan fights his way through the terrorist-infested streets and meets 
 up with Gabriel and Kan at an old Spanish church, their alternate landing zone. After infiltrating 
 a train yard and freeing a group of hostages, Rainbow eventually makes their way to a mine where 
 Irena is hiding. After eliminating Irena's guards, they attempt to arrest her; however, Irena triggers 
 a set of hidden explosives, caving in the roof and burying Logan under a pile of rubble. Gabriel 
 and Kan are overwhelmed and captured by terrorist reinforcements.
  
  As Logan regains consciousness, he finds his weapons and goggles missing. Alone, and armed only 
 with a pistol at first, Logan fights his way through an abandoned factory, eventually escaping 
 with Jo in Rainbow's helicopter. Logan never finds Gabriel or Kan.
  
  Domingo Chavez has a conversation with the new team leader about the incident, instructing him 
 to handle a new crisis in Las Vegas. Logan objects, insisting that he search for his lost squad 
 mates instead; Chavez, however, surmises that the Las Vegas incident and Irena's activity may be 
 too closely related to be a simple coincidence.
  
  Upon reaching Las Vegas, Logan is taken outside of the terrorist-controlled Calypso Casino where 
 he meets with his new team: Michael Walters, a British demolitions expert specializing in heavy 
 weapons, and Jung Park, a Korean Reconnaissance and electronics expert. The team infiltrates the 
 Calypso Casino, clearing out the terrorists and rescuing a group of hostages from being executed 
 on camera. Once they clear out the Casino, they must rescue Doctor Philipp Smythe, a NATO weapons 
 researcher. After a brief gun battle, Rainbow extracts with Doctor Smythe, who tells waiting FBI 
 agents that another weapons researcher, Dr. Williams, has also been captured. Rainbow takes on 
 the case.
  
  Rainbow is taken to the Red Lotus, a Chinese restaurant, in order to rescue reporter Trish Gracy, 
 who was held hostage after an interview went wrong. Once the team clears out the restaurant and 
 rescues Trish, she informs them that the terrorists are using a news van as a communications hub. 
 Rainbow makes their way down Fremont Street and eventually reaches the van. Jung hacks into the 
 system while Logan and Michael fend off a wave of attacking terrorists. Afterwards, Michael places 
 a demolition charge on the van, destroying the hub. The team is then extracted via helicopter and 
 taken to rescue Dr. Williams.
  
  Rainbow is dropped on the Vertigo Spire, a luxury hotel along the likes of the Stratosphere. The 
 team finds and rescues Dr. Williams from the terrorists, and he informs the team of two bombs, 
 one which destroys the top floors of a building across the way, and the other a micro-pulse bomb 
 that was placed in the Vertigo, which Michael disarms after the team searches a few floors down 
 from where Dr. Williams was rescued. Rainbow is then extracted to locate Gabriel and Kan.
  
  The team is dispatched to Dantes Casino, still under construction, and clears the roof. During 
 this roof clearing, a bell in the tower falls, causing tremendous damage and a fire in the lower 
 floors. In Dante's Arcade, the team finds and frees Gabriel, who is extracted despite his insistence 
 that he fights alongside the squad. While searching the construction area, Rainbow finds Kan engaged 
 in a firefight, who is fatally shot in an attempt to warn the team about an ambush before the team 
 can reach him. Dying, Kan reveals that the attack in Las Vegas is a distraction, and Irena's terrorists 
 are planning a far bigger attack.
  
  The team proceeds to the theater to hack a terrorist server. Irena's target is revealed to be the 
 Nevada Dam (very similar to the Hoover Dam) , a hydroelectric dam on the Colorado River. Rainbow 
 then heads to the roof and extracts.
  
  Rainbow descends onto a bridge in front of the dam where an officer informs Logan of the terrorists' 
 bomb on the bridge in the tourist center. The team makes their way to the second story of the bridge 
 where Michael defuses the bomb with three seconds remaining. They then fast-rope via safety cables 
 to the bottom of the dam and enter the dam to save a hostage who informs them that the dam will 
 buckle under the pressure of the lake. He tells them that they can relieve the pressure by using 
 an emergency release valve. Once the dam pressure crisis is resolved, the team proceeds further 
 into the dam and finds that it is a weapons research lab, where Doctors Smythe and Williams inform 
 the team the terrorists have a micro-pulse missile on top of the dam.
  
  Logan presses forward, confronting Irena Morales herself and shooting her in the chest, fatally 
 wounding her. With her last breath, Irena taunts Logan; while she may die, her partner will continue 
 the fight against Rainbow. Finally, the team heads to the top of the dam and plant a charge on 
 the missile to detonate it in mid-air, without triggering the micro-pulse payload.
  
  Logan receives a transmission from Gabriel, who tells him that he is Irena's mole. Furious, Logan 
 rushes to the chopper to see Jo and Brody Lukin, the pilot, kicked out of the helicopter, Brody 
 unconscious. The team must protect Jo and Brody from a small group of terrorists.
  
  As Logan, Michael and Jung rush to their fallen comrades, Gabriel attempts to escape with an enemy 
 pilot. Logan can let this happen or he can fire a few shots at the helicopter, which eventually 
 causes it to crash. Logan explains the situation, and the team is sent out to find the organization 
 behind Irena's and Gabriel's terrorist attacks. When the mission completes, the words To Be Continued 
 appear on the screen, inferring a sequel. The credits roll while news is broadcasted about the 
 situation. If Logan shot at the helicopter, the news will say that only the body of the pilot was 
 found, implying that Gabriel survived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moondoggey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  this game has been a dream come true for me i alwas loved rainbow six but this tops everthing i 
 could ever want an awesome game i recomend this game to any hardcore fan might be to hard for the 
 softer guys but is fun i loved the game this game looks and the sound and too top it off the game 
 play matches it as well rainbow six has alwas had a good lineup of games but this game tops everthing 
 i had ever hped for in a game what more can i say i need 100 words and ran ou of things to say 
 bout this game oh well lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefoolagain200
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Vegas can be pretty realistic at times, your team AI is pretty smart, enemy AI can be questionable 
 at times, but they will also use blind fire, try to flank you, call out positions, etc. And if 
 you are looking for a good challenge, you can play through the game on realistic.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, frame rate is very constant, but some special effects could use some 
 work (incendiary grenades, thermal vision) . Overall though, the game looks good.
  
  Vegas also has some cool moves to do, rappelling down buildings, breaching through windows, and 
 even rappel upside down. You can also take cover and blind fire in addition to rappelling, etc, 
 and though this is a FPS game, all these actions are performed in third person. The game also has 
 a handful of weapons from light machine guns to assault rifles to SMG's to several types of grenades 
 and C4.
  
  In online mode you rank up by getting points by playing against other people or teaming up in co 
 op terrorist hunt. Leveling up unlocks new weapons, armor and camo so you can customize your soldier, 
 the higher the level, the more customizable options available. Vegas isn't a run-and-gun FPS, that 
 will get you killed. It is tactical game that requires some strategy, while still keeping the fun 
 level high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a easy game to learn for both beginner and experienced players. This was 
 my first game on the PS3 and i'm gald it was. The AI has to be the best i've ever seen in a game. 
 They have the smarts to flank, work as a team, and take cover. This game will challenge you to 
 use tactics to survive. The online is also great on this game. With over 7 gametypes and an advanced 
 rank system it will keep you playing for months. The PEC system online allows you to play and no 
 matter what (win or lose) get experience points to help you get a higher rank. As you get more 
 XP you unlock weapons, clothing, armor, and camo to customize your character to be one of a kind. 
 There are many gametypes such as the normal ones (Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch) and then some new 
 gametypes such as Coop Terrorist Hunt, Coop Story Mode, Team Survival, Survival, and many more. 
 This game is worth the $60 and has lots of features to keep you playing forever. Thats why I give 
 this game a 9.4 out of 10. It would get a 10 in my books but I was sad to hear that they couldnt 
 use the Six Axis controllers in a better way so that brought down the score a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_illest101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I got to admit i'm not the biggest fps fan out there but my cousin really wanted me to buy that 
 game so i told him to rent it cause i'll never will buy that game
  anywas this is not a bad game, it's extremely well done but i'm not a big fps fan so i didn't enjoy 
 this game to it's full potential
  
  gameplay: well this game is somewhat realistic, u can't just go in there rambo style and expect 
 to remain alive. this is a very tactical game where stupidity will cost u ur life
  
  graphic: there are ok but nothing ground breaking
  
  sound: the sound of the guns are done 
 nicely but the music is somewhat blank at times
  
  I only played the demo of ghost recon: advance war fighter 2 and i was more impress with then i 
 was with rainbow six. but this is still a very solid game that should make the fans of the genre 
 very happy, in my case i'm still waiting for a j-rpg to come and gta4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1sTDaCuffS
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  ok, im just writing this review of the game based on the gameplay online for psn. if your thinking 
 about getting this game be warned. online game play for this fps is horrible. there are no servers 
 and everthing is hosted bye the the host. so, if your in ariz. and the host is in france good luck 
 on having a smooth game. the problems you'll have playing this game online are many. as far as 
 host control of a game you cant get around that because theres no dedicated servers for this game. 
 in the online game play you will experience a number of problems. because psn is not regional that 
 means you get bunched with everyone else in the world therefore the game will lag. you will get 
 things call gun lag where the gun will always be firing even though that person is dead, very annoying 
 and hampers game play because you cant even hear anything else. another thing is mics. people dont 
 have them, or they' re on a blue tooth. in any case its very annoying to get background noise if 
 you have a headset or you cant hear anyone. makes for a game with no team work. the graphics in 
 this game only go to 720p so, you have to manually go into your ps3 and change the setting to 720p. 
 so, you can see. some people complain about the blurry ness but never change the setting form 1080 
 whatever there using. also there's no optimatch in the game so, you get thrown into whatever game 
 there is. so, everyone on ps3 has a game going, so, you never get a game with max palyers. then 
 the loading time is horrible. i can go on and on. but, thats the jist of it all. my suggestion 
 is rent it first before buying it . to see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: struvi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played a shooter so authentic that you felt like you were really in the battlefield? 
 Well this is one of them. Rainbow six Vegas has all the aspects that a game should have to make 
 you enjoy it.
  Right off the block i would say the graphics and presentation of this game are top notch which 
 really helps to make a more enjoyable experience out of a game. Besides the mix between FPS and 
 the third person view when you take cover really gives it a twist.
  The game-play is perfectly balanced between stealthy moments and nerve racking, rage inducing firefights. 
 As for the AI... it is not the best but still you will get killed various times throughout during 
 the game but if you are a true trooper you will most likely try out the realistic setting where 
 you will be most certainly challenged.
  As for value this game has a long storyline that is very different on both difficulties (Talking 
 abut enemies and how you approach things... objectives and levels stay the same obviously) Then 
 you can take part in the terrorist hunt missions which are quick fills of killing and there are 
 about 10 different ways to tackle any of the various levels (about 15) . But most important is the 
 online play. You will find yourself drawn to it and will try to rank up since ranking up adds new 
 customization options for your character that go from visual add ons to guns that inflict more 
 damage or even armor that protect you better. All in all this game is absolutely a must have if 
 you're not a totally casual gamer... but if you are you'll probably enjoy it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csqwared
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I've had my ps3 since january, and i've only had resistance to play. But last week i finally got 
 a new game, and that game as you might have guessed is rainbow six vegas. It really is an awesome 
 game, it has awesome online, a little buggy mind you but overall great, as soon as they get an 
 update out there it will be much better. Offline is pretty shallow, but no one buys games like 
 vegas for offline. After Playing A 40 player game on resistance, it does leave a gap with only 
 14 people, but the gameplay is so much more satisfying then resistance. You really talk to your 
 teammates more often then you do on resistance, which allows you to meet new friends, ive made 
 8 or 9 friends since i got this game :) . If You Are A First/Third person shooter fan go out and 
 pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catadome7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The co-op modes are sweet when your playing with your buddies in the basement. Figuring out which 
 guys are where, covering each others backs, feels like your a real commando. The online play is 
 great, with little lag, lots of games and cool character customization that you can use for co-op 
 split screen play. The levels and AI are very detailed. Easy to Navigate around, really cool commando 
 like moves, like taking cover behind a wall blind firing over it. Funny enemy voice chat, they 
 like to swear and give ridiculous threats that make you laugh. Its fun alone but even better with 
 a friend doing terrorist hunts or online doing team sharpshooter. Excellent game for the ps3. If 
 your like me with a PS3 and bored with Resistance, this is a nice replacement that wont let you 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sligzz76543
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting this game to be as good as it is. I hadnt really payed much attention to it until 
 i saw that it had a 9.0 rating. After watching videos and images from the game i went out and bought 
 it right away. The campaign is pretty challenging and fun but does lack some substance. The real 
 hook for this game is the multiplayer. I have been hooked every since the game came out. By far, 
 this is my favorite game for the ps3 so far and the best rainbow 6 game that i have ever played. 
 Anyone who owns a ps3 and likes shooters should definitely buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up Rainbow Six Vegas I had some doubts as to how much I would enjoy the game. 
 I hadn't played a Rainbow Six game since the original came out for the first Playstation. My biggest 
 fear about the game was that I thought it would consist of primarily sneaking around and taking 
 terrorists out one by one without making any noise, and if you were spotted it would be all over 
 and you'd have to reload and attempt the same part over and over again. Rest assured, I was way 
 off my mark.
  
  While Rainbow Six pits you and two teammates against entire buildings full of terrorists, stealth 
 only makes up a small piece of the overall puzzle. Some areas you'll find multiple entry points 
 to a room. You can choose to storm right in (not very tactical) and shoot up the place, probably 
 getting yourself killed; or you could snake a camera under the door to look for enemies. From here 
 you can tag the enemies telling your teammates which order you would like them to be taken out. 
 You can then stack your teammates up against the door to prepare for entry. Even then you can move 
 to another door and scope things out in case you missed some enemies from the previous camera view. 
 In fact, maybe your teammates storming through this door is an even better option. You can have 
 your teammates perform a variety of breaches including placing explosives on the door to blow it 
 open, taking out any enemies nearby. You can have them toss a frag grenade or a flashbang grenade 
 to clear the room, or you can simply have them breach and clear with assault rifles.
  
  What I'm getting at here is that your teammate AI is probably the best I've ever seen in a video 
 game. They engage enemies very skillfully and really come to your aid in many many situations. 
 On the other hand, the enemy AI is just as good. They'll take cover behind anything they can and 
 peek out to take shots at you. They'll even throw grenades your way to flush you out.
  
  The weapon selection in the game is very large. You can choose from assault rifles, sub-machine 
 guns, light machine guns, pistols, shotguns, and sniper rifles. Each gun has it's own pros and 
 cons such as damage, accuracy, etc. You can also stock up with frag grenades, C4, smoke grenades, 
 flashbangs, and more. The graphics in Vegas are also simply amazing. Some areas lack detail, but 
 the majority of the game just looks gorgeous. Sound is also very good in the game and fits nicely. 
 My favorite part of the game is when a flashbang is set off right by you and you become disoriented. 
 All you hear is a high pitched frequency while the screen becomes very hazy.
  
  The game's length is a little short but with a game like this, any longer would have started to 
 drag. The story is actually pretty good with a big twist at the end. However, there isn't really 
 any closure which leaves you feeling a bit empty in the end.
  
  Multiplayer also works very well in this game. There are plenty of online competitive matches and 
 there's also even an online story mode where you can complete the campaign with someone online.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best games I've played in a long time. All of the controls work 
 well and everything about the game is polished. This is a good example of how a complete game should 
 be. I highly recommend this game to anyone as it is well worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahzel54
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  this game has everything, great single player campaign, online, coop mode, good visuals and sound 
 and great controls. its certainly not the best looking game, but its not a bad looking game either 
 by any means.
  
  i really don't have many gripes with the game. the framerate can get pretty choppy in hectic battles 
 but overall, its ok. it looks quite blurry at 1080i but looks great at 720p. hope Ubisoft releases 
 a patch to either fix the scaling or default the game to 720p. i hope all of Sony's upcoming titles 
 do this too; if it looks noticeably worse at 1080i/p, then they should default it to 720p.
  
  i'm only 2/3 done the single player campaign and it's starting to get a little hard. there 
 are many open spaces with a bunch of tangos all around, so you really have to strategize.
  
  anyway, if you're a fan of tactical shooters, this will not disappoint. i'm very happy with 
 my purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow SIx Vegas. Is a fantastic game. It is easily the best tactical shooter for 
 the PS3. The gameplay while not being easy is very rewarding. One of the strong points of the game 
 is that it makes the player think well tactically. Instead of just charging ahead and blasting 
 people in other games it makes you use cover effectively and realistically.
  On the topic of the use of cover it does this with absolute perfection. Switching in between first 
 and third person perspective is simply perfect and seamless. It also adds a nice dimension to game 
 it is really intense to hear the shots flying over you and watch your character react. The sounds 
 in the game are simply top notch as well. The sound effects really add to the intensity of the 
 game. It makes you feel that you are really inside a Vegas casino. The only thing is that the terrorists 
 have a really limited vocabulary. They also have a tendency to give away their position too easily 
 but this is a minor complaint. The AI in this game especially of your teammates is amazing they 
 act and react well to all the commands which are simple to give simply by touching the X button. 
 They can be really helpful and are also for the most part good shots. The enemy Ai is also very 
 good while not quite as good as your teams. The only real downside to game is the Sixaxis parts. 
 The snake camera and the sixaxis are kind of annoying. They feel tacked on and are a little unwieldily 
 and not very precise. They are the only downside to an otherwise stunning game. The visuals are 
 beautiful in the game. The setting of Las Vegas is a great choice for the game. As a user of a 
 1080i t. v I can attest that it plays great and suffers no frame rate issues. This is a great hope 
 for the PS3. In conclusion Rainbow Six Vegas improves dramatically in all aspects over the last 
 installment of the game which was rather terrible. If you are a PS3 owner and enjoy tactical shooters, 
 modern shooters this is a must buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantoclub
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  the graphics suffer badly on the ps3 version. unreal engine 3 was almost butchered when it was 
 used to make this game. the bodies vaporize after seconds of putting them down and that is upsetting. 
 the character designs outside of the squad are crap, and most of the lighting is boring. no real 
 physics design at all. i hate it that current -gen games wont act like they are being run on current-gen 
 hardware. i have never been in love with tom clancy games (i say that because splintercell isnt 
 a tactical shooter) but i thought i would purchase it because of the utter lack of summer ps3 games 
 releases. the only aspect of the game that is worth the commendation is the squad's ai. unless 
 you survive on tactical shooter i recommend that this installment and perhaps the entire series 
 form what i understand should be avoided, i know i will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad-2
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  How i wish to combine SOCOM's good AI to the R6Vegas good gameplay
  
  To be honest this is the only Rainbow Six i liked since the rest that i had played all sucked.
 
  
  The AI are good but lacking, they sometimes shoot at you even when they are facing a wall and basically 
 plague the wall with bullets which i think was weird. People says that there is a lot of tactics 
 here but what i see is a shoot them up game. There is no real tactics here since the guy next door 
 wont care/know whats going on . When your teammates spot someone, they will just say tango spotted 
 okay..... so where is the tango again??? ohhh right behind me... silly me!!!! they could have at 
 least say something like tango 12 o'clock i guess it doesn't matter since all your tangos are on 
 12 o'clock position all you have to do is cover and fire. Shooting your enemies with silencer or 
 without doesn't make much difference, same with your teammates getting shot or not doesn't make 
 any difference since they have a lives of a cat. Sneaking is useless too since you cant even get 
 close to an enemy and dispatch him silently with a knife of something, all you can do is pull the 
 trigger and just shoot him. And one last thing.... STORY there is no story... no plot, no twist 
 just plain world domination and im the good guy kinna thing. Of all the Rainbow Six's i played 
 they all fall in one category No Story, No good gameplay all bunch of aim shoot kill; This one 
 is abit forgiving all thanks to the way you can use COVER
  
  The reason why i mentioned SOCOM at the very beginning is because SOCOM portrays better AI with 
 the lack of cover which is the main thing in R6Vegas if your a gamer looking for some shoot them 
 up this is good for you. but if your a gamer who wants tactics and stealth involve i suggest just 
 rent it or better yet don't bother with this at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Vegas looks fantastic, it's as simple as that. The single player of Vegas is really solid and the 
 details are precise and the levels are more or less destructible, but at some points the A. I. is 
 really hard and sooner or later your team mates will get killed and you would have to help them 
 in a middle of a firefight which gets annoying at times. Now the multi-player aspect of the game 
 is addicting, you can customize the color of your armor, clothing, head wear, and etc. The ranking 
 system is balanced and you are able to unlock weapons, clothing and camo as you rank up. The only 
 problem is that some of the stuff isn't even worth getting like the weapons, they either have the 
 same or worse stats than the ones you begin with. Overall Vegas is a great shooter and one of the 
 best for ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Ubisofts most recent installment in the Rainbow Six franchise takes a refreshing turn and situates 
 its tactical shooting in Las Vegas. All the bright lights and towering casinos aren't enough to 
 detour Rainbow Six; an anti-terrorist squad that is trying to dispatch a group of terrorists that 
 have taken several casinos hostage.
  
  Luckily the simple story isn't the star of the show, and the tactical squad-based shooting takes 
 center stage in Rainbow Six Vegas. To survive the hundreds of terrorists Vegas throws at you, you'll 
 have to take cover behind whatever you can find; whether it be concrete slabs or conveniently placed 
 SUVs, cover is almost always a life saver. With just a simple press of a button you'll be ducking 
 under cover, leaning out the sides and popping terrorists as they run from cover to cover trying 
 to flank you.
  
  Being in an elite anti-terrorist squad, you and your team can rappel down buildings and smash through 
 the windows, use smoke grenades to your advantage and order your team to stack-up against a door 
 so they are ready to open it and clear the room.
  
  All of this is done by a simple tap of the X button. All of the controls are mapped so utilising 
 your team is very easy. Although the controls can be tricky to get used to, after a few levels 
 you'll be controlling your character easily.
  
  Thinking through your tactics is an important procedure in Rainbow Six Vegas, as you have very 
 limited health. As you take damage your vision will start to get blurry, but taking cover and not 
 being shot at will let the screen clear and you will heal. If you do die, you'll be forced back 
 to the last checkpoint, which are placed a little too far apart.
  
  Fortunately, replay value is high because of multiple paths through the levels and using different 
 tactics in different situations keeps the game fresh. Online multiplayer is great fun, with modes 
 like terrorist hunt in which you and other players will fight against some randomly placed AI controlled 
 terrorists, and you can fight through the story mode co-operatively.
  
  All of this looks great as well. All the missions start with you dropping in the midst of a gunfight 
 by a helicopter, and this gives you a good chance to see the city. The bright lights are blinding 
 and the draw distance is great, being able to see buildings from blocks away. On the ground all 
 still looks good, with some impressive lighting and life like characters. Being set in casinos, 
 all the familiar pings and beeps can be heard from the slot machines, and flashing lights are a 
 regular sight.
  
  Overall, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game that require patience and well thought 
 tactics to survive terrorists. Controlling a squad of three characters makes things easier, along 
 with the unique cover system. Although it has a short story mode, Rainbow Six Vegas makes up for 
 it by introducing some great online and high replay value. Great graphics and voice acting add 
 to the experience that is Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staloney
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  On its own the ending to RSV was weak as a kitten. It was uneventful. However, it was a cool twist 
 to the ending I had anticipated. But its obvious that we have been opened up to a much larger gaming 
 event because of it. Any lover of this game should not be let down by this ending but, rather, 
 uplifted. There's more to come! Whenever playing a game or watching a movie I try to anticipate 
 what is going to happen next and how the grand scheme is going to play out. I find it adds an intellectual 
 challenge to what are otherwise challenges of motor skills or just simple time-killers. However, 
 the ending I had anticipated for RSV did not excite me. I expected an anti-climactic ending on 
 the reasoning that the lead terrorist or 'boss' I was chasing was a woman. Im sorry, but I felt 
 that. Irena was non-developed, non-threatening and altogether an uninteresting character. Thankfully, 
 the game played out in such a way that she was hardly involved. While the final assault by her 
 body guards was intense, she was a joke. This wasn't a let down, in fact, it was the opposite for 
 me. It meant there was something greater to the story. I was excited riding in the elevator to 
 the top of the dam anticipating what was to come. All lovers of this game should be happy about 
 the ending we saw. I couldn't think of a better ending to be honest with you. I wanted more, and 
 thats exactly what UbiSoft is going to give me. Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
  
  P. S. Has anyone timed the storymode? Does any one know how much play time there is in a completed 
 story mode? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  i just got r6v 2 days ago and it is awsome!! u r a milatry genral logan keller sent to kill terroist 
 in the big city of light vegas this game is very intense for tactical shooter and is very fun to 
 play. graphics r sharp but i have seen better and the frame rate is super. the voice acting i wat 
 u would ecpect decent the gun sound and recoil is very realistic. and the story is good to. u can 
 get a hold of aks sub machine guns bunch of gernades and more im not done wit it yet but it is 
 very hard i have my difficilty on realistic and its tough but rewarding. now the cons the is a 
 little dumb at times due to the tacked on sixaxsis cntrolls also the voice acting can be hammy 
 . also the worst of them all the first sveral missions in the game take place in mexico and not 
 that much vegas music but if u like fps shooter and vegs buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkinPark1992
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas was definitely worth the wait. This game has a solid story that 
 is adrenaline filled and keeps your attention. The on line play is fun. It's not as good as Resistance's 
 on line play but it is still good. There are problems with lag when you get into fuller games. 
 Maps are fun and the game play is very realistic. It is one of the only first person shooter where 
 you can't expect to run into the open and survive. You will have to play this game for a few hours 
 before you will be able to handle playing other people on line. The graphics are also pretty good. 
 Overall this is a very solid game that I recommend all ps3 owners to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaveragejoe90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  WOW! I just beat the game on coop and on single player and it is amazing. I went into the game 
 thinking it would be another squad based game that required me to babysit my AI teamates, but they 
 ended up helping me more than hurting me.
  
  The enemy AI is equally as satisfying, if anything too difficult even on normal sometimes. I have 
 played other Rainbow Six games and was semi-impresed with the AI but Ubisoft really stepped it 
 up on this latest installment.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are among the most solid of any shooter to date with the cover system being 
 very heplful. The sounds are great, with every battle coming to life with the enemies communicating 
 and the gunfire blazing on all sides.
  
  The graphics are good but not as solid as the 360 version, and this is shown in the enemy character 
 models, which sometimes looked blocky to me. The textures and lighting also took a hit in my opinion.
 
  
  Coop in the game is second to none and the multiplayer is fantastic, with a vast selection of maps 
 and a group of players more focused on team tactics and communication than on seeing who could 
 cuss the most in a match (cough, cough... Resistence FoM... cough) .
  
  The wide variety of guns and optional equipment for your weapons alone adds replay value. The only 
 thing that i don't like about the guns is that they are not all balanced, but that's another story.
 
  
  Overall, this game delivers on three levels of gameplay, single player, coop, and online multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr5000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  As gun fire fill the air and hearing the confirmation of tango down. I can sit back in relief that 
 I have played one of the best shooters that have been made to date. Rainbow 6 Vegas is high intense 
 tactical shooter where you take lead and your trusted soldiers follow and don't forget the bullets 
 that are sent by your enemy. The game play in R6V is utterly amazing. This game offers a wide variety 
 on how to take down your target either if its breaching through the windows, from the rooftop 
 or tossing a smoke grenade in a room full of enemies. Rainbow 6 Vegas also offers fast pace shooting 
 environments. Tom Clancy even made taking cover fun. With the over the shoulder shooting and your, 
 Im hope Im lucky, no look shots. This game force you to think tactical because if you dont 
 than game over. This game has been simulated to be the closes to real as it gets. So for the ones 
 that just like to run around and shot stuff up, sorry it is not happening here. The online game 
 play is the best I have encountered so far with shooter games such as R6V and a headset makes it 
 even better. Oh! Where are my manners I cant forget the multi-player story line. Trust me its 
 worth paying for the second controller. This game really shows why PS3 is the strongest next-gen 
 console. Since I didn't give this game a perfect score the con in R6V is that it is as good as 
 the player. I could go in detail about this game, but I recommend that you take the risk and buy 
 it becuase it makes the addication even better. For Max experience this game is best enjoyed on 
 a HD 40 TV or larger and a 5.1 surround sound system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  i've been playing counterstrike since 1.5 until now (source) . counterstrike is well known around 
 the world and is extremely addicting. i had mixed feeling about rainbox six vegas at first because 
 i've played a few other tom clancy's game and didn't like them very much. i did some research and 
 decided to pick it up because it's more tactical and online play is free. the environment and experience 
 is totally different from counterstrike. there's over the shoulder and first person view and blind 
 shots which makes the game awesome. i wanted to shift my skills to a tactical level because i was 
 getting a bit tired of run and gun. i like the idea of being able to host the server and experience 
 little to no latency. i notice that headshot is possible in this game because it takes a few shots 
 to the body to kill but to the head it only takes 1. this is what i expect from every FPS games. 
 the frame rate is not that great. it felt like 30 frames while playing this game, but when you 
 have your mind set on your role that you overlook and care less about the frames. the graphic is 
 ok. what i like most about vegas is that the characters are customizable and requires a lot of 
 teamwork. this is not the type of game i would put together a team for scrimming. i guess i've 
 been spoiled by counterstrike. anyways vegas is worth owning if you're an FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake1237263827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  r6v is all u'd want to get from a tactical shooter. the campaign has just playtime to keep it from 
 dragging and the teammates seem very in tuned to situations and also have just the right amount 
 of personality. the online is the true gem though. the competitive matches and players allow for 
 unique playtime. also hearing voice communication through the tv allows for teamwork with or with 
 out a mike. but most of all the customization is where its at. it's kinda like bestbuy. thousands 
 of possibilities, get yours . by unlocking new armor camo and weapons makes u want to play till 
 dawn. so overall in my opinion best multiplatform to hit the ps3 yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkybruiser83
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I never thought a shooter could be this much fun. I was addicted to Socom and knew nothing other 
 than Socom, only because I didn't want to go through learning curves since gameplay was diferent. 
 Since I am not that great at shooting games, I thought it would be very difficult for me. With 
 Rainbow Six Vegas, the learning curve wasn't that bad. I got the hang of it pretty quick. The online 
 game play is great and maybe its just me but, I just didn't enjoy the frame processing as you turn 
 thats all. But Iam picky like that. Its highly addicting, very pretty and as close to Vegas as 
 i will ever get. In other words... get it its great and you will have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss4573
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is by far the best FPS out there, with stunning graphics, awesome guns, a great storyline 
 and a mouthwatering online multiplayer what more is there to say but BUY THIS GAME. Even if youve 
 never played/liked a FPS in your life (which i doubt anybody has or does) you will love this game 
 it is why the PS3 was made, its basically the sweetest thing since candy and i recommend it to 
 everyone who owns a PS3 or those who plan to buy one in the future. I also like the fact that there 
 was an offline multiplayer, most games dont have that this way if you lose internet you can still 
 play with friends so its a well rounded game for everyone FPS fans or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Springs12118
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Las Vegas on the next Gen consoles makes one forget the dissapointment of RAinbow Six 
 Lockdown on PS2. Better graphics, better gameplay, better AI. Unfortunately the PS3 version has 
 some minor disadvantages compared to the X360 release, lower level of graphics, worse online gameplay.. 
 Also I cannot understand why most of the new releases on PS3 are in 720p resolution only?!?! We 
 finally have a quite expensive console with incredible HW biut the software is yesterday's.
  Story is challenging and normal level is just right for beginners to provide a quick learning curve 
 with increasing difficulty. AI is still not yet at it's best, as for example in the second last 
 level in the LV tower you can easily sniper away all opponents from the terrace without being noticed.. 
 in other cases enemies seem to sense your presence and attack immediately. Last but not least the 
 fact that you can kill an opponent by shooting is hand or knee long enough is often useful when 
 behind cover but not really realistic..
  
  All in all, though all my nagging: Awesome game! Can't wait for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanny12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  After months of delays, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas has finally descended onto the PlayStation 
 3. Ubisoft's tactical shooter has been out since late last year on the Xbox 360 and PC, while PlayStation 
 fans have had to sit tight and hope that their version could stand up to the competition. Fortunately, 
 the answer is by and large a resounding yes, with Ubisoft having delivered an online (and even 
 single-player) experience that shouldn't be missed by strategic action fans.
  
  For the most part, Rainbow Six: Vegas on the PlayStation 3 is identical in most respects to its 
 counterparts on other systems, but the wait for PS3 owners has paid off a bit in terms of value. 
 While Xbox 360 owners are able to purchase the Red and Black map packs for $10 a pop, all of that 
 content is included right on the Blu-ray disc. This includes a couple new modes and a large handful 
 of new maps, giving you some 20 maps to play on. While not every map is available for every game 
 mode and three of them are redux versions of other maps, we doubt anyone could complain about the 
 amount of content to be found here.
  
  And as has been the case with most other Rainbow Six releases, the general quality of the maps 
 here is very strong. While purists may be a little turned off at the rejuvenated (but not necessarily 
 better) Presidio or other classics found here, most of the selections are great competition grounds. 
 Everyone will of course gravitate towards their favorites, but you can't go too wrong with any 
 of them.
  
  When Ubisoft began work on Rainbow Six: Vegas for the then-unreleased next-gen consoles, it revamped 
 a good deal of its gameplay mechanics and worked on creating a smoother and more natural experience. 
 The biggest addition is its cover system, enabling you to put your back up against most any wall, 
 barricade or flat-sided object in the game. The camera shifts from the normal first-person view 
 to a third, and by pressing towards an edge of cover you'll pop up as your view zooms in to an 
 over-the-shoulder view.
  
  It's a system that works very well and naturally, thanks to a few subtle but very important control 
 options. For one, you hold L1 to stay in cover and release it to move freely again rather than 
 having it act as an on/off toggle. This means that if you suddenly come under fire, it's easier 
 to react quickly and back away rather than having to remember to hit the cover button to unlock 
 yourself from your surroundings. Secondly, you're still able to freely aim in any direction while 
 taking cover, which makes it less inhibiting than some cover systems we've seen in the past.
  
  Overall it's a fantastic system that works really well, though it's not without flaws. These 
 are mostly related to objects not being able to be used as cover even though it seems like you 
 should be able to, or in some rare instances with jagged doorways, ducking behind a different section 
 of cover than you meant to. While you'll certainly run into these, they in no way lessen the overall 
 experience, though you may be taken out while online every now and then because of them (just like 
 everyone else) . The other major change to the entire game is the ability to repel down the sides 
 of buildings, windows and such. It's a pretty cool feature in the single-player game as it opens 
 up multiple pathways in many cases and allows you more freedom in your plan of attack. In the multiplayer 
 game, it changes the returning maps, as you'll now be able to navigate between certain areas much 
 more quickly. For instance, in Streets you're able to hop right out of the windows from either 
 building and descend to the ground rather than having to run down a couple flights of stairs. It's 
 certainly more dangerous, but it's also much quicker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pointer99
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Firstly rainbow 6 game are all pretty good but Vegas graphics are pretty crap on PS3 and ive gt 
 a HD TV 2 so. However the game play is amazing and as tactical as u can get. If u get shot about 
 4 times u usually die.
  
  The single player mode has about 18 levels set in different locations like Mexican shanty towns 
 to the biggest casinos in sin city. U also can do some new things like fast rope down rooftops 
 or rappel down and shoot o the way down. On a rappel u can also breach through glass for a stealthy 
 attack. On some levels u also have to watch your fire as civilians may be on the streets and if 
 one gets killed then the level is over.
  
  There is also a multi player mode similar to resistance. Every game u go in u get xp points which 
 help u to gain a higher rank which unlocks clothes or weapons u can outfit urself with. There are 
 many different modes including survival, sharpshooter, assassination and u can also go on co-op 
 story online.
  However the game lags quite a bit and in intense gunfights it struggles a bit
  
  Finally, there 
 are 35 different awards u can acheive in the game online and offline (similar to resistance) . These 
 awards either come in ribbons, badges, medals or trophies. Some can just be gained by finishing 
 a level, others by hosting a 14 player game online. This adds that extra challenge to the game.
 
  
  Altogether Rainbow 6 Vegas is a game that is worth trying but not as good as resistance or call 
 of duty 3. I rate it 7 out of 10. If nyone does buy it send me a challenge online at 'rocket747' 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake12511
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I thing Rainbow Six Vagas is a superb game in its own right, because it has a wide range of good 
 things about it, and so every little wrong with it. The Good Things: It has great graphics, but 
 that's what we all except from a next-gen console, again but it dose, like if your im the chopper 
 and looking down on the streets Vagas look can see all of whats going on around you like cars, 
 cop car. choppers flying about below you, beside you and above you, and a hell of a lot more to 
 look at. The gameplay is good as well, like if you are going to attack a room you are going to 
 have to stop and think about a number of different things like, how many men are in the room and 
 witch one will i takeout first, how will we enter the room, will we frag it, Breach it, or just 
 ram raid it, as well as thinking about howelse is in the room with him, if that's not enough your 
 going to have, Rules of Engagment to follow like you can go in strong or for a covert action is 
 the way to go.
  On hop of that you have the A. I with is one of the best round, they take cover, they flank you 
 and the know how to kill you fast. Multiplayer: I live on the Multiplayer games on this Rainbow 
 Six Vagas you can play for hours on this if you get a group of people that know how to play, you 
 can talk to your team and just think of ways to quickly kill the enemy or just have fun playing 
 the games online. The Bad Things: I was abit disapointed with the ending of the game, it didn't 
 give me much to go on
  but again it said the magic words To Be Continue* I can't want for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobz101
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted your own task force to do your bidding as you sit and watch them destroy your enemy, 
 or have you ever wanted get your team to follow you into a hostage situation well in this game 
 you can do either (or both) .
  
  Kill all the terrorists you see with Micheal and Jung at your side as your team in some big casinos 
 in las vegas. This game has easy to learn controls but tough gameplay.
  
  Take use of many well known weapons, grenades and gadgets as you rapell down out of a chopper and 
 into many places like Calipso casino, Red Lotas, Vetigo spire and Nevada Dam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilsondus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  My fave from the series. Multiplayer is superb. Singleplayer is great too, but I haven't spent 
 much time on it because I've been wrapped up in the great online play. My only complaining is that 
 I wish the split screen multiplayer story mode had the STORY with it... you can play all the levels, 
 with the same objectives, but miss out on what's going on. I played half the game in coop and was 
 a little disappointed in the lack of story before I tried single player and realized that it was 
 only there in the single player campaign.
  
  That being my only complaint, all the online modes are sweet, graphics are nice.... about the same 
 as Resistance, for some reason i'm not getting much of the surround sound.... not sure if it's my 
 set up or the game, but most of the sound seems to be coming through my center channel... it does 
 sound good though. IMO, the controls are perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knnth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way first: R6V is really cool. The mechanics of the gameplay are 
 seriously nice. Its cover system is several steps beyond any cover system I've ever played. The 
 variation in levels is amazing, especially for an FPS. It truly throws you into a SWAT mindsetone 
 of those experiences that somehow makes you physically duck and try to look around corners while 
 you're playing. You get to blow up stuff in Vegas, as well as work your way through pitch black 
 spaces using only your night and thermal vision to get you out.
  
  So I love it.
  
  At the same time, it has some serious issues, made even less palatable by the knowledge that it 
 has been out, in some form, for 8 months. Not to mention that the PS3 version was quite delayed... 
 I have to ask... why?
  
  One relatively minor issue that that it feels like only about half of the game is in Vegas, go 
 figure. My favorite aspect of it is ducking behind, covering behind, and exploding bits of Vegas. 
 The casino levels are all kinds of awesome, and I particularly love the outdoor Fremont Street 
 stuff. Classic and totally unforgettable.
  
  Next, slightly more significant problems. The AI is generally solid, but I had a few very weird 
 issues. On a few occasions, my guys took cover within 2 feet of a bad guy. And they all just kinda 
 stared at each other for a few seconds. Of course, my guys died. Most recently, I had actually 
 finished the game, working through the very last level, and it wouldn't complete. One member of 
 my squad was squatting next to a van about 50 feet away, yet my control over the squad had been 
 taken away from me for a sort of in-game cut scene conversation. The thing was, since he wasn't 
 with me, it wouldn't finish. Of course, I go shoot him in the head so I can try to reset something, 
 but he won't go down... So I had to play the level over again. It wasn't the first time something 
 like that had happened...
  
  The most substantial issue with the single player mode is that the audio is unbearably uneven. 
 You get some neat descriptive video scenes up in the corner which walk you through the plot and 
 give you insight into the sequence of events. Unfortunately, these scenes are about 5x louder than 
 the rest of the audio, so you have to tear your headphones off to keep from being deafened (or 
 turn it down so you don't get your wife all ticked off) , but be ready to put them back on at a 
 moment's notice, because the voices of your squad are lower than the incidental and gunfire sounds. 
 It took a few levels to realize that my squad was actually talking back to the intel officer. Adding 
 insult to injury, the cues that cause these events to fire sometimes get out of wack, and you have 
 guys talking you through the plot while you're being shot in the face, and even talking over your 
 video cues. Because of these weird variations, though I've completed the single player, I'm still 
 not entirely sure of what happened.
  
  On the plus side, there's a wide range of variation in the conversations and interactions between 
 characters. There are many funny conversations to be overheard. The gun and environment sounds 
 are also well done. There's a nice crunch to each shot, and you clearly hear each shell hitting 
 the ground.
  
  The graphics are pretty freaking sweetmostly. There's not as much antialiasing as there should 
 be, and the frame rate is uneven, but there's ample room for holy crap, look at that moments. There 
 are lots of neat textures and effects, from reflective water puddles to jiggling power cables. 
 My favorite is the funky refraction (bending of light) through glassy materials in the Vegas levels. 
 Lots of neat stuff to stop and look at once you've picked off the bad guys.
  
  Online is currently a disappointment for me, and I can get very specific here. With R6V, you get 
 no lobby, and you *always* have to listen to microphone idiots. With Resistance, no mic = no mic 
 audio from others. Somewhere in between, I think you should be able to hear the mic folks *if you 
 choose*. I have to wonder how much bandwidth is wasted by people singing, yelling racial bs and 
 just breathing heavily into the mic. It seems that the only semi-productive conversation that I 
 hear is people blurting out dude, he's over there , and of course that's pointless to anyone. I 
 want to be able to turn that off in a big way. I've heard some seriously weird stuff late at night...
 
  
  Also, a big warning for anyone who is going to get online with this, if you ever find yourself 
 in a match in Calypso Casino, on the defending side, with no frags, you're being baited. This is 
 a real problem. You get pinned in a specific area of the map ( Keno Room ) and they just pick you 
 off. It's so common that it would seem that 90% of attack and defend mode matches dump you into 
 this setup, even though there are _20_ maps to play! I overheard some guys on the attack team during 
 staging, after a match, saying see, it's easy! These are people out to get points, not to have 
 fun.
  
  At least with Resistance you can see the settings and avoid these shenanigans. I still feel that 
 Resistance is the best online experience I've ever had, with its fantastic lobby system, multiple 
 modes and all the trimmings. You get some choice over what you're playing, most importantly being 
 able to see when people are just trying to set up a game to grab points. On the flip side, you 
 can go ranked , and get something similar to R6V, except the server has decided all of these variables 
 rather than some guy that's trying to help his friend get the Desert Eagle.
  
  Even so, I find myself wanting to play more, because there's a wealth of stuff to do online, with 
 the online coop and all of the other great modes and options. Unfortunately, most people play attack 
 and defend , so you may have some trouble finding a mode that's fun *and* has actual people playing 
 an actual game. There's just not enough of that these days, and I don't think that the designers 
 of R6V have gone far enough in helping you get around the realities of online gaming.
  
  I still love it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight875
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  its fun and highly addictive because its so realistic and challenging so it take more than a couple 
 days. Personaly i like scaling downing buildings.
  
  Tagging your enemys for your team is great. Dont playing it for more than 3 hours at a time or 
 it will get boring...
  but its fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun So buy it if blazing guns not stop is starting to get boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been a big fan of FPS games on consoles so my expectations were low when I bought this 
 game. But after playing it for a couple of hours I was really impressed and got me back into first 
 person shooters. The graphics are what you could expect from a next-gen system and portrays the 
 city of Las Vegas decently. The single player will keep you busy for a while but don't expect the 
 single player to be as long as Oblivion. I haven't finished the game yet but I've finished over 
 half of it in less than three days (playing 2-3 hours each day) . The controls in the game are by 
 far the best, and as a noob to first person shooters they are very intuitive. You can literally 
 stick and take cover on any object you see. Just like the first couple of SOCOM games, you can 
 control a couple of computer teammates to aid you. The AI for your teammates is really good. They 
 don't just stand around like idiots and become bullet magnets when a fire fight breaks out. One 
 last perk to this game is that you can customize and choose your weapons that you want to bring 
 with you. I have yet to play online, right now I'm sticking to single player, but I'm hearing that 
 there are a few glitches online and joining/waiting for a gaming room is kinda tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze1919
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Las Vegas was really just an alright game. The beginning is boring as sin because the 
 levels are so cookie cutter. The gameplay is pretty cool at first, it's kind of Gears of War hiding 
 and blind firing mixed with halo run around and shoot whilst finding cover eventually. The shooting 
 is really good, because 1 bullet doesn't kill people (unless it's a headshot or a sniper) but it 
 doesn't take 50 to take someone down either; it's a pretty realistic killing setup. One thing that 
 i loved is the gear you get to use, like the Heat vision goggles, night vision, and the rapelling 
 ropes which were always fun to bust through windows on. The graphics were very good i have to admit 
 but not above and beyond like some PS3 games go. Personally i just thought the game got way too 
 repetitive, hiding, shooting, hiding, shooting and there isn't any reward for doing well. Overall 
 the game was fun for awhile but each mission is relatively short and after about 8 of them i was 
 ready to turn it back in. I would advise renting the game for maximum pleasurable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumerianDaemon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  This games strong point is its gameplay. It makes you feel like you re really there. Every progress 
 you make you feel like you've achieved something special especially in realistic mode.
  
  Weapon behaviour is amazing and so is the opponent AI.
  Thankfully the graphics are good enough 
 to convince you. They are not perfect but they surely dont ruin the overall experience.
  
  All this, together with the sound perfomance make sure you ll enjoy this game and finish it more 
 than once. I simply wanted more every time, since the game was never repeating itself (except of the 
 room entry after setting you team at the door) . Each battle had its own characteristics.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer didnt really impress me due to some lag issues and the game's speed. I prefer 
 resistance-like carnage.
  
  But just for the single player, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6: Vegas was a great offering on the Xbox 360. I have not followed the Rainbow Six series, 
 and Vegas was my first attempt at getting into the genre of tactical shooters. It has been a very 
 long wait in getting R6 onto the PS3. Although the game itself is relatively solid, especially 
 in the multiplayer department, it is, in fact, the players themselves who serve to bring the game's 
 fun factor down a few notches. Here's my Game Breakdown on Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  Graphics: This is a tricky spot. When I first got this game, the text was very blurry, almost 
 unreadable, and the graphics were terrible. However, I quickly discovered that this game does NOT 
 support 1080i on my television. After switching to 720p, the game looks MUCH better. Unfortunately, 
 that means I have to change my display settings on the PS3 every time I play this game, which is 
 a major annoyance. With the appropriate settings, the game looks pretty darn good. There are some 
 issues, however, such as guns getting stuck in walls when players die, and if you are hugging a 
 wall, you may see your arm going through it, etc. Small issues, but why are they present on a next-gen 
 console? 360 included? The guns look pretty good, and the levels have a nice feel. It's not a bar-setter 
 visually, but it is far from an ugly duckling.
  
  Sound: Not much to complain about here.... except for one MAJOR problem. The explosions sound good, 
 the guns sound good, heck, even the door opening/closing sound effects sound great. So what's the 
 problem? Well, this seems to be the section to complain about this in, so I'll tell you. Microphones. 
 Stupid, annoying microphones. The game's diamond in the rough is it's multiplayer component, but 
 if you don't have a mic, you aren't going to get to enjoy it very much. Why? Because people without 
 mics are often kicked from lobbies for no other reason than that. I'll delve deeper into this issue 
 in the Gameplay section, but for now, let's just say don't forget your mic. And the funny thing 
 about it is, there is an absolutely ludicrous amount of feedback from mics in this game. I'm guessing 
 its because most people are using wireless mics, but man, I wind up muting 80% of mic users because 
 the feedback is so loud and annoying. Control: If you played on 360, this will take some getting 
 used to. If you haven't played the game before, you should be able to pick this one up and go at 
 it with next to no problems. I experienced no real issues in this department. Gameplay: If you 
 are buying this game for the single player campaign, save your money. The single player part of 
 this game is very dull and uninteresting. The story is strewn together very jumbled and loose per 
 most Tom Clancy games, which is ironic since he is supposed to be a good author. Where the game 
 shines is in its multiplayer mode. Unfortunately, that is also where the biggest problems are. 
 The game tracks your rank when you play online, and as you go up in rank, you are able to access 
 more items to customize your character. However, leveling up in this game once you get past about 
 the Staff Seargeant rank takes pretty much dedicating your life to it, which was something I really 
 hated. Also, you will find yourself playing against opponents who are a higher rank than you, and 
 will thus have much better weaponry than you. True, you can pick up guns from those you kill, but 
 the only ammo you get is whatever was left in the clip before they died. Apart from the ridiculous 
 amount of time you need to invest in the game to get a high rank, the online community is not without 
 problems. First off, there's the microphone debacle. Expect to be verbally ridiculed before you 
 are kicked for not having one plugged in. If you can, its best to just plug one in while you are 
 in the lobby, and then unplug it once the game starts. Its a shame that this is such an issue, 
 but if you have played the game, you know this is a real annoying issue. Also, they should never 
 have put leaderboards on this game. Why you ask? I'll answer with one word: Quitters. There should 
 be a penalty for leaving a game. People do not want to damage their stats since they are tracked, 
 so they just leave the game before it's over, some within the first two minutes. Alot of people 
 who play this game act like it is a literal life and death situation. This is not a good game to 
 play if you are just out to have some casual fun. This game draws a much more hardcore audience, 
 and I myself being hardcore do not even enjoy playing with others as much as I should on here. 
 If you want to get a game going right away, you can choose to join an existing match. However, 
 be prepared to be joining a game that is often one-sided. For some stupid reason, Ubisoft has given 
 hosts the power to restrict items in multiplayer matches. So yeah, you could be stuck playing against 
 stacked odds. Online, believe it or not, should be more like Halo 2 in the sense that you can't 
 back out once you are in the lobby, and you can't kick other players or choose which weapons they 
 may use. That's not my hidden Xbox side coming out, that's my gamer side coming out and saying 
 how I really feel. Very long story short, if you like tactical shooters, R6 is a good bet. Just 
 make sure that you can deal with some really egotistical and not-so-friendly opponents online, 
 because the single player will not hook you. As a rental, I recommend this game, and as a purchase, 
 I recommend it because you can always play split-screen with a buddy offline, even though you have 
 to play vertical split and not horizontal, which just sucks. Bottom line, you should feel free 
 to take a gamble with R6: Vegas. Just remember, whatever you do, don't forget your mic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leerpac
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas has great graphics and game play. The transitions from 1st to 3rd person are 
 smooth and effective in combat (both on-line and in single player) . The single-player missions 
 are fun and challenging on the realistic difficultly. However, it only took me about a week (14 
 hours) to beat. With a less than eventful ending. The multi-player maps and game play is stellar, 
 and very rarely lags (at least on my Comcast connection) . The major disappointment with playing 
 online is that there isn't a lobby where you can choose which game you want to join. A gamer must 
 search for a game and is at the mercy of the search engine to get them into a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  best ps3 game so far ?
  
  yep !
  
  The good: intense gameplay, amazing graphics and incredible voice acting +online will keep you 
 busy for years !
  
  The bad: Every good thing ends
  
  Graphics: we all know Ubisoft, they release a good game once a year but when they do, it's a must 
 buy if you'll ask me ubisoft doesn't put a lot of attention to the details in their games, the 
 graphics seems empty in most of their games and you feel that something is missing however in Rainbow 
 six vegas the graphics is full of life, almost all the levels are perfecly designed and the details 
 look great, and the most important Las Vegas actually looks like Las vegas.
  
  Sound: once again we all know Ubisoft, remember splinter cell ?
  well... lots of sound effects 
 have been taken from there but it sounds really good, the explosions, voice acting, music they 
 all make an amazing atmosphere
  
  Online: I have played motorstorm's online as well as resistance's online but none of them was better 
 than Rainbow Six Vegas' online although you might have some lags from time to time but it won't 
 disappoint you
  
  Gameplay: a heaven for tactical shooter fans, Rainbow Six Vegas has an Intense and massive gameplay 
 which will keep you playing for a long period of time.
  
  Buy the game ps3 owners ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas. What can i say except 'its a magnificent game' Gameplay is similar to Gears 
 of War except rainbow six is more tactical. I like the idea of covering behind walls and blind 
 fire. This game makes you think about your actions before you can react against your enemy, such 
 as hostage rescue of being flanked by a group of terrorist. Graphics are good, but i've seen better. 
 Sounds is a little of the weak side when it comes to gun fire but im not complaining. The replay 
 value is good for rainbow six vegas but may get repititive after playing it over and over. Online 
 is fun, depending if you lag or not. The only big downside to this game is the lack of playing 
 in Vegas you get to experience. The first part of the game is set in mexico. It just seems like 
 the vegas experience could've been better. If this game was set in real vegas hotels then that 
 would make the game THAT much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Well i first heard this was comming out for the ps3 i was like cool i don't have a ps3 so i idc 
 but later down the road i got to play thsi game and it turned out thsi may be in the top 3 games 
 for the ps2 those being 1 resistance fall of man
  2 elder scrolls 4 3 and this so the gamplay its like your tepical firts person shooter but alot 
 better you use cover to servive and it gose over realy well and is so much fun to play. Now i hate 
 the rainbow six series but i do love this game like i said in my headline the multiplayer is so 
 fun online works the same way and so dose co-ap but jsut with a firend teh graphic to me look the 
 same as they did before realy nice and great to look at the sound is just good nothing special 
 guns sound k voice actings good
  
  value for a ps3 owner this is a must have for now definatly worth half a hundred bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radicaldude10
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  this is a very good game. i dont know y it got a lower score. than the x360 did. its the same game, 
 but it is on a system that has blu-ray and has a faster hardrive. so thats y im giving it the score 
 i gave. I think more people suld base there reviews on how they play and feel , cuz so many people 
 base it on gamespot and wat other gamers have said. and thats it. so u suld check this game out 
 but or rent it and then tell me how u feel about it. cuz some people prefer different types of 
 games and people huu get tthe game but dont like these type then will give it a bad review so it 
 suxs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cas533
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Having played other Rainbow games I wasn't too excited to get Rainbow Six Vegas but it has turned 
 out to be will worth the money. Game play is fast and exciting. very short learning curve and excellent 
 controls both for the main character and the team. As my first PS3 game I have not been left wanting 
 in the graphics department. Renders are crisp and special effects are killer. So far I have only 
 played single player but the game play is not overly short with lots of rooms in the maps. Variety 
 of weapons is awsome and weapons recoil and drift seems very realistic. Object cover really works 
 well allowing for creative play. Story line is fun without being too deep or drawn out. Like the 
 lack of long cutscenes, letting me focus more on gameplay
  Audio for the game overall is good but doesn't blow the doors off but I wasn't let down either. 
 As a first foray into PS3 Rainbow Six Vegas was an excelent choice. Overall this is a first rate 
 game and look forward to seeing more of Tom Clancy's work on the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeatH-MetaL_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game and finally got it, and i am impressed. i played a few hours 
 of the story to get used to the controls and it was great fun, it isn't the best single player 
 experience you will have but it darn sure is fun!! Seeing as alot of people are saying that multiplayer 
 is where it shines i was wwaaayyy to excited so started that and it is one of the best multiplayer 
 games. :) even though with the lack of a decent lobby or even a lobby if you will, it is solid. 
 but it is a bit annoying if you are dropped into a match with just another person in it.
  
  Playing resistance quite alot i have gotten used to having no lag. but in a 7 vs 7 match there 
 is alot of lag. but it doesnt take anything away which is lucky.
  
  Character customisation is great. wear wot clothes and armor you want to wear, and customise your 
 gun!! Its great. Overall its solid gameplay in multiplayer and single player.
  
  Gameplay: wow!! taking cover and playing strategically is just great fun and will keep you hooked 
 for hours
  
  Graphics: there awesome but having a SDTV i cant experience them properly. Im getting an HDTV good 
 and have played it on one and it looks nice.
  
  Sound: great voice acting and is funny at times. I think Rainbow Six Vegas is an amazing game and 
 well worth the money. It is also a good port with the extra map packs added for free. Any fan of 
 FPS should buy this, as it will surely keep you entertained. See you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gunslinger_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  After months of delays, PS3 owners can finally get their own taste of Sin City. Was it worth the 
 wait? You bet it was!
  
  The Bad: Some wall textures seem a little washed out , The graphics seem blurry on a 1080i setting, 
 the system for searching for what server you want to play on is random and can be annoying when 
 you get stuck with game lobby of only one or two people. The Good: With a more of a tactical approach 
 than a run and gun shooter, it gives you the option to coordinate your attacks and how you will 
 enter a room. Will you frag the room and clear it? Or will you just bust in, guns ablazing? It's 
 all up to you! The single player story will keep you interested and finding yourself skipping the 
 multiplayer for awhile just to play it! But once you do get to the multiplayer, you won't want 
 to stop! Whether you lose or win a match, you get XP to level up your character's rank. With each 
 rank you get better guns, armor, and accessories to customize your character! Good luck on getting 
 full pink camo!
  
  The Bottom Line: If you're even remotely into tactical shooters, then you'll want to pick up Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. The single player story is more engaging than those of other shooters and with 20 multiplayer 
 maps right on the disc, the multiplayer is sure not to disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ResidentEvil-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Just when you thought you would jump out of the window if someone even mentioned another realistic 
 3D shooter with terrorists, comes Rainbow Six: Vegas. Basically, the game is more of the same old, 
 same old.
  
  To save the city and random hostages, you must run from cover to cover, give simple orders to your 
 (quite intelligent) team mates and shoot down hundreds of (quite dangerous) bad guys. This is done 
 really well in every sense, but it is the city that makes the difference.
  
  What about the gameplay? Well, it's very good and definitely top-notch. Especially the cover-system 
 is very useless and it works great. The game contains lots of controls and they are all important. 
 Enemies are all pretty smart and if you want to die, you can charge. You can't survive. PS3 version 
 also contains Red and Black map packs, while Xbox 360-owners have to buy these packs for $10.
 
  
  Las Vegas is surreal enviroment with it's tasteless neon lights and the slotmachines with cheap 
 sound effects. Shooting sounds very good especially on 5.1 sound system. Even shooting on pistol 
 feels fantastic and sound suppressors only raise the atmosphere. Voice acting is also good and 
 background music feels great. Music is quiet when situation is peaceful but it immediately voices 
 up when shooting and fighting strarts.
  
  The graphics are simply and pretty good. Xbox 360-version has better graphics than PS3-version. 
 The game has also strange ''graphic glitch'': Textures and the whole game (including the menus) 
 looks very blurry at 1080i, but at 720p the game looks obviously better. So change the resolution 
 always, when you play this game.
  
  Like you would except from a Rainbow Six game, there are also quite extensive multiplayer options, 
 from co-op story missions to many competitive game modes. The game contains two offline modes, 
 which are ''story mode'' and ''terrorists hunt''. And the game contains also up to 14 players online-game, 
 which is absolutely fantastic! So this game doesn't end instantly. Tons of maps, lots of game modes, 
 terrorists hunt... they all will keep you coming back for a long time.
  
  THE GOOD
  +Intensive
  +Technically superb
  +Lots of playing
  +Oh, it's fantastic Las Vegas
  +Very 
 smart AI
  
  THE BAD
  -Graphics aren't just as good as you would expect
  -1080i resolution bugs
  -SIXAXIS control is sometimes a little weird 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznhayato7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  For several months, my friends that own Xbox 360's have been constantly talking about their feats 
 in Rainbow Six Vegas. All they talked about was how it was such a good game and that they would 
 only play that and Gears of War. Since I am a PS3 owner, I can not rely on just Resistance: Fall 
 of Man to keep my shooter hunger under control. I finally was able to find a co-shooter to play 
 in tandem with Resistance in Rainbow Six Vegas. I am also proud to say that what my friends said 
 about the game was almost accurate. Rainbow Six is not just a good game, its an awesome game. What 
 makes it even more special is that it is a port of an Xbox 360 game and usually games that are 
 ported from the 360 to the PS3 are not as good as the original 360 game. However, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is actually better than the original 360 version in that it includes multiplayer maps that 360 
 owners had to pay for while including an exclusive multiplayer map that 360 owners can not get. 
 Even though these map can now be obtained for free on Xbox live, they will take up hard drive space 
 on the 360 while the PS3 version of the game contains them on disc. The gameplay in Rainbow Six 
 Vegas is just incredible. The shooting mechanics are awesome and realistic, the cover system works 
 very well, maybe even better than the Gears of War cover system. The artificial intelligence is 
 actually a challenge to play against, while your sqaud members actually do what you tell them to 
 do. The weapons in the game are just phenomenal. Althought there are not as many as you would see 
 in other games, the each weapon in Rainbow Six Vegas is customisable, making it different from 
 the original weapon, allowing for many different combinations of weapons. Although the combat is 
 really well designed and the environments look very nice, some levels in the game are just longer 
 than they need to be. For example, while at the dam in Nevada as you are trying to get to a checkpoint 
 (one that is very important in the game) you will have to go through a number of huge rooms filled 
 with enemies. Another bad thing about the game is that night vision is needed most of the time 
 and it can really get annoying. The worst thing about the game is the cliff hanger ending in which 
 the player finds out that (spoiler warning) Gabriel is still alive and a sequel to the unfinished 
 conflict is ineveitable. The multiplayer is well designed and it will keep you playing for a considerable 
 amount of time. Terrosist hunt is fun as well, but it does get old after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Counter-terrorist teams dont often arrive as late as Rainbow Six. Originally scheduled to appear 
 as a launch title, if this had been a real hostage situation, then everyone would have already 
 been shot or died of starvation. But despite forcing me to wait around for ages, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is definitely here to deliver. Its a slick combination of strategy, focused aggression and all-out 
 nerves of steel.
  
  Focus is an important word, because this is anything but a run- and-gun FPS. Survival depends on 
 two decisive factors - using cover effectively and making the best use of two AI-assisted companions. 
 Forget about the games 50-plus weapons; Michael Walters and Jung Park are the most effective part 
 of your arsenal. These men follow your every command, and rely on you not to put them in the firing 
 line.
  
  Real counter-terrorists use a classic strategy where one team pushes forward as the other provides 
 support. Its an effective tactic, but not as simple to execute when bullets start flying and enemies 
 burst through doors unexpectedly. In any case, if you dont survive, theres no blaming it on the 
 controls. You are the one in charge.
  
  Positioning the team where you want them is really intuitive. Its a case of pointing the crosshair 
 of your weapon over a location and pressing a button. The teams path finding is good enough that 
 they can go almost anywhere without hassle. Best of all, the same system works for other commands, 
 including breaching and clearing rooms, defusing bombs and healing fallen team members. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Vegas is a rebuild of previous clancy games. It hasnt changed the formula much since rainbow 6 
 on the orignal xbox and also the other games on 360.
  This one sees you fighting in more confined spaces than advanced warfighter and this is where you 
 rely heavily on taking cover from virtually anywhere in the game. The graphics appear to be slightly 
 of a less quality than the 360 verion however is a great looking game with lots of detail and great 
 effects. The graphics are considered warm and fuzzy, the ligthing is done wonderfully and being 
 set in vegas shows. Although the levels are pretty straight forward this game does have a fantastic 
 scope to it when seen. The framerate is solid and smooth without being truly remarkable. The tactical 
 gameplay can be challenging in spots but is so forgiving and thats what makes the game so addictive. 
 Vegas is not an overly long mission but long enough and in reality very repetetive but a very enjoyable 
 game. You lead 2 men giving limited orders and works very well but not so perfect as you cannot 
 cancel an order but yet change it to a different one.
  
  The sound is as you would expect but doesnt push any sound boundaries. Not much in variety but 
 do their job well.
  
  Another success in the Tom Clancy titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a remarkable game. It is worth all of the delays. The story isn't that great, but who cares. 
 The single player is a good difficulty on normal, but is insanely hard on realistic. The sound 
 is great and the graphics look great on my sd-tv, but I've heard of it looking fuzzy and you shouldn't 
 play it on 1080. The gameplay and controls are good and feel fine when you get used to them. The 
 multiplayer is fun, but it depends on the host because having a bad host leads to lag. The multiplayer 
 will be fixed up in patches, but it is still pretty good as of now. This game is a buy and well 
 worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slarvak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game is really really good. it is impressive in graphics gameplay and multiplayer. one of 
 the best 1st person shooters out at the moment. but is it better than the 360 and pc version, which 
 came out back at Christmas. well there is no new content and the graphics are the same plus the 
 6-axis doesnt add anything to the game. i own a ps3 and 360 (and pc but thats not important) i 
 have vegas on 360 but i have rented it on ps3 to see the difference, and there is none. I would 
 say that the 360 version is better because of one key fact. there is more player on the 360 version, more 
 games and more variety of skill, because more people own 360 versions. i am rank master sergent 
 so i have played this game quite alot and unlocked the extra content (weapons, armour ....) so 
 i am no noob to this game, and it is that simple fact that makes the 360 version better than the 
 ps3 and pc's versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_marine93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six has to be one of the best game ive ever played on my ps3. while it starts out difficult 
 the game steadily gets better and better with a rather standard plot twist at the end the game 
 is quite fun all the way through the controls are well mapped and easy to get used. To your team 
 are good A. I and so are the enemies. Textures look good on any TV and the sound will give even 
 the best surround sound a work out. All in all R6V is a fantastic shooter with an addictive multiplayer 
 and single player campaign it basically rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheefyman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game that makes Gears of War look retarded (just kidding) but the combat is 
 just great. Weapons are sick and the graphics are pretty good even if you dont have an HDTV. Though 
 the game starts out a little difficuit, you get better as you continue to play the game. What makes 
 the game slightly easier is that you have to get shot consequitively about three times to get killed 
 unless you get shot by a sniper.
  
  The only bad part about this game is the hostage saving. It gets difficult to kill terrorists near 
 hostages and if you accidentally kill a hostage then you have to restart the mission which makes 
 it quite annoying. But besides this, this may be the best combat game PS3 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerboi27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: 9/10 i am really enjoying this game. The story mode is pretty fun, im playing it on realistic 
 (hardest) mode, which is imo pretty hard to beat. The terrorist hunt mode is also very fun... u 
 get straight into the action on any map... killing terrorists which is sometimes more enjoyable 
 then the story. The cover system works great.. takes a bit to get used to since no other but gears 
 have it.
  Offline splitscreen coop is also fun... my buddy and i would play it for hours. The splitscreen 
 also offers both story and terrorists hunt... which is awesome.
  The online multiplayer the best... with 14 people in a game is just crazy, and it relys on teamwork 
 a lot... like If you stick with a guy, and cover each other, you'll kill a lot more people then 
 goin by urself...
  the mic makes teamwork easier, but its an open talk option which sometimes can get annoying.
 
  Cover system in online is just as important as offline... if used properly, you'll rape thos who 
 just runs-and-guns.
  The bad thing about online is that there is no server lobbies... unlike COD3 so its harder to find 
 a server with desired number of players.
  When you play online... make sure you have a pretty good connection with ur router if your using 
 wifi, casue if its not good... ull get this crazy sound lag..
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  The graphics for this game is pretty good... ive never played it on 360, so i cant compare with 
 it sry... anyways, i wouldnt say its perfect, cause its not... the texture is not as sharp if you 
 look at it from a close range... and there are some bugs.. like bodys stuck in walls, its a lot better 
 than COD3 tho... which is just sad to watch..
  the character model is great.... very sharp and detailed
  i really dislike the car models in the 
 game... it looks very unrealistic.. but meh its just cars, not very important.
  the guns are alright... could have been better but still very nice looking
  
  Ive heard people 
 say the online multiplayer graphics is bad.... but ive been playing this game online a lot... and 
 i can tell you that its not.... the only differnce i saw was the character models... being not as 
 sharp as single player... all other stuff seems pretty close to single player if not exactly the 
 same.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  The sound was pretty good... nothing too fancy... the only thing i dont like about the sound is 
 the guns are not very loud even with it turned up in options... i like it when the guns are loud 
 so it sounds kick a$$...
  another thing i didnt like bout the sound is that when people get shot or dies... they dont make 
 sounds like groans or screams... which is a shame lol ... doesnt sound as realistic but im not 100% 
 sure .... maybe there is its just really quiet
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  this game can be played for a long time.... with single player story and T hunt.... coop story and 
 T hunt.... multiplayer with tons of maps and modes...
  this game can go a long way i think ...
  
  conclusion:
  
  awesome... i think its a must 
 buy... but if your still not sure.. i highly recommend you to rent it and check it out... dont miss 
 out on this great game.
  
  Thank you for reading my review.... i may have missed some things.... so forgive me :) enjoy the 
 game if you ever decide to buy it see you online lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas on the Ps3 is fantastic, the graphics are great, the sound sounds fantastic, 
 and the gameplay is new and immersive. The Main thing i'm talking about here is the gameplay.
 
  
  The Gameplay is Rainbow Six Vegas is taken off of Gears of War, it uses a very similar cover system, 
 where you attach yourself to a wall or trashcan or car etc. and you go around, or above to get 
 your shots off then you get back into cover. This cover system actually works much better than 
 the one is gears of war, but by all means, this is a hard game at points, so get a freind to join 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsouljah
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly amazing game. I've been waiting for this game since day one. Calling EB games every 
 release date to check if its come in yet. Finnaly on June 28 2007 iit had and i went straight in 
 and bought. And i am truly grateful that i had. In story mode you start off as a team leader. u 
 start by taking terorists in mexico. you use tactical skills to find diferent ways around the terorist 
 and by observing the terorists throgh different ways of spying. such as the snake cam that allows 
 you to look around a room underneath the door. after a couplpe of missions you recieve word that 
 terorists have taken over a casino in las vegas. you use your cunning to take them out. This game 
 is beautfully made due to its graphics and realism and story. This game is a must have for ps3 
 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  If you're thinking of buying this for PlayStation 3, then the chances are that you will have played 
 Resistance: Fall of Man. In this case, you will recognise that Resistance is a very classic first 
 person shooter. You've got a button to fire, a button to change weapon etc.
  
  This is certainly not the case with Rainbow Six Vegas. There are many different ways to play it. 
 You could play it as a simple first person shooter, or you could think more tactically and plan 
 out your routes.
  
  That sounds boring! you may say I want to go in and bl; ast their heads off! Not worry about where 
 I need to go and how I should get in a building . Believe me, it is NOT boring. You very simply 
 choose how you want your team mates to perform, using very simple controls (directional buttons 
 etc.) .
  
  There are some parts of the game that get very repetitive, but it really is a very realistic game, 
 and you feel like you're working for what you want.
  
  Good points:
  
  Excellent graphics
  All up to date with no necessary updates yet.
  A very strong storyline
 
  Very innovative gameplay and tactical options
  Supreme AI
  
  Bad points:
  
  Can be repetitive
  
  Brilliant game, go and buy it! You'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bimbojim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Yes, I know they are different breeds of game and this is a tactical shooter not a fast paced action 
 shooter like fall of man. The single player is good and moves with pace the difficulty level is 
 high, and is on a par with resistance in that department. You do need to take your time otherwise 
 you are a dead man.
  
  My only gripe is the online mode although the game has a vast array of options for the player I 
 find it a just too slow. I wanted lobbys where games were visible, choosing a game on the resistance 
 custom games screen is legendary it works so well. However in rainbow 6 it seems complicated and 
 does lack the simplicity that resistance has which makes the latter superior. I played one online 
 game waited around 5-6 mins in loading screens then 30 seconds into the game i was dead and thats 
 it more loading........ Ok you could argue that this adds to the exitement and tension that if 
 you die you have all that waiting again but i see it as frustrating. I played online recently with 
 one of my Buddies and worked through all of the screens played a game which didn't last long then 
 waited again too long for the next round! We did in fact switch games and go to resistance because 
 we can get into a game load it up play it then play another. I found some elements of the single 
 player frustrating too but this can be overlooked as you can adjust your playing and beat the part 
 that had you throwing your joypad at the TV. Yes, this is an immersive title that feels tight and 
 fluid at the same time and has an lot of content and i mean a lot although a little bit PC ish 
 for a console in terms of the masses of options screens you can wade through. It has the tension 
 and feel of a good shooter and has you looking for cover whilst walking to the kitchen to make 
 a drink. It just hurts me to see resistance sat on the shelf when i'm watching the loading screens 
 in multiplayer though. The innovative side is evident with ideas such as the 3rd person cover cam, 
 very clever and works a treat. I love the array of wepons and gadgets too, holding a H &amp; K 
 Mp5 feels nicer than some stupid lazer gun that fires through walls in my opinion. The graphics 
 are not the best, dont get me wrong there are some lovely touches animations and scrolling but 
 none that make your jaw hit the floor and make you believe this is a polished Vegas. The sounds 
 are very good the rattle of an AK from the room next to you sounds good as does the distant ones 
 and the speech is spot on. i just wish the online load times were quicker and there was a good 
 lobby system. If there was the wealth of options and game modes could really be the clincher and 
 this would make resistance suffer but there isn't and therefore i still get my multiplayer kicks 
 from the best multiplayer game ever....... Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  It's the classic strategy redesigned for the next-gen consoles, and in this case for PS3. I don't 
 understand Gamespot's 9.0 for the PS3 version and 9.1 for the XBOX 360, both versions are exactly 
 the same, excluding the fact they were designed for different consoles. The graphics are a little 
 outdated but let's not forget that Ubisoft is just adapting an older game for another console... 
 You'll have lots of fun blowing up terrorists in Las Vegas' luxurious casinos. The environment 
 and combat effects are really amazing and much has changed since Rainbow Six 3 Raven Shield. You 
 can bet that this game is a must try for PS3 owners. Have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddictx91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The single-player experience in Rainbow Six Vegas is very fun to play. The story may not be the 
 most fascinating thing in the world but that doesn't take much away from the game. The cover system 
 works very well and it doesn't take very long to master the game's simple controls. Within half 
 an hour I was commanding my squadmates like I've been playing for years. The game's graphics are 
 slightly unusual. I found that the game actually looked better at 720p than at 1080i. I'm not sure 
 why. The multiplayer is very fun as well. I wish there was more variety in creating your online 
 persona. The choices felt limited. However, there is plenty of guns to pick from with more to unlock 
 by progressing through ranks. Games aren't a pain to find. One bad thing about the multiplayer 
 is that when you are dead and observing other players, the camera is really choppy and it can get 
 annoying. Other than that, I have no other complaints about the multiplayer. This game has many 
 diverse modes so you won't be getting tired of this game anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batigol_9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  After reading some other reviews on this game, and on the PS3, I still have hope, I want to have 
 HOPE! I am more of an XBOX GUY, I love my 360, but I am waiting on the ps3, I don't know why, if 
 there is a game coming for the 360 and PS3, I rather wait, but some thing is still missing. I played 
 R6 Vegas on the 360 as a demo, and I thought it was great, it was kind of difficult at first so 
 I thought it was going to be a great game and I said I'll wait for it to come out on the PS3.
 
  
  So I did, and it took me and my son about 3 days to pass it, you know, on and off, but we did, 
 and we both thought it was great, and it's also fun online, altough he prefers halo 2. The game 
 play and technical stuff is all good and everything has been said, if it sounds low and not so 
 clear, if the bodies of fallen terrorist tweak too much after they died, all of those things are 
 bearable, what gets me is the graphics. I am running it at 1080i just like my 360, and I strongly 
 feel that the demo version of the 360 looks better than most of the PS3 experience. I mean don't 
 get me wrong, there were some points that I tought it looked awesome but I was comparing it and 
 it still looked better on the 360 demo.
  
  The online multiplayer is great, and you can add friends, and invite them to games and it will 
 take you directly to them, and the variety of maps is great. There are also quite a few modes with 
 the assault and sharpshooters remaining as the best ones.
  
  Tom Clancy's games are the best!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is fundamentally a good tactical shooter. The single player levels are mostly 
 imaginative and original, thanks to the colourful Vegas setting.
  
  Gameplay is the game's strong point, with shootouts never fail to keep you thinking and trying 
 to anticipate your enemies' next move. The cover system works surprisingly well, allowing you to 
 jump out and make precise shots - something which looks very cool when done quickly and without 
 taking any damage. Given the entertaining combat in R6V, it's a shame the single player campaign 
 isn't longer. You can easily complete it in about 10 hours, although the terrorist hunt maps do 
 a sound job of keeping you entertained thereafter. The story is also rather bland and predictable, 
 but this is excusable, considering that when you buy a tactical shooter game, you buy it for gameplay, 
 not story, and this is something RV6 sticks to.
  
  Despite the gameplay wonders RV6 has pulled off, it isn't so successful in other areas. Whilst 
 the graphics aren't necessarily bad, they do look choppy at times and are certainly nothing spectacular, 
 however this may be largely due to the fact that I am only playing on a SD TV. Furthermore, the 
 frame rate isn't perfect, slowing down noticeably at times. This is particularly obvious during 
 co-op games, where the action can slow down to such an extent that its actually funny, especially 
 when you witness a recently exploded terrorist flying across the room slower than a fat kid on 
 a treadmill.
  
  Finally, whilst multiplayer is also enjoyable, it can be a real chore finding and joining a game, 
 a problem linked to the peculiar absence of a game lobby in the game. Instead, you must enter a 
 game type, map etc. into a search window. Obviously, this means that if nobody has created a game 
 which meets your specific requirements (remember there are about 15 different possible online playable 
 game modes, plus the different maps) , you will not find a game to join. Surely, a game lobby would 
 have solved this small, but extremely frustrating problem? That said, when you do eventually manage 
 to find a good match with no lag, the game can be a blast to play. I found co-op terrorist hunts 
 particularly engaging. Nothing beats seeing a team mate caught in the middle of a firefight about 
 to get shot, but then rescuing him at the last moment.
  
  If you want a short but sweet single player experience which will entertain you with explosive 
 gameplay from start to finish, then by all means, buy RV6. If you are expecting anything more than 
 this, or have any intention of playing online, you may be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  R6 Vegas is rock solid. Every aspect of the game was translated perfectly to PS3 and the wait definitely 
 paid off. Only thing that i had a problem with were the graphics, as they just dont feel PS3 like, 
 but keeping in mind its a port they are also very solid. High point in the graphics is definitely 
 added amount of destructible objects as well as some better lighting effects and water effects.
 
  
  Where the game comes out at ts best is definitely the squad based gameplay. Commanding your squad 
 is very simple and very efficient. Unfortunately the teammates follow your orders a little to literally, 
 and while they will fire back and shoot down any tangos that they come in contact, they will not 
 hide from fire if you accidentaly don't send them to a full cover.
  Weapons arsenal features all the real life weapons you could ask for and than some more. There 
 are some guilty pleasure weapons such as the raging bull, m-14 and the SWAT shield (btw you can 
 find it on the ground right as you start the Vegas strip mission) .
  Music score is amazing, and it follows the atmosphere and the action in a masterful way. Voice 
 casting is also excellent.
  Enemy AI can be a bit dumb from time to time on normal mode. I've had enemies for no apparent reason 
 run up to me, with a total surprise and sit there staring at me until i kill them. On realistic 
 mode however its a different story and you will get a true challenge.
  
  On a side note, my good friend and next door neighbor is a season SWAT member, and he plays the 
 game with me. In his opinion, sans some of the over the top action, the game is a as good of a 
 translation of real life spec-op action and tactics as a game can be. I mean the guy looks like 
 a 12 year old in a candy store while playing it.
  
  Online play is also amazing. I was always a fan of a more slow paced tactical shooters such as 
 SOCOM series and this is very close to that and maybe even better in some aspects. PS3 exclusive 
 maps are handy but not that much better, it really is just a nice added extra content, a reward 
 for waiting so god darn long for this game to come to PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duckers923
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing all of tommy games since the first rainbow six and i can honestly say this 
 is worth the wait . Everything about this game is good the graphics were the best part of the game 
 . I like all the Casino parts and I recommend this game to all shoot em up fans .I gave this game 
 a 9.5 Because this game is one of the best Rainbow sixes to date. And if you cant wait for the 
 next grand theft auto or halo 3 this will help pass the time. believe me. I have not expacted a 
 game to be this good since resident evil 4 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzen_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  i like stating the negatives first, so here goes: - slight framerate issue in large areas, but 
 i probably notice it because i'm a videophile and my PC runs all games at 60+ fps. but its so rare 
 and hardly noticeable when you're trying to dodge fire
  - i miss the classic way of planning out maps with multiple squads, prior to going into combat, 
 than this squad based adventure . but it matches the console perfectly (as that was the way for 
 the PC) and works way better in this aspect, therefore i suggest getting it for the console
  - the 'search game' function for multiplayer locates games for you. i would definitely prefer locating 
 a server i'd wanna play in, viewing the ping, amount of players, who's in it, stats, etc. much 
 like all online PC shooters. i will pray for a patch to remedy this
  
  very minor, nitpicky flaws, but i suggest that you keep reading if you have any interest in the 
 series, or any shooter for that matter, as the game is perfect in every other way: - gameplay is 
 steady, fun and exciting! there may be a bit of a learning curve for those who have not played 
 3rd person shooters, and as for the aiming, i suggest firing on single shot as it conserves your 
 ammo and makes it more accurate. but i doubt there's many who have not, so you will appreciate 
 the covering system, the commanding of your squad, the strategy and the intelligent AI that tend 
 to flank you and communicate with each other to locate you. a lot of times you can have your squad 
 AI do all of the work for you when clearing rooms
  - graphics make beautiful use of the unreal engine. nothing is bland, character models of both 
 allies and enemies are a joy to behold. its definitely one of the best looking games currently 
 around on the ps3. the physyx from ageia are used as well and make the atmosphere hectic and heart-pounding 
 when objects are being destroyed around you (ie, the slot machines all firing out coins when shot 
 at)
  - sound is great. from the casino music and slot machines to the firing of weapons and the evil 
 terrorists. - multiplayer game types and the amount of maps are enough to warrant this purchase! 
 there are about 7 different game types that extend the life of the game and each provide a different 
 experience. the customization is fun to play with and actually impact gameplay (such as the type 
 of armor that are either tougher but slow down your agility or weaker, but have better agility) . 
 your character will earn new equipment as you rank up, earning points online. the maps are big 
 and will increase your will to strategize (choke points, hiding spots, flanking) . i personally 
 love the fact they included presidio and streets, which were a few of my favorites from the classic 
 rainbow on the pc. its easy to get into a game, and if your buddy buys a copy you can either team 
 up with him against others, or play co-op on or offline. this is great as we can have three of 
 my friends play online without the use of a 4-split screen (i prefer 2-split as 4 in any game doesn't 
 give you enough viewing space and my best friend has a smaller tele) . two of my buddies can use 
 their ps3 to connect online, while my third buddy can join me on my ps3 to connect online, we join 
 up and play terrorist hunt FTW!
  
  ... i've always been a fan of the classic pc versions, but this is by far the best in the series 
 for any previous version on both the consoles and PC... granted, the ps3 hasn't had many, great 
 titles, but this will give you complete satisfaction ~~!!~~a DEFINITE must-have~~!!~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I ill be short and sweet. I traded my 360 copy of R6Vegas for the PS3 one since a good friend of 
 mine has the PS3 one and we want to play together online. There are no noticeable differences among 
 the two versions. Probably the only thing that is missing from the PS3 one is the capability of 
 applying your face to your online model, but I am sure that when the PS3 Webcam will come out they 
 will add a patch so that it will be possible to do so on our beloved system.
  
  The single player campaign is a good training ground for the multiplayer version of the game, which 
 in my opinion is the real deal and the reason why PS3 owner with a decent broadband connection 
 shouldn't spend one sec an buy this game right away.
  
  Technically is on par of the 360 if not better, I noticed that the voice chatting is actually pretty 
 good on PSN and no lags at all.
  
  GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME .. the more we are buying it .. the funnier !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDiff
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well, firstly, You should definitely buy this game, It has good weopons and equipment, and a great 
 cover system.
  The graphics are OK. The faces are well detailed. But there Is a limit of wounds on a single body 
 and blood doesn't spill out on the ground.
  The online need's tweaking: Firstly there is alot of laag and there is no lobby.
  It is set around 
 mexico and vegas, where you fight against terrorists.
  It is fully featured, and you can play in a terrorist hunt, co-op story, co-op terrorist hunt and 
 of course the main story.
  Again, you should definitely buy this game, it has great stealth, teamwork and weoponry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdaMoochUD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is an amazing game and is a must have for the Playstation 3. Not to mention the 
 one player is amazing and the online is so much fun and I've only played a couple of games online. 
 Graphics - These graphics are some of the best for this game. I'm still confused on if I should 
 run the game at 720p or 1080i, but I heard 720p was the better of the two to run them on. Gameplay 
 - Best gameplay for a shooter. The cover system is unreal and leading your squad is one of the 
 most fun things I have done on my ps3 yet. The game is a little hard so it isn't just running through 
 enemies while gaining health always. I really REALLY like the health concept of your player. You 
 don't have health or health bars in the game, but you can take so much damage at one time and if 
 you cover up and rest you recover. This makes the game keep going and not having to die all the 
 time or go get health. Online - This is the best mutiplayer game for the ps3 of which I own at 
 least. The Show is a very close second. A lot of people have mics already and the online is really 
 a lot of fun.
  
  Sound- somtimes a little weak in areas, but not too bad overall.
  
  Value- with the online the games is 10x worth $60.
  
  Overall -- Amazing game, great graphics, 
 multiplayer, etc. Buy this game and I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matneee
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best PS3 games about. The squad AI is genuinely superb- they do a great job of 
 being a convincing team. So much so that I can't help shake the feeling that they may well just 
 be humouring me and could probably do a better job of things if I just stayed in the chopper and 
 made the tea instead...
  
  Oh, for those having upscaling problems on 1366x768 rez HD TVs that claim to support 1080i - simply 
 go into your PS3 XMB menu, select the video settings, then HDMI, then instead of automatic do it 
 manually and deselect the 1080i option. This forces the game into 720p mode, which is actually 
 the highest resolution a 1366x768 screen can display anyway. And it looks bloody brilliant then:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommanderTy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game here is a must have it has all of what you want online play that is just do die for and 
 will make you wanna keep playin tell you break the controller co-op mode that lets you play story 
 and a mode called terrorist hunt where all you do is kill terrorists and will make you wanna play 
 it over and over again and the single story mode packs quite a punch where you command a squad 
 of two men that you can tag two terrorists so they make the ones you tagged priority one and take 
 them our first, the gameplay through the whole game is sleek smoth and bad Ass this game will make 
 you wanna call in sick so you can stay home and play it all day it is all worth buying the game 
 for $60 bucks if you want an awsome first person shooter with lots of awsome gameplay this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afro_Samurai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the best Rainbow yet. The gameplay is setup that you actually have to duck behind 
 cover to keep from getting hit. In the other Rainbow games, you could just take a bullet or two 
 and keep going. Not this time. This time you have to get out the way or you are picked off quickly. 
 Teamwork also plays a huge role this time. For example, before clearing a room you can set it up 
 so that your teammates attack from one side of the room taking out any overhead cover while you 
 attack from the opposite side focusing on the terrorist with the bomb! I think the control was 
 a tad bit ackward but aside from that, this game is an A+ in my book. Rapelling out of choppers, 
 rappeling down the sides of buildings and shooting bad guys as you break through the glass. Worth 
 the money !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe11cap
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  In the past I have tried playing Rainbow Six games and every time I did, I hated them. The gameplay 
 was definately not up to par with what I was looking for. Rainbow Six Vegas is another story altogether. 
 I was a bit skeptical about it at first, but when I began playing this game I was definately pleased 
 at how good it was. One of the biggest improvements to this series is the ability to take cover 
 and shoot either blindly or precisely by popping out from behind cover, aiming and firing in a 
 Gears of War style. The graphics are great (but if you have an HD tv you have to set it to 720p 
 because they are god awful on 1080i) with the casinos in vegas being the most visually appealing 
 (compared to Mexico in the beginning) . The difficulty of this game is a bit above average. If you 
 don't take cover, YOU WILL DIE FAST. The guns are pretty sweet, but alot of them have the same 
 stats. One of the things I didn't like was the sniper rifles because they aren't very accurate 
 (they should be if they're being used by such an elite group) . The multiplayer is definately one 
 of the funnest parts of the game by far, but it has some issues, which is to be expected when it 
 hasn't been out for long. One of the biggest pains is that you aren't able to select individual 
 rooms. For example, if you wanted to find a room with at least 8 or more people, you can't right 
 now and sometimes you are put in a room with less than 5. I expect this will be fixed eventually 
 through updates. Also, there will be lag if the host has a bad connection. Enough about the bad 
 though. I think one of the best parts about the multiplayer by far is the HUGE customizable player 
 option. You can customize your player's body armor, clothing, face, facial hair, and others right 
 down to the colors of everything. And of course there are plenty of game modes to keep you busy 
 for a long time. One of the most interesting is Assassination where a random player on one side 
 is put into civilian clothes and given only a glock pistol. The other team is supposed to hunt 
 down this player and kill him before he can be extracted.
  If you are looking for a good tactical shooter with a good multiplayer value, or just a good PS3 
 game to keep you busy for awhile, Rainbow Six Vegas will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought RB6 i was like eh its problay not going to be that great and i will have to 
 go back to playing resistance: fall of man for another month. When i first started playing the 
 game i was amazed how great it was the sound is very good and its online play is addicting with 
 over 8 different modes of games and lots of maps. there are some cons though RB6 looks blury and 
 hard to play on 1080i and there are some bugs to fix online and the mics arent that great of quality 
 but other than that this is a most own ps3 game if you own a ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 313rd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Kool my first review I've only had this game for 2 days now it took some gettin use 2 I'm not really 
 a FPS gamer i like them third person games big upz 2 Socom but anyway this game is a must have 
 great graphics, wonderful game play, dont know bout the storyline yet (online 2 much) the only problem 
 i have with this game is the online for that matter PS3 online overall u dont have the freedom 
 u once had like on ps2 online u cant pick the rooms u wanna go in but beside that its a great game 
 period the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JETLI333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  I had pre-ordered thsi game way back in Dec 06 when I picked up my PS3. Hoping that it was going 
 to live up to my expectations I wasn't dissapointed. I had the game for 4 days now and it's a great 
 game. The new features like taking cover battle control, enemy tag and the exciting new leve llike 
 las Vegas. but their are a lot of faults with this game I wish there weren't (seeing how i've been 
 waiting 6 months for this) . Throughout the game even in the menu screen you can see the graphics 
 looking pretty sluggish. The clouds and graphic linings look spiky. When you kill an enemy some 
 of them begin to vibrate for about a minute. Invisible walls in some levels that have no buisness 
 there. the biggest downfall (as I just beat the game on realistic mode) is the lackluster of the 
 story. Let's face it this game does not have the best support. When I defeated the game and the 
 credits came up I thought it was a joke. I thought the game would resume to a new level, but it 
 did'nt. It left me and many other players with a less than forfilling conquest and 3 horrible words, 
 To Be Continued. WHAT?! The only memorable moment was when you first enter Las Vegas and throughout 
 that level. They should've extending that a bit. But we can't be mad because it's not like we PS3 
 owners have a choice in great quality games. Man this sucks for now. I'm done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganjasmugglin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why its happening but i have a Bravia 40Inch Lcd sony TV and when i play this game 
 it displays the gameplay and menu in like 480i res.
  Its horrible and it really aggitated me to find out that one of my favorites doesnt work with my 
 set up. I paid a load of money for that TV and this is what i get in return. I hope they fix this 
 problem with a firmware update or something. Also i dont have a very big library and it being a 
 better game than on the 360, this just makes another game i cant play on my Ps3. Well if they want 
 more sales they better find a fix cause after ninja gaiden&lt; Lair and heavenly sword my Ps3 will 
 be at gamestop on sale in the Used section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-r-o-c-o-p
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  This was one of the game's that I just couldn't wait for to get released. I just kept telling myself 
 I hope their not going to rush with this game . They definetly didn't. When I poped this game into 
 the PS3, the first thing that I wanted to do was play the single player mission's. Just so I got 
 the feel of the game. I had this game for the 360 but couldn't really enjoy it due to the system 
 overheating so I just got rid of it and got myself Enchanted Arm's and a couple PS3 controller's, 
 but that's another story. I caught on the control's pretty fast, it's not very diffcult. It's a 
 pretty straight forward game and I don't understand how these game writer's (gimp's) are complaining 
 about how hard it is to use the snake eye with the 6axis controller . It went very smoothly with 
 me, without any problem's. The multiplayer is where it's at. Creating your charcter has alway's 
 been my favorite in video game's, specially first person shooter's. I just love how everyone's 
 character is going to be different then your's. The only multiplayer that I've tried is attack/defend. 
 I don't really know much of the other style's of play but I bet that the other user's that have 
 written a review have perhap's talked about them. Attack/Defend is straight forward... it's either 
 your attacking or defending. If your attacking you just basically gotta shoot your way through 
 the defender's to retrieve a briefcase and bringing it back into the appropriate zone within the 
 time-limit. The defender's basically have to prevent the attacker's in completing their mission. 
 I know I havn't written much about this game but I'm just so addicted to it, it feel's like I've 
 been writing for day's. hope this review have helped some of you who are wondering about purchasing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDanger4L
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I can play this till g. r. a. w. and stranglehold and everything else comes out. This game is fun 
 as hell the realistic setting really turns it up a notch and u really gotta have some strategy 
 behind every move u make and thats wats so beautiful about the game. ima enjoy this for a while 
 untill i play anything else. The graphic for this game are pretty decent but it looks better or 
 worse in certain levels because of the lighting but it doesnt matter it look sgreat regardless 
 plus who cares when u have terrorist rappeling fro m the ceiling ang d tryna flank u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft's latest entry in the Rainbow Six franchise puts you in the shoes of team leader Logan 
 Keller whose teammates got kidnapped on a routine mission to capture the terrorist leader Irena 
 Morales. Logan makes it out on his own, but has to leave his mates behind on order of the headquarter. 
 It appears that an army of terrorists has invaded Sin City and Keller is to lead Bravo team to 
 clear the situation and uncover the plot. It's too bad though that the story sounds like taken 
 right out of a Tom Clancy novel and is filled with clich&eacute; s like terrorist securing some 
 dangerous weapon, treachery, government secrets and what not. Add to that a lack-luster ending 
 that leaves you hanging and too many questions unanswered and the single player can be a bit of 
 a disappointment.
  
  But alas, gameplay to the rescue. If there's one thing the game does extremely well, it has to 
 be the sense of really being a squad leader who fights very intense, tactical battles against smart 
 enemies. Key here is an elaborate cover mechanic that lets you hide behind pretty much any flat 
 surface or small object. When taking cover, the camera will pop out of your head and switch into 
 a 3rd person over the shoulder perspective, that lets you look around, aim at enemies and quickly 
 jump out of your cover for a few well-placed shots before vanishing behind it again. It's a great 
 system and necessary as well, because the A. I is pretty smart and you can only take a few hits 
 before your vision goes black and you drop down dead if you don't recover for a few seconds.
  
  The level design is all over the place though as some passages are very linear in an artificial 
 way like lines of cars stacked behind each other to form barricades, while others offer a variety 
 of options like roping through windows or multiple entrances to surprise the enemy while they are 
 distracted by your teammates. On the other hand, the Vegas setting is for the most part really 
 nice and certainly hasn't been done before in this fashion in any other game. Since the game relies 
 on checkpoints to save your progress, it's note-worthy that their placement is quite fair and tries 
 to eliminate some of the frustration that can occur during a few especially challenging sequences.
 
  
  From a technical standpoint, the game is solid, falls victim to a lot of nagging flaws however. 
 While the sound effects, especially the realistic weapon sounds as well as the solid voice cast, 
 are excellent, the mixing screws up at times, making gun fights in the room next door sound like 
 a mile off and some character voices are almost impossible to understand even if the talky heads 
 are right next to you.
  
  Same for the graphics which are certainly solid and run at a smooth frame rate for the most part, 
 but oddities like a few muddy textures and pop-ups like weapons disappearing and re-appearing as 
 you move a few feet away give the game an unfinished feel. In addition, the game's 1080i support 
 is basically busted which adds to that impression, although it runs fine in SD and 720p.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas's multi player component is fantastic though as the game sports 2-player split 
 screen, LAN support and online play via the PlayStation Network for up to 14 players with a total 
 of 10 game modes on 20 maps. Modes include variations of deathmatch and team deathmatch as well 
 as a capture the flag-like mode or escort missions where on team has to guard a VIP while the other 
 team has to eliminate that person. As with all online play though, your mileage may vary and some 
 players, including me, have had some issues with the game crashing at times. If you get a game 
 going though, it's extremely fun and rewarding, as you'll gain experience, rank up and are given 
 access to new weapons and equipment.
  
  All in all, Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game, especially in multi-player, but has some issues 
 like a few bugs and a rather disappointing story line. Still, it's easily one of the best tactical 
 shooters to date, especially on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_17_2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Great Game Very Addictive, Good Online Modes Love The Co-op online especially terrorist hunt the 
 quality for headsets needs to be improved and im still having problems with my bluetooth headset 
 as it turns off while switching between game rooms but despite the fact that sony need to bring 
 out a wired and wireless official ps3 headset the game is a must have lots of ppl online and if 
 you ever want a game add me PSN ID = Don_Corleone_Z this game is reall good and should be bought 
 if you can wait for GRAW 2 then fine But This Game Will Do Great For Now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hashim19
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Finally the Playstation 3 gets what it has been waiting for, an amazing shooter. I own Resistance 
 and thought that was a 10, but now I guess I would have to say Rainbow Six: Vegas is an 11. The 
 scenary is beautiful, giving a lifelike feeling to every aspect of the game. It's easy to control 
 your squad, and when you do you truly feel as if your in charge. Not only is the single-player 
 genious, but the online multiplayer is even better, with so many different maps and gameplay choices 
 you'll never go bored. A truly flawless game with easy-to-learn controls and an amazing storyline, 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas is a must have for all Playstation 3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Absolutely stunning (and I mean stunning) visuals, awesome, amazing tactical action, 
 nice, smooth controls that work very, very well, a great, intense single-player campaign, great 
 multiplayer / online, sweet voice acting and sound effects, and the list goes on . . .
  
  The Bad: Some frame rate issues.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is one seriously awesome game, and it 
 is one of the best experiences I have had on PS3 so far. Vegas is not a bad port like Splinter 
 Cell was -- it is, in fact, a very successful port, and is almost flawless. Vegas has a great single-player 
 campaign that includes some awesome, intense tactical shooting action. Vegas's multiplayer is also 
 great, and can keep you playing for hours on end. Technically, Vegas is extraordinary -- visuals 
 are unbelievable, sound is excellent, gameplay is smooth, and works very well (although there are 
 some frame rate issues here and there, but its nothing major) , and everything else is basically 
 flawless. Rainbow Six: Vegas is a huge success in basically every way, and thank god it finally 
 came to the PS3. It has officially been put on my favorite games of all time list -- yeah, it's that 
 good. Now chop chop to those of you who dont yet have it . .and go get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WindyCityFlyer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I just bought Rainbow six vegas and all i can say is amazing. Ubisoft got the game right this time ( 
 since Splinter cell wasnt so good) . I just finished playing the game on single player, and i can 
 say that its VERY addictive. Im going to try to beat it on realistic which is going to be a little 
 harder. Ive played online a few times and i loved. But i cant seem to get my headset to work which 
 is very bad lol. Anyway this is a must buy for anyone who loves tactical shooters, and Tom clancy's 
 games. Hope u enjoy it as much as me . And i might meet some of you online is PSN ID is WindyCityFlyer, 
 ill see u there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killayo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, it has everything a good game needs. A great single player campaign , great 
 yet tough AI , awesome graphics and best of all great mulitplayer.
  
  The single player has great graphics and squad based tactical combat. Your main point of view is 
 first person and it switches to third person when you take cover behind something. When behind 
 cover you can lean out and take some well placed shots , or stick out your gun and blindfire. You 
 also have a multitude of gadgets and weapons at your disposal and some great in game cinematic 
 moments. However bodys do disappear fairly quickly after you leave the room for a short time and 
 go back to the room were you killed the terrorist his body will be gone leaving his gun behind.
 
  
  The multiplayer is the best part of the game, although graphics are toned down a bit from singleplayer 
 they still look great.... Matches can hold up to 16 players , it has a ranking system, the more 
 people you kill and the more your team wins you increase your rank. When your rank increases you 
 unlock new items such as new weapons , camo , and body armor. You can also customize a character 
 for online play and make him unique with all the equipment you unlock. You also have a ton of maps 
 to play on ,some all versions have, some exclusive to the ps3. There is also 10 or so modes, some 
 you can play co-op such as Terrorist hunt (where you hunt and kill a certain amount of terrorists) , 
 or you can play Assasination (were you have to kill/defend a vip)
  
  Overall this game is great and i highly reccomend it to anyone whos looking for a great online 
 experience. There also is no differnce between all the versions graphic wise (yes i played them 
 all side by side with friends and we couldnt spot differences , except for the 360s bloom lighting 
 which is absent on the ps3.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  ok so now this game is a must have if your into to shooters. I really enjoyed the lengthly storymode 
 as well as iots other features. The online in this game is absolutley amazing i love the tactical 
 features they put into this game and also we have maps and games modes the 360 ppl have to pay 
 for. I love the abilty to have a 4 player coop mode for onloin its amazing and best of yet it has 
 voice chat how cool is that. The graphics are top notch and the visuals in this game are very desent 
 if you dont have a hdtv. The downside about this game is that there is long loading times, lag, 
 and some times the game will crash/froze/mess up. But overall this game is a must have if you own 
 a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12elic_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  great game just hope slant six n zipper is taking notes for the next two installments of socom 
 . .. .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. 
 . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. ... . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . 
 . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edroc23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts at first and hesitated to buy it but I figured there isn't too many good games 
 out on PS3 besides the Darkness, Resistance, and oblivion, But once I started playing it I got 
 dragged in. The graphics are sweet, and the levels are well made. You have different options on 
 infiltration of enemies. Online play is even better. Especially if you have a ear piece. If you 
 don't have one you need to get one. It's a lot of fun communicating with your teammates, and working 
 together to complete the task at hand. all and all this is a must have for PS3 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Sadly, and I know this is not the case for everyone but it is for me. It appears that though my 
 Tv supports 1080i the game wants to downscale. Even after setting the prefs to 720p this game looks 
 blurred like its playing in 480p. As I mentioned this only seems to be the case with some tV's 
 - I personally use a Samsung LCD and have no issues with Motorstorm, or The Darkness, both of which 
 look and play great on the PS3. However, with the option to get the game for the 360 I went and 
 returned the PS3 version to get the 360 version which does not seem to have the annoying downscaling 
 issue. SO, beware make sure your Tv will not downscale cause if it does you will be really dissapointed 
 with the look of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I had very high expectations of this title and it has delivered 100%. The story is, in my opinion, 
 very good and this adds to the gameplay which is awesome (although can get slightly monotonous) . 
 The graphics in game are some of the best on the PS3 at the moment and this makes the whole experience 
 very realistic - something I always look for in a game.
  
  Finally, the online play is excellent on the PS3 due to the added maps and game modes which keep 
 you hooked on the game for hours and is probably the best thing about the title.
  
  Anyone out there who is unsure whether or not to buy this game, stop thinking and get buying! You 
 won't regret your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakechamp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  i have never played a rainbow six game, so all this tactical shooters like this one. so when i 
 first started playing this game i was simply amazed! the graphics are great, although some times 
 the building look alittle blurry and most have no detail when on the helicopter, and also the characters 
 dont look all that detail, but other than that its perfection. the story is great and never gets 
 old. especially when your with your team, and busting through doors and telling your team what 
 to do is just a great sense of realism. i just wished there were cutscenes instead of little pop 
 up screens that your commander comes out and briefs you on the information uphand. there are plenty 
 of weapons in the game and the enviorments are stunning with so many lights and many distructable 
 objects, you almost feel like your in the game. the online portion is also something to be impressed 
 on, it gets a while to getting use to, but once you know what to do, it should be fun through out 
 the game. one thing i noticed that i really like, is that when your in the main screen of the game, 
 theres a icon saying community this is your list of buddies on your xmb. i was really imporessed 
 when i saw this because i only have resistance and if you played it you'll know that resistance 
 has its own buddy list, so you will have to add someone regardless if he/she is on your xmb. this 
 game has so much more to offer and is surelly a great port from ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Incredible graphics at 720p or 1080i. Controls are smooth and crisp. Better team management/response 
 than Gears of War. Truly tactical gameplay. Clever AI and level/mission design. IT'S VEGAS BABY!
 
  
  The Bad:
  A bit difficult on realistic mode (but maybe that's the point right?) . Unless you have an ear piece 
 to communicate with your team online can feel like you're lost.
  
  anyone waiting on this game or even if you weren't waiting on this game you need to grab it QUICK. 
 the game looks incredible. the sound is on point. your team responds incredibly and the communication 
 between them is not random blabber it's actually useful realistic conversation. the first thing 
 i noticed was in the mexico level as i was working the streets one of the AI bad guys yelled "he's 
 by the trashcan" in spanish (i'm part mexican and fluent in spanish) . and i paused... like..."did 
 he seriously just say that?" at that point i knew this was a game to love. the level design and 
 mission design is great as well. the mexico level gives you a good pace to learn the basics at 
 and also serves as enough story to get you pulled into the game immediately. you really want to 
 hunt down and get some people by the time you reach vegas. the online is also all here (with a 
 few extras over other versions) . the game plays as smoothly online and offline as the Xbox version. 
 the gameplay is great (once you change the controls, i recommend the MASTER setting) . and with 
 the 1080i it looks even better (though only slightly) than the 360 version which already looked 
 amazing. also, another difference is that because all PS3's have HDD included the game starts caching 
 info the first time you load up so that load times are shorter than on the PS3 version. bottom 
 line this may be the best game on the PS3 right now and also shows Ubi can make a great port and 
 even improve on the game. this is quite simply a must buy for any PS3 owner. if you're not into 
 FPS this game is good enough to change that. yes... it's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weitojour
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Single-player is absolutely stunning. It puts you in the midst of a big dogfight, or makes you 
 tiptoe around the enemy through their main lines.
  
  Absolutely a monument that will be remembered in the playstation 3 saga.
  The sound is great, 
 graphics are awesome, gameplay is the best, and for the sticker in the bottom corner. This is defenitely 
 worth it.
  
  I would also like to say that this is a great victory in nextgen console battles, it absolutely 
 kills the X360 in online graphics. Thank you BRD!
  
  Get it before its too late ;)
  
  Too bad I'm in canada it wasnt released until today.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Finally the Playstation 3 gets what it has been waiting for, an amazing shooter. I own Resistance 
 and thought that was a 10, but now I guess I would have to say Rainbow Six: Vegas is an 11. The 
 scenary is beautiful, giving a lifelike feeling to every aspect of the game. It's easy to control 
 your squad, and when you do you truly feel as if your in charge. Not only is the single-player 
 genious, but the online multiplayer is even better, with so many different maps and gameplay choices 
 you'll never go bored. A truly flawless game with easy-to-learn controls and an amazing storyline, 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas is a must have for all Playstation 3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vip3r666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Finally, Rainbow Six: Vegas for the PS3 is upon us. After what seemed an endless torrent of delays, 
 the tactical shooter is finally here; and its nothing short of amazing. From the beginning of the 
 game, you are dropped in an intense shoot-out between you and mexican terrorists that are holding 
 people hostage. The gameplay is simply amazing, and the AI is extremely intelligent. You can' just 
 run in, guns blasting, or you'll find yourself dead in less than 10 seconds. You have to learn 
 to use your squad members, whatever cover you can get, distraction techniques, smoke grenades, 
 flashbangs, everything and anything you can use to your advantage. You squad mates are somewhat 
 intelligent, and they have some random lines of dialog that keep you entertained. E. x Anyone keeping 
 score after they kill someone. Audio needed more work, especially when you receive video messages 
 that are louder than anything in the game. Other than that, guns sound realistic, flashbangs make 
 your ears ring, and you can hear enemies moan in their last seconds before death. You also hear 
 people's dialogues through walls, and the voice acting sounds fairly realistic.
  The single-player campaign is all nice and neat, but multiplayer is where the ps3 version shines 
 above. Included with your nice purchase of the game, you get all the map packs released for the 
 xbox360 (red &amp; black pack) and the new multiplayer game modes. Multiplayer is a blast, but 
 the voice chat could use some more work. I dont wanna play with the fear that my teammates voice 
 can blow a hole in my speakers.
  
  All in all, if you havent played this game on the 360 or PC, it's definitely worth getting. The 
 single-player mode should keep you busy for a day or two, and the multiplayer will keep you occupied 
 for at least a couple of maps. Ubisoft actually did really well with this port, and it sure wont 
 dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  So in this Rainbow 6 you're no longer playing as Chavez you're a new comer taking orders now from 
 Chavez. You're name is Logan and you were sent to Mexico to eliminate this terrorists group run 
 by this woman named Irena. While you're there you lose two of your men in the mission over at Mexico. 
 Once you get out of there alive. They take you away to Vegas while you await orders from Chavez. 
 You're told to help out two other members of the 6 to eliminate the threat at SIN CITY known as 
 Vegas. If you do this for them. They will help you find your man and you'll be reunited with your 
 team. So in other words you'll have to do a favor in order for them to do a favor for you.
  
  The game looks good if you've played gears of war you'll be familiar with the cover system 
 in this game which I love. I think all first person shooters should have cover in a game. It makes 
 the game better to play and it also keeps you from dying so much in games as well instead of going 
 back or hiding being something. This way you'll be able to shoot while behind cover which reminds 
 me a lot of Gears of War. The multiplayer supports up to 14 players which is cool. Also has a variety 
 of maps and different types of multiplayer games. The PS3 version had the original maps that the 
 360 came with plus the Red pack and 5 new exclusive maps. If you're a fan of first person shooters 
 with tactical strategy and with cover you should definitely get this game. Also if you're a Rainbow 
 6 fan waiting for the next best thing in the Rainbow 6 series this is definitely it. This has to 
 be one of the best shooters on PS3 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klaimore
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  If you are a shooter fan this game was made for you it is tactical combat at its best and offers 
 a fast paced experience like other Rainbow Six games when you leave the console you will be sweating 
 from the action. The story takes you through different locations and all the levels are well designed 
 putting you in perfect positions to think quick or get killed, it is also to note the the game 
 sounds amazing the graphics are top notch anti-aliasing is great, lighting is spot on and the frames 
 per second are solid but be sure to play the game in 720p because the upscaling for the game is 
 not pretty when playing at 1080i/p making textures looked muddy, to change it to 720p go to the 
 XMB display setting and in the resolution options uncheck the 1080i and 1080p boxes once done accept 
 and start the game again when done you will see the game looks more clear and crisp, the multi-player 
 in this game is definitely what stands out the most as it is the funnest part of the game quick 
 to the point and fast paced offering tons of maps and also lots of game modes to play in the game 
 will keep you busy for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniMatt2142
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frvaca
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of G. R. A. W. and Gears of war this game is a Must. Worth every penny of that 59.99 
 price tag. The gun fights are very intense and if your skilled enough to play on the realistic 
 setting just imagine being dropped into the middle of a film that was written by Jon Woo and directed 
 by Jerry Bruckhimer. The Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Character Movment and Controls could all score 
 a 10 out of 10. The only knock i have is there are a few momments in the game as there is in any 
 game where the camera is a factor. This game is just an absolute masterpiece. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
