-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Proving Ground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/tonyhawksprovingground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of goals of varying skill levels will keep completists very busy.
 New moves like the aggro kick and nail the grab bring something new to the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New nail the manual move feels half-baked.
 Rigger goals depend too heavily on a poor level editor.
 Little graphical glitches bring the look of the game down a bit.
 Seems to suffer from a handful of technical issues that make some goals harder than they should be.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 350 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Oct 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tony Hawk's Proving Ground gets most of the Tony Hawk formula down, but the parts that stray from 
 that formula are the parts that don't work out so well. 

  Not many franchises can say that they single-handedly launched a genre, but that's exactly what 
 Neversoft's Tony Hawk series did back in 1999. Annual sequels have come ever since, some of which 
 have made major changes to the skateboarding formula, while other have made minor adjustments. 
 This year's game, Tony Hawk's Proving Ground, starts with last year's game as a basic formula, 
 but shuffles around the goal structure and game progression. It's the same solid skating base that 
 the series has had all along, but a smattering of frustrating goals that feel like they're broken 
 and a heavier focus on using a bad level editor to place objects into the world gets in the way 
 and drags the entire experience down with it.  

           While there's plenty to do in Proving Ground, it's hard not to be a little disappointed 
 with the game's technical glitches.      

  Though past Hawk games have tried to bring all of its skating together using a story, Proving Ground 
 compartmentalizes its story by breaking it up into three distinct "lifestyles." You've got the 
 career path, where pro skaters like Arto Saari take you around and shoot skate videos with you. 
 Then there's the hardcore path, where guys like Mike Vallely and Dustin Dollin teach you the fine 
 arts of wearing jean jackets and how to properly knock over pedestrians. Lastly there's the "rigger" 
 path, where guys like Jeff King and Daewon Song turn Proving Ground into a puzzle game and have 
 you place or modify pieces around the environment and rig up some new trick lines. On top of all 
 that, there are plenty of other nondenominational chalk challenge goals, where you'll see marks 
 around the world that ask you to grind, manual, wallride, or leap from one mark to the next. Most 
 of the goals can be completed in three ways for three different difficulties, ranging once again 
 from amateur to sick.  

  From the three lifestyles, things are even further broken down into episodes, which usually focus 
 on one specific skater giving you a handful of different goals. Bob Burnquist's set of goals has 
 you learning some new tricks, then taking on competition skating. Bam Margera's goals focus more 
 on climbing than on actual skating, though you'll still have to skate around a bit to interrupt 
 the filming of his TV show. Lance Mountain shows up to show you how to carve bowls and slash grind, 
 two of the game's new control additions. When you complete all of the episodes in one lifestyle, 
 an "uber" challenge appears. Tying all of this together is a meter that fills up as you complete 
 goals, and each time it's full, your career advances, netting you a shoe sponsor, a signature board, 
 your own skate video, and so on. You'll eventually become successful enough to form a skate team, 
 and this in turn unlocks a new challenge. When you beat that -- a fairly trivial set of tasks in 
 the grand scheme of things -- the credits roll with no grand finale. It's possible to claim that 
 you "finished" Proving Ground with something like a 40 percent completion ranking, something that 
 will probably take most Tony Hawk veterans something like six hours to accomplish. Obviously, there's 
 more to do and see, like classic mode, high score runs, and a new dot-eating goal type called Hawk-Man, 
 though the quality of the goals is spotty.  

           Rigging up rails and ramps would be better if the interface for doing so didn't make it 
 all feel like a chore.      

  The focus on rigging as a lifestyle means that a large chunk of the action is devoted to you using 
 a little world editor, where you can place your own rails, ramps, and other objects. This editor 
 is pretty bad, though, so it can be super frustrating to use. Furthermore, the goals that require 
 you to place your own objects usually aren't much fun, because it's stuff like creating long sets 
 of rails to move you from one checkpoint to the next without touching the ground. What's worse 
 is that other photo goals also use this editor to let you plop a camera down wherever you think 
 it will do the most good. It can be hard to determine if the camera's in the right spot. Camera 
 goals have another problem -- you actually have to take the photo yourself. Once you skate into frame, 
 the action slows down, effectively throwing off your timing if you're trying to land a trick at 
 the same time. Then, while all of that is going on, you need to push in the right stick to take 
 the picture. This leads to a whole lot of frustrating hand twisting. We also encountered at least 
 one goal where it felt like no matter where the camera was placed, it couldn't be placed low enough 
 to actually trigger the slow-motion photo-taking sequence while doing a required grind.     
 

  As in most years, there are a good number of differences in how you skate and what tricks you can 
 do. In addition to the bowl carving and slash grinds, the "nail the" system has been built out 
 to include slow-motion grabs and manuals, in addition to the flips-only nail the trick system that 
 was in Project 8. Nail the grab mode lets you grab the board with either hand and tweak it out 
 in any direction. You can also perform finger flips. All in all, it's neat, but it's a little weird 
 that you can't kick your legs out while grabbing to craft your own benihanas or something like 
 that. It comes off feeling a little limited. Nail the manual is a good idea with bad execution. 
 The concept is that you can hold down the right trigger and use the analog sticks to adjust your 
 board so that you land on one set of wheels. The problem is that the camera stays focused on your 
 board the whole time, so you have no idea which direction you're facing or what obstacles are in 
 your way. Also, the slow-motion manual controls feel overly sensitive, making something that's 
 almost automatic in full speed feel arcane and overly tricky in slow-mo. You'll also learn how 
 to aggro kick, which is a user-controlled push that gives you extra speed. It's a nice addition 
 that makes a good case for why the PlayStation 3 needs rumble controllers, because on the 360 the 
 controller shakes a bit when it's time to hit the button again to keep your speed up. On the PS3 
 you have to solely rely on the position of your skater's foot.  

           While you can still skate switch in this year's game, it feels like the skill penalty 
 for doing so has been removed.      

  All of this stuff carries over into the online mode, which lets up to eight players get into the 
 world and play a variety of well-worn game modes. This is new to the PS3, which didn't have any 
 online last year, but if you've been playing Tony Hawk for any length of time, this is familiar 
 territory. You can limit games to specific sections of the gameworld, play in your custom skate 
 lounge, or play in the entire gameworld, which is pretty large. A little too large to make games 
 like graffiti too exciting, since all eight players could be tagging pieces in different parts 
 of the environment and never see each other or attempt to steal pieces. The standard modes like 
 trick attack and combo mambo also appear, along with a handful of others, like walls, where your 
 skater spits out a  Tron -light-cycle-like wall behind him that other skaters need to avoid. If 
 you like, you can wager your bankroll in ranked matches, which is a surefire way to go broke, given 
 that the game's online mode seems to appeal most to veterans of the series, who will absolutely 
 tear you apart online.  

  Proving Ground looks better than Project 8, though they're similar-looking games from a technical 
 perspective. The larger visual difference comes from the environment itself. The game is meant 
 to reflect a piece of East Coast skating, and the gameworld comprises skate-friendly versions of 
 Washington DC, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. Much of the game has a dirty, urban look to it that 
 works pretty well. Some aspects, though, like the artifact-filled video footage that pops up whenever 
 you meet a pro skater, or the way the characters' mouths occasionally don't move when they speak 
 and look really weird when they  do  move, don't look so hot. There are also plenty of clipping 
 issues, where your skater's leg will pass right through a building when you're hanging from it, 
 or the way the "emo" haircut in the game passes right through your sunglasses. Stuff like this 
 makes it look like a higher-resolution PlayStation 2 game.  

           Baltimore, DC, and Philly are tied together by a series of short bridges to create one 
 big world..      

  The game audio is fairly standard, with plenty of good skateboarding sounds, though a lot of it 
 feels recycled. There's a healthy amount of voice acting in the game, and most of it comes from 
 pro skaters, most of whom flatly deliver their lines and detract from the feel of the game. If 
 there were an award for skating's best voice actor, it would probably have to go to Mike Vallely, 
 who sounds genuinely tough and delivers his lines with more believability than the rest. The sound 
 is roughly the same between the PS3 and 360 versions, though the speech sounds a little tinny in 
 the PS3 version. The soundtrack is Neversoft's standard Tony Hawk formula, which seems to have 
 become: mix together a bunch of genres, include a Jurassic 5 song, include one or two random old 
 rap songs (Slick Rick's "Children's Story") , and include one older song that you probably haven't 
 thought about in quite some time (Folk Implosion's "Natural One") .  

  Perhaps that's the biggest problem with Proving Ground. While the surface and structure of the 
 game have seen more than enough changes to fill a bulleted list, the underlying gameplay and tasks 
 have been done better in previous entries in the series. If you're a fan of the series who has 
 been patiently waiting for Proving Ground, you'll probably find enough to keep you busy and keep 
 you mostly satisfied, but it's likely that you'll be at least a little disappointed with this year's 
 model.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is very solid and feels just like Project 8. But they improved so many things. First 
 of all, the world is much bigger and the level design is also much better. The world in Project 
 8 was an awkwardly designed one, and the world in Proving Ground is based on real cities like Baltimore 
 and Philly. The level design is more realistic this time.
  
  They also took Nail the Trick and tried to apply to other aspects of skateboarding which was a 
 good idea and worked well. Nail the grab, nail the (flip) trick and Nail the manual all flow together 
 smoothly when you're in "nail the" mode. They added more skateboarding elements too that I liked, 
 such as carving, slash grinding, skate checking and aggro push. The aggro push is the best addition, 
 it really comes in handy for big jumps and just getting around. The rigger mode with the ability 
 to press select and place pieces to skate on anywhere around the world is a great idea. It's like 
 the create a park mode that was missing in Project 8, but now you can create your own park anywhere 
 you want. It adds more replay value because you can turn the level into something different.
  
  What I really liked about Proving Ground was that it had a story, at least more of a story 
 than Skate. Eric Sparrow also returned. He was from Tony Hawk's Underground, which is my favorite 
 Tony Hawk of all time. I was debating with myself about if I should Skate or Proving Ground, or 
 both. I ended up only getting Proving Ground, I strongly recommend buying this game over Skate. 
 (If you wanna know about what I think about Skate, read my Skate review when I submit it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazeRage
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I could describe this game in one word... terrible. I don't think I could say one good thing about 
 this game. Every Tony Hawk game has gotten worst than the previous one. There's no visible imrpovements 
 in the game. There's a few new features made to the game that only make it more difficult and annoying. 
 For example rig-it, the nail-the-trick and taking a picture of yourself while skating during a 
 mission. All three freatures are very annoying and difficult to learn, especially the nail-the-trick. 
 As far as the other two, they're just plain stupid and annoying. There's not much of a selection 
 of levels, attire, boards, ect. I used to be a fan of the Tony Hawk series back in the day when 
 they used to be good. Now, they're boring and stupid. Unless you're a huge, die-hard fan of the 
 game, i would not recommend this game to anyone. i would however recommend the game Skate over 
 this anyday. Its much better and more realistic than the Tony Hawk series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakuhray
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I bought this game cause it only cost 30 dollars apparently there was a reason for that this game 
 got very old the first few days i played it. it gathers dust on my shelf as we speak. A recomendation 
 if your going to get a skateboarding game, get EA skate its much better from what i have heard. 
 The only cool part is nail the trick. Now im done talking about this game and i am just getting 
 the 100 word minimum for posting reveiws. Lets talk about something more worth your time, like, 
 saying no to drugs! if anyone approaches you with a substance known as heroine and tells u its 
 tha good **** ITS NOT THA GOOD **** Heroine is a highly addictive drug that is injected into the 
 blood stream via a syringe. Its alot of fun at the start, but then you start losing all of your 
 money and go bankrupt, your wife leaves u, you start sucking dick for drug money, and you lose 
 your job. Its not good ppl i seen this **** before i live in the ghetto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twitch27
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Very bad feel for the game, Very unreaistic. All the maps are so very very very bad. the was no 
 decent spots to session. i didnt like one bit the whole putting yourself in to a category of skater. 
 They seem to forget every single skatboarder has a unique style and will all look at a spot and 
 see something completely different of what trick they want to land on it.
  
  Grafics were pretty poor except the cut sceens. Creation of your character was alright i guess 
 but still was the magorly big brands. no old school, back to basics brands.
  
  The whole gameplay is far too fast and you just cant see what the hells going on.
  
  The only 
 Tony Hawks game i actually fell in love with was Tony Hawks Underground.
  
  The only level i fell in love with was School II.
  
  EA Skate totally owned this game. I think 
 that Neversoft and Activision have to sit back and seriously think about the next game if they 
 really want to drop a bomb on the skateboarding gamers world
  
  This game is for greasy old men who dont understand skateboarding in the slightest or little noobs 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdavis999
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This week I've been playing THPG (Tony Hawk's Proving Grounds) and the game I think is good but 
 not brilliant like games in the other series, the game starts out with your skater being low in 
 the ranks and having to impress the pro's into skating with him and recording him there are three 
 campaigns. 
  The Pro campaign these are skaters that skate for money and you will get alot of money for this, 
 the other is the hardcore skater this is a skater that skates for the thrill and not for money 
 but because he likes to skate and the last one is the Rigger this is the skater that builds his 
 own lines and skates them the "Handy man" of the skating worlds if you will. Anyway onto the game, 
 you choose one of these carrers as a skater, but you can do all three. Liking the idea of money 
 i choose the PRO choice first, they have made some nice new changes into the "Nail the Trick" now 
 its Nail the grab and Nail the Manual what would be sweet in Nail the Manual is Nail the Flatland 
 but its a nice new change and has kept the gameplay sweet. The rigger option is sweet as it lets 
 you rig your own lines and even mod certain areas of the enviroment and when you pull off these 
 lines you get a sweet sense of achivement even on the ps3 version lol. The game is annoying and 
 thats a understatement but dont let this put you off the early challenges in the game are easy 
 but when you get into it they get a hell of a lot harder to the point where your throwing your 
 pad across the room and giving up. The bad points about this game is the graphics you would think 
 with project 8 the graphics would be better but alas the graphics are not there worse the anti 
 aliasing is terrible, and there are some small technical glitches and these can be quite annoying 
 at times I've made my skater have no torso now this would be cool like floating head doctor but... its 
 not. i hope this review has helped alot of people decide in getting the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam526
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks proving ground is nothing special but is definitely a solid game that fans of tony hawk 
 games will appreciate. The game has the same easy to control gameplay that is similar to all of 
 the previous titles which means that tony hawk fans will be able to pick up and play the game easily 
 right from the start. One of its new additions is the "nail the trick mode" what allows you to 
 control your skater in a focused mode to land more advanced tricks easily. however this mode isn't 
 completely useful as the controls are overly sensitive. The game has the same great customization 
 of characters and being on the next gen systems the graphics are greatly improved. 
  Even though the game has all this going for it, like most of the Tony hawk games it gets really 
 repetitive and has virtually no replay value, and the online modes lack rewards which makes the 
 online modes feel pointless. A new feature also is the "rag doll" style bails. the games old generic 
 bails were removed completely and even though they were repetitive they were realistic. The new 
 bail system is definitely a step backward for the game. The park creator also is lacking no longer 
 can you tunnel or elevate the ground on your maps and all the pieces are already set up. This really 
 takes away from the uniqueness of the old custom parks and limits you in what you can create.
 
  If your a fan boy than it might be worth playing but don't be suprized if you are disappointed 
 in places
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  yes, there is yet another Tony Hawk skating game. This guy just keeps putting them out. and yes, 
 I keep buying them. 
  The big thing with this one thing is you can choose your own story and become the skater you want 
 to be.,
  Good things;
  still just a plain and simple skating game, with good and easy controls. new moves, which all of 
 them are very cool. lots of pros to meet including the"birdman" himself. multi story can let you 
 play the way you want to. more places to skate and get this NO loading time between places. also 
 is pretty good online. 
  Bad things;
  tony hawks project 8 looked a bit better than this one did as far as the graphics go. you will 
 find yourself getting confused on missions, some of them are a little hard to understand and it 
 takes you while to figure out what you are suppose to try and accomplish. the creat our own video 
 aspect of it is cool and new, but very complicated and needs to be simplier. the wh ole create 
 your own character could have been a bit better but was ok.
  Over all ; if you liked all the other tony hawk games, get this one too, its a must have for a 
 fan. after all if Madden can keep poping them out so can he. Heck people actually like tony hawk. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froggy_13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  So i've been playing this game for the past three hours, and at first i agreed with all the bad 
 reviews but over the last few hours it's grown on me. There's Loads and loads of goals (could they 
 of finally made a game longer than 8 hours?) and some beasty new things in the game. Like nail 
 the grab which is pretty fun. I haven't got to nail the manual yet so i can't really say to much 
 on that. The graphics are immense and the physics engine gets everything spot on it feels like 
 your skating - and i think this is why they have given it an odd angle so you can appreciate more 
 the details of the skater and the physics of his body. So over all give it a chance before you 
 say its crap like so many other of the recent TH games, I think this one could be almost as good 
 as pro skater 4. Which i think we all can agree is a step foward from the last few titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychadelichaos
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  i have played every single tony hawk game out and i rented this and within the first 10 minutes 
 i shut it off. its everything you have played before but worse and nothing new. i didnt play much 
 but i can pretty much tell its horrible. the view is weird and doesnt look right, the grind/manual 
 meters are bad and the graphics are mediocre at best. dont buy this game ever. they should definitely 
 stop making tony hawk games theres nothing new to do and its the same thing every single time. 
 the last games were good no idea why this one is so horrible.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light_Jak723
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll start with the new additions. The game has added Nail The Grab and Nail The Manual to 
 last year's Nail The Trick. Now personally I found these additions addicting. I did the career 
 story first just to get them all. Oh I should talk about the story. Well, story mode gives you 
 three options. Rigger, Career Skater, and Hardcore Skater. By progressing through the storyline 
 you get some SICK MOVES!!!! I personally loved the Aggro Kick, and the Skate Checking. The Aggro 
 Kick was basically a boost of speed that you get from doing the Hardcore Skater mission. The Skate 
 Checking you also get from Hardcore Skater missions but it's just a really fast RAM that you can 
 send guys flying with. I had fun with that. Anyway the first story I did was the career mode. Which 
 was great. I loved unlocking NTT, NTG, and NTM (Nail the Trick, Nail the Grab, and Nail the Manual) . 
 You can link all sorts of crazy tricks together with all three, and you get some serious points 
 doing it. I also liked the Rigger portion of the game. You can totally change up the environments 
 to put stuff wherever you want it. And you can get some crazy parts too, like a  
 Also you get whats called a Skate Lounge which is basically your create-a-park. I messed with that 
 endlessly. Unfortunately, the game does have one major setback. Although it has 3 stories. At the 
 end they all sorta meld into one, and the story mode ends in a short amount of time. However this 
 is not enough of a drawback to not get the game. The gameplay is great and I'm still playing it.
 
  
  My advice, if you're in need of a skating game, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk PG is a great stylish game with som tricks, But the Skate got a bit shabby during the 
 year.
  
  PG lets u to build ur own Skate park , as al TH games they were great ( i played som on my bros 
 PS2) How evr dis 1 is quite dissapointing bt U cant ignore how Skatebording is fun. Building up ur 
 Proving park is somtimes boring , Missions ar dull, But thats alwayz gonna Be and it wil stay forevr.
 
  
  Its a fun a game but u ask ur self, hav u played it before: the answer is Yes caus all TH game ar 
 pretty much the same. Its not pretty long unless u wanna get points.
  
  Overall Its a fun looking gae it nice , but u wil feel that u played it before, and thus its still 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Here we are with the 9th installment in the series with Activision and Neversoft. The game looks 
 and play the same as Project 8 but the game does feature some improvements.
  
  You have 3 "Life" Choices to take. You can be a rigger skater and build your own ramps and make 
 places that are unavailable to skate, skateable. Next you can be a hardcore Skater who just skates 
 for the fun of it and the enjoyment. Then you can be a career skater, doing demos and making tons 
 of money.
  
  Rigging: Being a rigger is probably the weakest spot of the game and it's 3 "life" Choices. When 
 you are rigging you are finding ways to get to places and creating fun pieces to skate. Jeff King 
 will help you through this for the most part, and it you liked the Create-A-Park feature from other 
 Tony Hawk games you are sure to like the mode even though the missions can feel like a chore.
 
  
  Hardcore: Hardcore is a very fun and interesting life choice. In this choice, you will be fighting 
 off skate gangs who are trying to take skate parks from the public and hurt them with the new Body 
 checking feature. Mike Valley will support you during this most of the way, and it is a good addition 
 to the Tony Hawk universe of games.
  
  Career: Being a Career skater is probably the easiest for Tony Hawk veterans. It's just like the 
 Career in the other games, where you make money and go and do demos. You will be getting many paychecks 
 through this mode, in which you can spend on new clothes and peices (For you and your skate lounge) . 
 This is a pretty fun mode to go through.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  
  There are many new features 
 this year around and some make the game better.
  
  Aggro Kick: You first learn this from Mike Valley. In this you tap the R1 button at a pace to keep 
 your skater going faster to get across huge gaps and make you epic tricks go on even longer.
  
  Aggro Push: When you do the Aggro Push you are in manual mode and when you are slowing down 
 while doing a manual, you go puy a wall and hit R1 a couple times and your skater will push off 
 the wall and get going again, you can also do this with cars.
  
  Nail-The-Grab: If you remember last year's nail the trick in which you control the board with the 
 analog stick it's the same for this new feature. When you do this you hold down the L2 button and 
 control the analog sticks by pushing them in different directions. it's a good new feature. 
  
  Nail-The-Manual: This is probably the weakest Nail The Feature but it still is fun to use. 
 When you do this you hold down the R2 button and balance you way onto the ground, it still is a 
 ok new feature.
  
  Skate Lounge: This is pretty cool feature. In this feature you have a huge warehouse to build a 
 Skate Park and customize it to your liking. You see, during the game you keep unlocking new parts 
 for it and eventually you will build some stuff in the Lounge. Some missions even take place it. 
 You can also take the full warehouse online and you and your friends can skate around it and play 
 game sin it aswell. it's a great new feature.
  
  Body Checking: This is pretty cool, while you care skating you can click the R2 button and your 
 skater will move his body like he is shoving something and you can go up to anyone and knock them 
 flying. Your mostly do this to skate gangs, but it's funny to see people fly 50 feet into the water 
 by doing this, you can even combine it with the aggrokick to see them go flying further.
  
  Climbing: You first learn this with Bam Margera and you learn how to get to places by climbing 
 other things like fences and other various object. it's a good feature but can get very annoying 
 at times cause your skating climbs slow.
  
  The game plays alot like other Tony hawk games and has the same control set-up and that's not a 
 bad thing cause new and old Tony Hawk gamers will find a way to master them good.
  
  During the game you are faced with many missions including taking back skate parks, Using your 
 new features, learning things, collecting things, competing against other skaters, and many more. 
 The missions are pretty nice and when you like the R3 button you end up seeing a box of the goals 
 you need to do and then there will be an arrow pointing you to where the goal is.
  
  The graphics this time around look very grimy and that's what this game is supposed to look like. 
 But the graphics aren't that bad but they can look like a PS2 game at some times. There are many 
 glitches in the game but not an game ending glitches. Like at many times you board will go through 
 solid objects. But the graphics are dect to say the least.
  
  The sound is good. The game has a great soundtrack like many other Tony hawk games including The 
 foo fighters and the Smashing Pumpkins. The voice acting is good but not great even hough the voices 
 are don't by the real skaters.
  
  Therefore, Tony hawk's Proving Ground is a great rental and a ok buy for Tony Hawk fan's and newcomers. 
 The game is good but has many flaws. But, you are sure to get some fun out of this 6- 10 hour game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I've said it before, and I'll say it again. I am not a skater. Not literally, I don't go skating, 
 I absolutely suck at skating (if you don't believe me, go to http://uk. youtube. com/watch? v=3bNi7rwX1oE) . 
 However I like skating. I like watching it, playing games of it, and like the style of music.
 
  
  I'm saying this, because I don't want you to read this review, and think I know everything about 
 the physics, the way the board moves, or anything, because I don't. AT ALL.
  
  However, I have played all the Tony Hawk to death, and enjoyed Skate. So I know how good the game 
 is in terms of this.
  
  So, to start with, I'll talk abotu the storyline. It's VERY sound. VERY solid. VERY exciting. You 
 can choose what you do, when you do it, and how you do it. No pressure whatsoever. If you want 
 to learn how to film yourself, you do that, if you want to learn how to build an amazing line, 
 you do that, if you would rather skate and explore, do that! That said, this is what the last five 
 Hawk games have been about, since Pro Skater 4. The storyline is split into chapters, all based 
 around different proskaters, and different skills. This works well, and you'll soon find yourself 
 having fun, doing different goals.
  
  The controls are good, but starting to fall into the trap of either being classic, or very complicated. 
 All of the original controls are there, except for focus mode, and the new features, such as skate 
 checking, and bowl slashing all seem very complicated. Still, you get used to them.
  
  Like I said, I'm gonna be awful trying to locate the realism, but I'd say it is more realistic 
 than many of the previous games, and so feels better.
  
  Customization options are absolutely through the rough on this game, changing nearly everything 
 about your character, up to the colour of the whites of his eyes! The rigging is great as well, 
 bringing skating a little more to your own needs!
  
  Obviously, a great soundtrack, probably the best to date, with Foo Fighters, Nirvana and many others!
 
  
  Lastly, I have come to the part I have been dreading: Having to compare it with Skate.
  
  The reason I have dreaded this is because they are both great games. In their own right.
 
  
  See they are different, and as much as I have to say it, I think that Skate has only made me enjoy 
 THPG even more than I would have.
  
  Also, it is worth pointing out that this game is as much a sequal to THUG, that THP8 was a sequal 
 to THPS4. Unfortunately we've got onto the Jackass games next time if this pattern continues!!!!!!
 
  
  A great game, and well worth your colllection!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johneyboy10
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  i think this is a good game and gamespot shoud' ve never given it a bad score. it is loaded with 
 lots of fun and is very addictive and i agree that this is the best Tony hawk game. This game has 
 a great story. The graphics are good i mean it really looks like ryan Scheckler. i rented the game 
 because of the score on gamespot but now i regret it and i am now going to buy it. It is hard getting 
 used to it but you get the hang of it. i think this tonk hawk game is better than skate. Skate 
 just have better pro skateborders 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas00-0g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  A always loved the Tony Hawk's series, Doing big scores, Crazy goals, and more. Now more than ten 
 years have passed since the original game, Finally we play Proving Ground. The principal game problem 
 is Skate. Finally Neversoft have a rival. Tony Hawk's series are more arcade, and Skate is more 
 a simulator.
  The graphics are the best like all the TH series, of course that the games have some graphical 
 problems but it doesn't stop the fun.
  The gameplay is the same. If you play the previous titles you will know fast the ollie, flip, grab, 
 etc.
  In the sound side is O. K. Great characters voice, the skate's sound, when yuo fall, everything 
 ok. And I can't forget the soundtrack that is great.
  Value, so it isn't too expensive, so you can buy it without worryig too much.
  Overall, who expected 
 a great game that would defeat Skate, you will be deceptioned but you can play it a lot and have 
 hours of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan0788
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  The franchise has comme far from its original place where you where timed for the complete stage, 
 square graphics and the lack of voice acting. But the franchise made a good statement with Proving 
 Ground. The story all together is great start to end with 3 differents stories that lets you decide 
 your preference: harcore skater, rigger skater and carreer skater. Personnally, i took rigger for 
 the innovation part. The games give you many things to do without the pain of loading each city 
 and that with no lagging witch really game a good ambiance to the game and easy to the eyes. Proving 
 Ground is really inpressive compare to the last one witch kinda dissapointed me a bit but with 
 Proving Ground, they sure won me back on the good side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongshot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  First, why i feel like most of good games are getting the worst rates?... is it me... or maybe gamespot 
 feel very pro doing this **** second, well, i have both the demo and the game (: D) and, well, maybe 
 its because im a big fan of this series, but, THIS GAME ROCKS!!!, i never had so much fun, and 
 the hawkman its as fun as playing pacman, but skating!!! im working in a video now, and more, can 
 you tell thats not fun? ok, now, the bad (pfff) wel, the technical issues are bad, but every game 
 has some, so, stop b&iexcl; tch&iexcl; n GS, first lair, then heavenly sword, then Folklore, and 
 dont forget most of wii games, and xbox360 games that deserve better rates (and wii and x360 are 
 a lot, thats why i dont put them here) please, if you love games as me, and many other members, 
 stop. thx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mshotter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Jeff Gerstman should be ashamed of himself for sticking this game with a 6.5. It is way beyond 
 fair in terms of fun factor and in terms of giving fans of the series what they've come to expect 
 and indeed demand from it. The flaws he points out in his review have much more to do with his 
 shortcomings as a gamer (especially regarding something as simple as clicking the R3 button to 
 snap a picture - Do you have ANY strength/dexterity in your hands at all???) than any major issues 
 in the game itself. The only way this game should have scored lower than a 7.0 is if it suffered 
 from some sort of major technical flaw like the PS3 version of Skate does [framerate] .
  
  At this point, people know exactly what to expect from a Tony Hawk game and this game delivers 
 exactly that without any significant technical issues and a few new bells and whistles thrown in 
 to spice things up a bit. I understand, Mr. Gerstman, that you're a joyless, jaded, sarcastic professional 
 game reviewer who has probably been sick of reviewing the games in this series for a while and 
 clearly has an axe to grind (One look at the video review proves that beyond a doubt.) but I call 
 BS on you and encourage any fans of past Tony Hawk games to give this one a try.
  
  Having said that, I don't believe that this game is a good choice for newcomers to the series. 
 It makes a lot of assumptions about a player's familiarity with techniques covered more extensively 
 in past games and also assumes a level of proficiency with the control scheme that would only be 
 possessed by those who have either mastered the controls in a previous Tony Hawk game or are willing 
 to take the time to do so in this one.
  
  I think fans of the Tony Hawk series will most-likely rate this game between an 8.0 and a 9.0 after 
 playing it, depending on how much they enjoy some of the changes to the formula and what they're 
 looking for from the game in general, but I cannot imagine any fan of this series giving THPG anything 
 less than a 7.0 in the context of Gamespot's rating system. 6.5? I think not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavedheart
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Here is another Tony Hawk game... yippie right? It's all going to be the same thing, skate, mess 
 around, skate some more, but hidden in the game are lairs that don't begin to be explained. Like 
 it's obvious the editors didn't walk up to their cameras while play testing this game, because 
 they would have seen an entire camera setup and focusing interface. Or that some of the goals offer 
 Hints in case you can't find everything your looking for, and more... Little things like this make 
 this game a welcome addition to the series, even if it does feel a bit 'kludged at times. The visuals, 
 at 720P are absolutely stunning to begin with, and though some of the animations are similar to 
 the last series, the overall flow through the appearance fresh. The levels, though reminiscent 
 of past Games, are all intricate and well designed and the unlocking scheme works very well to 
 introduce new areas... Though the prior TH entry had a very pretty layout, this entry takes it 
 past it's prior versions. And as Always, the music and choices are top notch, and though I've yet 
 to start messing with my audio settings, and picking only the tracks I'm interested in having, 
 it is now more background to the sounds of the game, even though the entire song now plays through 
 (no more Two Minute Snippets for me!)
  
  Being that I have the game in my possession, I'm going back to skating, and trying to find more 
 and more of the hidden gems... playing HawkMan, the Classic level versions (skate, combo, etc) 
 and making a video... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthRaiden
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  First thing you will notice when you play this game is it is very addicting, I played it at my 
 friend's house and I begged his mom is I could sleep over just to play this game, graphics are 
 very nice, gameplay rules, and there's tons of skaters to choice from, you basically make up your 
 own storyline which makes it extremely fun, if your a THPS fan you should drop by and pick this 
 up because you will not be disappointed. This is tons of fun and very addicting, An amazing skating 
 game to the series. If you have played Skate it is just like that except better and way more advanced, 
 you get to costimize your own skater will tons of choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmoothStangs06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This is another solid addition to the Hawk franchise. There are a few gameplay differences that 
 stand out from Project 8, but they seem to be for the better. First, the load times are drastically 
 improved. This was something that was always frustrating in project 8. Second, your balance gage 
 is different, as it comes across your whole screen. Third, you can press the R1 button to kick, 
 making you go faster. This is really nice as well. Nail the trick is fun, pretty much the same 
 as in the previous game. The navigation is different in this game as well, as you can choose to 
 turn on the compass feature. You will be given an arrow to goals, and once you get within a few 
 hundred feet, there will be a countdown to your destination. It is also nice that at any point, 
 you can press the R3 button, and choose one of the three styles of play and pick that goal. So, 
 at any point, you can jump from Career, Hardcore, and Rigger. Each type of play is unique, and 
 I like the choice of pro skaters that get you up to speed on each type, including Aarto Saari, 
 Mike Vallely, and of course Tony Hawk. Career is self explanatory, your goal is to skate to get 
 noticed, make money, and make it big. Hardcore is just as it sounds, as you try to hit huge gaps, 
 grind enormous lines, and just take it to the extreme. Rigger is the mode where you use your own 
 creativity to make cool skate spots. It may be as simple as adding a ramp in front of a car so 
 you can ollie it, or it may be much more complex. Overall, this game is a lot of fun, and I would 
 definitely recommend it to fans of the series and newbies alike. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
