-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tony Hawk's Project 8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/tonyhawksproject8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Redesigned career mode gives you multiple levels of challenge.
 nail the trick mode is a cool-looking addition that has a positive impact on the gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate is frequently unstable.
 no online support.
 skater creation options aren't as in-depth as they have been in previous installments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 680 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Nov 17, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Project 8 makes a lot of changes that will please fans of the series, but some technical issues 
 and missing features hurt the experience. 

  Tony Hawk appeared on the Xbox 360 last year, but Tony Hawk's Project 8 marks the first time that 
 the series has been built from the ground up for the current generation of consoles. As you might 
 expect, not being saddled with the constraints of the Xbox and PlayStation 2, Activision and Neversoft 
 have made some strong visual strides this year, updating and modernizing the game's look while 
 replacing a lot of the trick animations that had been in place for years. The gameplay is as freeform 
 and as technical as it's ever been, with some smart changes on that front that are enough to keep 
 fans of the series interested, while a new tutorial is aimed at getting new players up to speed. 
 Unfortunately, some technical glitches and unstable frame rates plague both the Xbox 360 and the 
 PlayStation 3 version of the game.  

          Tony Hawk's new scheme is Project 8, and he's looking for the top eight skaters in town. 
 By the end of the game, one of those skaters will be you.     

  Those frame-rate problems hit the PlayStation 3 version of the game significantly harder than the 
 Xbox 360. Other than the choppy frame rate and slightly sharper graphics on the PlayStation 3, 
 some of which is only noticeable when using an HDMI cable on a high-end HDTV, the games look roughly 
 the same. But there are other, more significant differences between the two versions. The Xbox 
 360 version has online support for up to eight players, including a new game mode called walls, 
 which gives your skater a tall trail behind him that behaves sort of like the light cycles in Tron -- if 
 you hit another player's wall, you're out. The Xbox 360 version also uses its online support to 
 present a lot of different online leaderboards. Much like Amped 3, many of the different goals 
 in the game have their own individual leaderboard, which adds some competition to the single-player 
 game and gives you a reason to keep on playing the same goals again and again. Without this, the 
 PS3 version feels sort of flat by comparison.  

  The PlayStation 3 version of the game distinguishes itself by offering complete support for the 
 Sixaxis controller's motion-sensing abilities. You can set it to just control functions like balancing, 
 if you like, or you can move and execute tricks with it, as well. It works, but it lacks the precision 
 offered by the D pad, so it's a neat experiment that's pretty good at showing off what the Sixaxis 
 is capable of, but you probably wouldn't want to play through the game this way. The PlayStation 
 3 version also installs a 264MB cache file onto the system's hard drive when you first put the 
 game in your system. Presumably, this is done to help speed up loading, but the load times don't 
 seem much better than the Xbox 360 version of the game. If you're in a position where you have 
 to choose between the two versions of the game, the Xbox 360 version offers a more complete package. 
 The Tony Hawk series was a pioneer when it came to being online on the PlayStation 2, and its omission 
 on the PS3 is completely crazy and thoroughly disappointing.  

  Underneath all those differences lies the same basic game, and it's not that different from what 
 Tony Hawk fans have come to expect from the series, but the changes are noticeable and welcome. 
 The big gameplay change this year is the addition of a new slow-motion trick mode called "nail 
 the trick". You can enter it while in the air by pressing in both analog sticks, which slows the 
 action and moves the camera to your feet and your skateboard. At this point, the two analog sticks 
 (or the Sixaxis' tilt sensors, if you're so inclined) control your feet, letting you flip the board 
 around in a variety of ways. It's very strict on its timing, making it difficult to use at first. 
 But as you get better and better at it, you'll find that it's a handy way to rack up some points 
 when worked into your trick combos. The scoring system has been reworked a bit, so it's a little 
 more difficult to post up ridiculous combos and multipliers by abusing a ton of lip, grind, or 
 manual branches. Considering that score inflation in the online mode over the years has made the 
 system difficult for anyone other than the hardest of the hardcore Tony Hawk players to enjoy, 
 bringing the scores back down to earth is a good idea.  

  The game has a good career mode that doesn't bog itself down with too much story. Tony Hawk is 
 starting up something called Project 8, and he wants to find the eight best skaters in town. You 
 start out ranked 200th, and everything you do is focused on increasing that rank. The primary way 
 to move through the game is to complete goals, but the goal system has been thoroughly reworked 
 this year. Rather than setting you up with a very clear critical path that takes you to the top, 
 the game is a bit more open ended. You'll immediately find all sorts of goals, and as you complete 
 goals that open up new parts of town, you'll uncover even more challenges. Also, the game doesn't 
 ask you to set your difficulty at the beginning of the game. Instead, many of the game's goals 
 offer three different levels of completion. You can get by if you can complete the amateur-level 
 goal, but there are also pro and sick levels to achieve. As it should be, the intermediate Tony 
 Hawk player should be able to accomplish the pro-level goals more often than not, and some of the 
 sick level goals are, indeed, sick.  

          The game's goals offer multiple levels of difficulty that should challenge players of all 
 skill levels.     

  There are a lot of different goals in the game -- in fact, there are plenty of times when your compass 
 gets so cluttered with goal arrows that you're not quite sure what you should do next. Probably 
 the most interesting new goals are the chalk challenges. Grind versions of the chalk challenge 
 have you skate a specific grind line in an attempt to reach the next chalk marking. The first line 
 you reach is for the amateur goal, the second for pro, and the third for sick. There are also chalk 
 challenges for being able to reach a certain height while launching off of a quarter pipe, natas 
 spinning or stalling on specific objects, wall planting or wall riding up to varying heights, and 
 so on. Since your skater improves over the course of the game, you might not be able to reach the 
 sick levels for these goals right away, giving you a reason to come back later after you've raised 
 your stats.  

  You'll perform at skate demos several times over the course of the game, and these work by splitting 
 the crowd watching the action into three zones. You need to constantly do tricks in each zone to 
 keep each section of the audience happy. You'll also meet up with pro skaters and then take on 
 specific challenges to show them you're legit. These challenges are often unique. Bob Burnquist's 
 pro challenge asks you to jump out of a plane and perform tricks in the air. Bam Margera, once 
 again, can't stay out of the garbage, and he'll demand that you launch yourself off of a building 
 and land in a dumpster. Ryan Scheckler focuses on gaps and acid drops, Daewon Song has you move 
 pieces around a small area to set up a lengthy grind line, and there are five more challenges to 
 play through over the course of the game, not counting Tony Hawk's grand finale, which is different 
 depending on how many goals you complete at the higher levels. All in all, people that have stuck 
 with the series over the years should be able to blaze through the game's goals and get the amateur 
 ending after about six or seven hours. But moving up to the pro and sick finales will most definitely 
 take some time. The career is helped along by several appearances by a virtual Jason Lee ( Mallrats, 
 Enemy of the State, Stealing Harvard ) , who guides you by informing you of new skate demos, pro 
 challenges, and other more important goals. All in all, it's a fun, streamlined mode that focuses 
 on the gameplay without spending too much time with needless story sequences.     

  The level design is similar to American Wasteland, in that Project 8 presents the world as one 
 large city with different sections. However, this game makes good on the "seamless world, no loading" 
 concept that American Wasteland touted. Where American Wasteland just hid the loading by forcing 
 you to skate between areas in tight, non-descript tunnels, Project 8's world is truly seamless. 
 The only time you'll see loading screens while playing is if you retry a goal that's halfway across 
 the city, forcing the game to pause for a bit while it warps you there. The large city is nicely 
 designed and has plenty of opportunities for ridiculously long combo lines. The size of the city 
 becomes a problem online, where you might play a full game without ever seeing another player. 
 To combat that, you can choose to limit players to one part of town or a few areas that combine 
 multiple parts of town into one area. The online mode in Project 8 on the Xbox 360 is much the 
 same as it has been over the years. You can connect to a game with up to eight players and just 
 skate around. The host then chooses to start a game and things go from there. In addition to the 
 new walls game type, old modes like trick attack, score challenge, combo mambo, graffiti, and horse 
 are also available. The online action is a lot of fun, and in a surprising twist, you can still 
 use the slow-motion nail the trick mode during online games.  

          Project 8 takes place in an open city, but initially you'll be locked into a pretty small 
 area.     

  Like in many of the sports games that have transitioned from the previous generation of consoles 
 to this one, in Project 8 there are a lot of features and options that haven't carried over from 
 American Wasteland or the previous games in the series. While you can still create your own skater, 
 your options for hairstyles, faces, eyes, and so on are way more limited. However, the number of 
 licensed shoes in the game has skyrocketed, presumably because the nail the trick mode gives you 
 a detailed look at your feet. The level-creation tools show up in a limited form during the career, 
 but there's no option to make your own skate park or goals. Those options were nice to have in 
 the previous installments in the series, but Project 8 doesn't feel like it's missing a large chunk 
 of content or anything like that.  

  If it wasn't for its frame rate problems, Project 8 would be a great-looking game. Most of the 
 animation that's been used and reused in Tony Hawk games is gone, replaced by all new motion-captured 
 tricks and rag-doll physics. Yes, that's right, the legs-straight-out benihana animation you've 
 come to know and love over the years is history. But shed a silent tear for it, because the game's 
 animation does look really nice. The environments are bright and colorful, and even the gross-looking 
 pedestrians that have given you goals in the previous games have been replaced by nice-looking 
 close-up shots. The game runs at a good speed, but unfortunately the frame rate just can't keep 
 up. The PlayStation 3 version of the game is more unstable and sinks to lower depths than its Xbox 
 360 counterpart. On the 360, it's just enough to get in the way of the gameplay. On the PS3, it's 
 enough to make the game feel unfinished, but only on the occasions when it  really  starts dropping 
 frames. Both versions also contain a cool pro tricks section that lets you view the skater models 
 doing tricks as they were motion captured. You can move the camera around, focus on the board, 
 roll the sequence in slow motion, and see just what level of fancy footwork goes into doing actual 
 skate tricks. It reinforces the concept that actual skating is, at the pro level anyway, insanely 
 difficult.  

  The soundtrack in Project 8 is your typical mix of multigenre licensed music. By default, it's 
 low enough to serve as background music that doesn't get in the way of the action. There's a bit 
 of voice work in the game from the pro skaters, but since they only turn up during very specific 
 challenges, most of them only have a few lines. Considering their wooden delivery, maybe that's 
 for the best. Tony Hawk gets a bit more mic time, but even he seems like a bit player in the game. 
 Instead, it's Jason Lee who does most of the talking. In addition to being a former pro skater 
 and running his own skate company, the guy's an actor, and he manages to deliver his lines quite 
 a bit better than the skaters do. There are a lot of new sound effects in Project 8 that really 
 enhance the experience. The grind noises in Tony Hawk have always been great and realistic, but 
 they've been mostly the same for the last several years. There are a lot of new skating-on-surfaces 
 effects this year that really enhance the sound of the game.  

          The models and animation are great, but an unstable frame rate really gets in the way. 
     

  Like every other release on Microsoft's platform, the Xbox 360 version of Tony Hawk's Project 8 
 has a series of achievements that you earn by completing specific tasks. The achievements are designed 
 much better here than they were in American Wasteland, with a handful of points coming for just 
 progressing through the story mode, while many, many more come from mastering it. There are also 
 points for reaching specific scores and combos in the high score mode, playing and winning online, 
 and more. The game also has an achievement for beating a developer or beating someone who has beaten 
 a developer in an online game. It'll be interesting to see how this viral achievement works its 
 way from player to player.  

  Project 8's tutorial should help new players get into the swing of things, but ultimately it's 
 fans of previous installments that will get the most out of this game. The redesigned career mode 
 and multiple difficulty goals inject a lot of excitement into the formula, and features like online 
 leaderboards and Xbox Live support really make the Xbox 360 version stand out. If you've ever been 
 a fan of the Tony Hawk series, this game is worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: guile_charlie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk's Project 8 is the first New Generation skateboarding game (and consequently the 8th 
 in the series, hence the 8 in the title) . It intends to bring to fans a truly next generation experience 
 in skateboarding games. Although it contains the graphics, mechanics and game play of a true Next-Gen 
 Tony Hawk game, the PS3 version should simply be avoided by everyone. (360 version is a different 
 story) .
  
  This new game, as much as I love every idea implemented, is made unplayable on the PS3 because 
 its frame rate stutters/hiccups are completely unbearable. Not to mention that the loading times 
 for everything are so terribly long that it's quite sad to go back and play the last PS2 Tony Hawk 
 game and compare it to this PS3 sequel and think to yourself "Isn't the PS3 supposed to allow better 
 games to be made?". It's only a little of the PS3's fault, it is an amazingly powerful machine, 
 and that's where the trouble lies... it's probably too powerful. It's mostly the fault of, honestly... we, 
 the fans. We demand a new Tony game every year and because of that, Activision makes Neversoft 
 put one out in such a short amount of time. It's pretty much become Madden (blech) . I believe that 
 if, literally, six or seven more months were to have been spent on this game then Neversoft would 
 have made their selves more familiar to the PS3's hardware and, in turn, everything would have 
 come together much more nicely. Yet, we have to play a game that makes you constantly afraid of 
 having a frozen screen just from starting a level!
  
  I had the game for only literally 3 days before I said to myself "Okay, I can't stand this s*** 
 anymore!". When the frame rate worked fine or the game was not loading (which was about 1/5 of 
 the time) , the mechanics and everything else in the game were thoroughly enjoyed to the point that 
 I realized this was the best Tony game I have ever played. The graphics are definitely next gen, 
 and the new game play element "nail-a-trick" is the absolute sickest thing I have ever seen in 
 a skating game! This is definitely something that they should put in every subsequent game in the 
 series! I am quite a fan of the new "earthquake" like landing effect but the overly exaggerated 
 rag doll physics when you bail are just taking it too far. The only non technical flaws of this 
 game are that the create a skater feature is so extremely bare bones to the point that the it is 
 not even as good as when it was first implemented in the series, and that the create-a-park mode 
 has been take out completely. Other than that, the game play in Project 8 is the funnest the series 
 has given us.
  
  It is just an absolute shame that PS3 owners have to deal with the technical deficiencies to enjoy 
 1/5 of what the game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this is probaly the most realistic tony hawk game out its fun catchy and great graphics to. the 
 real reason i like the game is for the bailing cause you can choose where to go like you can hop 
 while you bailing or land in a dumpster and stuff. also this has the best skate park in the tony 
 hawk games the have some good pros and i mean some. and you dont need to use the map to go to certain 
 locations unlie the ps2 version which sucks. though whats awsome is nail the trick. though whats 
 kinda stupid is the stokens cause its easy to collect them just theres nothing good to buy. also 
 the pros faces are messed up not like soccom faces just messed up. thugh its kinda werid seeing 
 jason lee in the game i know hes one of the first pros but its just kinda weird. though this is 
 a not bad game best in the seris and i would get it if i were u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game almost met my expectations. Is has good to average graphix and fun game play. But the 
 games downfall is its terrible trial and error which makes the player have to try and try again 
 to progress or do a trick just so it can be added into your trick play list. Difficult things are 
 making long jumps, riding rails for long distances, and doing insane tricks that are not, in the 
 end, worth the trial and error method. This is just like any skating game, you open new abilities, 
 try them out, open more, and in the end your left with a game where all you do is skate around 
 and do tricks. It's pretty fun at first but as i said, after doing trial and error many times just 
 to achieve one stupid thing and just skating around and doing tricks as the just of the game, its 
 just not worth it. If I were you I would wait for Skate 2 because that's supposed to be good. WAIT 
 FOR THE BARGAIN BIN. This game is not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid93
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Tony hawks has created all kinds of skate boarding game but this one is definitely not the best. 
 Like I said Skate is better than this game. 
  If you are a real tony hawks fan then go ahead and get it. Don't get me wrong this isn't a bad 
 game or anything but after a while it kind of gets boring.
  I have been playing Tony Hawks games for a while now but I want something that really makes me 
 feel like I am in the game. In this game after doing a kickflip it's ok. In skate after I do a 
 kickflip it feels great because you used the analog stick (R) to do the trick. In Tony Hawks project8 
 you can only do flip tricks when you click both Left and Right analog sticks or you can use the 
 Square button to do a flip trick. I get tired of the same original controls that the Tony hawks 
 franchise use. But I will say that you should rent both of the games first. I like this game but 
 I love Skate. 
  Some people may like this game and some might not. Some may like Skate
  and some may not. I really recommend Skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukestar1997
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is dead boring! I nearly fell asleep playing it . At first it seems cool been able to 
 skate around and walking but after about 45 minutes you get bored the missions are too hard and 
 you end up skatin around doing nothing for an hour and a half. The best bit about the game is the 
 music at the start. The multiplayer is ok compared to space invaders. this is so boring and it 
 is a 12 for one use of strong language which isn't even that bad! DO NOT BUY! YOU WILL MOST CERTAINLY 
 REGRET IT. I would rather play tom and jerry it's so boring. You will be mourning over your console 
 about 10 minutes into the game because you'll be bored skating around doing nothing. It, s stupid 
 you bang into someone they chase you and hit you with the skate board and you go flying into the 
 air way above the ground and you dont die. What is worse is that there is a button which allows 
 you to fall over on purpose to see how many bones you brake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessian823
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 23, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the primary reasons that I began skateboarding was Tony Hawk. I remember playing his first 
 and second games like they were the greatest things in the world. Now, I have to endure this crap. 
 The game incorporates a lot of the good stuff from the first games in the series and then it goes 
 WAY WAY overboard. I mean, how much crap are you expected to do while performing a trick. I was 
 told that this was supposed to be a skating simulator but, as anyone who skates will tell you, 
 skating is about fun and that is where this game loses its luster. The game becomes so bogged down 
 with controls and balance and whatnot that all the fun gets lost in the translation. That is to 
 say that if I might as well go outside and bang up my shins for an hour to get the real experience 
 rather than play this piece. I do like the fact that Christian Hosoi and Jason Lee make appearances, 
 that is great for an old schooler like myself but this game simply misses the mark with all the 
 b. s. you have to endure to play. The bails take way to long to recover from and whats the deal 
 with not being able to find codes for perfect balance and rails? I am a full time grad student 
 as well as teaching several classes, even in the summer, so I don't have three months to play a 
 game to get the goods. I appreciate Tony Hawk but this game just doesn't do it for me. Skating 
 is about fun, go out an learn to ride a deck rather than play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I think this is my favorite skateboard game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  With a great story and good gameplay. The graphics are great too and the tricks are great, but sometimes 
 a bit unrealistic.
  I love this game , cause your free to do anything, like grinds, flips, and the thing i love is 
 The nail the trick mode which is in slow motion, while it's in slow motion you can flip the board 
 at any angles and as much as you want.
  As a basic skateboard game it's great, if you have nothing else to play. The thing that i don't 
 like about this game it's that some tricks are almost impossible to do. The thngs i like to it's 
 that you have a lot of choice to buy the right board, and with some money you can also buy tricks 
 as well as video tricks from: Tony hawk, Bam Margera .....
  But still buy this game, or buy Tony Hawk's proving ground which is also great a bit the same except 
 the graphics and the story.
  So i think this is the best Tony Hawk of all.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI_666
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Well I have reviewed a shooter, and a racing game, might as well just continue on with the other 
 games in my library, like this one: Tony Hawk's Project 8 for the Playstation 3
  
  First up to bat: The graphics. This game looks nice, and the people who said that the 360 version 
 looks better really are talking out of their asses. This game looks the same on both consoles, 
 exactly the same. Although there is one slight difference in the shadowing and lighting: On the 
 PS3 version, it is a bit brighter than the 360 version. 
  
  But, there is one issue with the PS3 version. This game suffered the unfortunate fate of numerous 
 launch titles for the PS3, Bad frame rates. Unfortunately since they were rushed into production 
 to be finished by the launch, they were not able to take advantage of the processor very much, 
 and therefore suffers some frame rate issues. This tends to stay pretty tame, but can cause one 
 or two noticeable and slightly irritating lag moments. 
  
  Now gameplay. The game handles extremely well. All the buttons respond perfectly and are received 
 flawlessly. Although the tilt function, which can be used to pull of various tricks and manuals, 
 feels sort of like a gimmick, and doesn't really feel comfortable. They have also added a new "Nail 
 The Trick" mode, where it goes into a close up of the board, and slows down time while you use 
 the analog sticks as your feet and do flips manually. This is actually a really cool feature, as 
 you can pull of easier flip trick combos. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  If you have enjoyed the previous Tony Hawk games, then maybe you will enjoy this one. But i feel 
 that the game is really hard and seems to glitch up too often. It looks nice, and i admit its fun. 
 But the controls seem to not workout as well as you'd hoped. Different moves often get confused 
 with others and you fail missions because of it. And for some reason, saving doesn't work out for 
 me. Every time i try to start where i left off, it just has me start all over again. Which means 
 i can't get very far and stop or all over again come everything ive already done! Project 8 is 
 a little enjoyable and funny, but they should have worked harder on putting it all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Eight years later the Tony Hawk games have been enjoyable for skater fans or Hawk fans who love 
 playing the series.
  Project 8 is based on you meaning you get to create yourself into the game, you are trying to rank 
 from the dumps to the top of the ranks and become the best skater. There are more then 200 goals 
 and missions to do also Classic mode such as collect the letters, beat a high score, or do somthing 
 5 times like put goats in cages. You are learning new tricks also the PS3 version you can tilit 
 the controls if you want to be a crazy player who wants to turn the controller and balanceing while 
 your grinding on rails or jumping. There will be some missions that will make you frustrated to 
 do, also you will meet famous people that will help you like Tony Hawk or Jason Lee ( From My name 
 as Earl) . The graphics are perfect on a next gen system but the Hawk games are starting to run 
 out of ideas if they don't do somthing about it they are gonna be out of ideas by the end of the 
 year. There isn't any online mode or features which is bad, meaning you can't play other players 
 or be on top of the ranks. What will Hawk and the crew do next? Make the next game more fun or 
 flush everything down the toilet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellraiseR-
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk's franchise has always stayed true to it's arcade game play, which made the series 
 famous 8 years ago. But the lack of any kind of innovation or even tweaks to the long winded formula 
 sure hampers the overall impression of the game. That not mention the terrible, unstable frame 
 rate that won't keep up with the game's pretensions and the feeling that the game is just unremarkable. 
 At least, the new nail the trick system, if not perfect, is a cool new addition to this game the 
 suffers so much from lack of innovation. This, combined with the solid amount of things to do keep 
 this game from being a total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankFreak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game graphically, if thats a word, is awesome... the Special slow down thingy is cool. It allows 
 one to see the moves and makes it easier to perform them and string very long combos together. 
 The little mini games are fun so is being able to customize the character, how ever I know the 
 SICK scores and challenges are supposed to be really hard. I know Tony Hawk Games are not exactly 
 my strong point however... I found the challenge in which you have to collect SKATE, COMBO, HIGH 
 SCORE, PRO SCORE, SICK SCORE, FIND THE SECRET DISC, HIGH COMBO SCORE, DESTROY AN ITEM, ETC. in 
 two minutes. The Amateur level is to finish 4 of those mentioned above, Pro level is achieve when 
 6 (or higher) of those are completed, and Sick level is achieved when ALL yes ALL are completed. 
 For those who LOVE Tony Hawk GAmes.... by all means go get it... But for those who are not a big 
 fan of Tony Hawk Games... I would recommend a game Call SKATE for the PS3... not sure if its out 
 yet.... its easier.... less buttons to push but moves are very similar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  I've never been a person to obsess over a video game. Whereas some people will pick up a game or 
 two and be perfectly happy for a few months, I constantly want to try something new. I usually 
 play through a game, get to the credits, then put it away and play something else. I rarely get 
 into a game enough to the point where I want to scour every inch of the land and get 100% on everything. 
 However, the Tony Hawk series is one of those franchises. Ever since I played the original on Dreamcast, 
 I was hooked. Besides Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam (and seriously, can you blame me?) I've reached 
 100% on every console Tony Hawk game to date. However, I've been disappointed with the last few 
 games. I loved all of the Pro Skater's, but when they got into the story element with Underground, 
 I lost some of my love for the franchise. It was just rehashing the previous games while adding 
 trivial tricks like getting off your board and climbing. But nothing could prepare me for the ridiculously 
 disappointing American Wasteland. I'm happy to say that Tony Hawk's Project 8 is easily the best 
 game since the glory days of the Pro Skater games.
  
  Tony Hawk is putting together a skate team called the Project 8. It's going to feature the best 
 skaters in the world and guess what? They're coming to your town. The object of the game is to 
 break into the top 8 by doing various goals throughout each area of the game. There really isn't 
 much story to this game besides a few conversations between various pros, but that's a good thing. 
 The previous games had too much story, which wouldn't be a bad thing if they were better, but they 
 had no depth which meant I couldn't care less about where the narrative went.
  
  The gameplay was obviously the focus of this game. If you've played each Tony Hawk game, you should 
 know that every year Neversoft incorporates new moves to help you pull off some huge combos. Some, 
 like the manual and revert that were introduced in Pro Skater 2 and 3 respectively, were great 
 deals of help while others, like walking, were pretty useless. Project 8 incorporated a few new 
 moves into your existing trick list and they are just as good, if not better, than what we've come 
 to expect. The main new trick entitled Nail the Trick is one of the most genius, beautiful, and 
 useful tricks at your disposal. When you click both thumbsticks, you will enter this revolutionary 
 mode, the camera will zoom in on the board, time will slow down, and you can pull off some awesome 
 moves. But it's not like the usual tricks where you're pressing the face buttons. To pull off something 
 as simple as a kickflip, you'll have to move both thumbsticks in a certain direction which will 
 flip your board depending on where you pushed it. It works amazingly well and it will certainly 
 help you pull off some crazy combos later in the game. But the greatest part of it is that it actually 
 takes a bit of practice to master. Learning how to revert or spine transfer took nothing more than 
 timing when to push the R2 button. Nail the Trick takes a good amount of practice until you know 
 how to fully utilize it. It's a great addition and one of the most important new tricks ever created 
 for this series.
  
  Of course, that new maneuver wouldn't do much good without some goals to accomplish. Remember how 
 in the previous games, you had to pick your difficulty before you started, which was usually Easy, 
 Normal, or Sick? Project 8 has a very smart and unique way of dishing out these difficulties. From 
 the get go, the Amateur, Pro, and Sick levels are all readily available. For instance, let's say 
 you were doing a manual goal. The Amateur level might just be down a hill, the Pro level might 
 be around a corner and through a narrow passageway, and the Sick level might be on top of a building 
 that you have to figure a way on top of while keeping your manual. But when you start out, your 
 stats aren't very high, so it's near impossible to pull off the Sick goals. As you play, your stats 
 will increase based on the amount of time you spent manualing, grinding, lipping, etc. Only then 
 will you be able to go back and do the Sick goals.
  
  Even then however, it will be a real challenge to pull off a lot of the Sick goals. My, and a lot 
 of others, main complaint about American Wasteland was that it was way too easy. It felt more like 
 an 8 hour long tutorial rather than a fleshed out game. It held your hand the whole way, rarely 
 ever posing a challenge, even on Sick. Neversoft must have taken this to heart because the Sick 
 goals in Project 8 are very hard, the hardest in the series. Like I said before, I've been obsessed 
 with this series since the original and I still had a tough time with a bunch of goals. They will 
 truly test your skills as a player. It's a welcome addition for this hardened fan.
  
  Despite my affection for the difficulty level, it has to be pointed out that some of the game's 
 goals are unfairly hard simply because they are mostly based off of luck. There are quite a few 
 goals in the game where you'll have to bail off your board and try to break as many bones as you 
 can, break a certain amount of fences, or knock down bowling pins, all while racking up a huge 
 hospital bill. Although you can have a basic strategy for these goals, it always come down to pure 
 luck whether or not you meet the required standards for Sick. If you plan on getting everything 
 on Sick, you can expect to sit in front of your television for at least a couple of hours doing 
 one of these goals over and over until you get lucky. After the negative feedback on the difficulty 
 of American Wasteland, it's like Neversoft incorporated these goals into the game to say, Is that 
 hard enough for you? As a matter of fact, it is and I'd appreciate it if you guys chucked those 
 goals in the trash for the next iteration.
  
  Although I love the goals and how difficult they are, I can't help but feel that too many of them 
 repeat. There are a lot of grind and manual challenges where you'll have to get to a certain spot 
 to reach each difficulty level. In every area of the game, there have to be at least 3 or 4 of 
 these. They all have different patterns and levels of strategy, but when it comes down to it, it's 
 really just the same goal over and over, just in different places.
  
  Of course, there are the Classic goals in the game that give a faithful nod to the first few Pro 
 Skater games. In each area of the game there is a Classic goal consisting of 10 more goals inside 
 of it. It's just like the other games. You'll have a high score, pro score, sick score, high combo, 
 collect skate, collect combo, secret tape, and various other goals relevant to the area. Since 
 the Pro Skater games are my favorite of the series, it was nice to see these goals incorporated 
 into the game somehow. Be that as it may, I really dug the way they worked the difficulty level 
 of each separate goal into the game. I wanted more of that, so the Classic goals were the last 
 goals I did. They were nice to have, but I couldn't help but feel like they were a bit unnecessary.
 
  
  While you're skating around the game, you'll collect a type of currency called stokens that you 
 can spend at the local skate shop to purchase new decks, moves, and specials. Although I hate the 
 name of them (tokens with an s as in I'm stoked so here's some money -- how clever) the great thing 
 about them is that you'll never really have to work for them. Just doing the various goals and 
 moving around from place to place should get you enough to buy the things you want to get. The 
 only thing you'll really need are the specials, but it's nice to have a few extra things to purchase 
 if you are so inclined.
  
  A Tony Hawk game wouldn't be a Tony Hawk game without plenty of gaps and secret spots and Project 
 8 doesn't hold back. There are 36 secret spots in the game and over 250 gaps to find. It's great 
 that there are so many of these, but neither of them are done that well. The secret spots aren't 
 really secret spots. Instead of these secret spots being a secret area to skate in, it's more or 
 less an icon hidden throughout the world. I wouldn't really call an icon hidden in a bunch of shrubbery 
 a secret spot. As for the gaps, I felt like there were too many gaps where I never would have guessed 
 they'd be, while areas where there plainly should have been had nothing.
  
  One of my least favorite areas of the game pertains to the horrible frame rate. I read online that 
 the PS3 version of the game chugged noticeably more than the Xbox 360 version, but I've always 
 preferred the Playstation d-pad when I'm playing the Tony Hawk games, so I shrugged it off and 
 grabbed the PS3 version anyway. I must say that the frame rate is unbearable at times. There were 
 more than a handful of times where I'd be in the middle of a huge combo, but end up bailing because 
 the chugging screwed me up. Since the game is basically one big world with no loading, it streams 
 as you approach newer areas and this is where the game falters most.
  
  As expected, there is a create-a-skater mode. However, this has some of the worst customization 
 options I've ever seen in a video game. For starters, the skater that you create in the career 
 mode cannot be used for free skate, multiplayer, or online. This is unforgivable because after 
 playing through the career mode, the player will feel a connection with their character only to 
 go online and be surprised that they can't use him/her. There are very little options to choose 
 from as well. At the start of your creation, you have to pick a certain style of character: punk, 
 girl, kid, etc. But the things that you normally associate with a punk, like a mohawk, can't be 
 put on the other pre-determined characters and vice versa. Why not? I wanted to mix and match a 
 little bit because multiple characters had styles that suited me, but to no avail, it wasn't possible. 
 In the end, I chose the punk character, but even common things that should be customizable weren't. 
 For instance, he has tattoos all down both arms. Well, I didn't want tattoos. Too bad. They wouldn't 
 come off and I was forced to use them on my character. What's the point of a create-a-skater mode 
 when you have hardly anything to choose from? It was pointless, pathetic, and a lazy effort from 
 Neversoft.
  
  The graphics are rather good. The environments have the best design since the Pro Skater games 
 and the detail on everything helps. The best and most noticeable aspect of the visuals is when 
 the camera zooms in for Nail the Trick mode. As you push the board in a certain direction, it flips 
 exactly how you pushed your legs. Most of the time, it won't be a perfect flip and you can see 
 it very clearly. It adds a bit of realism and authenticity to a game that feels over the top. It's 
 a huge accomplishment and very impressive.
  
  I've always enjoyed the sound of the Tony Hawk games. The way the board sounds when it's kicked 
 up into an ollie is music to my ears. And the voice acting, while never professional, was great 
 because it always used the real skater's voices. The best part for me however is usually the soundtrack. 
 They always had a great mix of punk rock, metal, hardcore, and hip hop. I never like all of the 
 songs and I personally don't believe any of them have come close to the soundtrack of the first 
 two games, but they also never fail to entertain me. This one isn't the best, but it's far from 
 unimpressive.
  
  I loved this game. The way Neversoft implemented the difficulty level into it was pure genius. 
 Plus, it had a great challenge to it that was a welcome addition after the lackluster and incredibly 
 easy American Wasteland. Despite some that were purely based on luck rather than skill, the various 
 goals were the highlight of the game and the best since the Pro Skater games. If the customization 
 options weren't so bare and the frame rate was greatly improved, I'd say this was one of the best 
 in the series. It still triumphs over American Wasteland, but it's really just a matter of opinion 
 if it's better than any of the others. Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a great step forward for the franchise 
 and has a serious challenge and enough content to keep any player busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaLonakuka
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  THP8 for the PS2 SUCKED. The graphics were cool, but it went backwards. The cities weren't connected 
 and there are elements that are in 2D. But OK, when you play the PS3 version, you'll think you're 
 not playing THP8. You'll check the box... The CD... Clean your eyes... But yeah, it's totally different 
 from the PS2. The graphics are cleaner, the areas are together, nail the trick works more efficiently, 
 there are new areas, there are more goals and the game is SICK. The sound is awesome, you can control 
 the skater/skateboard with the tilt function. I know, there are some functions that are missing 
 or not as deep as other games, like Create-a-Skater, Create-a-Park, Tagging and multiplayer, but 
 the game's all cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse45337
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of great things going for it. It's major downfall for me was it only displaying 
 at 720p. The 360 version displays at 1080. Which, as I know many people will argue, at 46 , it 
 makes a big difference. It brings all the classic moves from the series and adds some new ones. 
 The new create your own trick is awesome. The only nice thing about the PS3 specific version is 
 the ability to use the SIXAXIS to adjust your tricks. I personally wish I would've gotten the 360 
 version simply for the extra resolution. Hope this was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  overall i found this to be quite a good game and it is worth playing because its a tony hawks game 
 but there was many things that made this worse from previous tony hawk games.
  the game had very few good things about it and thats what made this such a disappointing game
 
  the graphics were very good the detail in the skater was great although sometimes the scenery 
 wasnt too good being a little blurry and not having much detail where other times it looked amazing
 
  the game play had a few new features to it like nail the trick where you use the 2 analogue sticks 
 to make up youre own trick which gives lots of points and falling off youre board. the falling 
 isnt very real but the huge combos arent real either so the new style of falling is realy good. 
 the difficulty was also good getting amature is easy but sick is very difficult just like it should 
 be.
  the bad things of this game were points that realy make or break a game main 1 being the story
 
  this game has no story at all, the point of the game is to skate until youre a high enough rank 
 to get into tonys project 8 and thats it... there wasnt any cut scenes where something cool happens 
 like in other games this is very disappointing sinse this doesnt make beating the game that much 
 fun its more of a chore.
  the soundtrack had to be 1 of the worst i have ever heard there wasnt many songs and they were 
 mostly all depressing goth music and hardly and skater rock. tony hawk games have allways had great 
 soundtracks so this was a major let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  i was so excited waiting for the release of this game. But i was very dissapointed when i started 
 playing it. First off. It just feels like you playing an old tony hawk game with better graphics. 
 alright there hasn't been hardly any improvements from the last tony hawk. The sound is good like 
 every other tony hawk game. the gameplay is good but not great. the value is not very good. I do 
 not think this game was worth the $60 i paid for it. i really think that they rushed this game 
 because one thing that is really annoying when you fall you fly like 20 feet in the air and like 
 do a backflip... (its so unrealistic) lol. I would not reccomend this game to a non tony hawk fan 
 but if u r give it a try and rent it. I hope the next tony hawk game is better and has online play! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootergray34
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  first of if you have played any other tony hawk games you have basically been there and done that... the 
 music is great and the gameplay is fun. But the biggest flaw in this game is the lack of online 
 mode. create a skater isn't really that great but it makes up for it with some pretty good gameplay. 
 I really enjoyed going through all the different places and skating on basically everything. So 
 if you are a big fan of the series then i'd pick this game up because you really have no other 
 choice if you want a skating game because tony hawk basically does all the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Hi .... The first time I played this game was from two months ago . It's ok .. Nothing wrong with 
 it if you like boardings . The start will be great .. You can customize your character clothes 
 and Board .. You have a home and nice neighborhood . You can unlock more than one neighborhood 
 , Missions and New styles of your board . It is so easy and simple to play it , just like a real 
 world . Your time may run fast while the enjoyments . So you can go a head play your style , world 
 and player . All what you are waitting for is to try it :D Note : This game may be boring sometimes 
 !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caslipknot
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 13, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The latest Tony Hawk video game tries to be innovative and take advantage of the PS3's Sixaxis 
 features, but there really isn't enough substance to make up for what is becoming a dying genre. 
 Project 8 is a fun game.. for about 20 minutes. Then it's time to play something else. This is 
 definitely a rent-first game. The characters and stages look nice, but they can get boring in a 
 hurry. There are a lot of objectives, but most of them are just recycled versions of things you've 
 already done. Actually, you will spend a lot of time with this game wondering if you really need 
 to do certain things, because you feel like you've done something similar already. The size of 
 the city you wander about in is also quite disappointing. I was expecting something much larger 
 and more immersive. The soundtrack is solid but has a few retarded songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyTheViking
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 12, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Tony Hawk games since I got Tony Hawk's Pro Skater on the Nintendo 64. I have 
 owned every game (excluding Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2x on Xbox, because I didn't have an Xbox at 
 the time) in the series and have beaten them all. I got this game and after about 2 hours, I just 
 got bored. There is nothing new to the gameplay and its just another rise to the top game like 
 the last 3 have been. I want to see a game where you start as a Pro Skater and live the life of 
 one. That would be awesome.
  
  But as for this game, the graphics are the best they've ever been, but that doesn't make up for 
 the terrible gameplay. THP8 is just all around not good. The gameplay get old but could make for 
 a good rental game. The missions are very repetitive and boring. Rent: Yes, It could be fun for 
 a week or so.
  Buy: No, I'm going to trade my copy in soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pelifriikki
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I kinda expected more... It should be more like thug, but no... Sure the graphics look alright, 
 but where's the awesome story that made thug intresting??? This game just sucks. Every single game 
 that is multi platformed, totally suck! Those that are made exclusively on one platform, might 
 be good... But IF these **** idiot neversoft guys would have concentrated only on the ps3 game, 
 the might have been better, but not good enough... Are they out of ideas, seriously??? well sure, 
 more **** What the hell?! All that game would need is an ollie, kickflip, 50-50 grind and a grab. 
 No more no less. Do NOT buy this game, please!
  
  -Tony Hawk 3 rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etftw
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  The graphical side of Tony Hawks Project 8 is very impressive especially if you are using a HDMI 
 cable, at certain points the FPS starts to come down at certain points but most of the time this 
 is unnoticable.
  
  One of my favorite features of the improve graphics is the animations, when griding a rail for 
 example, it looks / feels different each time and the general animation of all the tricks feels 
 much more life like.
  
  Gameplay
  The latest addition in the series offers a new approach to the gameplay, the majority of the goals 
 in the previous games we're very unrealistic however Project 8 offers much more realistic goals 
 along side the classical fast paced goals.
  
  As well as more realistic goals the entire game feels a lot more realistic in this sequel, in the 
 past games your speed would be increased a very lot by meerly holding X and crouching, in Project 
 8 it is required that you start by pushing yourself along as apposed to just automaticlly moving.
 
  
  Another cool feature is Nail The Trick , this is activated by pressing down both analogue sticks 
 and the screen focuses on your feet / board and the gameplay slows down and you then use both the 
 sticks to control your feet, allowing you to create your own tricks on the spot.
  
  Sound
  Sound is usually something that does not impress me much in games, however in Project 
 8 the sound is very impressive, when skating over different surfaces you can hear it, the sounds 
 of grinding, flipping the board, landing etc. all sounds very realistic.
  
  Cons
  There aren't many cons to this game apart from it is pretty hard to pick up at first as apposed 
 to the previous games, and if I want to be very picky I would say the fact there is no wear to 
 the board is a down point, I used to like it in THUG 1 (I think it was) after numerous grinding 
 you would see the paint scratching off the board, this isn't really anything important but I like 
 every little detail.
  
  Conclusion
  If you are a fan of the series, get it, you will more than likely take a real shine to it.
  
 
  If you haven't played any of the previous games I would suggest renting this title before buying 
 it as it might be a bit repetative if you aren't a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazanator
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Err yer well i completed this game in lyk the first 2 days so yer its quite easy. The graphics 
 are brill and i dnt kno wot gamespot r tlkin bout all the framerate stuff, i never suffered form 
 framerate problems so dnt listen 2 them. I also dnt kno how tey can give it a lower score than 
 360 but nyway ill get back 2 da review. So the graphics are good and the sound is awsome. The best 
 part of the whole game is when you fall of ur board on purpose from lyk the highest building and 
 see how many bones u break lol ^^ i also enjoyed knockin ppl ova and watch them try to dive at 
 you bu they miss and fall on da floor lol :P So yer get dis game its class 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brett_reynolds
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This is definately a good entry in the hawk series, solid game with tight controls as always. Although 
 it has controls standard to the hawk series with the token tight controls it doesnt quite seem 
 like a hawk game. The game doesn't have the customizability that the other games had that made them 
 so special and taking out the story after it has been introduced in the past games makes the game 
 feel shallow and that your just going around doing really challenging goals and taking away from 
 the overrall fun factor, its fun to just skate around but its either that or the goals, theres just 
 not much to do. You can't edit your tricks in story mode which i see absolutely no reason for and 
 is an annoyence so the only thing thing you can customize is your skater which has a reasonable 
 amount of options for using a whole new engine and the sad excuse to make up for having no park 
 editor which im dissapointed in being a hardcore create-a-park maker from previous games. Even with 
 these problems which come mostly from the entirely new engine and are being fixed for the next 
 game, the game is still really fun when it comes to gameplay. The tricks look nice and smoothe, not 
 robotic and the nail the trick mode is fairly fun. Just skating around is fun in this game with 
 the new physics and trick animations with the beautiful new graphics but the frame rate slows Down 
 sometimes because its an 360 port so any frame rate problems and the PS3 not being used to its 
 full potential you can blame on the 360. The game is very challenging and features the most goals 
 ever but at times they do seem repetative. Also missing is the incredibly important online mode 
 which is only on the 360 version and which i have heard hawk online isnt fun with the xbox community 
 and its not like it use to be but still online adds a lot of replay value especially if there was 
 a create-a-park feature and theres no excuse for neversoft being lazy like this. If you dont have 
 a 360 and even if you have this game current gen you should pick it up because this game makes 
 the current gen version look like crap and you wont be able to stand playing the other version 
 anymore this one is so much better. As for the missing modes and customization, theyre suppose to 
 be returning in hawk 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire7639
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Neversoft's Tony Hawk's series have always been a great addition to the PlayStation and the Xbox, 
 and Tony Hawk's Project 8 is no exception. With improved graphics, physics and a great story, this 
 game makes for great gameplay, and is excellent for multiplayer games.
  
  Whatever your opinion of the series, the graphics and story are sure to change the way you think 
 about the games. For one thing, the world now blends together as one level in story mode, and each 
 level is big enough to enjoy multiplayer graffiti battles or finding new gaps.
  
  The story in Tony Hawk's Project 8 is of how Tony Hawk is in search of eight skaters to join what 
 he calls 'Project 8'. You must move up in the rankings until you get into the top eight by completing 
 tasks and impressing newbie skaters. And the range of levels makes the gameplay even more satisfying.
 
  
  There is, however, some major changes that will stand out to veterans of the series - all of the 
 create modes are now gone, besides the create a skater feature. But even that has been hugely changed, 
 meaning that the number of possibilties in creating your dream skater is extremely limited. You 
 might also find that some of your favourite multiplayer match-types have been removed from Project 
 8. But in exchange, there are some new in-game features that nearly make up for the loss.
  
  If you own the PS3 or 360 versions, you'll be impressed by the graphics. The camera works perfectly, 
 and unlike the PS2 version, everything seems in proportion. The graphics might not be as impressive 
 as other next-gen games, but the games make use of next-gen graphics at least.
  
  The music in the game isn't that bad - whether you like the music or not really depends on your 
 style of music. But whether you like it all or not, there are some good tracks that fit with the 
 overall gameplay. As for the sound itself, there is some very realistic sound effects that make 
 the experience sound real, not just look and feel it.
  
  This is a great game whether you've played the older games in the series or not. It makes use of 
 three levels of difficulty so everyone can play, and it certainly isn't a game that should disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Project 8 got my attention as soon as I had found out that it would be more linear this time around, 
 abandoning the crappy ride the car down the hill or sneak into your neighbors house THEN drive 
 the car down the hill . Those were all way beyond just skateboarding itself, but admist the repition 
 of cars, trucks, and run-and-sneak, a true sequel to TH4 has finally been made, namely Project 
 8.
  
  Project 8's campaign takes you into the heart of a semi-immersive home town as a boarder trying 
 to join Tony Hawk's project 8 consisting of 8 of the top boarders around the world, and at the 
 end of the campaign to no one's surprise, you're going to be one of them. The missions range from 
 busting moves on ramps to catch golf balls to grinding all the way around a circular street, all 
 the missions are harder this time around but more linear to skateboarding itself, a nice welcome 
 to anybody that has abandoned the TH series due to THUG (underground and it's sequel) . If you quit 
 since THUG released, this is a great time to jump back into the train of bliss.
  
  The gameplay is more like an expanded TH4, with new moves and an added zoom in or slow-mo control 
 where when your meter fills up you can bust open a slow-mo trick. While you're doing that you can 
 have the option to zoom in on your legs in which you can now use your analog sticks to control 
 the legs and bust over some serious combos. What happens if you don't succeed? If your feet aren't 
 placed correctly or can't get on the board before you hit ground, then all the points you earned 
 crash rockets to the ground, as do you. Besides that the new moves are fun to use and the characters 
 are more balanced and unique this time around.
  
  The new moves and tricks aren't the only thing good about this title though. The arenas are ingeniusly 
 coordinated so that we can bust over tricks just about anywhere, but it won't be easy as there 
 are backfires, fall down there and your at another place 20 feet from where you began. HORSE and 
 Tag return for another beating as well, as do many other fan favorites.
  
  The only complaints I had about this game were no online play, which was bearable, but what got 
 me really sick to the stomach is that there are no create-a-character or no park editor, a big 
 downfall for this series.
  
  No worries though, this game is still fun. If you didn't like THUG then come on back, this is the 
 same game as 1999 with some next gen feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk2888
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  actually i didn't purchase this game, and Im thankful every day that I didnt. I did however rent 
 it recently. Right off the bat I found the first flaw of the game. The Intro. Not only was it that 
 same boring trailer I had seen months before over and over, but I could not skip it. I had to watch 
 the whole thing again. finally I began a new career and found myself stuck in a limited create 
 a skater mode that seemed to be built upon stereotypes and had some of the worst clothes/style 
 collections I have seen in pretty much any game. Finally after choosing the Hip hop guy (not becuase 
 thats me necessarily but because it was the only character I could picture actually riding a board) 
 I began the game itself. The game starts you off in Suburbia which is not, much to my dismay, similar 
 to the original suburbia in THPS 3 at all. the original featured skate sets, and some relativly 
 logically placed ledges. this one contained a koi pond and some uninspiring houses with next to 
 nothing that an actual skateboarder would skate. the only good ledge was surrounded by grass. Nice 
 work neversoft I can see the level designers are really earning their keep. After about 10 wretched 
 minutes of gameplay, I finally got out of suburbia and spent about 2 hours opening the rest of 
 the levels. in the whole game (capitol excluded) I found maybe 10 spots that someone would actually 
 skate. The worst level was without a doubt the car factory is the worst level in the game with 
 next to nothing being intuitave or fun to skate. The best level was by far the capital. it had 
 oodles of pretty marbled ledges that reflected the shiny happy next gen graphics. I probably spent 
 more time in this level than in all the other levels combined. the only other remotely well designed 
 level was the school. this is pretty much a staple of every THPS game, since they all feature a 
 school, and schools are usually the first place I look for skate spots in real life. This level 
 featured some impressive stair sets and a really nice ledge over a gap. This level would have been 
 my favourite if only for one thing that these level designers dont seem to get. Kinked rails are 
 not that fun to skate. every level in this game is riddled with kinked hand rails that would have 
 been much funner to skate if not for that. one of the things we were promised in this game were 
 improved tricks. after seeing the monstrositys in THAW, I was very optimistic. fortunatley, mo 
 capping tricks makes them look more natural. unfortunatly, the tricks still lack the style that 
 they once had. Look at THPS 3. thats what a kickfliip should look like. this inconsitancy is unacceptable 
 from neversoft. still, I was pleased overall with most of the tricks. i was very happy that they 
 finally included proper nollie 360 inward heelflips, nolie lazerflips, and nollie 360 hardflips. 
 Ever since THPS4 I have been waiting for them to fix this and it took them 4 games to do it. The 
 grinds are still looking pretty good, but I noticed several glitches. I could not fs bluntslide 
 a rail for some reason. i would go over to nosebluntslide. There are plenty of other glitches that 
 shouldn't be there. The manuals by themselves look great and natural.... the freestyling not so 
 much. I noticed that neversoft screwed up again on its trick naming. what it calls a 360 fingerflip 
 is actually a 360 shovit. once again Neversoft is getting sloppy.
  
  The story is so rediculous that I don't even want to talk about it (lets just say that it ends 
 in a funpark) Even Jason Lee can't save the preposterous plotline. Nice try neversoft, but Tony 
 Alva didn't save THAW and Jason Lees not gonna save THP8. if this is supposed to introduce the 
 younger generation to skateboarding legends, then I fear for the future of skateboarding. Finally, 
 I will review the most hyped new feature of this game, Nail The Trick.
  NTT is very fun, and hard to learn. I spent hours perfecting doing normal tricks in it such as 
 hardflips. once you get used to it, however, It gets pretty boring pretty fast. much like the rest 
 of the game, this feature lacks the replayability of past games in this series. While certainly 
 a visually attractive game, the gameplay, story, level design, and soundtrack leave much to be 
 desired. This game is a pretty big improvement over THAW, but its just not worth the price tag. 
 If this is the best neversoft can come up with for the next gen market, then I don't believe i 
 will continue buying their games. I have bought every TH game in succession (even THAW) but I just 
 couldn't bring myself to buy this shoddy, buggy travesty of a skateboarding game. With EA getting 
 into the skateboarding genre, maybe there will be enough competition to revitalize a once great 
 franchise, but I doubt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  When I heard that there was going to be a Tony Hawk game coming out on the PS3, I didn't know what 
 to think.
  
  To start with, I wasn't sure about the controller. In my opinion, the Nintendo DS and Wii both 
 have very gimicky controllers, and I thought that the PS3 would be the same. I was especially worried 
 about Project 8, because I thought that having to use the tilt controls could get a bit confusing. 
 Yes, it could be fun, but surely it would decrease in enjoyment overtime? No, they work really 
 well, and I especially like the Nail-the-Trick mode with the tilt control.
  
  As a fan of the old Hawk games, I had been fairly disappointed with the last three games, because 
 it wasn't realistic enough. Throwing tomatoes at pedestrians? That's not fun! That's stupid pranks! 
 We don't want any of that in a skateboarding game! Thankfully, Project 8 is nothing like that. 
 It has a realistic story line, with challenging but fun goals. Also, Neversoft have removed the 
 Freak-out , and put in a new bail system, which works really well, and lets you release your anger 
 in a new and original way. Rag-doll mode really increases your fun, and in my opinion, really makes 
 the game even better. Force-bails are fun too!
  
  Next, I was very impressed by the free-raoming aspect. I was really looking forward to THAW last 
 year, and was disappointed because it WASN'T a free-roaming, free-streaming game with no load screens, 
 it was a game that had cleverly disguised load screens, implanted in between SEPERATE levels, in 
 disguise as tunnels. But Project 8 IS free-roaming, and, instead of lots of levels stuck together, 
 it is one level, broken down into small sections.
  
  Like all of the series, Project 8 is very original, with new goals, new tricks, new functions and 
 HUGE levels. It is a huge improvemnt on the previous games, and really brings the game back down 
 to earth. The graphics are fantastic too. Well done Neversoft, keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jag215
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I got to the credits earlier today and I have to say. RIGHT ON!!! This game is great for fans of 
 the series, and for the people who haven't played the Tony Hawk games, What the hell is wrong with 
 you? I don't care if you hait wood-pushing (skateboarding) or the wood-pushers (skate punks) that 
 infest your town. I do. But this is just a flat out fun game. The graphics are good, not the best 
 we'll see from the PS3 but definately good.
  
  I may get some of the new features screwed up because I skipped American Wasteland so if I mention 
 something as new that actually first appeared last year tell me. (I know this one is from AW) The 
 single city, no load times thing makes me really happy. However I miss all the moving vehicles 
 from the underground games, skitching was bomb. I really like the cla-ssic feel of this game though 
 it takes some of the mission-ish aspects from the Underground games it is mostly cla-ssic: score 
 big, put up stunning combos, keep your balance, land your tricks kind of stuff. And the big major 
 new feature is Nail the Trick, this is by far the coolest game mechanic ever put into a sports 
 game. Timing, imagination, precision, a little bit of strategy, and a lot of skill make flicking 
 analog sticks tremendous fun.
  
  
  My full review is on my blog at gamespot. com/users/jag215 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  To begin things off with T&gt; H&gt; project 8 for the PS3, is you actually get to creat your own 
 skater and you have to play thru a career mode to become one of T&gt; H&gt; project 8 members, which 
 means y ou are one of the 8 best skaters in the world. The story cont. on, but its the basic same 
 ole story for skating. THE GOOD THINGS: the graphics is of course one of the big th ings since 
 its on the PS3 and they do not dissapoint, they are very good. The controls are good and easy, 
 if you have played any of the skating games on the PS2 you can do this with no problem. They have 
 also added a new feature called nail the trick , this may takeyou a while to get use to it and 
 learn how to do it, but it's pretty cool. With a few touches here and there it could become the 
 next big thing in the series. Also, I like there is only one big city in the game, where you can 
 skate pretty much anywhere. you spend your time unlocking new places in the city to skate and to 
 complete goals. The big thing that I liked about this one was that it was not so easy that you 
 could beat it in a day and have done all there was to do on it. With over 200+ goals and 3 different 
 levels. BAD THINGS: if you have never liked the T&gt; H&gt; games, then this one will not change 
 your mind about the series. I can honestly say that I did not find any real bad things about this 
 game. OVERALL: if you have the money for a PS3 and you are a T&gt; H&gt; fan , then definetly try 
 this game out. You will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  One of the most popular and longest running sports franchise has been the Tony Hawk series. Since 
 its debut in 1999 on the PS1 it has helped make skating more mainstream and has ushered in a new 
 era of real skaters. While the first three editions of the series were fresh the franchise started 
 to loose steam and some likened it to the repition of the Madden series. The latest installment, 
 Tony Hawks Projects 8 is Activisions attempt at a reboot to the aging series. So is TH8 worth 
 the time to veterans and newcomers?
  
  Each of the previous editions introduced a new gameplay element or feature. The newest gameplay 
 element is Nail a Trick. In this the player can slow down time and actually spin their skateboard 
 via the analog sticks. The left stick represents your left foot and right stick is your right foot. 
 It does take some time to master this but once you do its pretty cool and is a good way to chain 
 together combos. You can even practice this through the games excellent tutorial. This new addition 
 is possibly one of the biggest additions to the series since it plays a vital role and isnt a 
 gimmick.
  
  Just like the previous 3 installments of the franchise the game is set in an open world layout. 
 While this will certainly please those fans who liked that layout in the previous versions it doesnt 
 exactly feel next-gen in Project 8. It seems like the developers didnt take advantage of the next 
 gen power they had and simply ported a PS2 game onto the PS3. There are no advancements in terms 
 of interaction with the environment or other features such as trying to make the levels feel like 
 living worlds instead of bland levels. Each area is a certain size with the areas starting out 
 small and getting bigger. This helps newer players get use to the game but the veterans of the 
 series would most likely prefer to get things going with starting out in the bigger environments. 
 And just like every other T. H game the levels are designed as if the entire city was built by a 
 skate designer. There are ramps and grind line galore which allow easy access for the player to 
 do tricks. At this point Neversoft should really try to change things up with their level design. 
 It wouldve been more interesting if the player had to search out for the perfect skate line since 
 that would provide having some skill.
  
  Tony Hawks Wasteland was a major visual disappointment on the 360 but this latest installment 
 has an entirely new graphics engine. The character models are detailed nicely and mirror their 
 real world counterparts and feature swaying clothing. There is a nice bloom/out of focus effect 
 used in some instances that simply looks cool. Despite having a revamped engine the game just looks 
 okay as a PS3 title. Some of the textures seem a bit flat and the games visuals seem a bit lackluster 
 since the power of the PS3 wasnt tapped for anything.
  
  If you werent a fan of the storylines in the last few TH games then youre a lucky since Project 
 8 doesnt feature one. There is a small story but it just involves Tony Hawk coming to your town 
 and you trying to rank up and join the team. So if you werent a fan of Bam Margeras antics then 
 you dont need endure them anymore. During your quest trying to rank up you will face pros such 
 as Daewon Song and Bob Burnquist.
  
  In order to make it to Tony Hawks team youll have to do various challenges. These challenges 
 are the same type that youve done before. Each one however has a different difficulty setting 
 that you can try out which is pretty cool. A disappointing aspect about the game is its core gameplay. 
 A lot of the videos for the game, including its opening cinematic, showcased a more realistic approach 
 to skating as opposed to the games more arcadey approach. Unfornately the game never even approaches 
 this style of realism found in the videos and the game just plays the same as it has for the past 
 eight years. Neversoft doesnt introduce any new gameplay elements other than Nail a Trick. So 
 if youve been playing the series since the first installment you may either be happy or disappointed.
 
  
  There are also some key features missing. Sadly there is no online play and the Create-a-Park feature 
 is missing in action. However during the career mode you can add a few objects to certain parts 
 of the levels but it doesnt reach that freedom that you had in Create-a-Park and as a whole this 
 new feature is similar to one in Amped 3. The create-a-character mode is still there but the initial 
 options, both in terms of character appearance and clothing, are a bit lacking.
  
  One feature that sets the PS3 version apart is its Sixaxis support. You can control various skating 
 aspects such as character movement, grinding, and tricks through the Sixaxis. All of these options 
 can be accessed through the main menu and the speed can be altered to fit your preference. It does 
 take awhile to get the hang of things but after awhile it feels as confrontable as using the analog 
 sticks.
  
  Tony Hawks Project 8 is a bit of a mixed bag. The core mechanics that made the series popular 
 since its inception remain unchanged for the most part. This will either please or disappoint some 
 since after 8 editions the game could use a change. While the mechanics are a bit dated theyre 
 still solid but at this point its getting old. So if youre a big fan of the series then you may 
 either love or hate this newest edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nd4spdr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Obviously P8 has the best graphics of any tony hawk game. The game play seems a little harder and 
 some of the objectives are ridiculously impossible but others are satisfyingly challenging. The 
 worst thing about the game is the extremely long load times. I haven't got too far in the game, 
 but so far I am impressed and will continue to enjoy the game. Especially since PS3 games are overpriced 
 and must make sure I will really enjoy the game before buying. I recommend buying this game if 
 you're a Tony Hawk fan. It's much better than the underground series. Well, I'm not going to make 
 this too long so I can get back to playing:-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is the 8th game in the Tony Hawk franchise (just look at the name) , other than that 
 there really is nothing too much new.
  
  Gameplay:
  Its your same old, same old Tony Hawk skateboarding game. The only things that have changed are:
 
  &middot; Nail The Trick mode (Career only)
  &middot; Stokens (for purchase of gear, boards and tricks)
  &middot; New places, tricks and skaters 
 (which is the same with every game)
  And thats basically it. Other than that its the unrealistic skating-on-phone-wires skateboarding. 
 Its repetitive but still fun.
  
  Story:
  This game lacks in story where the other games actually had something. Tony Hawk is retiring and 
 is creating a skate team called Project 8. Hes scouting for talent in the city and its your 
 goal to get on the team. Skate companies will sponsor you on the way and youll join Jason Lee 
 and his team, Stereo in order to get exposure. As you do goals your rank in the P8 ladder will 
 go up. Your goal is to become at least ranked 8.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Offline: Fun for 2 players with the same modes (Trick Attack, Graffiti, Horse, etc.) .
  Online: 
 There is none!!!! Unlike its older sibling on the X360, this version has no online play (which 
 sucks) .
  
  Graphic and Sound quality:
  The visuals are amazing and the game features a large soundtrack with rock, pop, hip-hop and rap, 
 old and new. The game also features 720p HD video output. The boards, shoes and clothes are all 
 perfectly detailed down to the stitches. Overall:
  The game is a same old Tony Hawk game. That means unrealistic skating, detailed boards and clothes 
 and lots-o-tricks. Focus (time slow-down mode) is also here. The music is great but the gameplay 
 is just too repetitive. Even worse, they took out online play! Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_sorrow
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Just going around skating is really enjoyable in project 8. The environments compared 
 to wasteland, have been improved a billion times. It's just fun being at one spot doing nail the 
 trick and that hits the spot. THP8 mechanics can've some issues but who cares? The game is fun! 
 And the story is pretty good too! Going up from rank 200 isn't so bad after all.
  
  Graphics: Frame rates here cause it's been made from the XBOX 360 version. But it still looks darn 
 good for a tony hawk game. They've could just have improved everything visually! There's nothing 
 more to say about that! Well, the ragdoll is a fun thing but it sucks, Newton can kick his ass 
 and so can the ragdoll, but it's nice, really!
  
  Sound: By mixing many famous albums around U. S. A, THP8 has entertaining music that'll make ya play 
 always!
  
  THP8 is better than Wasteland and thank god for that. Everything has been improved but why remove 
 Create-a-park and create-a-trick? Why making it worse creating a character? Come on, you can do 
 better than that?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodPray4Thunder
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Project 8. The graphics got much better than the previous titles, obviously since its on the PS3. 
 The overall physics of the game is amazing. Although when your character has a hard fall, it looks 
 unrealistic as he flys through the air and ends up 300 feet away from where you attempted the trick. The 
 motion of the character is alot better, giving the game a more smooth feel that looks like a skate 
 video. Add the great graphics and lighting effects and the game looks incredible. The world is 
 all one level, leaving out those gay loading trails between levels as in Wasteland. Although you 
 have to unlock about half of the areas, its not a big deal. Theres less of a story and puts your 
 into the skating much faster. Tony announces that he's looking for the 8 best skaters to try to 
 win a sponsorship. As you do challenges and try to grind and maual a certain distance, your status 
 gets closer to being one of the top 8. There are some additions to the series that give it more 
 depth, such as the Nail The Trick mode where you use both analog sticks to control the skaters 
 feet to flip the board in any direction you want. Its fun to play around with and do the NAil The 
 Trick challenges, but sometimes the camera sticks afterwards and its a hassle when your putting 
 together a line and the camera angle changes, forcing you to puch yet another but to get the camera 
 back to its original place. But it really cant be helped. The flatground tricks got redone, adding 
 cooler looking tricks than the original handstands and things like that. The controls are the same 
 though. Some challenges seem near impossible, including the Classic mode which brings back the 
 days of the early tony hawk games where you have two minutes to do various challenges such as high 
 and sick scores, collecting SKATE and COMBO, and doing certain kinds of tricks, all in one run 
 to beat the SICK challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tadurham
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I had never owned a Tony Hawk game before and now I know why. I am in my 20s... this game is definitely 
 geared towards teens and really isn't means for people of all ages. The mechanics of the game was 
 fine, but I was annoyed by all of the little tasks involved in career mode. Who cared how long 
 you can grind anyway. What I care about is how high I can go in a half-pipe in order to perform 
 great tricks. Why couldn't the game be more like in the X-Games in that it's all about the competition? 
 Also, the shift needs to be made from the punk persona in regards to the music and the looks of 
 the characters. The game is now on e-bay in an attempt to get a few bucks back that I just spend 
 yesterday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper98
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  OK let me start off by saying u have made a good choice by choosing my review. Ok when u first 
 start the game u will have to choose between character selction.... to be honest the selection wasnt 
 all that great... but none the less still acceptemble. And let me be the first to tell you the 
 graphics are nothing short of AMAZING. As ytou go along the story u will unlock more decks and 
 cloths from your sponsers. Now, the whole point of the game is to get into Tony Hawks Top 8. Which 
 is HARRRRRRRRRRRD. But none the less once you do u meet tony hawk himself and skate with him. Right 
 now i am currently 7 on the top 8 and trust me it wasent easy to be there. This game has really 
 good replay value... and trust me thats a good thing one u make it to the top 8 u can attepmt the 
 top 4 by redoing all ur goals u completed on sick mode..... yea.... its not easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamesack112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid rent. It's one of those games thats mediocre. You play it and feel satisfied 
 but you will not be drawn to keep playing it or replay it if you've already beaten it. The game 
 does offfer some new insights into the gameplay. Nail the trick is the newest improvment, as well 
 as being able to do more tricks. Another nice thing to see in the game is the interface where you 
 can meet real pros and take on their whacky challenges. Some gameplay elements can be tricky such 
 as some of the Sick spot challenges. Some things seem overpushed. One major thing is that phone 
 that people call you on is Nokia. For some random reason Jason Lee (my name is earl) is your lead 
 frontman. There are some random product placements (which did not make the game any cheaper) . The 
 game uses a rank system which is kinda cool. You start at 200 and work your way down to the top 
 8. I would recommend this game to people who like skateboarding but don't wanna fork up a lot of 
 cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics in this game sre amazing, i think... well i was just living back in the 
 stone-age, so not all of you may think that. Most of the things in this game aren't much different 
 than the others. Except for NAIL THE TRICK!!!! This is seriously so sweet! controlling how to flip 
 the board with the analog sticks, plus, added to a combo, Nail The Trick gives you major points! 
 The main thing i didn't like about this game is holding L2 to do a flip, im a flip kind of guy, 
 so this really got me mad. Surprisingly the music in this game isn't that bad, unlike the ones 
 before it. The whole story line thing is pretty unique. Trying to get your rank up through nearly 
 200 people to make it to a pro team. Overall, this game is ok, but not the best Tony Hawk game 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Project 8 for the ps2 then you'll probably agree with me when i say that it was 
 down in the poo pile with real winners like NRA Gun Club or maybe even Harley Davidson. But seriously 
 it blew. But I decided to give it a second chance on the ps3, and oh my god redemption is only 
 one expensive @$$ system away! It was actually good, really good, like I'm talkin Fatty Sick good. 
 (that's my own personal rating) The graphics are so good and you can see for miles in the vast 
 explorable environments. They even added some new classes of skaters. The gameplay is smoother 
 and everything seems to flow together well without any of the usual Tony Hawk glitches. Once again 
 there is also no load times going from place to place. But of course there is one thing that holds 
 it all together, one defining detail, one special addition, the Fatty Sick bails. I mean who doesn't 
 want to tip over and have the potential of breaking every bone in ones body. I swear that ragdoll 
 physics are the best thing to happen to boarding since........... well it's kinda never changed 
 until now. Quite personally I think it's the biggest hidden diamond on the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroompie
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  THP8 is a great game in its own, but it's not all that the hype was talking about. The graphics 
 are amazing. The amount of detail in everything is great, the HDR is amazing, but the frame rate 
 can drop down sometimes. It really doesn't matter, though, it never disturbs me. All the features 
 are great, nail a trick-mode is fun, but it's really not worth the price. The game gets repetitive 
 after a while, and before you even reach project 8, you'll feel like you've experienced everything 
 in the game. It's a great game, but it's up to you if you want to buy it. I suggest you do, but 
 there are some things you'll regret about doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_9608
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  The first extreme sports game for the PS3 in the long line of the best selling skateboarding video 
 games ever offers a similar gameplay to all players that have previously played any of the Tony 
 Hawk games.
  
  The emphasize of the game is that Tony Hawk is starting a new project called Project 8 which involves 
 the best 8 skaters that will go with Tony Hawk to go on tours, events, etc. By doing this, you 
 need to create buzz by performing various challenges as you discover new places to shred that shoot 
 you up the ranks to get into the top 8 ranked skaters.
  
  The gameplay is worth 9 out of 10 because the game hasn't added much, except for the fact that 
 you can customize a flip trick while airborne.
  
  The graphics are worth 8 out of 10 because the graphics between this game for the PS3 and the last 
 Tony Hawk game for the PS2 haven't changed an awful lot. This game just has more textured graphics 
 than the PS2 Tony Hawk games.
  
  The sound is worth 8 out of 10 because the game has the same sounds from the previous games. I 
 am amused with the bone crunching sounds when your bones break during the Avenue Bowling game in 
 the third area of the game.
  
  The value of the game is worth 9 out of 10 because I personally enjoy this game. The game is definitely 
 challenging that provides new areas for you to discover and nail some sick tricks and combos. The 
 tilt that I give for this game is a 9 out of 10 because I think Activision and Neversoft Entertainment 
 did an excellent job re-configuring the animation system to make this game stand out from its other 
 previous games. If you're a fan of the Tony Hawk series and you so happen to buy a PS3 or an X-Box 
 360, whichever one, consider to try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongshot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  There is some games that be a realy dissaster.... and THP8, not be one of them.
  This is one of the games where you can spend your free time, cause is prety adictive, with the 
 sk8 shop, sk8boards, the way to spend the stokens (I mean, whith the boards n tricks) the nail-the-trik 
 mode, how can you control the falls. one of the badnes things of this game (but dont afect the 
 adictive of this game) is the create-a-skater mode, cause you cant download your face, theres not 
 a lot of clothes, but, the sk8boards are perfect. other thing of interest is the change of storymode 
 to carrer mode, like in th-pro skater, but is a fusion of both modes.
  
  well, in fact, this is one of the best games in series. buy it to xbox if you like the internet 
 feature, or to PS3, if you like the higest definition and the sixaxis controller mode that is in 
 game, but, there's a mith, that says the THP8 to PS3 is only a prototipe, cause maybie there is 
 an expansion pack where you can go to internet features. dont trust in me, let the time says what 
 is true. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says Project 8 makes a lot of changes that will please fans of the series, but some technical 
 issues and missing features hurt the experience . i say you absouslutely right pretty much
  
  skateboarding has just been transfered to next gen Tony Hawk's Project 8 has revolutionized 
 the skateboarding gameing franchise with many players from rob dyrek to tony hawk, Tony Hawk's 
 Project 8 is a game thats just fun to play theres nothing else to say.
  
  The new feature where you have to move the anolog sticks in the appropriate direction to land the 
 trick has the players feeling like real skateboarders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 80style
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Other than a fun game to mess around on, or play with your friends, i was not expecting much out 
 of project 8. ever since underground 2, Tony Hawk games have been steadily declining as games. 
 The idea of a story mode was a good one back un THUG, but now it has lost most of its appeal. but 
 it still takes up time in your day, and still can be a load of fun. Dont expect this game to be 
 your best, but is it worth the money? I would say so. if you like any Tony Hawk game after Underground, 
 I am sure this will be for you. If you are considering having this as your only game, that is a 
 bad decision, although fun, it can become very repetitive and does not have any ground-breaking 
 features other than nail the trick mode, which is very fun. But regardless, if you want a fun game, 
 which can be played for an hour or two here and there. Tony Hawk's Project 8 is a worthwhile title 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sociochino
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  The best tony hawk ever. This game looks so amazing , I can't wait till the next installment when 
 it uses more of the cell processor. It has x-box 360 type graphics, and that's without using half 
 of the cell's power. the 360 should be very afraid, cause nobody wants that whack piece of mierda. 
 I have a ps3 and you don't so **** all thge haters. The six axis is revolutionary, and the interface 
 of the ps3 is simple yet refined. Their is no next -gen battle, cause the ps3 just won and obliterated 
 the competition. Microsoft should just stick to doing what they do best. Copy off from Apple computers 
 !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandontek
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Tony rides again in the next Tony Hawk's Pro Skater game from Activision. The game challenges players 
 to experience the intensity and pressure of skating against some of the world's top pros in true 
 to life competitions as they aim to become the #1 skater. Tony Hawk's Project 8 was build from 
 the ground up and made the players to see what you can do when you basically get to the real life 
 version of a game. The new tricks that give you are what you can do in real life. There are loading 
 screens as you seen BUT the best part about the loading screen is that they play real life videos 
 of the pros that are in the game so it doesn't make you bored waiting for a bar to go from the 
 left side to the right. Activision and Neversoft really made the game like they have made them 
 in the past. They had some-what of a story line where you would do goals, go around cities and 
 making yourself prove-able to all these skaters that you want to be on the Project 8 team. The 
 create-a-skater mode is the same in every game almost. But in Project 8 the mode was very limited 
 at first. You can only be a Urban Skater, Punk Skater or a Kid and you edit from there. You unlock 
 different items when you complete amount number of goals. The levels that are quite retro, Really 
 put some fun into this game. You could see all the old levels and alot of new ones. Neversoft and 
 Activision really put time as you can see in the making of the levels to play. The goals go perfectly 
 with the levels and some could be hard. Moving on. The balance bar in Project 8 leaves and shadow 
 as it moves left to right or right to left. When you stop grinding or doing a lip trick, The bar 
 still stays there but its faded away into the background but you can still see it. Same as the 
 manual bar. If your a person that loves to get the 100+mill scores, This would really help you 
 because you don't have to worry about guessing where the meter bar is that. The sound in the game 
 is really clear and you can hear the people from far away. Also the graphics on this game are AWESOME! 
 When you get a message on your video phone, The graphics look like the PS3 when they are riding 
 there board, But the face and body are still pretty good. The graphics overall in the game were 
 ok and really awesome for the PS2 and Xbox. The Xbox 360 and PS3 version of this game were much 
 better in graphics because they can put alot more things into the game since its more hi-tech then 
 the PS2 and Xbox. The Xbox 360 has online compatible as you see the PS3, Xbox and PS2 don't have. 
 The game would be better if it was online and would be a better seller since ALOT of people are 
 basically online-freaks (like myself) . So that would have been a better option then have it off-line. 
 BUT making it online would have to make the older games (THUG and THUG2) go off-line because THUG, THUG2 
 and THAW run all on the same server. Well thats basically the game overview. Hope you like my review! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
