-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Top Spin 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/topspin3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of tennis pros and tournaments.
 Players are realistically animated.
 Looks and sounds great.
 Challenging gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficulty might alienate casual fans.
 No Ana Ivanovic.
 Player-creation tool could be more user-friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 369 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Pam Development
Genre: Tennis
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Top Spin 3 is a great tennis game, offering a deep challenge for diehard fans and one of the closest 
 experiences to playing a grand slam. 

  Top Spin has always been one of the more realistic tennis games on the market, and Pam Development 
 has worked hard to keep up that tradition with Top Spin 3. While the game's challenging style may 
 alienate casual players, it will keep dedicated ones occupied beyond this season and for a long 
 time to come.  

  Despite being initially unforgiving, the controls feel responsive and straight-forward once you've 
 got the hang of them. Face buttons perform flat, top spin, slice, and lob/drop shots, the triggers 
 perform risky or power shots, and the shoulder buttons help you dash to the baseline or net. However, 
 the timing of button presses has been substantially altered, and failing to release the button 
 on time will result in a missed shot. Depending on your position to the ball, you might unleash 
 a weak shot, a wild swing that misses the ball altogether, or an overpowered attempt that sends 
 the ball beyond the baseline. The AI players rarely make clumsy shots either, forcing you to refine 
 your technique -- particularly when it comes to volleying -- before mastering the game.  

           You can play as an instantly recognizable pro or create a new player from scratch.    
   

  There are plenty of game modes, from the usual exhibition, career, tournament, and tutorial options, 
 to online and offline multiplayer. If you're new to the Top Spin series, it's highly advisable 
 to head to the school before taking to the courts, as the AI will punish novices even on medium 
 difficulty settings. Doing so will give you a headstart on hitting those aces and returning every 
 shot that comes your way. The game eschews traditional in-game meters and gauges, and instead requires 
 you to use intuition, reflexes, and good, old-fashioned timing to nail your shots. The only onscreen 
 displays are the score and a heart rate monitor, which gives you an idea of how your stamina is 
 holding up. The higher your heart rate, the tougher it is to hit those hard-to-reach shots between 
 the lines.  

  The career mode takes you through five stages: amateur, challenger, junior, pro, and legend. Throughout 
 your career, winning matches will earn you experience points and unlock other points which you 
 can use to increase your skills and buy new merchandise such as outfits, shoes, accessories and 
 racquets. They're a nice addition to have, but will have no bearing on your performance. New skills 
 include forehand, backhand, service, return, volley, power, speed, and stamina, and you can purchase 
 dozens of different outfits, racquets, and accessories. The career mode matches Top Spin's serious 
 approach to tennis, but it does mean the game lacks the variety and mini-games of other tennis 
 games.  

  Beating three opponents in the game's career mode will advance you from amateur to challenger rank. 
 Winning a tournament in this mode will then propel you to the lofty rank of junior. Junior -- and 
 the subsequent pro rank -- lets you play through a regular season, choosing tournaments as you see 
 fit with the aim of finishing the season with the highest rank. Do all that and you'll get a crack 
 at the grand slams, and eternal tennis glory in the legend rank. Needless to say the competitors 
 get harder as you progress, but as long as you keep earning experience points and using them to 
 increase your skills you should have a fighting chance of making it at the highest level.  

  The roster of licensed players in Top Spin 3 is sizable with 40-odd players available, including 
 Roger Federer, Maria Sharapova, Justine Henin, Andy Roddick, Amelie Mauresmo, James Blake, Andy 
 Murray, and Gael Monfils. There's also a roster of classic players for good measure, including 
 Boris Becker, Bjorn Borg, and Monica Seles, as well as a number of ficticious players. It's pretty 
 cool to be able to face off current champions against those of yesteryear in a "what if" scenario. 
 Recent French Open winner Rafael Nadal appears exclusively in the PlayStation 3 version (the only 
 major difference between the two versions) , so if you want a player even vaguely resembling him 
 on the Xbox 360 you'll have to master the comprehensive create-a-player feature. This will no doubt 
 come as a big disappointment for Xbox 360 tennis fans who can't play as the current world number 
 two simply due to contractual obligations.  

  Top Spin 3's solid player-creation tool lets you make your mark on the tennis world without relying 
 on licensed players. You can tweak dozens of settings for your chosen model including a range of 
 settings for your face, body, outfit, and more, including tattoos, headwear, and even a desired 
 grunt style and frequency. Some of the settings are a bit arcane, however, with eye colour being 
 set via a numerical range rather than being labelled as something that actually makes sense -- like, 
 say, the actual colour of the eyes.  

  Top Spin 3 includes a wide range of famous licensed tournaments, including the French Open, the 
 US Open, and the Australian Open. Wimbledon is an unfortunate exception, but the game does present 
 you with the chance to play in more exotic and far-flung locations such as Seoul, Casablanca, and 
 Buenos Aires, with more than 40 in total on offer. It will take you a long time to get sick of 
 the variety of courts on offer, which are all recreated in fine detail including crowds that almost 
 look life-like -- normally unheard of in sports games and something other developers should take 
 note of.  

           The game's player animations and stadiums look great.      

  The game's multiplayer mode allows singles and doubles matches between human and AI opponents both 
 locally and online. You can play a quick match, or compete in the World Tour mode's ranked matches 
 either in individual matches or nine different pre-selected tournaments. We found the overall online 
 experience to be lag free and there weren't any problems finding players to face off against in 
 individual matches, or tournaments, and was much the same as playing against a friend sitting next 
 to you. Online leaderboards will help you track your skill against the rest of the world.  

  Top Spin 3 is a great-looking game, and is technically and artistically the best example of the 
 genre. The re-creation of famous stadiums looks spot-on, even down to detailed crowd shots and 
 authentic tournament advertising. On the technical side, we didn't experience any issues with chuggy 
 framerates except for when the camera was introducing us to venues while loading -- for some reason 
 every one suffered from this. Characters have realistic movements, their clothes move and sway 
 as you'd expect, and their faces have detailed expressions and animations. Winning a grand slam 
 feels that much better when your character looks and sounds like the real deal.  

  Top Spin 3 is a serious tennis game for serious tennis fans, and it's incredibly true to the series' 
 simulation roots. If you're looking for a deep, challenging experience, this should keep you busy 
 for some time to come; but if you prefer the occasional arcade match, or like the variety of minigames 
 that some of Top Spin's competitors offer, you'll want to look elsewhere. Despite a few minor complaints 
 the game looks and sounds great, and it feels almost as authentic as having front-row seats to 
 a real-life grand slam.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: markpizzy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  This is the best tennis sim I've played so far. Let's start with the gameplay, which is fantastic 
 and so much better than VT3. The shots require impeccable timing to hit hard, accurate shots. The 
 R2 and L2 buttons trigger risk shots. The risk shots require much better timing than normal shots, 
 risky yet rewarding. The gameplay is very difficult even on Normal but don't let that alienate 
 you from this game. Visit the "school" which will help you breakdown the gameplay. Once you keep 
 playing matches the game will start to come to you and once you win points and matches especially 
 on the harder levels it's very rewarding. The graphics are also beautiful. The players look very 
 much like their real selves and the courts and crowds all look great too. The stadiums are also 
 depicted really well too. The animations are great too because they have the hair and clothes swish 
 realistically and the players play like they do in real life. The player creation is very deep 
 and one of the best I've seen in any sports game. Frame rate is very smooth and flows well with 
 the game although there is some mild freezing at the beggining of matches but thats because the 
 match is loading so it's no big deal. The games has some flaws which makes the game really dissapointing 
 like boring crowds and a boring sounding score keep. Crowds are much more lively and cheery in 
 real life but the crowds cheer very silently even when a player has won a match. The announcer 
 sounds very robotic and both this and the crowd really take away from a real tennis atmosphere. 
 The roster in the game is also a dissapointment. While the players they have in this game are top 
 players like Federer, Nadal, Roddick, Murray, Henin, Sharapova etc there are no other top names 
 like Djokovic, Jankovic, Williams Sisters, or Dementieva. Career mode is pretty basic as all you 
 do is play tournaments, rank up your level and raise your stats. It's good at first but it gets 
 redundant and really boring after awhile. The lack of mini games as well as the shallow career 
 mode takes away from the replay value. All in all terrific graphics and gameplay of course makes 
 a solid game and TS3 is just that. It needs some work in a lot of areas but it's the best tennis 
 sim out there and is a great change of pace from the arcade gameplay style of the Virtua Tennis 
 franchise. 
  
  Pros - Challenging gameplay is top notch, Amazing graphics and animations, Player creation is one 
 of the best in any sports game, Rafael Nadal in ps3, Great serve effects, Solid frame rate
  
  Cons - Very difficult for casual players, Boring crowds and atmosphere, Rosters could have 
 been better, Lack of mini games and shallow career mode gives no depth to the game, No Wimbledon 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Having only previously played Virtua Tennis 2, I thought I might as well branch out and give another 
 tennis series a try - which wasn't too painful a decision, seeing as Virtua Tennis 3 just looked 
 like a prettier version of exactly the same game! And so I came to Top Spin 3, and there are definitely 
 plenty of differences between the two...
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Shot Timing & Placement System: There's a lot more skill involved in making shots than in Virtua 
 Tennis - it takes a little while to get used to the challenge, and it's far, far easier to send 
 shots wildly off-course. You do get used to it after playing for a few hours though, and you'll 
 come to realise that it's very in-depth, requiring great foresight and delicacy to master, and 
 as a result it becomes incredibly satisfying having to truly earn your victories.
  
  + Realistic Appearance: The animation is very convincing, with player movement feeling infinitely 
 more realistic than Virtua Tennis, and features like sweat and sunburn help keep up the illusion 
 of a tightly-fought game (though how they get sunburn indoors is a tricky question...) .
  
  + Game Options & Court Variety: The wide selection of camera angles to choose from is neat, there's 
 a huge variety of real and imagined courts to pick from (no Wimbledon though, grr!) , and, at last, 
 you can choose to play full 5-set, 6-game matches with proper tennis rules.
  
  + Stamina: The inclusion of stamina is a very nice touch, encouraging you to think twice about 
 chasing every shot down for fear of running out of steam (unless you're playing as Nadal...) . I 
 do, however, think the effects should have been more pronounced, as it takes quite a while before 
 the tiredness really starts to burden your performance, and even then the effects aren't quite 
 bad enough to stop you running after everything like a lunatic. Nice idea though, and about time 
 it featured in a tennis game!
  
  Cons:
  
  - Questionably Realistic: Admittedly, it's still the most realistic tennis game you'll find, and 
 you might as well be playing the real thing if you compare it against Virtua Tennis 3. However, 
 there's still something not quite right about it all - after you've got over the initially-steep 
 learning curve, it still seems too easy to get to balls at the other end of the court and return 
 them well. Making stamina a stronger feature would have helped, but there's also something about 
 the speed and motion of the game, both in terms of the ball and the players, that just seems a 
 bit stiff somehow, compared to the fluidity of the real game (in particular, moving diagonally 
 or to the net is clunkier than I'd like, making serve & volley prohibitively difficult to pull 
 off) .
  
  - Career Mode: Put simply, the career mode in Virtua Tennis is a lot more fun. There's basically 
 nothing to the mode in Top Spin 3 other than picking tournaments from a calender and upgrading 
 your skills after playing matches. There's no physical means of training, it's far too easy to 
 unlock clothing and accessories (none of which affects performance in any way) , and your prize 
 money is utterly meaningless without anything to actually spend it on. It is quite cool to be able 
 to look up any player in the league and see your statistics against theirs, and there are a huge 
 amount of fictional characters to prevent you playing the same exact pros over and over again; 
 however, the whole experience is still pretty sterile and uninvolving, and the brief little texts 
 from your 'coach' between seasons are so uninspiring that you almost feel like he's being sarcastic!
 
  
  - Difficult Special Shots: The high-risk Power and Accurate shots, while a nice idea in theory, 
 are so demanding on your timing being completely perfect that it's almost never worth risking a 
 point by using them.
  
  - Voice Acting & Music: The crowds, while better than those of Virtua Tennis, are still far too 
 quiet compared to reality, and the umpires don't even sound human for how lifeless they are - and 
 whoever picked the grunting voice for Nadal clearly needs his ears checked! Also, this may be a 
 slightly subjective point, but I truly hate almost all of the music in the game, and desperately 
 wish they'd just filled it with inoffensive intrumentals instead - at least you're relieved of 
 it during the matches themselves!
  
  - Baseline-Friendly: Perhaps it's a bit indicative of real tennis at the moment, but you'll find 
 it far too easy to just stay on the baseline and whack the ball as hard as you can until someone 
 cracks, rather than use any complex tactics or approaches; as a result, the rallies can sometimes 
 seem a bit bland and repetitive compared to the craziness of Virtua Tennis.
  
  ~
  
  Whether or not you prefer this to Virtua Tennis depends on exactly what you want: if it's accessible, 
 over-the-top tennis with absurd rallies and an unbearably addictive career mode, then you'll be 
 better off with Sega's offerings. However, if you're after something much more like the real thing 
 (even if not quite there yet) , which rewards the time you put into it with a strong challenge and 
 lots of depth, then Top Spin 3 may well be worth the investment. It's not perfect, but anyone who's 
 serious about tennis will at least appreciate what it's trying to do, even when it doesn't quite 
 pull it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nihal18
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is so poor. It has good graphics and it is realistic but it is really boring. In this 
 game you just hit it from one side to another and it keeps on going which is really boring. I reckon 
 that this is the worst tennis game made so far. Even though this game has a lot of detail its not 
 fun.
  ADVICE: DON'T BY 
  DON'T BUY 
  DON'T BUY 
 
  Don't waste money like i did by buying this game!
  This game made me hate 
  Buy any other 
 tennis game other than this boring game!!!!!!!!!
  This could be one of the worst games of the year.
  VERY VERY VERY POOR GAME 
 
  DON'T BUY THIS  By the way this game is better than 
 virtua tennis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narayan715
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics in this game are really solid and the courts play differently, which is 
 definitely a good thing for a tennis fan. The players are fairly balanced so players like Rafa 
 and Federer aren't overly powerful compared to say Berdych or one of their weaker created players. 
 It is nice to have most of the statistics matter for a change; for instance upping your forehand 
 stats actually make you hit closer to the corners and things like that. This is in contrast to 
 games like madden, in which you pretty much just need a good speed rating. Even though the game 
 looks really good for a while, it really suffers in career mode. Tehre are not any special drills 
 that allow you to focus on a specific skill set. You just get experience points which you dump 
 into whatever category you want. I would have liked if it had somewhat of an interactive skills 
 progression system where the skills you gain are based on how well you played in the previous match. 
 A bunch of minigames would have been nice. The career mode is also really short compared to most 
 other sports games. You just play in about 30 tournaments and you are done. You can win quite easily 
 by simply hitting shots side to side without ever having to worry about power shots.
  As for the online part of the game, I cannot make comments about it's quality because I can never 
 find anyone online when I log on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yathoom
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  I really loved Virtual tennis 3 and it was a little hard at the beginning, but then someone can 
 get used to the game. Topspin might be better looking JUST A LITTLE, but the game play is so hard 
 and not very exciting. you can watch someone play it, or even like the way you player moves and 
 looks during a game; but at the end you struggle and you don't feel like your having fun playing 
 the game! you have to hold the buttons and position your player AND direct the shot then release 
 the button!!!!!?? OMG it's like a pain in the ass each play is a pain in the ass!!!! ... if you 
 wanna play it send me your address i'll send you the game for free.
  I played it and i don't like the game play at all!
  everything looks great the players, the sounds 
 (almost) the courts the way the players move!
  when it comes to game playing Yukhhhh
  I don't know maybe tennis pros find it easy or entertaining to have so much details about tennis 
 playing, yet i don't think they would find it easy to play either. Cuz playing Tennis in real you 
 have more control and more abilities than playing tennis on a joy pad and try to match the real 
 thing on buttons and sticks!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the two tennis game that came out for the playstation 3. If you have been waiting 
 for a simualtion tennis, then this would be ur pick of the month.
  However, do note that great realism comes with longer practice as in realife, althought i didn't 
 encounter much learning difficulties, some did so be aware of that matter.
  Virtual tennis 3 is arcady while this, is realistic, so if ur after a tennis game for ur ps3, do 
 make a choice, but i would likely recommand top spin over the other.
  
  Gameplay:
  Realistic is the word to describe it, i believe never before had a tennis games been this realistic. 
 If you fear of not learning the controls well, there's a school in the game for u to practice on, 
 although i felt sometimes it's hard to achieve some hits.
  
  There's both male and female charactor for you to choose to play, u can even create ur own charactor 
 and take him/her to a career and make him as strong as nadal. But the bad thing i want to point 
 out is the amount of content, i would say there's very few. Other than the star players not much, 
 but u could create ur own and tons of courts for u to play on makes up for it.
  
  Strokes comes in 4 form, each has it's own effects, so u decide which u want to use for ur situation. 
 You need to hold the hit button before u shoot in order to build up the power, when you release, 
 tilt ur analog for the direction u want the ball to move.
  
  Graphics:
  Like NBA live 08's graphics, 2k actually managed to simulate sweating among the players. There's 
 this heart beat rate system, the longer ur player plays, the higher the chance ur player will start 
 sweating, but the sweating most of the time isn't visible, especially when it isn't closeup or 
 the shades totally blocks the vision.
  
  Having that said, nothing is groundbreaking here, the audiences looked okay, the referees too, 
 but i hope there would be more interactive like seeing referees moving or such.
  
  Sound:
  Kind of disappointed here, there's no commentary in the game, often u felt there's no 
 liveliness. The only commentary in the game is the scores, but then there's only one type of tone 
 used, again it makes the game dull. The plus would be the music in the menu, but since it only 
 appear in menus, most often u won't be hearing them.
  
  Conclusion:
  All together, this is a great, based on gameplay, graphis tennis game. If they can improve on the 
 audio, side, it would have been a solid all rounder game.
  And like my title says, only buy this if ur hungry for a tennis game, if not there's many other 
 games worth taking a look than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsswedishchef01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 isn't just a game, it's a tennis sim - or at least as close to one as I've ever seen.
 
  
  First, the control scheme. Some reviews claim that the controls are difficult and take a long time 
 to get used to. This is somewhat true. In earlier versions of Top Spin, and in other tennis franchises, 
 you only need to worry about which shot (button) to use, and you keep the button pressed down through 
 the shot. In Top Spin 3, you have to time the _release_ of the button to execute the shot. While 
 it takes some practice to figure out timing, it's time well spent. The new controls provide a more 
 intricate, realistic and ultimately rewarding playing experience.
  
  Next, the level of detail. It is, without question, absolutely stunning. When playing the U. S. 
 Open, you hear airplanes from LaGuardia in the background. When playing a larger venue, you hear 
 the murmurs of the crowd much more so than when playing a small venue. When playing on clay, the 
 ball striking the line makes a different sound than when striking the clay. Even the cyclops tone 
 is exactly the same! It's this attention to detail that true, hardcore tennis fans are going to 
 appreciate. Also, the venues are great. As widely mentioned, the All England Lawn Tennis Club (Wimbledon) 
 is missing; however, the other three majors are intact and looking great.
  
  The depth of play, so far, is good. I just started the pro circuit and was handily beaten in my 
 first few matches. It feels like I'll be able to play the game for quite a while before reaching 
 a #1 ranking.
  
  The only negative for me is the player creator tool. For being as tedious as it is (and what player 
 creator tool isn't?) , I still found it very tough to get a somewhat accurate representation of 
 myself. I was a little surprised it didn't offer an option to import a photo to convert and use 
 as a starting point for customization. This isn't a new concept in player creators, and this the 
 PS3 and Blu-ray - there's plenty of horsepower to have a photo import/conversion option.
  
  In a nutshell, if you just want a casual tennis game that's easy to pick up and play, check out 
 Virtua Tennis 3. If you're a true tennis fan (atic) , and want something as close to the real game 
 as you can get without moving from the sofa, pick up Top Spin 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 is so frustrating in that it came so close to being great.
  
  Now, as always, I may have missed something but...
  
  1) There is nothing worth unlocking. 
 Why create a system that leaves me with tens of thousands of unlock points and nothing worth buying? 
 I don't need twelve shirts. 
  
  I can't imagine it would have been that hard to either recalibrate the point system or (better 
 yet) add things worth having. 
  
  Why not have raquet's that modify a player's skill? How about the ability to unlock players, tournaments 
 or a mini game? 
  
  2) Let me give you a scenario. You decide to play baseball (which you've never played) and the 
 coach hands you a bat and sends you off to face Randy Johnson. You are then told, you can only 
 get better by getting a hit. 
  
  Welcome to Top Spin 3. The reward process is flawed in that it's geared not only to your winning 
 but there is some element that also rewards a decisive victory. 
  
  I am not saying I should get huge points for having Federer kick my butt, but I shouldn't get zero 
 either.... which brings me too...
  
  3) Leveling up takes WAY too long. Somebody needs to tell the game companies that longevity for 
 the sake of longevity isn't a positive. I don't want to spend thirty hours leveling up my player 
 just so I can THEN play the major's at a high difficulty level. I don't want to play "easy" minor 
 tournements, I want to play tennis against the virtual pros! 
  
  Which brings me to....
  
  4) Player ranking. On one hand, I don't want to take a zillion years to be good. On the other, 
 I don't want to be #1 after one tournament. If you can win the Aussie Open (1st tourney after juniors) , 
 you are the #1 player in the world. 
  
  As with the real world, ranking should be based on the previous year and it should take a minimum 
 of 16 tournaments to even hope to take the #1 spot. 
  
  5) Why isn't there doubles (mixed and normal) in tournament mode? W
  
  6) Why can't I change 
 career mode to number of sets and games needed?
  
  7) How about letting me choose which songs I like for the menus?
  
  8) PLEASE would somebody 
 give me the ability to get rid of the animations? Tiger Woods is the same, I have to hit X three 
 times just to skip all the walking around and other dreck that gets old after the first time you 
 see them. I should be able to turn all of that off.
  
  9) Federer should be the same player regardless of what round you face him in. I have way too many 
 experiences of facing him as a creampuff in an early round and then getting murdered in a later 
 tournament. Nadal crushed me in the Aussie Open and then I win 24/26 points in the final of the 
 next tournament? It just doesn't fit.
  
  10) Multi-Player... having somebody in the same room isn't fun in Top Spin 3. Player 1 has 2/3 of 
 the screen. There must have been a better way. I have a 40'' in screen, you're telling me that 
 a vertical 50/50 split (like FPS's do) wouldn't have worked better?
  
  Anyway, I could go on... the bottom line is that it's a solid game that probably suffers from a 
 limited audience (and thus limited developement money) ... It just comes close to being great and 
 it wouldn't take much to get it there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandarman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 truly amazes you from the first time you pop the disc in and go through an exhibition 
 match. Although you won't feel good about yourself as you get beaten down by the CPU, because of 
 its intelligent AI and the revamped control scheme. This new addition of timing the control, while 
 adds the reality aspect to tennis it also makes it ever more challenging. But as soon as you master 
 the new scheme you're on your way to experience the most realistic tennis title ever mastered. 
 2K Sports, known for its amazing simulation of sports have remastered Top Spin 3 to the point that 
 you won't find any difference in reality and gaming. The visuals are outstanding, the new stamina 
 meter adds great effects to long lasting rallies and the CPU AI is ever so challenging.
  Even though the title doesn't boast many multi player modes, its still a great title to brag about. 
 It also includes extensive features to the CREATE A PLAYER as you can now change any aspect of 
 a players character all the same making him look realistic. The skin textures are not like other 
 games which look computer generated but are real and appeal to you as real skin. This game itself 
 is so truly a graphical masterpiece that 2K even focused on the berths and berths full of 3D spectators.
 
  
  Top Spin 3 is the best pick for a tennis title and you won't be disappointed by it even if you're 
 not a tennis fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwa02vkc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 takes a little time to get adapted to. It's different from the previous tennis games 
 in terms of returning shots, but once you are used to the new gameplay in TS 3 you will love it. 
 
  
  The return shots mechanics is different from the previous installments of Top Spin or any other 
 tennis games. You have to release the button to return a shot. When I started on TS 3, the new 
 return-shots mechanics is a little frustrating. The shots always get past me , frustrating. But 
 it wont be too difficult to pick up the new system.
  
  The graphics in this game is good. As matches go longer, you can see the tiredness, and perspiration 
 growing in the characters face. And also the dirt on their apparels. So real. The players' movement 
 on court is also realistic. Once momentum has been built towards a certain direction, it's difficult 
 to stop, turn back to return a shot. So it's important to time the runs properly, instead of running 
 around the court like headless chickens.
  
  One thing which bothers me about this game is the lack of commentary during the matches. If it 
 is possible to have commentary in football games, I dont see why is it not possible to have it 
 in tennis games. Repetitive listening to the sounds of boucning games, and smashing racquets can 
 be quite annoying. 
  
  Overall, this game is great. More like a simulation tennis game. Not those arcadey tennis games. 
 Buy it !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Virtua Tennis series it was with interest that I finally tried a topspin 
 game. I was very impressed with the level of detail in the graphics and some neat career options. 
 However the player roster comes up a little short for anyone looking for big names from the current 
 top 10. This coupled with a lengthy tutorial that for a newbie was absolutly necessary to complete. 
 I found the gameplay difficult and as a relatively experienced gamer struggled to get into it properly. 
 The response of the players was a little disappointing and I regularly ended up with my player 
 miles from the ball even on the easy settings!
  If you like top spin games then this is clearly a very good offering, if you are looking for a 
 pick up and play tennis game then don't get this!
  Maybe if I had a bit more time I'd have got into it more!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlieLFCFan91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since Monday now when my PS3 arrived from Play. com, I was expecting 
 a more realistic tennis sim after seeing screenshots and videos on it for months. And this is exactly 
 what you get. But this may not please everybody.
  
  This and Virtua Tennis 3 are the two major tennis franchises out there for everyone to test and 
 they both have huge advantages (Although SC3 is pretty ok too) . Virtua Tennis 3 is a fun packed 
 pick up and play title that you will certainly enjoy quickly with friends and family. Top Spin 
 3, however, is a proper tennis simulation with licensed courts, players, and with a slower speed 
 to make it seem more like you're watching it on TV.
  
  The controls are the major change this year. Rather than pressing a button to execute a shot, you 
 have to release the button to hit a shot. For example, once you have served you have to hold down 
 a shot button and then release it when the ball comes to you. This sounds heavily complicated but 
 after about an hour it will become more clear. But there is always the Top Spin school option which 
 allows you to learn every detail from scratch.
  
  Other modes in this game include Career (Create a player and take him/her through every level of 
 a professional tennis career) , Tournament Mode (Play any of the licensed tournaments they have 
 with a player or created player) and the good old Exhibition which sees you face off against family 
 and friends. This game also supports online, but I haven't been able to try that out yet.
  
  The courts in this game are highly detailed aswell as the player models. But out of the selection 
 of courts I was disappointed to not see one particular venue - Wimbledon. Yup, Wimbledon is not 
 in this game. Such a shame since it was licensed in Top Spin 2. But they did get the French Open 
 this time which heals the wound a bit.
  
  The players in this game are probably its biggest downfall. You can play as some of the top stars 
 in tennis such as Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal (PS3 only, what a relief I got this version) , Andy 
 Roddick, Maria Sharapova, Amelie Mauresmo etc. but most of these people have either been in a previous 
 Top Spin or Virtua Tennis title. You won't find any rising tennis stars such as Novak Djokovic, 
 Nikolay Davydenko or David Ferrer, and you wont find any experienced people you're expecting to 
 see like the William sisters or Lleyton Hewitt. But somehow Mark Philippoussis made it in. Yeah, 
 don't ask.
  
  Well anyway I believe I've covered everything I should (sorry if ive missed a detail) . This game 
 is a great treat for tennis fans who like to play the game nearest to real life as it can possibly 
 be. (The only thing I would have liked to have seen which is in Smash Court 3 is when players can 
 challenge calls because I feel I've been ripped off alot my the umpire several times lol) But if 
 you're looking for pick up and play family fun, then grab Virtua Tennis 3 over this anyday. Top 
 Spin 3 is the best tennis sim around, but not necessary the funnest or easiest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontbehatin98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  I will admit that Top Spin 3 is not a perfect game. It has very few flaws such as the frustrating 
 inability of players to sprint at times, a very poor selection of music, and a small professional 
 roster. However, looking at the game as a tennis simulation and speaking from a tennis player's 
 perspective, the game delivers almost perfectly. Don't believe other reviews that rate the game 
 so lowly and recommend Virtua Tennis 3 over this game. Notice, most negative reviews have their 
 main reason being that the game is too hard for them. Well, I say we laugh at them for being too 
 noob to accept the challenge of learning. I would have to say that learning to play Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 or any other shooter is more difficult than the new game play that this game presents.
 
  
  Even though the game play is somewhat difficult to new users, after just fifteen minutes or so 
 any user can easily get the hang of the new game play. All it takes is a little practice and simple 
 understanding that the entire game and the sport of tennis itself revolves around TIMING. Where's 
 the fun in pressing a button to hit a shot which essentially makes a match the battle of who can 
 press buttons better? Well guess what? That's the game play Virtua Tennis 3 has to offer -- game 
 play that does not even remotely resemble a true tennis experience. Not only that, Virtua Tennis 
 3 has rallies in which players tend to dive around the court for every shot that is too far to 
 hit rather than a player simply reaching. Virtua Tennis 3 presents an overly simplistic (in that 
 all it takes is the ability to move the joystick and press a button) and very unrealistic tennis 
 simulation (because it lacks depth such as no sliding on clay courts, no incorporation of court 
 surface as a major factor of the match, incessant and stupid diving, pointlessness in lobbing, 
 very horrible volleying, no acing, no unforced errors, and no risk shot system) although I do give 
 props to the slightly more aesthetically pleasing graphics and somewhat entertaining mini-games. 
 In total, Virtua Tennis 3 is almost disgraceful to the game of tennis.
  
  On the contrary, Top Spin 3 is essentially the opposite of Virtua Tennis 3. There is a deep risk 
 shot system. Unforced errors occur often (as expected) . Aces are possible. There is no stupid diving. 
 People actually slide on the clay courts. The surface of the court actually plays a role in the 
 match. Volleys are executed beautifully. Lobs are very effective. Most importantly, timing is everything. 
 Anyone who has played tennis at all will understand what I am saying. Top Spin 3 is clearly the 
 better choice as a tennis simulation because it is a realistic tennis simulation, it actually has 
 a relatively deep online mode, and has a very deep create-a-character. Once the song selection 
 is improves, the professional roster grows, and sprinting is implemented, then the game will be 
 just about perfect (at least, as a tennis simulation) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawelS_99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 3 is a game that pretty much anyone can enjoy, even if there not into tennis. With it's 
 simple controls, and amazing graphics, this is a game that you can play forever and not get bored 
 of it.
  
  As I said, the controls are simple. The X, Square, Triangle, and Circle buttons are to serve and 
 hit. If you practise alot then you can ocasionally use the right analog stick to serve by going 
 down then up and timing it. The right analog stick can also used to hit the ball by putting it 
 in different directions when the ball is close. With the right stick, you can perform drop shots, 
 as well as risk shots, and others as well.
  
  If you don't feel like reading the instruction book, you always go to Top Spin School to learn 
 everything you want to know about how to play the game. In Top Spin School there are alot of lessons 
 you can choose from. You can learn how to hit/serve, how to time your shots, how to return, how 
 to move across the court and alot more. If you think you know everything you can go to Mixed Training 
 where you have to complete a series of tasks like hitting the ball with the X button, to returning 
 to the circle and everything else you learn in School.
  
  For me, the funnest part about Top Spin 3, is Career Mode. In career mode, you start off as creating 
 yourself, from a variety of options like choosing your hair, the way you face looks, the kind of 
 clothes you start off with and much more. Then you start off facing people just like you ; a new 
 tennis player. Once you beat all 3 people you then compete in a tournament. After you beat that, 
 you join the Juinor League, where you compete in hard or easy tournaments, until you become the 
 best tennis player in the world.
  
  Overall, Top Spin 3 is a game that hardcore tennis fans will really enjoy, and also one that new 
 players will also enjoy
  
  Overall Score: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGibsonSG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  How brave have PAM Development been in releasing Top Spin 3? Not only have they risked alienating 
 their followers, who fell head-over-heels for Top Spin 3's two predecessors, but also possibly 
 turning away casual gamers, who will perhaps be more drawn towards Sega's Virtua Tennis 3. 
  I am of the male gender, which means I don't like being told what to do. By anyone. Ever. But everyone 
 needs to head straight to 'Top Spin School', because while this is still a Tennis game, it certainly 
 challenges perceptions of what that genre entails. The controls feel radically different at the 
 start, but they become instinctive and very responsive. It doesn't take too long before your confidence 
 builds up and you will want to head to the court.
  
  There are basic ways too play all shots, but there are also advanced way to play a select amount 
 of shots. The shots that have a basic and an advanced technique are the following: Drop shot, Lob 
 and Serve. All of these have a basic technique which just requires one face button to perform the 
 shot. The advanced technique however requires the player to make use of the right analog stick 
 to perform the shots. Of course there is still the opportunity to perform a Risk Shot when trying 
 any shot. The L2 button makes your player try to hit the shot far closer to the line than usual 
 and the R2 button makes your player hit the ball harder than he would usually do. It is also possible 
 to combine the two, which will combine the two abilities in the same shot.
  The Risk Shots are a good idea, and provide a very good strategy to a long rally. Do you risk hitting 
 the ball hard but burying it in the net to end the point, or do you bite your tongue and just keep 
 trying to run your opponent around the court. The one shot where Risk Shots simply do not work 
 is during serves, on every first serve you will find yourself constantly holding down R2 and performing 
 a blisteringly fast serve. But apart from that you will find yourself only using the Risk Shot 
 sparsely.
  
  The Create-A-Player is the most detailed I have ever seen in a game. I managed to create a player 
 that looks remarkably similar to me, and I have never managed to make such a detailed player before. 
 
  The Career Mode is very well put together. You progress from just an average club player to a Legend 
 fairly quickly. With the difficulty jumping up at steady increments each time. Obviously there's 
 not a whole lot of variety that you can have in a Tennis game, especially not one that stays as 
 true to the actual game as Top Spin 3 does.
  This does create a problem however. It is very hard to play Top Spin 3 for more than 30 - 60 minutes 
 at a time. But alot of people that want to play this game will probably not want to play it in 
 long sittings anyway.
  
  This game is the best game you can get if you're looking for a realistic Tennis game. And I admire 
 PAM Development for being willing to change the formula so drastically. I recommend this game, 
 and I hope you enjoyed my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benthegamesguru
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Ok im a huge tennis fan and ive been looking for a decent tennis game for ages. Tried my hand at 
 virtua tennis 3 but that was too arcadey, loved topspin 2 but decided to wait for 3. Ive played 
 it for a number of hours now, enough to give my impressions of the game.
  Ok graphics wise it isnt the best ps3 game out. The player models are decent and lighting is good 
 but the crowd is very ppor, and the intro scene before a match can be very laggy. Players models 
 look relativly like their real life counterparts but federer could have been done a bit better 
 i think. small gripe but ahwell.
  The career mode is fab. Im really stuck into it at the mo, beating random players and really honing 
 my skills. I like the rpg element to it as you gain experience through matches and use the 'XP' 
 to level up certain features to your player. This is great as you truly can customise your own 
 player dictating what aspects and what shots you want to master. if you want an andy roddick serve 
 level up the serve meter. Its great and im loving it. The player creation system is also top notch, 
 its very indepth and you truly can create unique p [layers of your own; its the best character creation 
 i have seen since the wwe games. Online play seems great, ive only played a handle of games (beaten 
 convincingly) 
  Ok now the new controls. In my opinion they are great yet frustrating. many people are complaining 
 about them being too cpomplcated aswell as too hard to master. I agree to some extent as its very 
 hard to get your head around and the 'topspin school' has hardly helped, just fueled my frustration 
 levels emphasising how crap i truly am. However, it is a really detailed and accurate system that 
 gives dedicated players something to master. It definitly will help differintiate the good players 
 from the bad and the new controls reward the players who have put time into mastering it. At the 
 moment im still cursing the system lol, im still at the steep learning curve struggling with the 
 serving and the master controls. 
  Other few niggles at the game include the poor crowd noises, they really are lame lol but im not 
 too bothered. The animation system is truly the best yet in a tennis game hands down. the animations 
 definitly capture the essence of the game and as a tennis fan and a person who watches it on tv 
 regularly it is something to appreciate. Individual players such as federer look and play like 
 federer which again is appreciated. 
  Overall this is definitly the most realistic and therefore arguably the best tennis game on the 
 market. Is it the most fun? im sure some would argue that crown goes to virtua tennis but as a 
 tennis fan i appreciate and enjoy this game a whole lot more. The learning curve is a negative 
 i guess, as are aspects of the graphics and lack of crowd atmosphere. Newcomers will be frustrated 
 but once you get into the game and get to handle with the controls it truly is a rewarding and 
 exciting tennis game. Game, Set, Match! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  In all honesty, I hate tennis, I meen I like to play it but I detest watching it. I ranks somewhere 
 down in the dullness as curling and cricket, and the idea of a tennis game will have to do something 
 very special indeed in order to get me hooked.
  
  The past year or so there has been two main tennis games, each with varying results of excitement. 
 Firstly there was the massively accessible and enjoyable arcade Virtua Tennis 3 which I loved, 
 OK maybe not loved but for a game about one of the dullest sports to watch, it was pretty rivveting. 
 Sega Superstars Tennis was the next one I could think of which bombed quite frankly in terms of 
 reliance on the famous Sega characters and brand and further simplified VT3's attempt, when there 
 was really no need.
  
  Top Spin 3 is a different type of tennis game, its more like a realistic simulator as compared 
 to an arcadey pop and fizz mass audience grabber, and as much as I like when games go against the 
 grain and say NO to the Nintendo way of thinking, Top Spin 3 feels a little too professional for 
 my liking.
  
  Where it initially slips up on is the bombardment of tricky and annoying controls. Everything takes 
 a lot of thought to do and like the total opposite to VT3, where everything was simple and accessible. 
 Top Spin 3 will make you work, sweat blood and cough up ur gut before it becomes a breeze to play. 
 Everything is overly complicated, from simply hitting the ball to sprinting to performing tricks 
 etc.
  
  I thought, well maybe this is becuase I'm used to VT3, so, I turned to the training mode which 
 at first seemed a good idea, it really wasn't. It's again, very precisional and detailed in what 
 it's trying to explain, so much it grows to the point of unclarity. Not very useful.
  
  However, animations are fantastic. Fluid and completely natural and definately the most realistic 
 tennis title on the market, I just feel it fails to encapsulate the excitement of VT3 and feels 
 more like the real dull game it's based upon. The courts look very basic and are highly minimal 
 and the only good looking thing on the court is the players, which you do a large range of to choose 
 from, Nadal being our favourite ad he always looks like he's going to explode with Spanish anger!! 
 The atmosphere in these types of games are very important, and the grubby looking crowd and court 
 officials weaken that slightly and make you remember, yes you are playing a videogame. If everything 
 wad to the standard of the players, then that may not be the case.
  
  The character customisation is very detailed, more so than Tiger Woods and is very impressive, 
 as you can move each individual point of a players face and make either the perfect looking player 
 or one **** **** arsed mostrosity. However, as awesome this is, it is very difficult to get into 
 and will put a lot of people off exploring the vast depth of different options.
  
  Online is impressive to as you can basically set up your own tennis club and invite people to join 
 and such but this is only ever any good if you pursue through the tough and inaccessible controls, 
 and the likelihood of being walloped online in a tennis match is pretty high if you don't crack 
 those controls.
  
  Top Spin 3 is the game for tennis purists, if you loved VT3, I wouldn't advise to go near this 
 with a yard pole, but if your looking for the nearest to reality sports title of the year, then 
 you've come to the right place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  I have but one message to the boofhead behind the control scheme...
  
  KEEP IT SIMPLE STUPID!
  
  This game looks and sounds great, but that's as far as it goes. Grab 
 the controller and you're gonna find out that playing the game is going to be trials and tribulations 
 just trying to return shots every time (let alone directing them) , seriously this game is so not 
 User-Friendly like it's original predicessor.
  Until I played this game I thought getting licences on Gran Turismo was hell, but TS3 just overshadows 
 that experience entirely taking the GT series title of "World's Most Annoyingly Realistic Simulation 
 Game"!
  
  If you are new to Top Spin... DON'T WASTE A CENT ON THIS GAME!
  
  ... Buy Sega's Virtua Tennis 3 instead.
  
  This game requires a great deal of patience and determination 
 in order to get used to the "Stupidly Unforgiving" Control scheme of this game.
  
  Unfortunately this frastrating control setup is enough to turn one off the rest of Top Spin's latest 
 advancements.
  
  Some first-impression guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the first tennis game I have played in which I feel I am actually playing a real person 
 rather than a well done stick figure. I really feel they made a big jump in player design. Many 
 people will, sadly, miss this game because the professional reviews have ganged up on it and the 
 mantra is "good looks, bad controls". To me, needing to take a half hour to learn the fine points 
 of the controls is not the end of the world. Anyone who likes tennis should get one heck of a kick 
 out of this game. With 20 players, tons of courts, many choices for difficulty, and game options, 
 you can play this game a 100 times and never have it feel the same. Yes, I would have preferred 
 easier controls, but some of the reviewers have used phrases such as "learning mountain, not learning 
 curve" and that is just silly. Let's face it, this is not a FPS. It is not a substitue for Call 
 of Duty 4. The so-called professional reviewers are so narrow in their likes and dislikes that 
 a game such as this one does not have a chance of getting reviewed fairly. I appreciate GameSpot 
 being an exception to the rule and giving a fair review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon376
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The overall gameplay isn't too bad. The controls are ackward, still trying to get used to the fact 
 that the shot will only start once you release the button. It seems sometime inconsistent. Sometime 
 the shot gets triggered, sometime it doesn't. Still trying to figure out why.
  But the worst part, the part that really killed this game for me, the part that I couldn't get 
 over and the reason I rented this game and won't buy it. It is the 480p... WHY OH WHY would they 
 not have this game at least running at 720p. IT IS HUGLY HUGLY to see the pixelization. It feels 
 cheap, it seems that they didn't take the time to optimize the game and they rushed it out. If 
 I want to have a game running at 480p, I buy a Wii game, not a PS3 game. This was a HUGE dissapointment 
 for me. I was expecting this game, and now I just have to hope that someone else will do better... 
 Virtua Tennis is still the best PS3 Tennis game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza92
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  this game rewards those that take the time to get used to the new mechanics that pull away from 
 arcade tennis games and others alike. Once given the chance, it gives one of the most realistic 
 experience and gameplay with lush visuals of stadiums, characters, clothing and equipemtn of officially 
 licensed goods.
  
  the learning curve is steep at the start about 1 hour unless guided by top spin school which easily 
 makes it 30 minutes to get used to
  
  online world tour mode is a nice addition doing a career season online against the world and making 
 the most money throughout the season and competiting for the number one spot
  
  realistic animations makes it a simulation and not arcadey which doesnt forgive those that pick 
 up and play, but gamers willing to put the time in will be pleased with joy.
  
  the right analog stick nicely mimics the serving action and the risk shots play a key role whent 
 he opportunity arrives, adding strategy to when it should be used with varying success rates from 
 when running to a prepared stance.. career sadly doesnt follow the globe and visit places like the 
 last installment but it is there straight forward to the task to rise up and become a legend
  
  the custom character creation is very in depth from face scuplting to swing styles and information 
 on the player.. very nice!
  
  this game is the most realistic game out to date but without some flaws that prevent it from being 
 better
  
  online doubles tournaments with custom characters against the world is nice with the addition of 
 mic support (how could it not have it?)
  
  downloadable content is promised of new gear and players which is nice since the roster isnt that 
 wide but its got key players.. worth it? definitely.
  
  just underappreciated by those that dont invest the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girst
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Having read the few reviews of Top Spin 3 on other websites, I wasn't sure if I should pay the 
 $80 on this, when I could also get Virtua Tennis 3 for half the price (this is a PS3 review, by 
 the way) .
  
  Most of the reviews said the controls are too hard to master and it would take weeks to even be 
 able to basically return the ball into play off a second serve. Therefore, unless you were willing 
 to take the time to master it, you should look at something more like Virtua Tennis.
  Well, I thought, I'm willing to put in the time, so I went down and got it, a little reluctantly 
 of course.
  
  When I got home, I headed straight for the Top Spin School, as I wanted to at least try to come 
 to terms with the controls, before going out and embarrassing myself in front of the fans on centre 
 court...
  In Top Spin School, I started by having to hit returns from a service machine. I totally missed 
 the first two, but made the third and the next and the next and so on... all you need to do is 
 position yourself just to the side of the path of the ball and a little way back so the ball can 
 bounce up to hitting height, press and let go of a shot button just as the ball bounces and voila! 
 The almost legendarily (is that a word?) difficult Top Spin 3 shot has been made.
  
  Hmmmmmmmm....
  
  So I headed into an exhibition match and played as Blake, against Roddick 
 to see if I could play against his big serve and, to put it bluntly, it was easy!
  Following th technique I learned in Top Spin School, I was wiping the court with Mr. Roddick's, 
 I should add, nicely rendered behind. Which is to say, the graphics and animation are great on 
 this game, but that doesn't seem to be a point of contention about TS3, so I'll hand that point 
 to the A-Rod just for consolation and he can discuss it in the press conference after the match.
 
  
  This was being done on the easiest difficulty though, so I thought, "It can't be that much harder 
 if I ramp it up a little."
  My little brother was watching the whole time and he wanted a go too, so we decided to play doubles, 
 on the same side, but for some reason, he wanted to try "Very hard" difficulty (the hardest) even 
 though He'd never played before...
  Well, cutting the story short, the match ended about 7-5 6-4 6-4, we won!
  It was a lot closer, 
 but seriously not that hard.
  
  The conclusion?
  Top Spin 3 isn't as hard as the reviewers make it out to be and I definitely class it as "pick 
 up and play", albeit, as long as you have some video gaming experience, which both me and my little 
 brother (who was playing his first match on the highest difficulty and loving it) admittedly do 
 have.
  
  The game is also great fun to play, although it does have its issues, which I won't cover here 
 (I've said enough for one review) , but you can find out about them in other reviews. These issues 
 aren't glaring, on; y minor. (I'll leave that typo there, to show a case in point)
  
  Carreer mode is addictive, if not too involving and I'm sure the online mode will be great, once 
 it gets up and running.
  
  If you wanted to find out about the other aspects of the game, read other reviews. I basically 
 agree with pretty much everything else being said about Top Spin 3, both positive and negative, 
 it's just the difficulty that I wanted to clear up and I'm by no means the most hardcore gamer 
 out there either.
  
  If you like Tennis, even sports games in general and know your X and Circle from your L2 and R1 
 buttons, give this a try and you'll be hitting backhand return winners past the A-Rod in NO time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Top Spin 3, where can i start from??? 
  Great tennis game of course, really superior than VT3, although i gave VT3 8.5, i believe that 
 TS3 deserves a lower rating due to the fact that TS3 promised a lot more.
  Great visuals, with few glitches and reallistic charactel model.
  When talking about animation, 
 lets admit that TS3 promised to have REALLISTIC AND EXACT animation as pro players in ATP tour. 
 Let me say that there are lots of movements that have nothing to do with these players ( Federer, 
 Roddick , etc)
  .Playing the carrer is fan and entertaining as any tennis game.
  .Great apparel and lots of variety of brands and models (Rackets, clothes, snikers, etc)
  .Online 
 gaming is fun but very laggy, that takes blows the fan out of the game.
  .Intuitive controlls that really help to give the experience of playing tennis, although some people 
 may find them difficult, but the truth is that controlls work beautifully.
  .Lots of aspects bring this game down, such as freezing at some points, (when they show off the 
 court) , and loading is also a problem for TS3.
  .In game sound is good with an amazing CROWD sound, that sneeze and coughs beautifully. You can 
 also hear the crowd ehispering, that makes you fell you are really there.
  .The game sounds awfull and is recorded in 2.1 sound! WTF?? awfull! Sometimes sound dissappear, 
 and appears when you restart the game.
  .Great PLAYER CREATOR.
  In conclusion TS3 is a must buy if you like tennis games, specialy if you look for simulation. 
 
  .Top Spin, in my opinion gets a 7.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fht_atl
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  For people who enjoy playing the real game of tennis, this game is the most accurate representation 
 of the sport ever made into a video game. The timing of the shots is very deep and unlike any other 
 previous tennis games. You will have to move your player to the best spot to return the balls and 
 let go of the swing button to begin your swing. The physics of the game accurately reflects proper 
 footwork and timing. The use of the right analog stick to make certain swings and serves is very 
 cool. The timing of the serve with the right stick is particularly precise. You will have to keep 
 your eye on the ball and swing at the best moment just like real tennis.
  
  Once you get the basic timing and footwork down, then the game allows you get into the deeper strategies 
 of tennis. It is great to focus on strengths and weaknesses of each player.
  
  The is sound is just okay, and the audience applause could use much improvement.
  
  Gameplay: 
 10
  Sound: 7
  Graphics: 9
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
