-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Transformers: The Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/transformersmovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highly detailed Transformer models.
 Environments break apart and blow up real good.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Robot-on-robot combat becomes repetitive and dull after a short while.
 Camera causes more problems than it fixes.
 Both campaigns combined still make for a short game.
 Side missions aren't worth doing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 524 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Transformers: The Game is a big, loud, shallow action game that severely lacks in content. 

 
  Transformers: The Game is very much the archetypal movie-licensed game. It's got all the hallmark 
 problems of the genre, including short length, overly simplistic mechanics, a barely-there story, 
 and a bit of a sloppy feel. It is simply an excuse for fans of the upcoming live action film (and 
 maybe even some fans of the old cartoons who, admittedly, will take pretty much anything they can 
 get at this point) to run around, awkwardly beating up Autobots or Decepticons in various semidestructible 
 environments. If that's all you want out of the game, then Transformers might provide you a few 
 mild hours of entertainment. If you were hoping for something more, Transformers will probably 
 just disappoint you.  

  The basic premise of the game is the same as the film's. The classic Transformers battle between 
 good robots and evil robots has spilled over to planet Earth as the two warring sides search frantically 
 for an artifact known as the AllSpark. The AllSpark is essentially the life force for all Transformers, 
 which explains why they'd want to get it back. Sam Witwicky (voiced with appropriate "gee whiz!"-ness 
 by Shia LaBeouf) is an average teenager who happens to hold the key to finding the AllSpark. From 
 there, it's a race for both sides to find Sam and get the AllSpark. There might be more to the 
 movie's plot than what is presented here, and you should really hope there is, because otherwise, 
 we're all in for one exceedingly boring film. With the exception of a few bouts of basic dialogue 
 between Sam and the various Transformers (including veteran TV series voice actors Peter Cullen 
 and Frank Welker reprising their roles as Optimus Prime and Megatron with about as much enthusiasm 
 as you could hope for) , there's almost no story to drive the game forward. In some respects that's 
 not surprising, simply because with this method, almost none of the film is spoiled for you.  

 
           Gigantic robots smashing up a city should be more fun than this.      

  The one potentially interesting thing about Transformers is that it splits the game into two campaigns, 
 with one for each faction. In the Autobots campaign, you'll play as Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, Jazz, 
 and others as you hunt for the AllSpark and try to protect Sam, and the rest of humanity, for that 
 matter. On the flipside, the Decepticons campaign has you playing as Megatron, Starscream, Barricade, 
 and company to track down the AllSpark and destroy the Autobots. While the opportunity to play 
 as both the good and evil sides sounds enticing, you'll actually find that there's very little 
 difference between the two campaigns.  

  Regardless of which side you pick, you'll be forced to slog through a copious number of missions 
 that have you fighting easy-to-kill grunt Transformers using the same three-hit combo again and 
 again, or racing around one of the game's few, somewhat open-ended environments trying to chase 
 down one Autobot or Decepticon to fight a few times while using the same three-hit combo, as well 
 as an occasional throw attack. These missions might have been more tolerable if the combat were 
 a little more involved, but as it stands, you just need to mash on the melee attack button to blow 
 through most enemies, and the few that aren't so easy just require a random object from the environment 
 thrown at them to soften them up. As you are Transformers, you can also transform and roll out 
 as one of several different vehicle types. However, driving is decidedly less fun than running 
 around as a robot, as the cars handle very loosely and tend to get hung up on random environmental 
 objects -- which is odd, since when you hit other cars, they just go flying like they're made out 
 of cardboard.  

  The lone bright spot comes from the Decepticons campaign. In certain missions, you're tasked with 
 simply laying waste to one environment or another. Be it a big city or a sprawling military installation, 
 these environments are fun to destroy. Your weapons fire does a lot of damage to buildings, cars, 
 trees, and any other solid objects nearby. In the Autobots campaign, you can do the same types 
 of damage, but it's all incidental, since you're ultimately trying to protect humanity -- not lay 
 waste to it. On the Decepticons side, your goal is to cause as much chaos as you can, and that 
 can be a good bit of fun. What's neat is the way the destruction and battles are presented -- explosions 
 are frequent and large, the damage to buildings looks appropriately massive, and the combat moves 
 you can pull off actually do look cool. Seeing Optimus running around, double-fisting pistols, 
 and Blackout using his helicopter blades as a sword is pretty awesome. Part of that comes from 
 some solid animation, but it also helps that the Transformer models are so highly detailed. Say 
 what you want about the new robot designs from the movie -- they're represented very well within 
 the game, though the one issue is that sometimes you'll actually forget which Transformer you're 
 playing as, since many of them look the same in robot form. That's really more the fault of the 
 film's designs than anything else, though.  

  Adding to the mass-destruction effect is the camera, which violently shakes during battles, and 
 even jerks around a bit as your big, clunky robots run around. Unfortunately, that shaky-cam effect 
 tends to get in the way more than it helps. At times there are so many explosions and so much gunfire 
 going off that the added chaos of the camera makes the whole scene indecipherable for several seconds. 
 This is also one of those games where you can easily get boxed in by multiple enemies or trapped 
 in some chunk of the environment, unable to move because the camera won't steer around to a good 
 vantage point. By the same token, Transformers relies too heavily on contrived "action zones," 
 which are just chunks of the open-world environments that you can't exit while in battle. If you 
 go out, you've got to run back in or you fail the mission. Of course, it doesn't help when you're 
 getting blasted out of the zone and are continually forced out again and again by enemies who follow 
 you out and keep knocking away at you. That isn't a constant problem, but a few missions are made 
 far too frustrating by the fact that you have to constantly try to stay within these stupid action 
 zones.  

  At least you won't have to put up with issues like this for very long. Each of the game's campaigns 
 is only a few hours in length, putting the game's total length right around five to six hours. 
 If you're really looking to extend out the experience, there are a bunch of side missions in each 
 game area (most of which are just simple, slightly dull "kill a bunch of this enemy type" missions) , 
 some unlockable content to mess with, including film clips and photo sets, and some unlockable 
 skins for the Transformers that give them their original, G1 skins from the show. Granted, you'll 
 have to go do all the silly side missions to unlock a lot of those skins, and those just aren't 
 fun enough to justify the effort.  

           You get gigantic blasters, but you almost never have to use them. That's pretty dumb. 

  There are some notable differences among the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii versions of Transformers. 
 The Xbox 360 version has the usual smattering of achievements, many of which can be easily earned 
 just playing through both campaigns, though several of the remaining ones require you to do all 
 the various side missions. In terms of control, the 360 and PS3 versions are basically identical, 
 though the PS3 version lets you use the Sixaxis tilt controls to steer Decepticons that can fly, 
 like Megatron and Blackout. The Wii version obviously has its own array of motion controls, though 
 unlike some other, recent movie-licensed titles, they aren't completely half-baked. Yes, you swipe 
 the Wii Remote or the Nunchuk to attack, but these controls actually feel responsive enough that 
 you don't feel like you're constantly struggling to hit something. The one downside is camera control, 
 which is mapped to the remote. It's not unmanageable, but the camera will often move up or down 
 too far if you just happen to hold the remote at a slight angle. In terms of graphics, the 360 
 and PS3 versions are both entirely comparable to each other, though the PS3 version is a bit lacking 
 in the lighting department, looking overly dark in spots. The Wii version retains the basic look 
 of the other versions, though it's obviously scaled down to fit with the system's hardware. The 
 Transformers still look nicely detailed in the Wii version, but the environments have been scaled 
 back significantly. The frame rate also tends to dip more often on the Wii version, but not to 
 an unplayable degree.  

  Transformers: The Game ultimately delivers a passable, though entirely unremarkable tie-in to the 
 upcoming film. The one thing it nails is the size and feel of these gigantic robots and their ability 
 to cause massive destruction, but that isn't enough to carry the entire game, especially with the 
 burden of the periodic glitches, camera problems, and overly simplistic combat to carry as well. 
 If all you want is to see some nice-looking robots beat each other and the world silly, then throwing 
 down a rental fee on this game isn't a bad way to go. But regardless of your affinity for the film, 
 the franchise at large, or giant robots in general, Transformers: The Game doesn't have enough 
 going for it to make it worth a purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, transformers is one of the coolest concepts ever.
  
  Everything a transformer is capable of doing to say is limited in this game is a huge understatement. 
 
  
  They change the story in certain parts in this game too. Why do that I don't know. 
  
  The graphics are really bad.
  
  The moves for every transformer are the same. You can drive 
 and transform which is cool, but it doesn't make that cool sound fx when you do transform. The 
 attack moves range from just doing a three hit punch combo and shooting a machine gun and missles. 
 You can block and that's it. It's very limited.
  
  The enemies you fight are weak just like this game. Kids can't even enjoy this game too much because 
 it's so hard.
  
  The boss fights are just bizarre. The only part that was fun were the racing missions where you 
 had to get to a certain area within a time limit. I know some people would find that frustrating 
 and this gets old after a while. This game is not worth $5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Transformers the game is pretty cool at first, using telephone poles as golf clubs, blowing the 
 s*** out of the city with huge missiles, and other things like that. but when you start the first 
 level, you realize that all you do in this game is kill drones who can just deflect all of your 
 huge missiles and you are forced to just punch stuff alot. boss fights are annoying because they 
 can deflect all of your attacks, but you cannot deflect theirs! the game has a open enviornment, 
 but it is so small, that it takes like 2 seconds for your leader to say "RETURN TO AREA" worst 
 of all, the games story does not stick to the specific details of the movie. for example, when 
 you play as Jazz, you kill starscream, and the helicopter dude, in the movie, jazz does nothing 
 accept get ripped into tinnie tiny pieces by megatron. save your money, skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Transformers was a great movie in my opinion so I thought of buying the movie game. It turns out 
 I was partially right.
  Story -- The story in this game relates with the movie. A giant cube called the allspark has landed 
 on earth and a bunch of giant robots are fighting over control for it. The Autobots use it for 
 good while the Decepticons would use it for bad. Sam Witwicky (Shia LaBoeuf) has his grandfather's 
 glasses that have markings on the location of the allspark. The Autobots and Decepticons are after 
 Witwicky and his friend Mikaela (Megan Fox) . The movie's storyline is pretty basic, so even if you're 
 not a Transformers fan, you'll be able to understand it. The game does tell the story through cutscenes 
 and while another robot (depending on which side you're playing as) tells you information on your 
 mission. Overall, the story isn't great in this game, but certainly gets the job done.
  Graphics -- The graphics in this game are a mixed bag. All of the Transformers look great and have 
 lots of detail. The cut scenes also look great, despite the fact that the actors don't really look 
 like themselves. The environments aren't, however, as good. The explosions are poorly done and 
 the fire looks bad. Cars generally look good and non-destroyed buildings actually have lots of 
 detail. The frame rate holds up for the most part but there are also some pop-up issues. Overall, 
 the graphics in this game are good for a movie game, but there are lots of issues.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay is fun for a while but gets boring after a few hours. You play as different 
 transformers throughout the game. You can change form into a car, truck, helicopter, etc.., and 
 then back to the original form. Like the Incredible Hulk, this game offers small but open-worlded 
 levels to freely demolish anything in your path. You can pick up objects with the B button and 
 chuck them, but sometimes this can get annoying when objects move. You can climb buildings, which 
 takes far too slow, or simply jog around the level, which is also very slow. The fastest way to 
 move around the levels is by your other form, such as a car. Blowing up cars and buildings gives 
 you a few hours worth of entertainment, but isn't enough to make a game worth $60 when i got it. 
 Where Transformers: The Game really fails in is in combat. You can fire missiles or automatic bullets, 
 even while in car-form. You can chuck objects at enemies or play close quarter combat style, punching 
 and kicking your enemie with melee attacks. This gets repetitive, especially since bosses practically 
 require it. Some enemies (such as barracade) use an unblockable attack so you have to throw objects 
 at him in order to start the dull business of beating him up. Combat utterly fails my expectations. 
 Mission designs aren't that well either. It basically revolves beating up robots, go to point B, 
 beat up more robots, etc. Other missions involve you racing against another robot to get to a certain 
 area, or just racing by yourself to that area with a time limit. There are clumsy side missions 
 that you can do, but they're so repetitive that they're barely worth doing for the achievements. 
 Overall, the repetitive gameplay brings Transformers: The Game down.
  Story: 7.2/10 -- sure, the story is pretty basic, but it's one thing this game does right compared 
 to others.
  Graphics: 6.6/10 -- the animations and explosions look low-budget, though cut scenes and the Transformer 
 models look great and have detail.
  Gameplay: 5.8/10 -- the open-world gameplay provides a few hours of mindless fun but the combat is 
 too repetitive, boring, and frustrating.
  Final Thoughts: For you die-hard Transformer fans, I would suggest buying this game used at a low 
 price, or maybe not even that. I recommend renting this game for anyone who isn't a transformer 
 fan but who is interested in giant robots fighting each other. This game is definitely not worth 
 buying, because it provides only an afternoon of mindless fun. Some things Transformers: The Game 
 does well, like the story and some of the graphics. But for everything this game does right, it 
 does 2 more things wrong. Transformers: The Game isn't without consideration for rental, but for 
 anyone who's not a die-hard fan of Transformers, this game probably isn't worth your time.
  
  Final Score: 6.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michformer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I already bought this game on PS2 a year ago after its official release. When I saw reviews on 
 the graphics of the PS3 version in GameZone. com months later, I decided to buy it again on PS3. 
 And I enjoyed that version a lot in order to avoid the fact that it is a waste of money. 2 reasons 
 it isn't:
  
  1-Bought the PS3 version at a much cheaper price.
  2-One of the best graphics in a movie-licensed game!
  
  If you are looking for a game with 
 sandbox and action elements that doesn't suck even if it is based on a movie, then this is a game 
 for you, it isn't terrible or fair. It is TERRIFIC!
  
  P. S: If you saw the video review, you will notice that the 360 version lacks the polished look 
 seen on the PS3 version. So, if you are here for the graphics, then go for the PS3 version. The 
 lightning is a bit better on 360, but an unpolished environnement and way more graphical glitches 
 exclusive to the 360 version makes it fall way behind from the PS3 version having vastly more polished 
 and crisper visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frjack
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Normally there are several sites i go to for game reviews. Normally i tend to agree with the user 
 ratings a lot more than the Official game ratings.
  
  However sometimes i just do not agree. This is one of those times. Transformers the game on most 
 sites has at best gotten a 6 out of 10. Now i am not saying this game is a 10.0 rated game but 
 i feel it deserves a lot higher rating than that. I picked it up this past weekend cheap and i 
 am really enjoying it. I am getting through the game pretty quick so i defiantly would say it is 
 not worth 60 dollars (its original retail price) But at the 30 dollars i paid for it i am very 
 happy.
  
  Each level so far has different objectives so it does not feel each level is the same. You really 
 do need to transform to complete the levels. The transformations are done very well you can almost 
 believe that it is real. Thought the GFX are not perfect. They are next gen and the destructible 
 environments are great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  - Terrible gameplay, repetitive combat but story is great because its the same one from the movie 
 which was also great but this also makes the game not have any originality.
  
  Atmosphere:
  - Fully destructible buildings and most of the environment is too. Good luck actually 
 ever getting in the zone with this game, I know of one person who did and he was drunk all 3 times, 
 go figure. Still good environment.
  
  Graphics:
  - Other than the transformers being very detailed, the graphics were ehh... a bit above mediocre 
 at best. Not much to say.
  
  Sound:
  - Sound was very good voice-wise and just action-wise, but certainly could have had better music 
 in some parts of the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance:
  - Truely no problems I could find here.
  
  Replay value:
  - This game was difficult to play 
 for even an hour, just simply felt like a total waste of time.
  
  Value for money:
  - Not even close to being worth the original $30-$40 I paid. Can't say it money Ill never get back 
 because I just sold it for $23 on ebay....... if they could have only read my review first... but 
 that would have made me less money, oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 4/10
  - Terrible gameplay, repetitve combat but story is great because its the same one from the movie 
 which was also great but this also makes the game not have any originality.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7.5/10
  - Fully destructable buildings and most of the environment is 
 too. Good luck actually ever getting in the zone with this game, I know of one person who did and 
 he was drunk all 3 times, go figure. Still good enviornment.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 6.5/10
  - Other than the transformers being very detailed, the graphics were ehh... a bit above mediocre 
 at best. Not much to say.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Sound was very good voice-wise and just action-wise, but certainly could have had better music 
 in some parts of the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - Truely no problems I could find here.
  
  Replay value: 3/10
  - This game was difficult 
 to play for even an hour, just simply felt like a total waste of time.
  
  Value for money: 4/10
  - Not even close to being worth the original $30-$40 I paid. Can't say 
 it money Ill never get back because I just sold it for $23 on ebay....... if they could have only 
 read my review first... but that would have made me less money, oh well.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Heck no, and 
 if any of my  do mention this as a classic, I may just slap them.
 
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Extreme diehard Transformers fans would be seriously disappointed so.... people with the bad taste 
 emblem might just like this or possibly children.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 3.5 - I even feel bad for the guy 
 who just bought this game from me on eBay. Everything about this game feels like it was rushed 
 into development. I feel like I just gave this game an academy award for the rating I gave it. 
 Seriously just don't waste your time buying this unless you have a kid and their begging you for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Transformers is a waste of money for those who wants to buy this game. Expecting so much from this 
 game because, it's day bute in the summer was one of the greatest action movie of the year, but 
 Transformers the game did not follow the story line. For example robot on robot, trashing and fighting 
 each other is great but the fact that they use the same moves, is the worst. You even battle the 
 same autobots, from green to red to white to blue. Come on. I've wasted 50 dollars on a game that 
 could of done a way lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtkart
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Transfromers the game is a good game but dosen't live up to the playstation 3 gaming. The game 
 makes you feel like your a transfromer which is good. the handing of the car is poor. but transfromer 
 mode is the best part of the game. the Graphics like playstation 2 game Graphics not playstation 
 3 Graphics. the missions are good but are all many the same thing over agian. blow ing up the city 
 is realy fun. i jumped onto of a fast food place and stole the big hamburgar on the roof and run 
 off with it (funny)
  . i rented the game but a i am not going to buy the game its not worth it. but you rent it ,i do. 
 Transfromer the game good but could be a better game like a playstation 3 game sould be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapel18
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  If you like transformers, i'd suggest this game as a rental. It takes about 5 hours to beat and 
 even though it has a somewhat free roaming element it feels like you go through a piece at a time 
 and it really stops you from getting into the game.
  The controls weren't bad, but the camera sucks. Some of the missions really have no reason to be 
 there at all. Others are ridiculously hard until you figure out what you need to do. In the missions 
 are the battlezones that if you leave you fail. 
  Playing ass the decepticons was a nice change but ends up being more of the same.
  It's a real 
 shame no one has taken this license and made somthing amazing yet. I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed 
 though.
  Overall the game wasn't good enough to make me take time on this review although i found myself 
 playing through it for about two more hours after i watched the movie again on dvd. That hasta 
 count for something right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Froman2000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  transformers is pretty good for a game that comes after a movie. although i didnt see the mobie, 
 i should have saw it first before i got this game. transformers lets ou choose from being from 
 the good side and the bad side. you can roam freely in the towns and villigase, the city or the 
 desert. the good thing about it is that when you get to roam the senery freely, you get to destroy 
 about anything that in you way. you can transform into you car or helicopter or what ever it was 
 and go around the city. it would have been kind of cool though if the robots were first person. 
 transformers lets you pick of different objects and wip them at any thing. you can pic, k up semies 
 and through them helf across the city, or get a exploding tank of mess and through it at a building. 
 
  overall this game is ok. if you want action, get htis game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  So Transformers the movie was awesome. In my humble opinion, and it led me to go out and buy the 
 game. I'm not sure exactly what I was expecting, but whatever it was, the game didn't have it.
 
  
  Visually it looked ok, the Robots themselves looked good, but other than that it was hard to find 
 anything particularly nice about the scenery.
  
  That being said, there wasn't really time to sit around and look at anything. You were constantly 
 driving across town to do this, then back the other way to do that, etc etc. With no break. That's 
 all you did. Period You had all these cool weapons, that never worked. Every fight was the same. 
 Throw a bus at the bad guy then beat up on him till he starts blocking, then throw another bus 
 at him. I played through the game as Autobots, so God forbid you break anything, yet everything 
 broke as soon as you barely touched it. Annoying!! that's the best word for the gameplay. (I made 
 it through one of the decepticon missions before I got rid of the game)
  
  Musically..... It had some music from the movie..... a couple voice overs..... and the ever so annoying 
 You need to do this Every 5 seconds during gameplay. Honestly, that's all I remember.
  
  Overall, it was a fairly forgettable game. maybe a rental if you're bored. None of the extras are 
 really worth the effort. Buy the movie and watch it 6 times in a row. Much better idea than playing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  6.0 may be a little high but this game isnt as bad as people make out.
  
  Free Roaming around is very fun, you can smash up almost anything which is a great experiance.
 
  
  The missions are a tad repitive and frustrating at time but still fun.
  
  There is actually replay value belive it alot, there are tokens to collect (cubes) side missions 
 and a ton of bonus content to be unlocked by doing various things.
  
  I bought this game because I loved the movie so much, so if you feel like getting it do so, the 
 game wont blow you away but it will keep you occupide for a while.
  
  Update: I havent played the game in months, the game has glitches, its really not that great it 
 was fun at the time but unfortunatley I doubt I am going to play it much in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossie123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first things first, yes i have to say its one of those games where you play for 2 hours and 
 then your bored, but then about 3 hours later you want more of it. i think everybodys opinons against 
 this game are dickheads, no affence but you only say its bad becuase of the age rating and how 
 it effects the game e. g. you cant kill humans, no blood, no gore and so on. Really it doesnt need 
 the violence, i mean the main characthers are robots for **** sake, you dont see blood splurting 
 out of them in the movie so why do you want it in the game. I say buy it and **** all those dicks 
 who rate every game they see bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar94
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Based on Micheal Bay's new movie version, the transformers have been sexed up and polished to mirror 
 sheen. These blockbusting chrome warbots are complex, cool as hell, and unfortuantley deserve to 
 be in a much better game. The robots in disguise arrive on earth looking for the allspark, the 
 source of all robot life. Yeah, even Aibos. Transformers: The Game enables you to play through 
 the events of the movie as either the noble autobots or the evil decepticons. There are a total 
 of nine playable charecters across both factions, kicking off as either the classic chevy Bumblebee 
 or the attack chopper blackout before gradually working up to the big boys, Optimus Prime and Megatron. 
 Despite the apparent variety on offer- Driving! Flying! Walking! - the gameplay is basicly the 
 same for both sides, featuring a great deal of chasing other vehicles, heading to waypoints on the 
 map and either protecting or destroying as much of the lifeless levels as possible, depending on 
 the colour of your badge. The missions are dull and the gameplay mechanics are shoddy. The drviving 
 suffers from over sensitive handling, so even when your one of the human-friendly autobots you 
 can't help but shunt other cars off the road and into buildings. You can use motion-sensing to 
 drive and more logicaly fly, but either way it's unresponsive to the point of uselessness (something 
 the game acknowledges as the default setting for sixaxis is off) . Transformers seems particullary 
 pleased with the impressive levels of destructibility it offers. Everything around you from cars 
 and buses to schools and apartments can be levelled, burned and trampled to dust. But the problem 
 is the destruction is far too easily achieved. Just standing in the middle of the road will make 
 cars swerve to avoid you- and they'll crash into houses and shops, sparking a chain reaction that 
 more often than not makes a street end up in ruins. It feels totally unearned, and the payoff is 
 that you don't feel like an enormously powerful machine; rather that the world around you is flower-petal 
 fragile and you can't help smashing it to bits even if you wanted to. Combat is equally rubbish. 
 All the transformers' projectile weapons- rockets, mini-guns and missiles- are vastly underpowered, 
 meaning the most exiting way to make your enimies go boom is to mele it up. But even then you r 
 hand-to-hand options are vastly limited, with each bot given just one combo to supplement basic 
 kicking and punching. One promosing feature is you can pick up just about anything you see- cars, 
 trees, lamposts, bits of broken building- to use as a weapon, either a baseball like swish or a 
 two-handed over the head crunch. Leaving aside the fact that tearing up the civilisation sort of 
 runs counter to the Autobots' stated aims and objectives, what ruins this improvised violence is 
 that the dreary drones you fight (actual transformers are saved for boss fights) , are totally impervious 
 to your blows. You'll junk dozens of the henchbots in seconds, only to run into one who flawlessly 
 blocks every attack you make. The only way to get through his defences is lobbing bits of scenery 
 at the stubborn sod, which takes ages and becomes tiresome very quickly. Even transforming- or 
 'converting' as control options bizarely call it- isn't right. Theres no trademark noise and you 
 have to be standing on the floor for it to work - for some reason you can't run, jump and then 
 transform which seems the proper way to do it. As a result switching forms feels clumsy and slow, 
 especialy when your on a timed mission. What makes this lazy cash-in even harder to bear is it's 
 amazing opening cut-scene, which shows rival bots doing graceful battle all over earth. Its like 
 being shown images of a tender fillet mignion before being served up a can of spam. This operner 
 stands as a bitter reminder of how it should of been done and highlighting all the games faults: 
 the lack of depth in the fighting, the moronic bots, the lack of face offs between real charecters. 
 Making even a borderline entertaing game about the transformers shouldn't be hard- they're inherently 
 cool, as proved by by the mostly execelent PS2 Transformers devoloped by Melebourne house over 
 THREE years ago. This, however, shamefully for a PS3 game has all the grace of Honda's Asimo trying 
 to climb a spiral staircase. Don't buy it.
  Sam Barley 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnonymousDX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  The PS3 version of Transformers: The Game is, in an overall view, a game that could be great, 
 but sometimes there are too many explosions and shooting and havoc that you, sometimes, just dont 
 know what youre doing. Making the game just a good game, that takes some time for you to learn 
 how to enjoy it.
  The best part of the game is that you can choose sides and have a huge cast of characters. You 
 can choose to be the Autobots and protect the earth, or you can choose to be the Decepticons, where 
 your main objective is to undo the plans of the Autobots and destroy all. The transformations are 
 just great. You can be a giant robot and, just by pressing a button, youre a Camaro. All this 
 happens in a fully destructible environment.
  The bad part here is the havoc in the battles and the awful targeting. The graphic quality could 
 be a little better and the sounds arent that bad, which makes this game acceptable.
  There is a large set of bonus features (tough some are pretty boring to unlock) that can be unlocked 
 as you complete the story. It will take about 30 hours, or so, to complete both sides. So this 
 game can entertain you for a while. (If you want to complete the game to 100%, completing all extra 
 missions and unlocking everything, then it should take about 40 hours) .
  You play the role of any Transformer (though you do not choose who and when, you just choose sides) 
 and you just complete the missions that are given to you. The levels are divided in chapters (which 
 are the missions) , and a level usually has 3 to 4 chapters. Full Auto fans might enjoy this since 
 there are going to be many car chasing missions where you dispose of nitro and weapons. There is 
 a giant world you can explore while you are not doing a mission, full of other Transformers hidden 
 ready to stop you and secret items that you need to have in order to unlock extra missions, and 
 lots of other options, like climbing buildings and stuff. The actors are very well designed here 
 (thats because they only appear in cut scenes) and the story is great, and very well adapted to 
 a video game.
  So, in a short way, the PS3 version of Transformers is a good game (great for some) that takes 
 some time for you to learn how to enjoy it. It is surprisingly better then what most people think. 
 It is totally different from what it looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off i do not agree with the gamespot review at all. Transformers for the PS3 is an excellent 
 action game based on the equally great summer blockbuster. Gameplay
  There are different mission types throughout this games, some are driving missions that require 
 you to get to a certain place, racing against a timer. and other missions will have to destroying 
 other transformers in combat. there are other missions where you have to hurt the other robots 
 when in vehicle form to force them to transform so you can destroy them. the game play is varied 
 and mixed enough so that it does not feel repetitive. the fights are amazing and it all looks fantastic 
 on the Playstation 3.
  
  Graphics
  The visuals in Transformers are unbelievable, all the transformers look like their movie counterparts 
 and the world is rendered in photo realistic beauty. also i love to watch the transformers change 
 form, with the tough of a button the Transformer changes shape and it looks great, the mechanic 
 for this is brilliant.
  
  Story
  Nothing much can be said for the story, apart from that it is based on the story of the movie, 
 borrowing the actors talents to provide the voices in the game. however its cool that you can choose 
 to play as either Autobots or Deceptecons (autobots! Optimus Prime FTW) it offers a different and 
 refreshing perspective on the films storyline adding to the story. Overall, transformers is a really 
 great PS3 game and should not be missed, if you are really unsure, rent it first and see what you 
 think, personally i think its worth the money. the gameplay is great as are the visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceQBkid
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  best movie ive seen in years but the game completely sucks i mean ive seen better games on gamecube 
 or something... its just a BIG dissappointment that from such a great movie came such a lousy game 
 and no wonder, its made by Hasbro they should have put EA on the job it would have had a great 
 outcome. dont buy the game download it from somewhere if ur curious but otherwise is just a waste 
 of money , time, and skill. Poor graphics (my computer should have had no problem with this game 
 running on max graphics but not even the game engine is no good even without shadows still running 
 laggish i mean wtf?) , poor geometry , poor engine, everything is done for money and not for pleasing 
 fans.
  another ugly aspect is the car is simply .... not a car it acts like a hover craft or something 
 ... and nitro?? where do you thing you are NFS? poor idea really, and plus if you hit a tree with 
 the car you can not take it down , i mean , lets be serious you're a giant robot that transforms 
 into a car and cant take down a tree by ramming into it?
  another aspect is the roaming around: small map, no free roaming around the world, when i first 
 saw the game trailer i thought you can chose any robot you want and go do whatever you want wherever 
 you want but no.... they had to mess it up in this aspect as well.
  
  SIMPLY ONE OF THE WORST GAME IVE PLAYED IN MY ENTIRE LIFE!!!!
  PS: Hope Transformers 2 will be 
 better, if they put EA on it, it will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Debarred
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  The game itself wasn't what i expected at ALL, it was wayyyyyyy too repetitive, and had you doing 
 the same things over and over, the difference in the campaigns was slight (one could fly, the other 
 couldn't was all i noticed) and the sandbox feel to the game was lost to me.
  
  The good things about the game were that it had amazing graphics in my opinion and the SIXAXIS 
 tilt on the fliers was a bit of fun and felt fresh, maybe a taste of what Warhawk could be, if 
 your going to buy the game, id wait until the price drops, by alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I was waiting a long time for this game because i knew that the movie was gonna be awsome, but 
 i was wrong the graphics stink all the levels are very stupid and most of them are timed which 
 is no fun. Also the gameplay stinks and so does other aspects of this game. The only good thing 
 about this game is that you can play the game as a decepticon or an autobot but most of the levels 
 are boring anyways. So i would'nt recomend you buying this game and if you ever play it you should 
 rent it instead of waistin 60$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvf73
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  TRANSFORMERS: THE GAME is an understimated one, its not Superman, or Happy feet, those are boring 
 games, its more like THE INCREDIBLES, a game that is enjoyable and family oriented, Its like a 
 SAN ANDREAS with robots but no murder and blood.
  
  On the PS3 is one of the few besides SCDA, COD3 and RFOM that uses the sixaxis tilt but in a exciting 
 way when using the characters that transform in planes and helicopters, see it like a trainer for 
 the upcomming WARHAWK like me if you wish. If you own a PS3 give this game a chance
  and try the tilt option with Blackout, Starscream, and Megatron, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPITTING-COBRA
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  SAVE YOUR MONEY BIG RIP-OFF GAME ain't worth a dime
  nothin but time challanges &amp; REPATITION WICH IS NOT FUN
  Wouldn't take this game if it was 
 given to me
  I'm trading it it while i can
  very dissapointed in activision they clearly don't know the meaning of fun
  Nor what gamers want.
 
  they made a 4hr game and stretched it with repatition to make the game longer wich again is not 
 fun they should have to pay us gamers to put up with there crapp.
  So, sorry to say if you want the game Transformers it's not worth the time
  and deffently not 
 the MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Transformers the Game disappointed in a way but then again after seeing the movie it actually goes 
 along with it fairly well. Even though the game play seemed a little bland the concept from the 
 film was all there. The Autobot missions were totally easier than the Decepticon way of life. The 
 game could have been better if maybe it could expand on its merits and let the movie be the movie 
 and it be just what it is; a game. I mean these are the Transformers for goodness sake. They have 
 so much potential for a stellar game beyond following the storyline of the big screen. Controls 
 were okay. The targeting system was a little awkward but it can be adjusted for sensitivity. Transforming 
 was sensibly easy which followed along the older 2003 game bearing these great robots. With being 
 a fan its hard to write a totally negative review of the game. It misses in many places but the 
 movie was just awesome and almost anything that has Prime in it seems good. If you are fan from 
 the start then this game is at least a try. However; it definetly is NOT worth spending 60 bucks 
 on. Wait for it to drop down and then play it. By that time the movie should be on DVD (BLU RAY!!!) 
 and it will be worth it then. TO FANS THOUGH as the average gamer can definetly find a better game 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nastya0391
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  As always before deciding to buy a game i better rent it. After playing this game. i got mixed 
 reactions. At frist it looks as if youy have bought Transformers Armada for the PSP. The graphics 
 are almost the same. And it looks like the continuation. (so a pont less) . The control configurations 
 is someting weired, becuse in certain sitation you need to have a traget lock and end up firing. 
 Or in the helicopter mode when you trasform you are landed (and have to press L + triangle to take 
 off.) i consider that is dificult to place all the controls with fewer buttons. But has not the 
 tester do therir job correctly or the programers forgot some logic (so a point less) . The learning 
 courve is fast ( about 1 hour in the playing) so once yopu have master the transform and the target 
 lock you are done the game wil flow easily (i suggest either basic or advanced configuration wil 
 made the things easier) . So a pont more. Also i have to complian on the cinematics (the sound is 
 toooo low) . Another point is the several save points in the game . will let you save the progress 
 just rigth were you need them ( most missions are very large and the maps also some have at least 
 3 save point) . And one last complian when you have a teem mate. As far is i am on the game now: 
 the autobots are the only ones on a hurry. You canot explore the maps with them. You just pass 
 one chek point and go strigt to the next. When you are a deception you can explore a little more. 
 Also the AI. is not rigth . And this i better explin it with an example. Inthe ioron Hide - Ratchet 
 Frist mission if you get infront of Ratche to cover him from beeing hit he shoot you on the back. 
 Also he dosent move so you are hit by friendly fire and enemy fire. So the Ai for the teammates 
 needed more work.
  
  This game should be buy only by a fan or some that has play Armada and like it. But if you are 
 a good gamer . This game will seriusly disapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravspdr
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  The games had real potential. The camera work is exceptionally shoddy. It seems that for some reason 
 you always have a tree blocking your view. The controls also seem a bit heavy in this game. I guess 
 we have to attribute that to the fact we are controlling 2 storey tall robots. I really hope the 
 movie is better than the game, but then again that probably won't take too much. But on the bright 
 note the characters look really cool and the sound is exceptionally 'big' Take some advice, rent 
 it and then buy it... or better yet don't buy it or rent it.... huge waste of money.... worst game 
 I own and I have 21 PS3 games....
  
  All in all its a bad game and I regret that I bought it!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitnessrower
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Maybthe worst game ive ever played on pc or any other platform. The worst graphics the worst gameplay 
 the worst scenario and the worst control setup. Dont buy it and dont even rent it, believe me. this 
 is only a game for 10-13 years old. for older guys with next generation graphics pcs its just **** 
 for the PS3 users but i write that here cause i cant review on the pc section. Also i have a PS3 
 platform and the game is bad there too. Not so bad like the pc version but i give the game 3/10 
 on both platforms. If you want to play the game then rent it first and then ask for a refund cause 
 thats the truth ,you will not like the game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatthomson
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  It's like a weak version of GTA3. Graphics are hit and miss. Some times you will notice that cars 
 are floating off of the ground on hills, and destroyed objects may not appear there any more, but 
 you can not move over that area. Transforming is cool. Being an autobot sucks, and the final battle 
 is weak. Decepticons are by far more fun with destruction as the ultimate goal. This game makes 
 me miss GTA3, at least there missions were cool, and you could kill people. In this game, they 
 move around the transformer. It's very short, not a whole lot of fun, even for a huge fan, and 
 transforming and destroying buildings is only fun for so long. The humans really don't hurt you, 
 and the AI is terrible. The battle sequences are really weak and it would be nice to have a difficulty 
 setting to make it even at the best, just longer. It is worth renting and not much more. I wish 
 I had not dropped the 60 bones on this one. But it is neat to relive a childhood memory though. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
