-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turning Point: Fall of Liberty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/fallofliberty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A handful of powerful set pieces.
 Terrific orchestral score.
 Clever environmental-based melee attacks add laughs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mediocre combat often made worse by a number of bugs.
 Frame rate can't handle most major events.
 Plot is extremely bare-bones.
 Bland graphics mixed with ugly animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 335 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Spark Unlimited
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This alternate-history shooter is proof that an interesting premise can't compensate for boring 
 and broken gameplay. 

  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is a perfect example of how a great concept doesn't always make 
 for a great game. In this case, the concept is Turning Point's intriguing premise: Without the 
 voice of Winston Churchill to rally Allied forces, Hitler's Nazi regime spreads like wildfire across 
 Europe and Africa, eventually staging an all-out assault on the United States. It doesn't take 
 long to realize that Turning Point makes almost no use of this potential. The result is a shooter 
 that fluctuates between mediocre and disastrously buggy.  

  For a game that relies so heavily on the backdrop, it's remarkable how little it does with the 
 actual story. Turning Point begins with your character working on the girders of an unfinished 
 skyscraper in New York City as the Luftwaffe comes swarming into view. The fact that your character 
 works construction is one of exactly  two  things you learn about him through the course of the 
 game (the other being his name, Carson) . That's as much character progression as you'll find. The 
 plot itself can hardly be considered robust, either. We know the Nazis have exerted their control 
 over the presidency and that some level of resistance is fighting through the invasion, but that's 
 more or less it. There are no real examples of life under Nazi power and no memorable characters 
 to share in the struggle.  

           Powerful set pieces like this one are a rare treat.     While the story fails to do much 
 with the game's premise, the setting of this alternate history has a few breakthrough moments. 
 A handful of set pieces do a good job of stirring your emotions. The first few minutes of the game 
 are fairly nerve-wracking as you race down the aforementioned skyscraper while German airships 
 litter the sky. There's also one scene where you're stationed on a turret gun fighting back several 
 waves of soldiers as the top of the Chrysler Building lies in ruins before you. However, these 
 powerful moments are the exception rather than the rule. Most of the time, you're running through 
 nondescript buildings or underground corridors. It's much too easy to forget you're fighting Nazis 
 on American soil (and in London, toward the end of the game) . For the most part, it feels like 
 Turning Point could be any old World War II shooter, albeit with weapons that never made it into 
 production.  

  The combat fails to pick up the slack, because it's simply a poor imitation of the Call of Duty 
 series. You can switch between two weapons and grenades as you run through linear levels, with 
 most of the action dependent on using the iron sights to take out a room full of enemies. A major 
 problem is that the targeting isn't very reliable, because the gun takes up so much of the screen. 
 This often leaves you guessing where an enemy is before shooting. Even if you do guess correctly, 
 you're usually punished by a wildly inconsistent hit-detection system that can't tell the difference 
 between a headshot and a bullet to the leg.  

  There's a melee system that's almost entirely useless throughout most of the game, but occasionally 
 you'll happen upon an unlucky enemy that can be taken out with an environmental-based melee attack. 
 Some are predictable, like throwing an enemy from a ledge, but some will have you laughing out 
 loud, like forcing a soldier's head down a toilet after finding them using the bathroom. .  

  A variety of odd design choices and technical problems further mar the game's combat. Enemies 
 aren't the least bit intimidating due to their predictable AI and cartoonlike running animations. 
 When the game tries to compensate by ballooning the number of Nazis in your path, the frame rate 
 takes a very severe nosedive -- something that also happens in nearly every scripted destruction 
 sequence, like walls collapsing. There are a variety of other problems that range from the comical 
 (enemy corpses fall through walls, but their guns become stuck halfway through) to the infuriating 
 (squadmates stand in your way in narrow corridors and refuse to move) . All of this is compounded 
 by a stingy checkpoint system that forces you to experience these flaws several times over.  

 
  Turning Point's presentation offers one notable high point. The sound effects are good, but the 
 music is fantastic. It's a grand, orchestral score that expertly recalls 1940s-era Hollywood. The 
 music does its best to add a little extra excitement to the action-packed moments while also lending 
 tension to the slower, more subdued sections of the game. Unfortunately, much of that is canceled 
 out by the game's poor visuals. You'll often see a blurry surface texture and assume it'll snap 
 into clarity once it's loaded, but as you approach it you'll come to realize that it's not getting 
 any better. The PS3 version looks slightly better than the Xbox 360 game, but it's still far from 
 impressive. Visuals aside there really isn't much to differentiate the two console versions of 
 Turning Point: Fall of Liberty, though the Xbox 360 game benefits from some genuinely amusing achievements. 

           They might not be original, but environmental kills are often good for a laugh.      

 
  After finishing the brief and uninspiring campaign, there's little temptation to try the multiplayer 
 mode. If you choose to avoid it, you won't be missing much. The same gameplay woes that plague 
 the campaign are here in the deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, which support a meager eight 
 players. Multiplayer doesn't add a lot to the overall experience, in the same way that the campaign 
 doesn't build upon the overall premise. This theme of missed opportunity is a consistent one throughout 
 Turning Point. What could have been a refreshing twist on the World War II genre instead is a lesson 
 on how not to implement an interesting concept.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Michformer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Turning Point: Fall Of Liberty is an incredible game. Why? Because it gives the pace a steady feeling 
 and the weapons are fun to use. Graphically, it's a decent-looking game hampered by clipping and 
 minor frame rate issues. The wrestling moves are fun to watch and the human shield one is great, 
 if not a bit optional. It's been almost 11 months since I bought the game and I'm still enjoying 
 it. I never played multiplayer because some *%$&%% players thinks the game was really bad, so, 
 I'm left with blank servers on a somewhat underpopulated online service. Still, the game is awesome. 
 If you hate the game, it's your choice. Curious? Rent it? Interested? Give it a try. I was not 
 disappointed AT ALL when I first played this game. This game definitely deserves a bigger fanbase. 
 I applaud Spark Unlimited for creating an enjoyable first-person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  dont even think about buying this game. u think o geze this looks like the best game ever but its 
 not u play as some retard who never talks like the guy in gta3 just as gay as it gets ur able to 
 do special moves to kill people so i guess if u throw a guy 5ft into water hes dead the only cool 
 one is when u throw a guy into a fire place. The only fun level is the begging when u have to escape 
 from a building and somehow everyone that survies gets out the same way and in that level if u 
 shoot a nazi in a parachet it will do nothing it will die and itll do what its still doing just 
 falling down in the same postion and not going any faster. over all its the worst game i own i 
 should it to a friend i was going to sell it to he agreed and didnt buy it so i will later sell 
 it to gamespot because best buy likes men and has no good game selection. 5 words DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 76diesel
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing Turning Point: Fall of Liberty on my ps3, I would rate this game an 8 out of 10. 
 This game offers everything to keep it interesting all game long. I liked the story line, you play 
 as Dan Carson, a reluctant New York City construction worker turned freedom fighter. As Dan Carson 
 you must survive the initial invasion by the Nazis before regrouping with other U. S. resistance 
 members to take the fight back to the Nazis. Yes its true the frame rate sometimes can't handle 
 some of the major battles making it a little choppy at times, and yes there are a few bugs in the 
 game but nothing major. I say no big deal, this is a game you can play from beginning to end without 
 any crazy game ending puzzles to solve or need to complete any levels under a stop watch that you 
 repeat over and over. Turning Point: Fall of Liberty kept things interesting by making you climb, 
 grapple, jump from building to building and more. I found the AI enemy was not as predictable as 
 some reviews have stated, in fact I found the enemy to be very bold at times and actually charge 
 you. Another thing I like about Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is during night missions the lighting 
 is actually good so you don't need any night vision. Unlike some games you pay 60 bucks for the 
 game and play half the game with night vision seeing everything in green. Best of all, because 
 of the poor reviews I bought Turning Point: Fall of Liberty brand new for 15 bucks and I liked 
 it better than games costing a lot more with better reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielreader22
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was so excited! But when I rented it, it sucked. The A. I. 
 is so stupid it's not even funny. Crappy, half-ass graphics make the game feel rushed. And the 
 weapons just don't feel like you're firing them. The guns sounds are so unrealistic and soft that 
 it feels like you're firing a plastic toy. The grenade explosions are pretty cool, though. The 
 A. I. is cakewalk. They die so unrealistically it feels like you're shooting rag dolls. You don't 
 even need to shoot them. Just go up to them and use the hand-to-hand combat system. But why do 
 that when they still shoot you to death while you're using it? The fact that you're a construction 
 worker fighting Nazi's is completely retarded. So your'e just a random construction worker who 
 just HAPPENS to be attacked by Nazi's and now fights in a war? Where are the soldiers? Where are 
 the REAL people who're supposed to be fighting the Nazi's? Did they suddenly die? Why are civilians 
 fighting Nazi's? The story is WAY to fictional. The hand-to-hand combat system is cool. Especially 
 the environmental ones. But the guns are stupid and weak. The flying ships are also pretty damn 
 annoying. You're being mowed down by those stupid things while there's nothing you can do with 
 no teammates also being shot by a crapload of Nazi's. And also, the Nazi's taking over the white 
 house?? WTF?????????? AND the fact that you have to destroy the white house????? WTF???????????? 
 I am literally going nuts!! I am absolutely losing it with this game!!!!!! I can barely type this 
 review!!!!! I keep having to re-type words!! AAH!!!! I am SO glad I rented this first! DO NOT buy 
 this. I don't know what the hell they were thinking. This game is basically WWII in America (and 
 London) . And why do you die at the end? What a load of bull. Overall, don't buy this. Please. It's 
 almost a curse to buy this so called "game." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bren451
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I thought it was going to be revolutionary because it had such an 
 interesting storyline. Turns out that it was boring and broken with nothing innovative. In this 
 game, you are a member of a resistance that tries to push back the Nazi advance. Apparently, the 
 Nazis have won WWII because America had not entered the war. Just when you thought America was 
 safe, you look up in the sky and see blimps and jet aircraft with the Nazi symbol and soon figure 
 out that the Nazis have invaded your country. The storyline is about the only interesting thing 
 in the game along with some environmental uses like throwing a Nazi soldier off a building. The 
 game also has moderate graphics for a next-gen system. The negatives include abysmal gameplay, 
 terrible enemy and friendly AI, horrible sound, and buggy glitches. All these reasons make this 
 game disappointing and boring. Turning Point Fall Of Liberty for the PS3 receives a 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Turning Point Fall of Liberty is a world war 2 first person shooter that the Germans won the war 
 and are attacking the U. S. A. You play as a construction worker that managed to get a gun and starts 
 to fight back. This was a cool idea but was very poorly executed. The gameplay of Turning Point 
 is not fun at all because of bad AI, boring weapons and locations, and a bad controls. The AI is 
 one of the games biggest flaws. They just stand there and watch you shoot there brains out. They 
 don't do anything to give too big of challenge and fire fights with them just get repetitive. Your 
 allies are not much better. In combat they will just run in and get themselves shot. They won't 
 do much to take cover from enemy fire and don't help much at all. Shooting guys in Turning Point 
 is not fun. You really just stand there and shoot. The guns you use are all basic. There is just 
 rifles, mechine guns, and pistols. Handling the guns with the controls is terrible. My biggest 
 complaint is that R2 is the shooting button. Every first person shooter on the PS3 should shoot 
 with R1. Square sometimes works but not R2. Also there isn't a melee button which is annoying. 
 The control was just not thought through. Recoil on the guns is unrealistic and annoying. For rifles 
 every second or third shot sends the gun flying upwards. The recoil on the Tommy gun is the most 
 annoying. The gun flies up when you shoot so you have to aim down making you miss about 80% of 
 the time. The locations in Turning Point are boring. There is New York, Washington and a few other 
 places. Something good in the gameplay is that you can grapple the enemies. When you do that you 
 can eather use them as a human shield or instantly kill them. Whats stupid about the instant kill 
 is what he does to kill them is usually not in any way fatal. He would punch then in the face or 
 hit them in the rib. And they die from that! The grapple is cool but it replaces a melee attack, 
 which would suit the game better and is used in much better games, giving you an even better reason 
 to play a better game. The graphics in turning point are reasonably bad. They just look so bland 
 and boring. The locations are in this depressing, slate kind of colour. The characters don't look 
 that good ether and the frame rate is bad. The sound are just as cheep as the rest of the game. 
 The gun sounds crappy and there are alot of explosions but you don't hear much. The story line 
 has a good idea, as I said before, but does not make much sense and isn't followed through with. 
 There was a part an America solider said you go ahead I'll take care of this injured guy. Yeah 
 so they make the people they're protecting do the fighting. Turning Point actually has a multi-player, 
 but it was just thrown in. There is death match and team death match and very few stages. There 
 is also online play, but good luck finding a game because there is almost no reason to play on 
 line. I've heard it crashes a lot too. Turning Point Fall of Liberty has very few redeeming factors 
 and I think I mentioned the bulk of them. My advice on Turning Point Fall of Liberty? Turn away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  
  This is the worst game I have ever played in any console... It seems to be unfinished. Nonetheless, 
 It would have been a great game if Codemaster had dedicated more time on its development.
  
  I bought this game thinking it would be revolutionary because of the storyline.... and it has 
 a good storyline... but they have not taken much advantage of it.
  
  I think the main problems of this games were:
  1.- Launch price of $59,99.
  2.- A lot of advertising 
 everywhere (they could expense less on advertising, and invert more in developing) .
  
  If I had spent $29,99 in this game when it launched, maybe my review had been different. But... 
 It is not the same spend $59,99 in a game like this than spend it on MGS4, Halo 3, Call of duty 
 4, etc etc etc etc etc...
  
  My recommendation is... play it if someone gives it to you for free.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  A good example of an early sign of a poor game that even the developers are ashamed of is when 
 it's on the shelves before any of your favourite magazines or websites have had chance to review 
 it. 
  
  This below the radar approach aims to snare the unlucky gamer for having the audacity to take a 
 risk. Turning Point? Just before you pick it up will be fine.
  
  The premise sounds quite interesting, an alternative history where Europe fell to the Nazis and 
 you play as an American construction worker fighting against the Nazi invasion of the US. It sounds 
 very much like 2003s Freedom Fighters but with Nazis instead of Russians
  
  The opening level has you clambering down from the top of an unfinished skyscraper, jumping across 
 girders while New York is attacked by hundreds of Nazi planes and Zeppelins. It's a good start 
 and you may be tempted to check out the views from here, the best details being the skyline and 
 the bustling streets below.
  
  Nazis will parachute drop in-front of you which provides you with plenty of opportunities for 'Environmental 
 Kills'. These are chances to trigger a scene where you fling them off the nearest ledge for an 
 express flight down to the sidewalk. "Welcome to New York pal!"
  
  Your hero doesn't say that. Actually he doesn't say anything throughout the whole game. There's 
 no depth to your character at all, you'll see him climbing around and occasionally someone will 
 bark an order at him. It's not exactly Killzone.
  
  As soon as you get down to street level, the excitement vanishes and the cracks start to appear. 
 You just didn't notice them on your initial escape from the skyscraper as you didn't have a weapon 
 for most of it and had to keep moving.
  
  The weapons are where the game's worst problems emanate from. The choice of shooters is poor. You 
 get a very bland pistol, bolt-action rifle, MP50, combat shotgun, sniper rifle, a huge machine 
 that takes up half of the screen and a rocket launcher (hint: keep hold of this for the final level 
 it makes the final scene a cakewalk) . All the weapons are massively inaccurate though, quite often 
 the first couple of shots with a machine gun or pistol have no effect at all, plus the muzzle flashes 
 obscure your target icon too much. It turns out that it's easier to hit the enemy by shooting from 
 the hip rather than raising the gun sights.
  
  This game is severely ugly, looking like it's running on a PS2, actually that's not really fair 
 to the PS2 which has many much better looking shooters than this. If you've got a thing for grey 
 and poor textures and a lot of corridors, then you'll be fine. The rest of the levels include New 
 York's streets, a few bunkers, the White House and finally an air blimp above London Bridge.
  
  Context sensitive commands for jumping up to grab ledges will be the last straw if you've not 
 already cleaned the bin juice off your receipt. You have to be stood in exactly the right place 
 for the animation to begin. It'll often take you at least five attempts, at worse you won't even 
 be sure if you're meant to be able to climb up there anyway. The grab / melee attacks suffer with 
 the same problem at times; bizarrely you can't smack the enemy round the head with your melee attack 
 if they are ducking. 
  
  You can grab a Nazi for a human shield where the camera will zoom out to a third person perspective 
 while you try and pick of his chums with a pistol while they fill the pair of you with lead. Using 
 it once is a waste of time.
  
  The aforementioned 'Environmental Kills' are the only real fun to be had past the opening level. 
 For these you sneak up on a Nazi in certain areas and press the right button when prompted to throw 
 them head first into TVs, fires, off bridges down holes etc.
  
  The only other relatively decent part of the game is wiring up TNT using the face buttons on the 
 pad to match up the wires while using the analogue sticks to screw the wire into place. It's not 
 complex but it gives you a break from the monotony of the main game for a minute so it feels good.
 
  
  There are no bosses at all; the most difficult enemies are the ones with flame throwers or rocket 
 launchers. The finale involves (relax there's no spoilers here, unless you count the whole game) 
 disarming a nuclear bomb while under fire from loads of troops. They're very considerate though 
 as they all come through one little door allowing you to finish them off with one rocket. 
  
  You'll be all done in no more than three and a half hours, which is pathetically short and 
 with the shooting being as poor as it is, good luck trying to find anyone online to play the multiplayer 
 with. Stick with Call of Duty 4, and don't be tempted a few years from now (or probably sooner) 
 if you see this on sale for a tenner or less. Put it behind something else to save the less informed 
 gamer.
  
  4/10
  
  Developer: Spark Unlimited
  Publisher: Codemasters
  Genre: First Person Shooter
  Age: 16+
  
  Platforms: PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC
  
  Review 
 by Brendan Griffiths
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 3
Date: May 30, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  i was extremely excited about this one... that is until i bought it. look the game is to short 
 and the gameplay is okay. the online is cheesy and you might as well go back to the ps2 with this 
 one. the story line is awsome and truly innovative but this game has no real replay value and it 
 is not worth buying. no no not even from the bargain bin. this was a huge dissapointment. when 
 you first get your hands on it for the first hour its really cool. but as you progress through 
 the story your like thank goodness its a short game. the gameplay is extremely repetitive and offers 
 nothing new to the world of gaming. it is a bit glitchy and has a lot of bugs. dont look for a 
 sequel to this one any time soon because this is exactly what the name of the game is. a turning 
 point for gaming and the fall of our liberty to enjoy first person shooters....... oh the heart 
 ache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that I loved the trailer for the game, the German speaking with the Reich 
 battle flag in the background was excellent. I was willing to overlook the choppy looking gameplay 
 footage because I thought that this was just a little underproduced for the sake of the trailer. 
 Sadly, I was heavily mistaken. The game starts out well enough, with the invasion beginning but 
 then the minute you take control the movements are clunky and the interaction just looks and feels 
 horrible. People running are so horrible and clunky in their movements that it's almost comical 
 how horrible it really is. The gameplay is the same way, most times there is no point in leading 
 to shoot a moving target because you won't hit them either way. There are just so many faults in 
 what could have been at least a very interesting game but all it's faults just ruin it completely. 
 It might have been ok, if it were released for the PS2 but not for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 7/10
  - Very interesting story, it really keeps you wanting to play unfortunately theres not much to 
 play being its so short. Typical FPS interface. Menu has terrible display options that are very 
 limited. 
  
  Environment & Immersion: 7/10
  - Too short to really get into, also to glitchy. Enemies AI capabilities are very poor, they just 
 seem to stand there and are a lot of times oblivious to their surroundings, sometimes they use 
 boxes or crates to hide behind. Environments are great, especially looking up at the sky, there 
 are tons of planes and airborne troops dropping in. Way to dark of environment.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7.5/10
  - Graphics are very good but there is certainly better out there, everything 
 does seem to be to overly shadowed or dark. Great detail of environment and on some weapon textures, 
 some guns do seem to be rather bulky or un figured. Most weapons are really nothing special to 
 look at, nothing to really be excited about. Entertaining environment or cutscene kills, not really 
 interactive but still fun to watch.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  - Good or should I say average voices and sounds, guns are kind of lame and not very exciting sound-wise. 
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 1.5/10
  - Game certainly will turn on, but doesn't seem to like staying on. Basically, game tanks big time 
 during most action sequences or when turning corners, and I had the game fatally crash 3 times, 
 once where I had to actually restart the system. This game should have been properly configured 
 and debugged before being released. Codemasters really let me down on this one, its going to take 
 some serious patching to fix this but I won't be wating around for it.
  
  Replay value: 2/10
  - Game would have been pretty decent if it had been properly debugged before 
 being released. I played this for a while but really just couldn't stand the lag and crashing. 
 VERY short game too.
  
  Value for money: 2/10
  - $40 is a joke for this game, once again maybe if it actually worked properly It would be. If 
 your ok with patching then sure wait a few months and the buy it, for myself I hate patching, unless 
 the game really has something to offer then I won't bother waiting around for a release.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - No, I would 
 say maybe for the fact that it was pre-maturely released but that seems to be way common these 
 days.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - People who like cold war or WWII games and who are willing to wait for a patch release.
  
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 4 - Short game with a lot of bugs. Expect a lot of patch releases. This game has a great 
 story but should have been made longer. Pretty big disappointment from Codemasters. Games need 
 to stop making it seem ok for developers to release un-ready games. This game was a waste of time 
 unless your ok with waiting for a patch.... I'm Not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  For a game that relies so heavily on the backdrop, it's remarkable how little it does with the 
 actual story. There are no real examples of life under Nazi power and no memorable characters to 
 share in the struggle. The combat fails to pick up the slack, because it's simply a poor imitation 
 of the Call of Duty series. The visuals are laughable at their best. The textures are muddy, the 
 characters are blocky and lack detail, the environments are bland, the effects are weak, and the 
 animations are the worst I've seen in a very long time. This game looks as if it could have easily 
 been a PS2 game, and even then, it would fail to impress. There is no merit to warrant playing 
 this game. Spread the word, this game is an abomination to gamers and the human society as a whole. 
 Save your time and money and just pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeWolf
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I finished this game and was checking out the 'talent' that brought this game to life.. I must 
 have seen over 50 names in the credits, the thing is, better games have been made with 10% of the 
 resources these people had. The game was simply aweful with very few redeeming features, so let's 
 check'em out:
  THE GOOD
  - The hand-to-hand kill-or-take-hostage move is actually pretty-sweet-n-cool feature. I think the 
 only other game I've seen do this is Crysis but I actually like how they did it here more (found 
 it more simple and fun) .
  - Chuchill's death altering history is an interesting premise
  - The blips (with their War of the Worlds sound) were cool.
  
  THE BAD (AND UGLY)
  - The 
 hand-to-hand move doesn't always register when you come up close to an enemy. Issues with collision 
 detection as well.
  - There is no story, just a premise to a story. The game doesn't even do a good job linking different 
 levels together. One minute you're a helpless citizen the next you're the army's/resistance top 
 green beret! No evident progression in between
  - No innovation (the hand-to-hand thing doesn't count as innovation)
  - The "hype" the developers 
 were creating elevated expectations beyond what they could deliver
  - No atmosphere to the game, you always felt detached from the scenario, from the plight of America 
 under attack. The game failed to make you feel that Nazi's in NY was an aweful and terrifying thing. 
 It felt like any WWII shooter with just a different backdrop
  - No save system (very annoying, we're 2008!!! that should come as a given!) just a checkpoint 
 system, some checkpoints are too far apart and make you repeat useless chunks of an aweful game.
 
  - Everything about this game is sub-average
  
  See. I actually tracked this game before it came out, I was expecting the next Freedom Fighters 
 (which wasn't perfect but a 1000 times better, and the best in that genre) . In this game you go 
 from an average joe to the equivalent of Rambo at light-speed and this is the major part of where 
 this game failed. The premise and "story" was much better suited for a game where you had to: hide 
 from Nazi patrols; sneak weapons and food to your underground base; save your girlfriend from the 
 Gestapo; do surgical strikes on convoys and strongholds; assassinate a Nazi leader; take revenge 
 because some Nazi-sympathizer had your dad killed; disguise yourself as a soldier to steal medical 
 supplies (to save your girlfriend again!) ... etc etc. All things a resistance made up of average 
 joes would do. All things that would make you 'feel' as if the Nazi's are here, you're screwed, 
 and you can't just go to the corner pharmacy without fearing for your life!
  
  All in all, Turning Point: Fall of Liberty missed the mark it set for itself. Don't buy, maybe 
 rent, don't bother.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sserv
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  Every so often a game comes around that just doesn't seem to do anything right. It's main purpose 
 for existence is to frustrate you with it's terrible visuals, AI, level design, and glitches. Just 
 about every game out there manages to at the very least, accomplish one goal, even if it were so 
 insignificant that it didn't warrant any recognition. Turning Point however, doesn't seem to accomplish 
 a single goal it set out to do. The concept of Turning Point is rather interesting. It's the 1950s, 
 and WW2 has technically ended. However, America was never involved. So, naturally without America's 
 aid, the war ended with the Nazis reigning supreme. Now it seems that the Nazis are trying to take 
 over America.
  
  You play as some worthless construction worker in New York City who end up joining a resistance 
 group of sorts to fight off the threat. From here on out, the game completely falls apart. The 
 majority of Turning Point takes place in the United States. Unfortunately it's too easy to forget 
 due to the terribly generic environments you see in just about every other shooter. You'll be fighting 
 in subways, ugly interiors, dark streets, rooftops, etc. It doesn't help that 90% of the locales 
 are vacant and dreary looking. Another issue is the level design, which is linear and for a lack 
 of a better word, stupid.
  
  Your arsenal mainly consists of the usual loadout found in every WW2 shooter. Some weapons actually 
 never existed, but were in development during those times by the German army. Weapon accuracy varies 
 greatly. Not so much weapon to weapon, but second to second. The hit detection is almost non existent. 
 At times, you will literally see your shots make contact with the enemy, only to have it not register. 
 This problem is constant throughout the course of the game and in some cases it will screw you 
 over entirely. 
  
  The enemy AI is practically brain dead. Their patterns are heavily scripted and moronic. Most just 
 look the other way and wait for you to cap them. Other's might notice you after an extended period 
 of time. Then, there's the enemies who cap you almost instantaneously. It's mind numbingly frustrating 
 traversing through this game with opponents who are either too stupid or too intelligent. There 
 is simply no middle ground in Turning Point. 
  
  The audio is passable at best. The voice acting is very standard but gets the job done, if only 
 by the skin of its teeth. The score is appropriate but typical, the weapons all sound like crap 
 unfortunately. The sad part is, the audio department is likely Turning Points strongest category, 
 and even that is utterly mediocre. 
  
  The visuals are laughable at their best. The textures are muddy, the characters are blocky and 
 lack detail, the environments are bland, the effects are weak, and the animations are the worst 
 I've seen in a very long time. This game looks as if it could have easily been a PS2 game, and 
 even then, it would fail to impress. 
  
  The conclusion is, don't even attempt to play Turning Point. Even hardcore shooter fans will be 
 hard pressed to find a single enjoyable moment in it's 5 hour campaign. The online component is 
 deserted and doesn't support friends lists or voice chat. All in all, this is embarrassing packing 
 that puts most budget titles on a pedestal. Turning Point officially qualifies as one of the worst 
 games I've ever had the misfortune of playing and I hope that others will avoid it at all costs. 
 There is no merit to warrant playing this game. Spread the word, this game is an abomination to 
 gamers and the human society as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the good, This game has an incredible musical score.
  And the idea's with alternate history were great. And the good pretty much ends there, i couldnt 
 give an accurate description of the graphics as there was too much suck on the screen to see. The 
 character animations were ugly at best. The combat was more or less broken (who decided to make 
 vertical aiming twice as fast as horizontal aiming?) . Its like they took everything from Call Of 
 Duty 3 that didnt work and threw it all together.
  They tried to make an attempt at variety with some awful platforming which only served to annoy 
 me and ultimately forced me to put the game down before ever finishing it which is rare for me. There's 
 also a frame rate problem where it gets alittle laggy in certain areas. Then there's the non existent 
 story thats supposed to drive the whole thing. this game needed another year or so of polish before 
 it would even be decent in my eyes.
  with the fps genre so over-populated already this many faults to have this many faults is somthing 
 thats unforgivable. Save your time and money and just pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krull1m
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  If you are thinking of buying this game, all I will say is DON'T
  
  The game play is boring and unimaginative, there is virutally no story involved and you are propelled 
 from one mission to the next with next to nothing in between. You feel no connection wth the character 
 or involvement in the events of what is happening. When you compare it to something like Resistance 
 fall of man, they are not even in the same league.
  
  There was such a great premise to this game, and the potential scope was huge, instead the creatrors 
 have done nothing really new. They showed no imagination in writing this game, even down to the 
 weapons that you use. One of the key things I like about FPS games is the weapon variety, this 
 game had about 8 (including pistols)
  
  could have been so mch better but was obviously rushed into production without any serious testing 
 or research 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPayne928
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  One game that just came out recently, called Turning Point: Fall of Liberty, looked really interesting 
 at first. The game's premise was that the Nazis had won World War II, and you, as a construction 
 worker in New York City, must fight against the invaders using whatever means. The story seems 
 like it would play an important part in the game, but it doesn't. 
  
  
  Story:
  You know who Winston Churchill was? The British prime minister who rallied the Allied forces to 
 fight against the Germans in World War II, and this is how the Nazis lost? Well, this game explores 
 what would have happened if he had been killed in New York City by a taxi, instead of just receiving 
 injuries. Without his voice to help the allies, Britian and all of Europe fell to Hitler's forces 
 and the Third Reich, and Germany then invaded Africa, eventually turning its attention to the United 
 States. They invade New York City, while you, as construction worker Dan Carson, must fight against 
 them after joining up with the Nationial Guard. Now, this is a great premise, but the storyline 
 plays almost no part in the game, and the ending is just plain bad, leaving almost no closure.
 
  
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a bare-bones WWII first person shooter. Even Call of Duty: Finest Hour was less basic then 
 this game. You fight Nazis with WWII weapons, and it seems like you could be going through any 
 generic WWII FPS, rather than a game with this premise. It tries to copy Call of Duty 2, with that 
 you can take two weapons at a time, and a grenade indicator to show when grenades are coming your 
 way, and regenarating health, but fails. The game is just not challenging in the slightest. The 
 A. I. is plain terrible, and barely puts up any resistance. The only difficult part in the game 
 is one part at the very end, which still isn't very hard. You run through 3 major cities fighting 
 Nazis, but it seems like you could be anywhere, as the game has little to no depth going for it. 
 It has some humorous kills, and some good set pieces, but plays even worse than Finest Hour, which 
 was at least a decent game.
  
  
  Graphics:
  If this was how a regular FPS looked, you'd cry foul. The enviroments are bland and dark, forcing 
 you to rely on your flashlight most of the time. Some parts look somewhat good, but textures are 
 blurry, and models look almost low-PS2 caliber, worse than Finest Hour, in fact. As said, everything 
 is very dark, and you can't see much without your MP5-flashlight. Explosions look good, though.
 
  
  
  Sound:
  The music is great. The orchestral score really goes with the game's theme. But that's about the 
 only good thing to be said for the sound. Sound effects like gunfire feel weak and underpowered, 
 and the voice-acting isn't good, either.
  
  
  Fun Factor:
  Some interesting set parts, and humorous kills, but that's about it.
  
  
  Replay Value:
 
  Uh None.
  
  
  Final Comments:
  Don't play this game. If you really want to kill Nazis in a less than stellar game, play Call of 
 Duty: Finest Hour for the PS2/Xbox/GC, because even though that game's probably the weakest Call 
 of Duty game, it's still good. However, Turning Point isn't good. 
  
  PROS: Great music, interesting premise, some powerful set pieces, humorous enviromental kills.
 
  
  CONS: Weak story, bland gameplay, underpowered weapons, lots of glitches, bad graphics, much more
 
  
  
  FINAL SCORE: 
  5.5/10 (Don't' play this game)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canders3
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game from the looks of it. I love the shooter games. I love NYC 
 and I wanted to defeat the Nazi's after they invaded America in WWII in this remake.
  
  I was disappointed in the "NYC" scenes. Other than seeing the top of the Chrysler Building in the 
 street at the beginning of the game and a few breakaway shots of the Statue of Liberty, you could 
 have been in any big metro city. 
  
  You go to Washington DC, where there are many recognizable places... White House, Washington Monument, 
 Pentagon, etc. You do go into the White House, but the rest are left off of the game.
  
  The play of the game was decent but nothing too exciting. Once I got towards the second half of 
 the game the variety improved and I enjoyed the objects I had to complete. It took awhile to get 
 to that point though.
  
  I would recommend renting it for a week and getting through it fast. It is not worth the money 
 to buy, unless you get it on ebay for cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecubradock
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain horrible... I don't know where to begin, so i'll start 
  
  with the most obvious flaws.... THEY DIDN'T FINISH THE GAME!!! The first 
  
  20 minutes of my 
 gaming experience with this one lead me down a path of 
  
  shame getting litterally glitched into and or stuck in surfaces, forcing me to 
  
  reload the 
 game dozens of times. Which in a great I wouldn't mind but 
  
  when you have enemies that can walk through walls as well as shoot 
  
  through them with all 
 available weapons it makes you want to pull your hair 
  
  out. The producers of this game also made Clive Barker's Jericho which 
  
  surprises me that 
 with more money they made a less advanced game than 
  
  that one which would be fine if it was a psp port would be ok but we're 
  
  talking the PS3. 
 Also massive lag and annoying load times stifle even a 
  
  moment of enjoyment. My final suggestion don't buy it, don't rent it, and for 
  
  the love 
 of god don't open it I assume it's like the ark of the covenent. Your 
  
  non-melted face will thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResEvilone
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was really excited as i had built this game up into something 
 that could rival Medal of Honour: Airborne, which I also own. As I started playing , there was 
 just something about it which didn't strike me as right. Probably the way the game would slow down 
 whenever the germans invading new york would drop bombs, and shoot at you. I thought the AI in 
 the game didn't live up to the standards as AIRBORNE had. There wasn't very much character development. 
 Didn't really get too involved with the underground missions... defend barricade, blow up tanks, 
 defend safe-house, you really couldn't get the feel that you were an actual resistance fighter. 
 Would've been nice if there was an "Underground" In which you would've carried out more than 5 
 or 6 missions. The end was very anti-climactic as well. 
  
  After being flown to washington, that was when I started to get into the game b/c you had the chance 
 to assassinate the president. Germans who were protecting the President were coming at you like 
 no tomorrow, but that was after you had killed him. It was easier to kill the President than to 
 escape from the White House. LIke i said though, i was beginning to enjoy it after that fire-fight, 
 but then a couple missions later you end up dying. Could've used many more levels, or if not many 
 more levels, just an extension of sub-missions throughout the 8 or 9 missions they had. Good thing 
 i had blockbuster credit, otherwise i would've been PO'd for wasting 60 dollars on the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphon_Filter2
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, i didn't think that this game will be like that and its made for Ps3 which is the must power 
 system on the earth. The game has very poor start and very bad game play. You will start the game 
 trying to go down and it appears that the main character is a builder or something like that and 
 right away the German will attack New York city and you'r job will be to defand the city with some 
 people that they will give the German some resistances. During the game play you won't have much 
 options, you just have to take the weapon from the German soldier's and shoot at the German's. 
 You can't use anything during that period of time, you don't any moves, no attacks and allways 
 having same old moves that you did and nothing will improve your skill's, not unlocking or upgrading 
 weapon's and etc. The game is very dispointed and save you'r money and don't waste for this game 
 save you'r money for something better that you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denoshu
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is, lets just say, you look at the preveiws, you see the videos, you look at it and say, 
 this game looks amazing. the you get out of bed, go to gamestop, and get it. My experience is this: 
 pop that sucker in the the ps3. See the intro, which is an exact cut and paste of the manual, and 
 then you look out to see the statue of liberty, bombed. now, it wasnt until 20 seconds of watching 
 this that i fugured out i was supposed to play here. They don't give you any signal that says "you 
 can play now" because of 1. its a fps and 2. the camera zooms into an unfinished skyscraper that 
 has no sighns of people, does sort of a swivvle thing then sits you there. then you turn around 
 to see tons of chaos in new york. then, you walk down some stairs and make it to the bottom. Along 
 the way you get decent guns, some okay graphics and animations. One of the first things i noticed 
 is, you shoot this the f-ing R2 button. Sony made a mistake with this stupid springy thing and 
 now they expect me to play this game with the most manditory movement of both 3rd and 1st person 
 shooters with the worst feeling button on the controller. so then you get used to that crap. 
 
  so to sum it all up:
  story: cool concept, okay story 8.5
  gameplay: Barf doo-doo snot crap 6.0
  online: I cant tell you, no one ever is on to do it 0.0
 
  graphics and animation: okay character animation, lots of graphical glitches that dont hinder gameplay 
 6.9
  voice acting: great voice acting, they always say, "you are going in alone, you are the best shot"8.4
 
  rent or buy: a severe renter, you buy it youll regret it
  final word: 6.2 a real downer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I had this game on my watched list since day one. The idea was phenomenal; a shooter based in a 
 world where the Nazi's won WWII... sadly, thats all this game has, a story. First off, don't buy 
 this game, rent it. I almost bought it and it would have been a terrible waste of 60 dollars. The 
 devs left out so much needed polishing. The character's movements are erratic and rough, the AI 
 is stupid, the animations and rag doll effects are choppy... just an all around poor job. 
  
  I'm usually pretty good when it comes to giving the creators the benefit of the doubt but this 
 game made me sad. A game that I had been looking foreword to for several months turns out to be 
 something that could probably run on the PS2/Xbox/Wii for graphics and shoots itself in the foot 
 for gameplay. If you want to suffer through it, rent it. Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  As i sit her trying to think of a kind way of writting my disappointment out for the world to see.
 
  
  First i want to say that I really feel this was a great concept, Just imagine how the world would 
 have been or changed if history was changed by just the fact the Germany conquered europe and landed 
 on american soil.
  
  Now to the meat of my thoughts!
  
  Graphics: If any game where to discourage people to purchase a PS3 this is the game to do it. The 
 graphics are just terrible to say the least. some good back grounds, but lighting and texture was 
 lacking and the figures where just terrible not to mention the enviroment was kind of thrown together 
 with tons of bugs enimies able to shoot you from strange postions and un realist death.. just a 
 really bad port to the PS3
  
  Game play: one word horrible
  
  Replay value: None 
  
  Sound: Bland at beast 
  
  over all thoughts: Like i stated before this is by far the worst 
 game i have had the un pleasure of playing would i reccomend to anyone NO i wont even reccomend 
 a rental unless you are just so bored amd need something from gamespy to play while you are waiting 
 for something else and need to justify your monthly fees. Diaspointment is an understatement when 
 i discribe this game and how it plays.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Just so everyone knows, the reviews I post are my opinions, I'm not paid and I rate them on how 
 I see them. My opinions may differ from every ones and that's OK.
  
  Name: Turning Point: Fall of Liberty
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox360/PS3/PC
 
  
  Platform that this game is being reviewed on: PS3
  
  Publisher: Codemasters
  
  Developer: Spark Unlimited
  
  Genre: FPS/Historic
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  
  Learning 
 Curve: 30 minutes
  
  Number of Players: 1
  
  Online Players: oh god Didn't even try
  
  Online Modes: Don't Ask
  
  Offline Modes: Just Story I know of
  
  Release Date: 02/26/2008
 
  
  ESRB Rating: T
  
  ESRB Description: Violence/Language
  
  Score: 1 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $47.00 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $59.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
 
  Is there a Game Guide Book Available: No
  Price Used:
  Price New:
  
  Here is another review of a video game I could only play afew minutes. Why? Because it freaking 
 sucks! I'm not talking about just a little suck I'm talking about Suck on a Major scale I'm talking 
 about suck as in about as bad as the Turok remake for the PS3, oh yea it's that bad. It's that 
 freaking bad. There are so many things wrong with this game. The first thing I'll mention right 
 away. The Graphics SUCK. at least with Turok they looked a little nice. But this game it just sucks..... god 
 I need a beer. Another issue with this poo bomb is the fact that when they shoot you it seems to 
 go through the ceiling. that's right the concept of normal physics doesn't apply to this game. 
 That's right I was under a roof and a catwalk and I was still getting shot from a gun blimp. I 
 mean WTF? Next is the way the people die I would shoot them than they would do a jerky jerk movement 
 to show they were dead than out of no where they did the damest thing, it seems in their death 
 they would litterly break their spine midway up from the bottom and bend backwards. It would be 
 kind of funny if this game didn't suck so badly. I only got through I think the first level because 
 after being shot by bullets that couldn't be stopped by wall's it just pissed me off. So there 
 is my review of one of the crappiest games of this year, oh a side note don't get this game for 
 the PS3 because if you do it seems to have a problem trying to load it's data and it constantly 
 re download critical info. So There you go don't get this game for the love of god. Now that's 
 out of the way I need a beer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  I picked up Turning Point: Fall of Liberty for the same reason most other people did. I was interested 
 in the story. You've got to admit, it's a great idea, the Nazis take over Europe and attack the 
 United States, however, this game proves that a great concept doesn't always lead to a great game.
 
  
  Graphically, this game is horrible. Seriously! While the backgrounds looked ok, character models 
 were bad. People and weapons would fall through walls, and once, I performed an instant kill, fell 
 through a wall, and went into a constant loop of me falling, forcing me to restart the game and 
 go 20 minutes back to the last checkpoint. There is no collision detection, it's random, enemies 
 looking the completely wrong direction shoot you, while you either have to be dead on, or within 
 5 feet depending on how the game feels.
  
  The enemy AI is a mixture of very lucky and completely retarted. More often than not I would die, 
 repeatedly, from a guy swinging his gun around from behind cover using the old "Spray and Pray" 
 method. And other times standing in the open I could take out a group of snipers. Like I said, 
 hit and miss with this game.
  
  The storyline - while having such an awesome potential - fell flat. Oh there's some good moments.... well.... two 
 good moments of story through the entire game, the rest was unspecific nonsense. And seriously, 
 that's the biggest dissapointment of the game, cause I can deal with crappy games, if they deliver 
 on what they promise to deliver (Lair for example, I loved the six axis thing) but this one doesn't.
 
  
  Which is not to say the game does everything bad, there are a few (very few) high points. For one, 
 it's not the same fare of WWII weapons, though I think they could've had a few more. While the 
 grappling/instant kill thing got old after awhile and was much less preferable to a simple melee, 
 the "environmental" kills were kind of cool. One had you drowning a guy in a toilet, not bad. And 
 the music was pretty good, not great, but good.
  
  All in all it's not enough to save a game that from the beginning feels rushed, and thrown together. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braxton_g
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game was a great idea gone awry... The game has definite potential. I encourage shooter 
 fans to give the game a try, although you may want to rent it first this game was entertaining 
 just from the storyline reversing the incidents in WWII and putting the shoe on the other foot. 
 I thought that this was a great idea for a shooter putting a twist on the conventional historical 
 shooters that aways occur on foreign soil. The enemies in the game lack great AI, but there are 
 some cases when you get a surprise or two when your back is turned. The graphics are not completely 
 bad, but could have been better. There are some glitches in the game, but not enough of them to 
 frustrate you into putting down the controller. I've seen worse shooters out there so I suggest 
 you give this game a try... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kee101
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I think this game is the worse game i have ever seen. Just because they made call of duty that doesn't 
 meen its a good game. Envirio kills are good but that doesn't fix the bugs. Like when you kill a 
 Nazi and disapears into a box. If you acculy going to buy this game get a recite because your going 
 to need it. If you looking for a good war first person shooter go with MOH Airborne or the COD 
 series. And remember if you truely think its a good game the rent it first, O. K. Hell if you wana 
 good game get Gears of War 1 or 2 (by the way it coming soon cheak it out-not sure of release date) 
 or get Unreal Tournament (Hell get the whole series) this game makes the PS3 look like somebody 
 took a dump on it. Do not i repete do not buy this game. It suck so much i would rather take a 
 bat and play base-ball with my PS3 as the ball. Again this game is a big FU to the PS3. The bugs 
 in this are just staked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuslas
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game had opportunity. It had me actually waiting for it to arrive at my local gamestop. I 
 almost knew after first starting it that it would only be a fraction of what it could have been. 
 First off, great storyline with the Nazis winning the war and wreaking havoc across the world. 
 However, these Nazis are quite a tough bunch when you have a weapon that won't fire straight. The 
 gun controls are by far the worst thing that the game has to offer. There is no hud, or map, or 
 any real way to move around on your own. So your pretty much just wandering around till you see 
 something glowing that you can either grab, climb, or walk into. Many times throughout the game 
 you will find yourself in close contact with the enemy. This is very frustrating because shooting 
 at close range isn't something the game developers put much time into. It's not all to hard, but 
 you will literally need to have your crosshairs in the middle of the Nazi your shooting cause these 
 Nazis can take leg and arm hits all day. They also didn't include the melee attack, so you can 
 only grapple enemys when in close quarters. So that just adds to the frustration level because 
 you have to grab somebody, push a button, then wait to perform your kill. While your performing 
 this there will be sometimes be another Nazi unloading on you while your going through your grappling 
 motions with the current Nazi. The graphics are good, but with so much hype about the development 
 team you would expect more. The weapons are fun to play with, but again the accuracy will be revolving 
 around your head. I also don't recall playing a game with so many grenades flying around. Overall, 
 I feel this game was rushed out the door with so many obvious glitches and problems. The game has 
 some quality points, but the negativity surrounding far outweighs its worthwhile. Wait and rent 
 is my rating for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  If you're in to alternate history, TP: FoL is a nice game to play. The story is great and the background 
 visuals are pretty nice. They're not great, but nice to look at.
  
  (I'm playing the Ps3 version)
  
  Graphics: Again, the background visuals are very nice and 
 I like the American twist of WWII. It's just something that hasn't been done. Now the actual characters 
 are a different story. I think the enemies could have been much better. To me, they remind me a 
 lot of Metal of Honor for the PS2. 
  
  Gameplay: The AI is alright, but not spectacular. TP gives you a twist with close quarter combat 
 in that you can press O when you're close to an enemy and either grab and preform an instant kill 
 or use them as a human shield. So far this is pretty neat. The weapons sound realistic, but the 
 lack of rumble for the Sixaxis really comes in to play. Aiming your weapons is where TP is terrible.
 
  
  Sound: The sound of the weapons are pretty good as well. Not great but not bad either. The music 
 is outstanding! 
  
  Story: This is where I give TP: FoL my highest mark. The story really hasn't been done before at 
 least not in New York and America. If you want a game that's different (as far as story goes) you 
 can't go wrong with TP. The problem with this is that it doesn't tie in with the gameplay. I never 
 found myself actually liking my character. You get a great introduction and great background stories 
 during the game, but it never translates to when you start playing.
  
  Multiplayer: Haven't played yet, so I can't help much there. 
  
  Overall: I give TP: FoL a 
 5.5 out of 10. The graphics are not all that good and the playablity is pretty poorly executed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milesflex
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This was such a cool storyline that I was super excited to play, but the gameplay is just not there. 
 There's nothing special about the gameplay. Running up and down the stairs shakes the camera so 
 fast, it gives me a headache. There is a lot of loading time, which freezes on a frame for a second 
 while you are still moving. Why did I have to load 2.5G of game data onto my PS3? There is no map 
 and the guidance from non-playable characters is not that good. Weapons are pretty varied and seem 
 to be pretty realistic. No vibration on the PS3 controller still sucks, as does having to use the 
 R2 button as the trigger. You cannot change the controller setting to fire with R1. Just doesn't 
 feel right holding the PS3 controller like that. I pre-ordered it and bought it the day it came 
 out, but I'll probably trade it in the next time I go to the store. I made it to the Washington 
 level, and I wanted to finish it before trading it in, but I just don't know if I'll be able to 
 make it. It's not really keeping my attention. So far there haven't really been too many encounters 
 with blimps or tanks or any of the super cool Nazi weapons. The bomb arming minigame to blow up 
 tanks is lame. Just not what I was really hoping for. I didn't try the multi-player, so I can't 
 comment on that. I just really can't recommend it. I played the demo on Xbox Live and thought it 
 was cool, but the game itself, at least on PS3, is just not worth the time or money. Definitely 
 rent it first if you are curious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Yeah i sure do the new Twist that the Germens won and now its up to a small force to try to push 
 the Germens back, The good about Turning Point is in my view well done on the backgrounds and the 
 City s in the Game, NewYork looks Awsome and the feel and the Music is Great, It is like you are 
 there, I am a big War War 2 guy love playing these Games , And with Turning Point with the new 
 twist the Germens won i could not pass up this Game for that alone, For all the Call of Duty Fans 
 stay away you wont like this Game it dont match up to Call Of Duty 4, But for the fans of history 
 and would like to see what it feels like if Germany won then pick up this Game, The bad in my view 
 is the Game Aiming just dont feel right and the AI and the Germens could of looked better, Game 
 does have a few bugs here and there, Like at times the Music skips a little are the Screen skips 
 around some when you are walking. For me i enjoy the Game and over look the flaws still a lot of 
 fun to be had, Just dont think you are going to get Call of Duty 4 You are not lower your sights 
 and just enjoy the Game i sure do, Thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soji_ex
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Turning Point: Fall of Liberty is about what would've happened if Churchill died. The Nazi's took 
 over all of Europe and then starts to invade the U. S. thus bringing us to where the game takes 
 place. 
  
  The game starts off with the main character being on top of a construction site, which tells us 
 this guy is a construction worker. A normal civilian being in the first attack on the U. S. by the 
 Nazi's. You have to make your way safely to the streets which then you get "recruited" by some 
 military personnel. However, because the guy you're playing happen to be owning Nazi soldiers who 
 were trained for war, you gotta be some war genius to be able to handle automatics and rifles on 
 your first try. But since there's no depth on the background of the guy you're playing as, who 
 knows. He could've went to a shooting range a couple times or maybe he was a hunter when he was 
 younger. Maybe it was his hobby. He could've been an ex-cop or something. 
  
  But anyway, ignoring what the character's background could be, this happen to be an interesting 
 story on historical twsists on what could've happen, and that I appluad. 
  
  The AI's are pretty normal, maybe a few idiots here and there. There are at least three difficulties 
 I believe. They probably won't make the enemy's AI smarter, but maybe just harder to kill. 
  
  Overall a decent game. Graphics isn't that spectacular but the idea behind everything is great. 
 If I were to give an opinion on whether or not you should go get this game, I would say, "Eeehhhh... 
 maybe wait until the price drops or pick up a used copy for a cheaper price." It's not a must buy, 
 but definately worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saws7
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The game has a poor start to the story line instead of getting to know the character a little first 
 and going to work and there on the job the attack begins, it just starts with planes bombing .The 
 AI is very poor, enemies face the wrong way and stand in the open and so on. Try shooting the enemies 
 through crates or Anything ,its not going to happen . The game has fairly slow action and has poor 
 sound, people will be talking to each other with no vocals! The multiplayer only has a few maps 
 and the controls are very clunky , the shooting system stinks, no matter where you hit a enemy 
 it takes a while to get him down unloading full clips or more! The game had a very unique twist 
 on the nazi war thing and I like the teen rating very much we need more teen rated games but it 
 falls short of todays standards. This game may have been considered good back in the PS1 days when 
 3D gaming was new but for now a days I give it a 3.0 out of 10. Another game to trade in for store 
 credit! Spend Your money on COD4, or save it for R6Vegas2 or Army of Two! 
  FPS (first person shooter)
  FPS (failing poor shooter) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
