-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Turok
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/turok/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to battle dinosaurs.
 Great voice cast.
 Killing a T-rex with a knife.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Set-piece battles go on for far too long.
 Few checkpoint saves add to frustration.
 Human opponents aren't dinosaurs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,063 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Touchstone
Developer: Propaganda Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Feb 5, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like the mindless Hollywood blockbusters that it emulates, Turok features plenty of dinosaur-hunting 
 action and not too much else. 

  Considering that it's published by Touchstone, an interactive arm of Disney, it's not surprising 
 that Turok comes across like it was based on a screenplay. This new Turok game is the first in 
 the franchise in six years, and it feels like a reboot in many ways. Gone are the time-traveling 
 aspects of the previous games, and in its stead is a sci-fi story that involves a ship crashing 
 on an alien world inhabited by dinosaurs. The ensuing action and story unfold very much like a 
 standard Hollywood summer blockbuster, complete with familiar and expected plot twists, cheesy 
 dialogue, and plenty of mindless action.  

           Turok features the return of everyone's favorite dinosaur hunter, but this time he's also 
 a space marine.      

  You play as Joseph Turok, a Native American warrior who is part of a mission to hunt down a rogue 
 military company of which he used to be a member. That fact doesn't exactly endear him to his fellow 
 squadmates, who are voiced by actors such as Ron Perlman, William Fitchner, and Donnie Wahlberg. 
 There's even a hilarious bit of dialogue when one soldier accuses Turok of being responsible for 
 his brother's death; it's a line so clich that you feel like you've heard it before in countless 
 movies. In keeping with this, Turok liberally borrows from many other sources, and the plot feels 
 like a mishmash of Unreal,  Jurassic Park ,  The Dirty Dozen , and more. Even the visual design 
 of the characters and vehicles feels taken from Gears of War.  

  Regardless, the heart of the game is battling dinosaurs as well as giant scorpions, flies, and 
 lizards. It turns out that the planet is a strange laboratory where evolution has been put on overdrive, 
 though whoever is responsible for this is a mystery; the game leaves that for possible sequels 
 to answer. If you're a big fan of dinosaurs, there's plenty of dino action to admire from different 
 varieties of lightning-quick raptors, docile vegesauruses, and, of course, the mighty Tyrannosaurus 
 rex.  

  At your disposal are your standard firearms, such as a pulse rifle, a shotgun, a rocket launcher, 
 and more. You can carry only two weapons at a time, and you can also dual-wield many weapons. Nevertheless, 
 the best weapon is your trusty knife. The game has many cinematic action sequences in which you're 
 tasked with mashing a certain button or jamming a trigger rapidly to execute a kill move, from 
 picking up a smaller dino and breaking its back across your thigh, to jumping atop it and jamming 
 your knife into its cranium, and more. It's so well done that it's a bit unsettling just how exhilarating 
 knife kills are to execute.  

           Knife kills never get old, and it's more satisfying than many of the weapons in the game. 

  Turok is a game that has some great moments, including the first time you encounter the raptors 
 in high grass. You can't see them until they're practically on top of you, but by then it's too 
 late. However, it's also a game that has issues. The human opponents are fairly conventional, and 
 they get in the way of killing more dinosaurs. Another annoying issue is that the game doesn't 
 know how to quit when it's ahead, especially when it comes to the many set-piece battles. Imagine 
 battling a horde of giant scorpions or raptors, only to turn around and see another wave rush you. 
 And as soon as you finish that wave, more often than not, a third wave will appear. The first wave 
 was exhilarating, but by the third wave some frustration sets in. That reinforces the feeling that 
 the designers are just padding the length of the game. It doesn't help that the checkpoint saves 
 are few and far between, which means that if you screw up in the final wave, you usually have to 
 restart at the beginning of the entire sequence.  

  There's also not a lot to the game in terms of story. Ship crashes on planet. Go find survivors. 
 Go find radio. Then go find another ship to escape the planet. The end. As such, the game doesn't 
 really have a chance to explore different settings, and the jungle environs are broken up only 
 by some run-down interior levels. The visuals, powered by the Unreal Engine, seem middle-of-the-road, 
 given that they're not quite as sharp or as crisp as in other Unreal-powered games. For instance, 
 the textures seem a bit muddled. Granted, there are some great animations, particularly when dinosaurs 
 lie twitching to death on the ground. The PlayStation 3 version looks as if it has better lightning 
 and shading, though the Xbox 360 game suffers a bit less from aliasing. However, the two games 
 are very close to one another.  

           Co-op and multiplayer are interesting, assuming you can find others online.      

 
  The single-player portion of Turok will run a solid eight to 10 hours. It feels a bit longer than 
 most contemporary shooters, though you'll probably struggle getting through a number of sequences, 
 which explains the length. Then there's the online gameplay. The multiplayer modes can be fun because 
 there are variations of the standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. What adds 
 spice, though, is the ability to unleash dinosaurs into the middle of a battle. These are effectively 
 rogue elements that will attack anyone, regardless of what team they're on. You might be in the 
 middle of a desperate knife fight with another player (you can execute the third-person camera 
 killing moves if you're fast enough) when a raptor suddenly bursts out of a nearby bush. It's even 
 possible to see someone leap atop a dino and slit its throat. There's also a handful of co-op missions 
 that let you tackle some side adventures not seen in the single-player game. There's support for 
 up to four players in co-op, and the action is a lot more intense than in regular single-player 
 because the number of enemies and dinosaurs have been ramped up considerably. The downside is that 
 it's difficult to find an available game at times online, even in the evenings.  

  In the end, like many Hollywood blockbusters, Turok doesn't leave much of an impression when you're 
 done with it. It's a game about battling dinosaurs, and though it does a good job at that, there's 
 not much more to it. The nondinosaur sequences are fairly conventional for the genre, and it all 
 makes for a solid but not great game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  More than half the time is frustration, the other portions are a mix of fun and confusion. First 
 off, the game graphics are not that bad as people say they are, but they do suck in comparison 
 to earlier games that came out around its time. The story is about a man named Turok who joins 
 a military group sent to stop a guy named Kane who has a weapon of mass destruction. For some reason 
 Kane is working shop out on a planet that is full of Dinosaurs. The plan is to stop him, but you 
 end up fending for you life and just trying to save you a$$ from his rebels and dinos, but before 
 you leave, you make one more chance to stop Kane and kill a T-Rex. The story is lacking and when 
 it is all over, you have that feeling that "I wasted my time just to see that" . The story begins 
 as if it is going to have a big climax and power ending, but the final result is disappointing 
 in too many ways. So why is Kane on this random planet and why are dinosaurs on it. You will ask 
 yourself that question in the beginning of the game only to find out there is no answer. The creators 
 of this game do not know how to piece stories together because this was just horrible. Starts out 
 with a lot of promise, but it ends up breaking that promise. On top of that, checkpoints saves 
 are so far apart, that death means it will take you forever to complete this game.
  
  Environments look the same. You are either in the jungle or you are in a base. Different weather 
 and lighting does not change the fact that you are in the same area, just with different trails. 
 It is easy to get lost in forests, because everything looks the same and has this 2D feel to it. 
 
  
  Their are about five different type of dinosaurs, that have variants of themselves, that you fight, 
 random one on the side, and then you have mutant Bees/Wasp and Scorpions. The scorpions are the 
 most fun to fight, but after a while you tend to wonder, where are all of these scorpions coming 
 from. You tend to feel that way about the bees too. When I think about it, they whole game feels 
 like that. For some reason or another, millions and millions of enemies come out of nowhere and 
 only target you even though you have teamates with you. Enemy A. I. is very smart which is both 
 a good thing and a bad thing. First off, you seem to lose health very easily on this game. I mean 
 3-4 shoots will take you out of the game, and then you have to wait for the long load screen to 
 disappear so you can do the whole thing over. You will always die in this game because once you 
 think a area is clear, enemies just start jumping out from butches, trees, rocks, what ever. In 
 other scorpion battle, I actual located an area where the scorpions just keep respawning. If you 
 look in that direction, none appear, but if you look away then look back, two scorpions appear 
 and the process repeats itself. On top of enemies coming out of nowhere, it is also hard to locate 
 where these people are that seem to be landing killer blows on you. When you shoot guns, they seem 
 ineffective because enemies take forever to kill, though one good arrow can kill them. Weird and 
 confusing. Another silly, but fun gameplay feature, is the knife ability to kill anything and everything 
 around you with the simple press of R2. I kill 15 (exageratted) raptors with a knife. When you 
 kill them, it cuts to a cutscene that repeats itself over and over. Though it may sound annoying, 
 its is actually fun to watch and experience, even though you are not the one actually killing it.
 
  
  I guess for intensity purposes, they made the control response slow because all the enemies in 
 this game move with quick feet and half the time you can not kill them because aiming is inaccurate 
 and slow which results in cheap cheap I mean cheap notice deaths. This gets so annoying that it 
 makes the game boring. That is the feeling I got, I would just say F*ck it and stop playing then 
 come back to it when I was bored. Got around to finishing it and I felt like I waisted my money 
 (rental) . 
  
  The game is fun though because moments are intense and shooting anything is fun, but then trying 
 to progress through a game that is ridiculous unfair creates an experience that is both frustrating 
 and fun. Turok began like it was going to be so good, but repetitive gameplay, faulty gameplay 
 mechanic, unfair difficulty, and the lack of close checkpoints makes this game garbage. On top 
 of that, it feels very unpolished. The game feels cheap, like a knockoff of some other crap someone 
 threw out. I am talking alot of trash about the game, but it is all true, but the game is fun though, 
 it is just very frustrating at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  Turok seemed to have a great premise to begin with, with you watching your mates being dragged 
 into the trees by something you couldn't see but hear. It kept you on edge and made you walk slowly 
 as you only had a knife on you.
  Well that was the best bit of the game, so if you stop there you will believe this is amazing.
 
  However, if you continue you will find yourself battling relentless enemies and vicious dinosaurs 
 that just don't want to die. Your guns don't seem to effect the dinosaurs unless you unload a whole 
 clip of your machine gun on it (if your lucky it will stop) . Most of the time you will be faced 
 with several velociraptors speeding towards you and some of your team will just be watching, or 
 be on the floor injured for ages. But then the raptors seem to respawn out of holes in walls and 
 it starts all over again until you've killed enough of them.
  Very frustrating firefights are all through the game, whether your fighting dinosaurs or humans. 
 The gun selecting is strange to get use to aswell.
  The annoying thing about this game is there is no easier difficulty to choose from on the main 
 menu, and what gets me is that it says 'normal', but if its normal then the game shouldn't be this 
 hard. I felt like I was playing Turok on 'hard'.
  The dinosaur animations were good though, especially a T-rex you encounter. The T-rex looks and 
 moves naturally and makes you feel like your lost in Jurassic Park jungles or something.
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 2/5
  Controls- 3/5
  Graphics- 3/5
  Sound- 3/5
 
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 2/5
  
  Good Points: The dinosaurs are cool, good animations, decent story.
  
  Bad Points: Very hard 
 game, poor friendly AI, weapons don't feel good to shoot, lots of enemies in each battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngrodamus
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is just frustrating, it mimics the Goldeneye Rogue Agent style of shooter but fails miserably, 
 switching guns in between hands couldn't be more awkward, the sight on each gun allows limited 
 accuracy, and location damage is executed with extreme difficulty with even the most accurate weapons 
 because the gameplay is broken. As for the graphics, they are absolutely pitiful for a Playstation 
 3, although the textures of the surroundings and creatures show a wide range of color and depth, 
 the Unreal Engine fails to capture the true essence of a jungle. The jungle is constantly restricted 
 and feels like a cramped room filled with faux-3rd dimension grass that more often than not is 
 a gigantic nuisance. Hated this game, but I did get it for $9.99 from Best Buy, I guess you get 
 what you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooden16996
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. No matter what anyone says it is a lot of fun. Stranded on a desolate, dinosaur 
 infested planet with a evil mastermine expiramenting with unknow subtances. AWSOME. 
  
  There are lot of fun guns to shoot and killing with the knife never gets old. There in only one 
 flaw. Too many human enemies. Who said there were supposed to be humans on a Turok game. Stick 
 to the dinos please. The game is also kinda short but will offer plenty of challenges (Maybe too 
 many)
  Sometimes the autosave system can get annoying. You get almost to the end of a mission and get 
 flanked by a raptor, you go all the way back to the last checkpoint (witch can sometimes be 15+ 
 minutes of gameplay) and it gets frustrating. But this game makes up fot it in its combat. The 
 visuals are decent but the stabbing and charring (flamethrower) of dinos and overgrown scorpions 
 it ol so cool. The way that you can pin human enemies to the wall with the bow is very creative 
 as well. Dual-wielding is a great addition too. I had to use it to beat the elevator mission (might 
 I say is very difficult) . But if you can get by some difficult missions this a very good game indeed!!!!!
 
  Overall I give Turok a 8.5/10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GohanAngelo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and gameplay were amazing. A good story line and epic voice acting. The Tek Bow made 
 quick work of all the dinos and bosses. To me, this Turok game had no flaws. The weaponry was absolutly 
 devastating to the enemies i used them on.
  
  Turok has left Wolfpack and is ready for some redemption. The dinos you fight are kinda fast. Even 
 the T-Rex bosses can catch up to you pretty damn quick. To have fun, you to BE fun. If you get 
 stuck on the T-Rex's, don't sweat it. Just blast them until they fall down. Thats all there is to 
 it.
  
  There's an epic line you have to know from this game, and it'll pop in your head everyday
  
 
  "I'm not a soldier. A soldier follows orders. But a warrior follows his heart."
  
  Those are epic words that I will always Remeber.
  
  I especially liked the scene when Logan 
 was bad mouthing Gonzalas.
  
  "Did you just here me say you should'nt go after it?!"
  
  "Take it easy Logan I was just..."
  
  "Shut the hell up!"
  
  Hahaha classic.
  
  But 
 in general, you have to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, Turok plays like every other first-person shooter out there. You switch weapons 
 with the d-pad, jump, crouch and blast your way through jungle environments, Wolfpack outposts 
 and more. But what makes Turok stand out from the pack of games 2007 saw is how you can kill -- 
 such as sneaking up behind a guard, dropping him with a kick to the knee and burying your knife 
 in the top of his head. 
  
  No, the ammo isn't unlimited, but you are fully encouraged to use whatever weapon you want however 
 you want. There'd be times when I'd enter a new section of jungle and find a makeshift guard base 
 with stacks of weapons all over the place. I'd arm the chaingun, run out and blast some dinosaurs, 
 get tired of the gun and backtrack to find something more to my liking. Once I settled on an instrument 
 of destruction -- such as my favorite, the sticky bomb gun -- I could truck back out confident 
 that there was more ammo behind me and plenty of spots to switch to something different ahead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bh147
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  this game is badass... everybody says this game isnt all that good... well i think theyre full 
 of (crap) the graphics are amazing. the environment your in is awesome. i dont understand why you 
 wouldnt like this game. yeah its hard on just the easiest difficulty level (normal) .... but that 
 gives you more of a nice challenge. this game is insanely good!!!!!!!!!!!! and yeah i just got 
 it and havent really gotten that far yet... but i'm addicted to the game. for some reason gamespot 
 and x-play gave it a bad review score i dont know why but i love this game... this is the first 
 game i got for my ps3... and i'm glad i picked this one... gonna be playen it for a while...  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  A really crappy score Turok got from Gamespot and i dont beleive it should not of got that lets 
 see why.
  Turok is not like every first person shooter out there the main thing it has got dinos how cool 
 is that, good guns, Cool Dinos, a good shoot out with the solders better than what i was expecting.
 
  
  Intro is joesph turok used to be a wolf pack member the most brutal and savage black ops squad 
 of its time kane was turoks leader and mentor, Turok left because of a inncident that took place. Turok 
 got sent to Whiskey company who were going to capture Roland kane ,kane has escaped war criminal 
 and once a lendary wolf pack leader it would of taken about 3 days to capture him but instead when 
 whiskey company was going in there aircraft to capture kane the aircraft got blasted out of the 
 sky by Kanes men. The aircraft was blown into peices scattering all over the place and there is 
 where blood thirst creatures await.
  
  
  Graghics-Graphics are exelent in this game the long grass where you hide looks superb, the soldiers 
 look good and the dinos LOOK GREAT. The Enviorments look very good with big trees, the cutscenes 
 are very ps3 style in fact everything vishual in this game looks great exept for some bits.10/10
 
  
  Gameplay-Gameplay is great the difficulty is just right, how turok moves and shoots and knifes soldiers 
 are great nice and smooth controls. love when you take the soldier out with your knife in the long 
 grass and how you kill dinos with your knife. I would have to say the saved points or even checkpoints 
 should not be spaced far apart when you have extreme shoot outs because it gets really annoying 
 when you die in the last wave.9/10
  
  sound-The sound is good all of the Dino noises can be heard in the jungle even when you can not 
 see them it is just like you are there, bullet sounds sound great along with explosions and when 
 enimies get shot they tend to make a noise.
  
  Overall-Is a very addictive first round play but then starts to get boring, Dinos make it fun to 
 play and the soldiers are very fun to kill. The graphics are cool and the cinematic cuts sometimes 
 are very interesting, the game is too short which probably makes the checkpoints and savepoints 
 spaced out to be more of a longer and harder game which is good in a way. Knife kills never get 
 old slicing raptors throats and taking out soldiers.8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBladed
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well as you all know if you have played the game it has no multi player. Major downfall. Also not 
 as hard as the game should be. Lets be more realistic here guys honestly taking down such a stealth 
 killer as a raptor with your knife. Now honestly if you have a raptor on you ther is no way you 
 could do this. Besides the fact they hunt in packs which they did manage to get that right. I know 
 its just a game but when you take it this far its just a lil outragious to do. Next time be more 
 realistic in your fighting and making the game just a tad harder. *BTW NEXT TIME GO CO-OP* By going 
 to co op you will not only sell more games. But also have happier people. Dont just have us fight 
 eachother give us the option to fight along side one another to take the "Bad Guys" down. I hope 
 with the next game you guys make it will be better then this one. This was just a sad excuse for 
 a Turok game. Besides the fact he died a few games ago but whos counting that fact right. Any way 
 thats my review. O ya will give you the good use of blood work. Cant hurt to add more next time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This review is an edit of my old review, which I made when the game first came out. Here is how 
 Turok now lives up to today. 
  
  Gameplay 7/10- Where to start? Turok, before it was released, had promise with the great dinosaur 
 mauling videos, the interesting character trailers, and the seemingly awesome weapons. Although 
 Turok isn't that bad to be considered mediocre, it feels like a generic shooter that has already 
 been done before, with the exception of dinosaurs. Most of the weapons are boring and generic, 
 with a few good weapons. The story is okay, but it leaves a lot of unanswered questions like how 
 and why did Turok betray Wolf Pack? Overall, the story seems underdevolped and rushed, even when 
 your closest team memeber die, it seems unemotional and poorly done. The dinosaurs are interesting 
 and offer more of a challenge, but their are hardly that many species of dinosaurs, only ranging 
 from around 5 different types. The knife kills are far too easy to take down dinnosaurs and kill 
 them in one instant hit, although some knife animations are cool. The human enemies are too hard 
 to sneak up on and knife, making stealth kills hard and few. This brings up the next problem, the 
 game makes the human enemies way too overpowered. They take way too many bullets to kill with a 
 regular weapon and around a whole clip on superhuman mode. Also, they kill you way to fast, dying 
 in as little as five bullets sometimes. In superhuman, it takes less than five bullets to kill 
 you. Overall, a lot of your weapons, especially the shotgun, seems way to underpowered. Not to 
 mention the checkpoints aren't well placed, and if you die, you will become frustrated with how 
 far back you will have to start. Online is okay but also seems generic and isn't even near online 
 masterpieces such as Call of Duty 4 or Resistance. 
  
  Graphics 6/10- Pretty much improved PS2 graphics. These graphics are arguably worse than Resistance, 
 which was PS3's first game. With all the graphic advances today that made games such as Call of 
 Duty 4 and Metal Gear Solid 4 simply amazing, I'm surprised this game wasn't the same way. Most 
 of the character models are generic and look like they would be on gears of War, and the animation 
 isn't the best as well. Character models look scratchy and some look shiny at times. Most of the 
 environments look generic. 
  
  Sound 8/10- This game actually has solid voice work and sound effects. The music isn't that bad 
 as well. Some voice work was poorly done, but most of the work is great. Dinosaur roars are good 
 as well.
  
  Value 7/10- Most levels seem repetitive and the game has a decent length of about 10-15 hours the 
 first playthrough. This game does feature in game achivements, which makes the game more replayable. 
 Online is okay and does feature some unique weapons that were in Turok, although there aren't many 
 dinosaurs in online. Once you beat the game, however, there will probably be little reason to play 
 the story over again because of all the frustrating flaws, but some levels are worth replaying.
 
  
  Tilt 8/10- The only reason I'm giving tilt an 8 is because I don't feel this game is that bad, 
 but it just has a bit of frustrating flaws. Overall, the game does seem rushed and has average 
 graphics. Killing and knifing dinosaurs can be fun, and there are some good weapons to use. However, 
 it hardly is worth the price tag it is at now and should be a rental for any dinosaur or Turok 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  First off I don't understand why everybody was hating on this game so much. Its actually pretty 
 good for the most part. I admit it had a couple quirks, but nothing that couldn't be overseen.
 
  
  
  The biggest issue I had was the checkpoints, sometimes you'd play for 15-20 minutes just to die 
 and have to start all over, And when you've died 3-4 times you've probably been playing the same 
 section for over an hour.
  
  
  Graphics = Pretty good animations on characters and dinos, nothing ground breaking though.
  
 
  
  Playability = Easy to figure out, challenging to finish.
  
  
  Sound = Keep an ear out cause you cant always see whats coming for you.
  
  
  Difficulty = 
 Hard to make checkpoints at times, but not overwhelming.
  
  
  Learning curve = Id say an hour or two, just to get comfortable.
  
  
  Value = Maybe not $60 
 but for $45-40 its a good buy.
  
  
  Overall value = The Turok series has seen a stinker or 2, but this one shows they're on the right 
 track. If you've never played Turok than this is the one to get started on, its the best one so 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Turok puts you in command of a strong and greatly acted soldier, along with your partner. Your 
 spaceship crashes on a wierd planet, where dinosaurs are still alive. But there not the only things 
 to shoot at, there is also a rebel army on the planet, but what are they doing there?
  
  First of all, the storyline is what you look at. The storyline is basic, not complicated and very 
 boring. Your character doesn't add much either, his voice acting is awesome, but sometimes off 
 note and not in line with the story. You meet up with your commander, and he seems a bit dull. 
 But, he can cover you in a large gun fight which is helpful. His voice is badly acted. Now, the 
 graphics are emense, great jungle locations, and when you get into a base, it looks truly breath 
 taking. But, what's inside them is what counts, and that's the rebel army. They are all identicle, 
 in black and green and are eally good at shooting. They are well trained, so it's hard to get passed 
 most of them...
  
  The dinosaurs in the game are amazing, the large dinoasaurs are hard to battle with, and there 
 are even tiny ones you can step on. I think Turok should go newer places than the jungle and newer 
 monsters, not dinosaurs. A great game though, you will enjoy it!
  
  8.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileychicken
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Sure, hunting down huge mammals, breaking the laws of physics and getting shot at is fun, but is 
 turok really anything more than the cheesy "merc with a bad past who nobody will accept" and hunting 
 down disproportioned lizards AND creeping around in the dark with a "stealth bow" that sounds like 
 a cannon? sure, trotting about with your cute little knife is great, but when it comes to being 
 that badass mercenary, turok is left in the corner crying. Desperately trying to be accepted by 
 SLADE, Turok is like that annoying little nerd kid that followed you around everywhere in high 
 school. he is short, he cant fight, hes about as light footed as an elephant, and he probably dosent 
 even know what "reload" means.
  
  And the constant dino hunting is boredom in its highest form. pegging it round a forest, stabbing 
 and missing shots and invisible dinos in thick long grass.
  
  Face it, Turok, needs a lot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game. I mean, it's not the best Turok game I have played (the best one being Seeds 
 of Evil for the N64) . 
  You play as Turok, a soldier who has a dark past and you'll be joined with some other soldiers 
 named as the whiskey company. The place where you play is a strange planet with a lot of mistery 
 sourrounding. You'll play in a jungle, a huge cave and enemy bases in the game. As for the difficulty 
 the game is really hard and you will die A LOT, so if you don't have any patience and want to finish 
 the game quickly this is not the game for you. I mean, I just beat Metal Gear Solid 4 and that 
 game is a piece of cake compared to Turok!!! I'm talking seriously. In one part of the game I had 
 stuck and really want to quit the game so it was very frustrating. But, as I said, if you have 
 patience you watch out every step you move you can enjoy this game.
  The graphics are not excellent but not bad either. They're just fine.
  The dinos are great as 
 always. They are neutral so they will attack you and your enemy so in some parts it's better not 
 to attack them right away and wait a little bit when they are busy killing your enemies. For example 
 sometimes a T-Rex will appear and attack your enemies and will eat them (it's a little hilarious 
 to see that) .
  Anyway, it's a good game. Worth a buy if you can find it for 40 bucks or so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea what to say about this game. I played it more than once to see what the hype was 
 all about but I came to the conclusion that some games just don't cut it no matter how innovative 
 or revolutionary they try to be. When I first heard about this game I thought it was a "cool" idea. 
 I had mixed feelings about the dinosaur stuff gave them the benefit of the doubt. I figured that 
 if the story line was good they would be able to pull it off. However, I should have when with 
 my instincts and turned away from the game. Story line is hardly believable, at least in my opinion. 
 Point of the game.... um no point actually. 
  Though this game seems to have a lot of potential, it just doesn't reach it. Video games are not 
 about new ideas and story lines, they are about pulling the player into the game in a manner in 
 which the player really feels part of it.
  
  But as I always say, for those of you who like it, more power to you. Its just not my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  It's the sound, the impact of seeing a massively exciting visual for the first time, and the one 
 idea that sits in the back of your mind, eating away at you... It's the thought that... yes, you 
 are being hunted. But you don't know what's hunting you, and you're not sure where it is. This 
 is what makes a game like Turok entertaining, even though it's ultimately bogged down by several 
 significant drawbacks that stop this particular title from being a "must-own." However, fans of 
 the series will definitely want to consider a purchase, and we still believe it's worth playing, 
 even if you don't finish the entire adventure. Oh, and on one final note before we get started, 
 we'd also like to add that those fierce dinosaurs, while irritating at times, are by far the best 
 part of Turok.
  The gameplay consists of an interesting blend of run 'n gun action and stealth, punctuated by ferocious 
 beasts that act more realistically than any of the humans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splodge200
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  u know what? course u dont! but ill tell u anyway... this game aint that bad. ive heard over the 
 few months since its realease how horrible the graphics are, the stupid ai, the annoying controlls 
 and overall crapness of turok. did they play what i played?
  
  i admit it isnt gods holy s*** but it aint that bad either. the graphics have there moments (dinos 
 look awesome) the gameplay is as it should be for a shooter, and i still cant get other the feeling 
 when ur stalking an enemy in the tall grass with ur bow ready to shoot... gets me all tingly...
 
  
  but all this (and ron pearlman COME ON!) isnt going to make it reach the top. there are allot better 
 shooters out there, but then again there are allot worse. check in ur bargain bins or better yet 
 rent it! it was quite a short ride but a memorable one non the less NOT GREAT but memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyalhk
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  You are joseph Turok the dinosaur hunter but this time you are also a space marine. This game uses 
 unreal engine 3, the developers could have used it to the max but i think they wanted a quick release 
 so they didnt polish it. te concept and plot was so good but poorly executed.
  They could worked more on the textures, the game lags with choppy frame rates and weapons dont 
 feel that good, it is satisfying to nail dinosuars but soldiers feel like they are monkeys or something 
 extra in the game trying to be a part of the story.
  I didnt like the darkness in the whole game, cant see anything, it has its good moments but bad 
 ones are more so you love this game.
  Multiplayer sucks, laggy and it takes years to connect to a match, poor service they are providing, 
 i bought this game with hopes but it is a below average shooter but i still like it since i bought 
 it.
  
  Thankyou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  well the turok franchise has been around now from quite a while. a long running game which is mostly 
 about killing dinosaurses. but now the new instalment to the game has added people to the mix.
 
  
  Good: The gameplay is smooth. easyish controls. very cool how you can make dino's kill each other 
 or other people. the bow just is the coolest and killing dino's and people with a knife is cool 
 just saying it. dino's have good AI. many guns that seem quite powerful makes changing from bow 
 to gun feel differnet. Graphics is not amazing but its still just right.
  
  Bad: the story is quite bland. ending is no very good at all. some glitches with the AI and human 
 AI is just crap. cant really sneak up to people which makes it 1 sided game. some missions are 
 jsut plain stupid or frustrating. many dino's but most of them are the same. making things boring 
 quick. boring and crap multiplayer. a lot of lag. A LOT OF LAG!!!!!
  
  Conclusion: well its worth renting. not many people will be playing the multiplayer anyway cause 
 its just a waste of time. some missions are no brainers and some are annoying as your neighbour. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  It has been a while since we have seen another solid Turok shooter brought to the table. While 
 many elements of the game represent what you have come to expect from a good first person shooter, 
 Turok is still a fun game packed thick with some challenging action.
  
  There is never a dull moment with this game; plenty of shooting and dino killing to keep you busy. 
 The mix of stealth and close quarter combat go together in good harmony. The knife kills never 
 get old as you can see Turok from a third person perspective laying out either human or dinosaur 
 with an aggressive knife combo, it is awesome. The boss battle will keep you busy and deliver a 
 nice challenge, along with some great visuals. 
  
  Incidentally, there are a few flaws with the game: such as, the aim with certain guns can be a 
 bit shaky at times. There is a lack of control and stability with the crosshair so you will need 
 to tweak the sensitivity. Some graphical twitches here and there but nothing to disappoint you. 
 
  
  At the end of the day it is a fun game and the story is interesting to follow as the game takes 
 it course. Yet another good shooter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeHuntre
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game STINKS!
  i dunno whats so good about this game 
  another same game with some guns like smg.
  Nothing new. A. I difficulty is like playing Online!
 
  i didnt try playing Online. After playing story mode, Its just better to play other 1st 
  person online games like Rainbow Six, Call of Duty.
  The Worst part was when i tried to shoot 
 my frnd in story mode.
  but guess what, he was still alive!!!
  in some parts of the game, Objectives are like to Save Slade.
  why risking ur life to save Slade? Remember 
 he cant die....
  the game gets boring. and if u have this game, or if u got to play it somday,
  plese press the 
 jump button at the beginning. its like a tekken Jump!!!
  the good part was the dinosaurs which dont comw too often.
  Dinosaurs were the reason of me giving 
 7.0 or else it shuld get 5.0.
  This game is just Boring and dont buy this game EVER!!!
  if u look for an Online game, u could go for Rainbow 6 Vegas. and we'll playit online somday :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMX-BOY
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Turok is a first person shooter witch is set on a remote planet overgrown with plants and infested 
 with small, big, massive, meat eaters witch will attack and kill you on first site but with your high 
 tech guns, your bow and your awesome knife witch you can use to execute awesome finishing moves 
 like a knife struck trough the top of a raptor or some other dinoursaurs or a quick slice to the 
 throat. And there are also plant eaters who show you no harm but have cool finishing moves like 
 throat slices. Turok is a fun action pact game with awesome graphics and brilliant levels. In turok 
 you are a soldier about to land on a planet where your target was last seen. Your space ship is 
 shot down to the planet were many crew members die you then start off through the remote levels 
 outdoors or Indore's were when Indore's you just want to get out in the open. The only bad things 
 about Turok is that it is a bit to short and only 4 encounters with t-rex, s and only 2 you end 
 up killing overall. Turok is a fun action pact game witch is a great game were you can choose your 
 own style of fighting you can go in all guns blazing with your awesome guns you pick up through 
 the game or sly were you can use your silence weapons like bow or your knife. Turok is a game witch 
 I would recommend buying if you like killing great graphic dinoursaurs and using awesome weapons 
 like your bow witch you can use to pin human enemy's against walls and take out quietly but still 
 don't mind a short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexandros0123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Great fun and addictive gameplay !
  Satisfying online play fun with friends . Great and fun story mode very long hard at parts with 
 not alot of checkpoints which is bad because when you die you go back really far at some parts 
 but its fun killing dinos with your knife. ( especially the good ones that don't attack you ) and 
 t-rexs.
  I would reccomend this game its fun while it lasts with a goood online play but its no call of 
 duty 4 .
  A large arsenal of wepons at your disposal with a special fro every weapon grenade launcher, silencer 
 etc.
  lots of different knife kills which are fun and different especially online play when you creep 
 up behind your friends and do a knife kill from behind but its annoying when it happens.
  also lots of different species of dinosaurs which are different difficulties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random_Squad
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best ive ever played and a must bye, but if you like dinosaurs, don't bye 
 this game, if you hate them well you should run out the house and bye it right now, even if it's 
 like one in the morning. Online is good but the only problem is you can't get levels so if your 
 really good at it you have nothing to show for it. There are some more problems as well like Turok 
 dies far to easily, and the knife is well just hard to use. But still this is a great game and 
 you should run out your house and bye it right now and do what ever it takes!!!! So yeah that would 
 be the end of my reaview but is says i have to put more words, oh well. So anyone like Lost Planet? 
 I hope this is all i need to put so hoped you like my review. Oh crap its still not letting me, 
 so im just going to put one more thing, XBOX 360 SUCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War-Tex
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Although the game may seem highly appreciable in the videos, this game is nothing. You start off 
 in the jungle with no weapon in the starting, the jungle seems ok but I've seen MUCH better graphics 
 and visuals. Heck even the water doesn't splash if you jump in it. Then you start with this guy 
 you have to follow, who has a gun. You see a tiny dino, which runs off. Then the game goes on, 
 you finally find another guy (First one dies, ofcourse it's a dino that kills it) Then you get 
 a SMG. There you meet your first tiny dinos too. You just shoot them, which can be hard due to 
 them being smaller than the plastic grass. Im not sure if it's plastic, may be paper. First thing 
 about shooting, too much sensitivity. You can ofcourse go to settings, from which you can only 
 change the sensitivity and invert, even if you lower the sensitivity to its lowest, you cannot 
 aim perfectly during battle. And battle with the human guys, it's really challenging. Theres no 
 radar, so you don't know where they're shooting from. Then if they start shooting, they don't stop. 
 Again, they shoot from different directions so it tests your aiming skills which due to sensitivity 
 is distorted. Theres no health, like every other new game your screen just starts to turn red and 
 you eventually die. You can NOT predict when you will die, when it feels like you're just starting 
 to get shot, you end up dying. The places in the game are not a bit interactive. Only things you 
 blow up are barrels, which are in the enemy facility that is a bit too long and you get to in the 
 first part of the game. Since there's no radar or map, you cannot make out where enemies are. And 
 the only things listed in your hud is ammo, and grenades. Even ammo don't show how much ammo your 
 clip is holding but you total ammo so you never know when you will start reloading while the guys 
 kill you again. Then you start from a checkpoint, CHECKPOINTS. They take too much time to come 
 again, and when you eventually die you start from a point really back. Shooting isn't very much 
 fun either, even though you can dual weild two weapons, the only weapon capable of being taken 
 is the smg. A pistol isn't very fun to shoot and takes much time to kill enemies, while other weapons 
 take time to be revealed. Overall, this game is just an average shooter with dinosaur add-ons that 
 don't take much part in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illustrated212
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  What is so bad about this game? Why so many bad reviews? I really have to disagree with Gamespot's 
 review of this game as well as many of the other reviews from our Members! I personally thought 
 this game was Amazing! It was very fun filled and kept me on the edge of my seat the entire way 
 through the game. This has to be one of my favorite Shooters on the PS3 at the moment! This is 
 why;
  
  Story 10/10 - Simply amazing! I thought it had a very awesome story that the game unweaves all 
 the way tell the end. Like so many games, that leaves you with a crummy ending, Turok manages to 
 come away with both a Incredible ending and a really Satisfying feeling that comes over you, from 
 10 Hours of fast paced Enjoyment. Something I haven't felt since Doom 3! 
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - I never once, had any technical Problems with this game! I think the "Screen Tearing" 
 was complete BS, and is not true at all, and it never once dropped in Framerate for me! This game 
 played very smoothly on my 40gb PS3 with no problems what so ever! I thought the Game had some 
 really cool fighting Mechanics, like the Knife kills, and I love how it gives you the option, most 
 of the time, to be sneaky as possible, by taking everybody out with your Bow and Knife, without 
 every letting your Presents be known! Simply put it, there is a lot you will miss both "fun and 
 exploration" if you just run and gun! You really must take your time with this game if you want 
 the full enjoyment!
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Besides Unreal Tournament 3, this is probably the Second best game on the PS3, 
 Graphically wise! The T-rex looks just as good as the animations in Jurassic Park! The Lushes green 
 Environments look so alive, and I love the Graphic Textures of the Grass and how it moves with 
 your movement! All the Weapons look really good and detailed, as well as all the Character models! 
 It's great to see that Propaganda games took the extra time, to polish this game up! I love when 
 Developers go that extra mile to make there games look as real as possible! 
  
  Difficulty 9/10 - I really love a Challenge and this game has it! I hate when you can run through 
 a entire game and not be challenged at all, I think that's just pathetic! So if you whine and get 
 upset every time you get killed, this game is definitely not for you! Also I don't understand the 
 problem with the poor spaced checkpoints! I never had to redo anything that was to long, and I 
 think the checkpoints where spaced apart just right! It makes you more careful and makes it more 
 realistic, being cautious with your every move, instead of just running into a group of guys guns 
 blazing! I think it's just a bunch of cry babies wanting a quick save every 10 seconds instead 
 of a real Challenge! SAD
  
  Multiplayer 8/10 - Probably the only part of the entire game Experience that lacks! It's really 
 fun to play a Public game, and you can really get into some intense moments in a fight with your 
 competition and Dinosaurs that roam around the Maps, the only problem with this I have is, it's 
 so hard to every Find a game and or get it going because of people quitting out right away! So 
 if you can get into a game you will probably have a awesome time, but unfortunately on the PS3, 
 Turok is really not a Multiplayer game everybody is in to, which is sad because I think the Multiplayer 
 is very Fun and very addicting!
  
  Overall 9/10 - From the very beginning of the game tell the ending, this game will both keep you 
 on the edge of your seat and very entertained! The Story and Gameplay is simply amazing, and it's 
 almost like watching a Sci-Fi Movie! The game has some really memorable moments, awesome voice 
 acting Cast, and some incredible Environments and Graphics! I highly recommend this game to anybody 
 who has Patience, enjoys a good story out of a game, and loves to be really sneaky and silent! 
 There's nothing cooler then taking out a entire base, without your enemies ever knowing what hit 
 them! This is a MUST for any gamers collection, in my opinion, and shouldn't be missed because 
 of some faulty reviews! 
  
  HAPPY HUNTING!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  To enjoy this game there is simply one requirement: you must LOVE to shed blood.
  
  If you do, you will like this game, if not, you will find it has many shortcomings that aren't 
 acceptable in this day and age.
  
  The story is like a dumb action movie, exactly what the game works as. Space marines go in to kill 
 bad guy, something goes awfully wrong, hours of shooting and slashing and fighting for survival, 
 a nice final showdown and THE END. All other details are only remotely interesting if you're actually 
 playing the game, no point talking about it here.
  
  Graphics are for the most part above average. Dinosaurs look spectacular and are marvelously animated, 
 however some environments are rather bland and lifeless, and even blocky occasioinally (FEAR is 
 blocky as hell, but its not set in a JUNGLE!!!) . Visual effects are also great looking, but there 
 are a wide variety of graphical glitches to be found, a particular nasty one on the caves level 
 completely destroys the illusion.
  
  Sound is great, be it music or sound effects. But I particullarly enjoyed the voice acting. Having 
 Ron Perlman shooting stuff by your side most of the game is certainly one of this game's bright 
 spots.
  
  Gameplay is a mesh of good and bad aspects. Shooting works rather well, but controls for movement 
 are very cumbersome, and while the knife kills (i'll get to that next) are very fun, they are waaaaaaaay 
 too easy to pull off.
  
  This game as a very nice arsenal of weapons, but, ironically, the most enjoyable is the knife. 
 If you simply just swing it, its basically worthless, but pressing the prompted button that shows 
 up onscreen will trigger savage third person executions that will really tickle your taste for 
 carnage. Like I said, however, they are too easy to get right and with some practice you can easilty 
 take out tons of dinos in sucession without taking a single scratch. There are also very fun sequences 
 when the dinos grab you and you must push the prompted buttons to fight them off.
  
  I felt the game was also too hard, the final levels are almost cruel even in the lowest difficulty, 
 if you don't have stomach for frustration you may well not beat the game.
  
  Multiplayer is frustrating, not because of the game however. The game has actually excellent multiplayer, 
 but most people don't realise it and therefore there aren't simply enough people online to make 
 it a fluid experience, sometimes its simply too much wasted time just trying to find a game.
  
  In the end, this game is extremely fun, like a dumb action movie, and will surely sooth the 
 killer in you, its just too bad it is soooooooo hard, glitches occure every time you start believing 
 you have a great game in your hands and controls don't always feel right.
  
  But if you ignore those problems, you'll sure have a fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minibelf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game features great online play until now but only because not many people play it anymore. 
 Its pure fun to go behind a sniper or catch up to someone carrying a gun and knifing them in the 
 head. it reminds me to say that if you love games like metal gear solid, the orange box [team fortress 
 2] or turok, you should join the Mr. A Knife Union but it isn't open yet so please leave if you 
 would join here. The ggame features maps which getting auto turrets and flanking your enemies is 
 needed to make an intense gameplay. Dinos can get annoying but getting a sticky bomb gun or an 
 rpg, makes what they call a meat fountain. The dinos limbs fly into the air with blood rushing 
 out of it for the best feel of satisfaction. An all together great online game with a story mode 
 that features to little checkpoints but suprisingly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  its not very good in alot of ways ,but if you are not a fan of previous Turoks or really interested 
 you, you mght enjoy it
  
  
  
  
  The guns are pretty good and the weapon variety is somewhat good. The secondary fire abilities 
 are awsome. The dinosaurs add a nice feel to the game and can be fun to kill. However their could 
 be a little more variety of species because there are only like 5 species in the whole game. Where 
 is that Brachiosaurus shown near the begginning
  
  This is where the complaining starts by most but I can deal with graphics that aren't as great 
 as Halo or Call of Duty. Sure this game isn't graphically great but the dinosaurs look pretty realistic 
 and the weapons also looked detailed.
  
  This was done good with awsome voice acting and cool jungle sound and dinosaur effects. No problems 
 here except for a few voice works. 
  
  Although the story mode isn't the longest, it does offer achivements that can take a while to finish. 
 Most are online but still can be done for fun. Online should last until Killzone or Metal Gear 
 Solid comes out and this game should last most people at least until Summer. 
  
  in all, overall ,its not atall great, But killing dinosaures is the only thing that might entertain 
 you . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobble_head17
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Turok is not a game you save your money for. If your bored to death than maybe you should get it 
 but rather than that no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! yeah sure the graphics are good but not the best. 
 killing dios is the best part though . If all you fought were dinos it would be sweet but no you 
 have to fight boring boss batles andthose little human or alien thinks. To be honest i dont know 
 what they are all i know was that the have guns with no ai. Those are not even the only bad things. 
 The story has the same start as almost all other games like turok, ur ship crashes then your sruck 
 on an island or somthing. To be honst I didnt pay much attention to it, it was sooo boring. if 
 it were not for those dinos i would have quit the game as soon as i started playing it.
  
  If you dont have this game either dont bother getting it or maybe rent it first. If i were you 
 i wouldnt even rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Turok is The latest FPS of the dinosaur hunting series from touchstone, propaganda games.
  
  SHORT STORY: This game has compelling story and fast/fun game play but this is not a game you 
 should buy. Mainly because of the long load screens, lackluster graphics, and annoying bosses make 
 turok almost unplayable. Though someone could have fun playing it
  
  In TUROK you play as Turok an angry American Indian and former member of wolf pack, an elite military 
 squad of ex-cons. He lives in a world where where you need to look at stuff for at least a minute 
 for its details to pop up. You are sent to capture your old comrades. You crash land on a dinosaur 
 infested planet. you slay dinosaurs and fight wolf pack whilst seeing many flash backs which reveal 
 a truly compelling story.
  
  Graphics: terrible same old UE3 ugliness along with severe drawing in and frame rate problems.
 
  
  Story: Very interesting 
  
  Game play: fast and fun, but its chopped up by long load screens and brings nothing new to the 
 table
  
  Online: Its there and can be fun, but feels like your trying to play online with a psp
  
  PRO 
 s: Compelling story, Fast fun game play
  CON s: Technical problems, poor graphics, annoying boss fights
  
  THis game could have been 
 so much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  
  Turok
  I wasn't expecting a lot from this game but when I played the demo, I was thinking if I should 
 buy it. The game was releasing the same day has Devil May Cry 4 and at my video game shop, the 
 two were in a pack that coast 100$, so I bought it. Devil May Cry 4 was the principal reason why 
 I bought it, so Turok was in my head 30$. I did a good deal. Now the real review begins.
  Turok is another first-person shooter than doesn't beat the great ones that are on the market. 
 For example Call of Duty 4, Unreal Tournament 3, Resistance: Fall of Man, etc.
  The graphics is one of the good parts of the game, because there are really well done. The sensation 
 to be in the jungle and to be surrounded by dinosaurs are really cool. The only problem with them, 
 is that when you get to go in the labs and basements, the graphics looks not so good compared to 
 when you're out. The sounds are well done and when you're playing with the optical sounds are that 
 you got sub woofers, the sensation to ear a dinosaur coming out from a hiding spot is really good 
 and sometimes breath-taking.
  The gameplay is one other part which gives the game a strong point. The gun aspect is good but 
 looks like other shooters. But! The bow system and knife system is really cool. Okay the bow is 
 a bit useless to kill dinosaurs and the mercenaries, but the engine is cool. The knife is the coolest 
 part of your equipment. Each dinosaurs and human (sometimes) has a different way to be killed by 
 this weapon. Like I said the gameplay is cool, but it gets repetitive after a while.
  The story is okay. You're a guy named Joseph Turok and you a new member of a team that wants to 
 capture a bad guy which was the guy that formed you when you were young. The ship where you are 
 has a problem and crashes on a planet which there is the bad guy and his army and dinosaurs.
  The game has his bads too. There could be a normal co-op mode, but no there is an online one and 
 it is not very good. The other online modes aren't good has well. I didn't play a lot to them and 
 I will probably wont do it again. The artificial intelligence is frustrating, because sometimes 
 there rubbish and other times they're too hard. In addition to be frustrating to kill, they have 
 an armor which you need to use a bunch of ammunition to kill them. Really frustrating. But when 
 you use your knife and do a combo you kill them by one shot.
  So in a few words, the game is good, but a bit hard when you get to kill humans and that the gameplay 
 is really cool but repetitive. Also that its a FPS so the game might be short and that it isn't 
 the best game on the market, but that Turok worth a rent for trying it. 
  Thanks for reading my review and hope you'll had know what you needed about Turok.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peralta775
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  There has been plenty of negative reviews of this game, but I have to disagree and become the antagonist. 
 Turok is a good game. Sure, it doesn't break any barriers of any kind. Everything you do in this 
 game has been beating to death already, except for the eye pleasing ability to wipe out a whole 
 pack of dinosaurs with just your knife. I mean come on, it is bad ass to the tenth power. I never 
 got tired of it. Giving dino's a splitting headache and making their throat sag is beyond cool. 
 It is so outrageous, so over the top, that it more than makes up for what we have seen countless 
 times before in other shooters.
  But there is a downside to this game. If you never have played a first person shooter, or aren't 
 very good with the controllers, or you're taking anger management classes, this game is not for 
 you. At the normal difficulty, which is the easiest this game offers, it throws you a difficulty 
 that isn't seen at that level. It is easier for a squirrel to find nuts in Ellen DeGeneres mouth 
 than to beat this game. It is difficult because your enemies are crackshots and there is no such 
 thing as aim assist in this game. Sure, no aim assist should be the norm for multiplayer as it 
 creates a fair field, but the designers just didn't think that it would be necessery.
  Graphically it is ok. It has the next gen graphics that we would expect but nothing that drops 
 the jaw. There isn't much I can really say and that in itself speaks countless words.
  So it's a great rental. The multiplayer is ok if you can find a full room, which I couldn't but 
 you may have better luck. Play it, you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavy1337
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game include knife combat, kicking dino's around, lots of violence, smooth 
 game play and of course fun weapons. Now on the other hand this game includes bad voice acting, 
 no flashlight, bland multiplayer, short campaign and of course the graphics could have been alot 
 better detail wise. One more thing, not enough checkpoints make it really frustrating. If you try 
 it for the first time you might find yourself stuck for awhile trying to kill numerous enemies. 
 The bosses can't be killed by normal gunshots so you will have to find a clever way to kill them, 
 fire, knife etc. Once again every thing is dark at times making it hard to see enemies and where 
 you are going. In the caves you' ll find yourself shooting your flamethrower around just so you 
 know where you are going without getting clawed by scorpions at the same time. Overall I rate it 
 a 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Turok has a fun and innovative idea on its shoulders. Even if you do kill a lot of people too, 
 you get to shoot dinos! Propaganda and Touchstone have brought us a scape goat to the average shooter. 
 It offers up some interesting weapons with well thought out designs for them. The dinousaurs look 
 amazing as well. Each has a new distinctive characteristic to it that makes it different from the 
 rest. Enviornments are beautiful and very open so you can explore some good places to kill without 
 them noticing you. Though it can get too dark in some situations which can cause you to get disoriented 
 and the aiming of some weapons can't go very far, or is too jumpy to aim good, Turok still manages 
 to be fun, original, and beautiful. If you want violence more than anything else, well Turok has 
 that too! The only reason you should have to not check this game out is if your dead inside! I 
 don't care if you don't have hands! Learn to play with your feet! Have at it! Make dinos extinct 
 again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Turok is a fun first person shooter that even mixes a little with 3rd person to knife kill large 
 raptors!
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics in Turok are amazing. The textures for the ground and foliage are amazing and the 
 people and dinos are excellent. The frame rate never gives at all even in online mode. The dinos 
 move very nicely and even the people do also!
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in Turok is a lot like every other first person shooter exept its got a nice "screen 
 shaker" effect when you shoot which I actually like. The AI can get dumb at times and sometimes 
 it seems as though the dinos are smarter than the humans. Killing dinos is one million times funner 
 than fightning the human enemies. They probably could've left the humans out of it also.
  
  Online-
  Online play in Turok is nothing special and has nothing different to offer than a regular 
 first person shooter. Dinos are not really a factor that much but occasionally just get in your 
 way but usually they are no that big of a deal.
  
  Overall this game is worth any first person shooter fans time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer0914
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  The main reason I don't like Turok is there is to much man to man battles. When I watched the trailers 
 all I saw was this big buff dude smashing in dino's heads. When I played the game I only got to 
 kill one or two big dinos a level. I'm not talking about those dumb mini raptors. I mean come on 
 it gets a little boring killing those annoying little things. And like I said in the beginning 
 the reason I do not like Turok is that the humans aren't dinos. So please save yourself and don't 
 even bother renting it. It will just be a waste of your precious time. Just keep on playing Assassin's 
 Creed. Ofcourse I don't make your decisions. If you want to be a dumby and not listen to me you 
 can go and rent it, but do not buy it! It will be a waste of your money, but it is your choice. 
 Turok is boring, to gory ,and a waste of your's and my time. I advise you not to buy or rent turok 
 for PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtheripper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Well being a fan of comics and although not a fan of Turok's. I watched/read previews of this game 
 and had to get it asap. I enjoyed all aspects of the game except for a few. ONE was Major enough 
 to lose my interest.
  
  THE SUM UP: Okay, your a space marine, who can kick some major butt. From using a aresnal of weapons. 
 Knives, bows, machine guns to plasma/ energy weapons. Nothing you find, you cant kill. Enemy AI 
 does a fair job of giving you a run for you money in the Single. And with Multiplayer (when you 
 get enough ppl online) is a romp of fun. But there are other more popular titles atm, which excel 
 at delivering better multi experiences.
  
  So its Main catch to this game is the Dino's of course. And the game puts them both in single and 
 multi. They add a great advantage and disadvantage to your gaming pleasure. You can also use 'stealth' 
 in this game, although they game doesnt actually give you any indication when your 'out of sight' 
 to enemies. And the Major Hiccup of this game for MYSELF was the checkpoints/saves in the single 
 player. They are often too far apart to keep the gameplay moving smoothly. I admit we all cant 
 play a game through once without dying... but having checkpoints/saves in enough areas does give 
 me a feel of 'progress' in the game, rather than knowing if i die in this section/area im gonna 
 have to start all over again.
  
  Graphics: Bottom line..... Great looking. No doubt. From the foliage, dinos, machines, to skin mapping. 
 The attention to detail and feel of the game is impressive. And the animations you do when you 
 use your knife to kill, is very cool indeed. It perhaps makes you want to use the knife more, just 
 to see the animation kills.
  
  Sound: I found that the machine guns lacked a bit of punch in the sound range for me. The Explosives 
 couldve been upped as well, but im also using a 5.1 surround sound so its possible that i needed 
 to up my settings... but i never did since other games give me great quality already. On the plus 
 side, the envionment sounds, from rustling underbrush, running feet, and AI communications, all 
 added the Feel of being in the game.
  
  Gameplay: I enjoyed my Experience with both Single and Mulitplayer respectively. The AI for the 
 Dino's i felt was exceptionally well done. For example, there are Dosile Dinos just feeding around, 
 and if you leave them alone, they leave you alone. Well the Enemy while trying to shoot me... hits 
 one of the dosile dinos, well both Dinos started a rampage of chasing and killing the Enemy. Which 
 was kinda cool, i didnt think they would 'see' me as NOT being of the the enemies. So even when 
 they killed off the Enemy, they left me alone. Nice. 
  Levels are pretty straight forward, and having both indoor and outdoor envornments definatlley 
 is a plus. The Stealth is good to use, espically with knife kills, but the lack of knowing if your 
 'spotted' or not is really a guess and check.
  Mulitplayer is good, but the lack of players and LAG i have due to me living in Australia, puts 
 me at a disadvantage. And I found that I have a better time with other online multi shooters than 
 this one.
  
  Replayability: Now I love my game to add more to themselves than just a one over. My biggest gripe, 
 Saves/checkpoints. The lack there of. Beating this game once is enough IMO. It becomes frustrating 
 when you know that once you get to a area, save, then continue you KNOW I better NOT DIE. The game 
 is scripted as well, so if you do die, and start over, youll know the layout of the game, where 
 ambushes are, where to hide, etc. This loses a bit of the fun outta the game. Especially when you 
 die, only to come back to the area of your death to know, the next door was a checkpoint. Frustrating. 
 The Replay of the single is a one off for me.
  Multi on the other hand has a few maps to play, and they have Dinos running along the map as well, 
 so using flares, and or meat shields works wonders. but as mentioned above, i dont think youll 
 find alot of popularity with this game due to the single player exp.
  
  Closing: Great Dino's, Guns, Graphics and a not to shabby Multiplayer, when you have enough players 
 and No LAG (i live in Australia and get lag on US Severs) . The lack of saves/checkpoints will drive 
 some players else where. Shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi008
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  As i guess every one that played this games was be saying in there head... i expected more. Don''t 
 get me wrong, I'm a die hard Turok fan, and i liked the game.... but I was expecting to LOVE IT. 
 1st off i wud rather fight Dinosaurs than humans in the game. I mean WTF man, it feels like ur 
 Shooting robots! I mean through the 10hrs I've played the game, I've only seen sparks rather than 
 blood coming from enemies and it doesn't help when the enemies are insanely straight and Turok's 
 aim always feels like its slipping away from u. GP MAN! I've played over Turok 2 (my favorite) and 
 i got more of a rush when playing it (Sigh there Don't even have multiplayer, need i say more) . 
 The story is ok but to me it takes the "Warrior" out of Turok's persona. like "Picture playing 
 Mario Kart as a simulation game" and You'll understand. Finally, I think They cud; ve spent more 
 time on the graphics too, Its good but up close the environment looks a bit edgy. . I still enjoyed 
 the game but again I say "Close But No Cigar" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menmerga
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  this game is good but i was specting an incredible game, when i played the demo i thought it had 
 a lot of potential and i bought it the day it came out.
  
  the single player mode is good but too hard even if you play in normal dificulty,
  and i think 
 its very hard to aim, but the story is descent and its fun to play.
  
  the multiplayer i would like there was splitscreen offline but no, there is just online multiplayer, 
 and its not even good, its hard to find a game with a lot of players and when you do, you dont 
 enjoy it because everyone want to kill with the knife, ok, killing with the knife its the coolest 
 thing in this game but when you play online you dont want to be doing that the entire game.
  
  ok this is a good game, but not the best, if you have other options i would say you should 
 go for them and then get this if you sitll want
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Turok at frist is very hard to get the hang of things, Most People will give up on Turok , I Almost 
 did myself a few times, The Big thing to me everything seems to hit you like the AI never misses 
 a shot, You die and die a lot and the save points at times is a pain, But i stayed with Turok then 
 found out all the Great Weapons in the Game and the Knife kills AND THAT BIG T-REX LOOKS GREAT 
 IN THE GAME, Love the music in the Game and the scary Levels in the Game in my view, I also loved 
 the Team you had fighting with you also lot of your members in your team would die off in the Game 
 most Games dont have this, Like the Sniper Guy you had with your Team he got killed with a Arrow 
 through his Eye, To me this adds to the Game making it feel real, Most Games your team just comes 
 back to life, Turok has a big learning Cruve so if you dont have the Heart then stay away from 
 Turok not for the weak, Thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Note: No Co-op for this game. If you were looking for Co-op, leave now... Rainbow Six Vegas 2 comes 
 out March 18th and Army of Two just came out in early March... those are better options for people 
 looking for co-op.
  
  Now onto the Dinosaur killing.
  
  Gameplay... heh. It takes a lot of shots to kill the humans, and it takes like 3 to kill a dinosaur. 
 Not sure how that one worked out, but congratulations to the developer on that one.
  
  The gameplay is fun, and unique to the extent that you get to kill dinosaurs. Other than that the 
 game doesn't pull you in with suspense or blow you away with intensity... it's rather bland. The 
 exact word my friend and I came up with after about an hour or two of gameplay was "bland", and 
 I stick with it all the way through the game. Out of all the PS3 shooters... this one is near the 
 bottom. Not as bad as Conflict: Denied Op's, but still.
  
  The graphics aren't bad by any means, but they aren't groundbreaking either. I'd say they're par 
 for the course overall -- with the exception of the knife animations. The knife kills are pretty 
 cool looking (Like Assassin's Creed kill camera, but not as good of graphics) and make you feel 
 accomplished when you get one. 8/10 on graphics sounds pretty fair to me, if not a little too fair. 
 
  
  The sound is good in the game -- once again not groundbreaking. The voice acting is good, the dinosaurs 
 sound excellent and so do the enemy squad commands. The gunfire could be better, IMO, but still 
 not bad. 7/10 on sound.
  
  Following paragraph contains minor spoilers.
  
  The story telling, in my opinion, is pathetic. I know FPS's aren't known for their intricate story 
 telling, but this one takes the "leaves more to be desired" cake. The beginning cutscenes introduce 
 you to the story (albeit in a fairly straightforward "forget the details" fashion) and leaves you 
 wondering what exactly is going on as you begin playing. The only thing I really got for sure is 
 that as Turok you're after a fugitive and ***spoilers*** your ship was shot down by him on this 
 planet you've crashed on. The story to me is 5/10 -- even CoD4 embraced you into the characters 
 with limited story telling -- Turok didn't even do this.
  
  I liked the controls quite a bit on this one. You can dual wield weapons (always cool) and shooting 
 / reloading / crouching and standing is easy and you can pick the controls up within minutes -- 
 especially if you've played other FPS's. Overall I'd give the controls a 9/10, the major bad thing 
 about them being the knife mechanics. Using the knife on the fly is usually uneffective at best 
 -- partially because the button-animation relationship is off -- but that's just me.
  
  Multiplayer is fun -- don't get overly excited about it, not as good as CoD4, Resistance, R6: V, 
 etc... seems like everything about this game points to 
  "not done as well as...".
  
  Overall I'd have to say that this game is a 7.5/10 at best. It just doesn't make me want to keep 
 playing... not even the wicked compound bow or knife kills. They just don't make up for the lack 
 of intensity or solid gameplay with anything to keep you interested. 7.5/10 = final verdict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Turok is a very manly game, more so than a hairy handlebar tached biker clad in leather and chugging 
 down litres of ale whilst shovveling bar nuts and wathcing The Premiership down the pub. Turok 
 is also very like a lot of other things aswell, which is where the problems start to arise.
  
  It's yet another FPS action shooter that builds up great atmosphere and a good enough story 
 but is let down by the fact it does what other games do better. In fact the only clever thing Turok 
 has done is released in February, after the FPS crush towards the end of 2007, as if it had been 
 released then, it would have been murdered.
  
  Joseph Turok is the character you play as, as your ship crashes onto a jungle-esque planet which 
 looks pretty swish. Not as lush as Uncharted, but good enough. You soon come to find out there 
 are dinosaurs inhabiting this planet and if you're not careful you wil be as brutally killed as 
 if Turok was released November 07. Dinosaurs look excellent and their AI is pretty damn fine, as 
 they will try and flank you from behind and hunt in packs. The blood is very spewy and nice and 
 the dinos are fairly menacing and will scare the **** out of you in the darker cave levels.
  
  You're on the trail of some rebel soldier which has taken base upon this planet and is threatening 
 to strike against you or something, to be honest, the story isn't really the strongest part of 
 the game and to be honest you won't particularly care. It follows a remote Aliens the movie type 
 story, if you've ever seen, just not very well. Dialogue however is good but still very manly, 
 containing a lot of cheesy one liners and griitiness.
  
  Weaponary is very very ordinarily average, compared to the likes of Resistance, Halo and COD 4, 
 the weapons are about as exciting as **** covered baby that you have to change. Also, the game 
 constantly tells you to cover, in this case, stand directly behind a wall, you can not peek out 
 from cover or anything as "advanced" as that found in Gear of War and Uncharted.
  
  The only truly satisfiying part of combat is the knifing, stabbing those dinos in the back of the 
 head or across the throat, it all looks pretty awesome, and is a lot more exciting than the guns.
 
  
  The game is very short, criminally so and the slap-dash sprinkling of checkpoints is an utter pain 
 in the arse and doesn't justify the price tag. Online multiplayer is pretty dull too limited to 
 death match and this dino-hunting mode which is a little interesting but still less so than a scabby 
 toe nail.
  
  Overall, Turok is an alright game, it just feels a bit naff compared to heavyweights of FPS, and 
 unfortunately that is what its going to get compared to. It knicks ideas from all over the place 
 and executes them averagely and non-astoundingly, and the trooper enemies are the laziest case 
 of generic character design I have ever witnessed. However, Turok is fun, and is worth a rent or 
 even a bargain buy, I just would feel urged to buy it at 49.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Name: Turok (Remake)
  
  Platforms this game is available on: XBox 360, PS3
  
  Platform that this game is being reviewed on: PS3
  
  Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
 
  
  Developer: Propaganda Games
  
  Genre: FPS/Sci-Fi
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Number of Players: 1
  
  Online Players: 16
  
  Online 
 Modes: Competitive/Cooperative
  
  Offline Modes: Cooperative/Competitive
  
  Release Date: 02/08/2008
  
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  ESRB Description: Blood/Violence/ Language
 
  
  Score: 1 out of 5
  
  Game Price
  
  Price Used: $48.95 (www. estandland. com)
  Price New: $59.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
  Is there a Game Guide Book Available: Yes
  
  Price 
 Used: $10.26 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $16.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  
  Anything Else That is exclusive for this game: No
  
  Price Used:
  Price New:
  
  It's 
 been over 10 years since the original so of course it's time for a remake of one of the greatest 
 N64 games ever. That's right it's time to remake Turok. Now your wondering how did the remake compare 
 to the masterpiece of the original? in one word it can be summed up to. Failure The game has a 
 rushed feeling to it. and the controls don't work out the way you hoped they would. I played this 
 on the PS3 and I was barley able to play it. Not based on it being hard but how the crappy controller 
 layout was. I kept pushing R1 to shoot when in fact it was the secondary fire button. I mean who 
 the hell puts the secondary fire on R1? it's a bad layout when your used to games like COD 4 this 
 totally just takes a Crap on the way the control should be. Other issues are even on the easiest 
 mode it seems the game is too hard. I like to play it on Easy first to get a feel for the game. 
 and it just seemed to be too hard for even being on Normal. When it's on the lowest setting it 
 should be easy enough for someone to beat. But this did everything possible to make it impossible 
 for someone who is new to game to beat. Another issue with me is that the levels seemned too dark. 
 so I was really straining my eyes to see things and that's with my TV brightness turned up. There 
 were times that the Enemies AI of both Dino's and Humans seemed to be a little dull than they would 
 be really smart. it wasn't even at all. And if there is anything I love to see are Dino's walking 
 into walls without doing anything. Plus I was hoping to have more fights with Dino's but it was 
 against the same generic bad guys. The weapons were OK but with the controls being as crappy as 
 they were it wasn't that fun. So over all this Remake turned out to be a major Failure I only hope 
 that if they make a sequel it is better than this bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocky_S91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  the game is great killing dinasoures with knife is good idea i realy love it using bow the game 
 play is great and the grafic is good but the game is really hard the enemy is very strong both 
 the dinasoures and the soldeirs and i love the knife fight with kane in the last chapter using 
 dual gun is amazing and i love the spicial killing move with knife and the idea of the every weapon 
 have double effect is wonderful but using grenade is very bad in the game you cant throw the grenade 
 far and the few chick point is realy bad the way that the charcter moving is good if you have a 
 knife in your hand you will be fast and if you have a heavy gun like that mini gun or the rpg your 
 moving will be slower i am not a big fan of first pirson shooter games but that game is very good 
 the game play is good and it worh the price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garyon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  somethings i cant understand is why they would make a Turok game but take off one of the best parts 
 in the series, the good multi-player (split-screen)
  
  although it has online (which is pretty good and idk why gamespot bashes it forCo-op and multiplayer 
 are interesting, assuming you can find others online."... gamespot gives games waay too much crap.
 
  
  but split-screen has been sweet and in every one of the Turok games except this one
  
  also you cant pick up arrows, which Turok 1 and 2 where somehow able to do
  
  those are mainly 
 my 2 problems, the "hard bosses" and long saving periods is fine by me... games are too easy now 
 a days anyways (you should die a few times to finish a game anyways)
  
  otherwise i'd give this game a 9.5 instead of 8.5 if it weren't for the non-split-screen
  
 
  9.5 instead of 10 for other various little problems/issues of which i don't feel like taking the 
 time to type up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so it has been a long time since we last heard from Turok, the most bad ass Dino hunter in 
 gaming history. So now thanks to Propaganda games we can experoance his bad assness again. Now 
 if you've been tracking the game you'll know that this isn't the original Turok, nor setting or 
 story. Instead Propaganda went for a new, fresh and somewhat more run of the mill narrative. Have 
 no fear, the accusations that he was no longer Native American have been silenced, he is still 
 a tribal bad ass with all bad ass bow and arrow features remaining.
  
  Onto the gameplay. Turoks gameplay offers a few new ideas to the overcrowded and horribly unoriginal 
 FPS genre. For starters we see the return of the Bow and arrow, which though isn't really a new 
 feature to FPS' (having been done in all past Turok games) it is refreshing to see it back and 
 better tha ever in todays next gen cespool of BFG's and automatic rifles, not that there's anything 
 wrong with them, its just that they've been done to death and then kicked a few times. The arrow 
 is essentially your silenced sniper rifle, unless of course you like the explosive tips better. 
 Along with the bow, is the knife, now I know what your saying, "but DiabolicalX, every FPS has 
 a close combat weapon, and it usually is knife", now that is true, but Turok put a cool spin on 
 things, when you kill with the knife you get a neat little cinematic, where Turok repeatedly stabs 
 them or slits their throat or chest or whatever, works with Dino's and Troopers. The other weapons 
 of Turok are fairly standard, you got your SMG, Shotgun, Pulse Rifle, RPG, Sniper etc. But there 
 are a few other cool, dare I say, bad ass weapons, for example the sticky gun, it fires a sticky 
 bomb that explodes when you fire again, dinosaurs are torn to bits and troopers go flying, though 
 the weapon is useless until the later stages of the game, and even then it is hard to aim. Other 
 weapons include the Chaingun, which has the ability to deploy as a handy turret, though it is unlikely 
 to really kill anything unless you put it in a perfect position, and is actually again usless until 
 the later stages of the game. The shotgun has a nice secondary fire that shoots a flare the attracts 
 dinosaurs, fire it into a group of troopers and the dinosaurs will attack, fire it at another dinosaur 
 and those dinosaurs will attack it, it can stick to people, though whenever your offered a shotgun, 
 you tend to be holding a better weapon. The shotguns recoil is also horrible, for some reason they 
 decided to make it rapid fire, which really makes it hard to aim. These weapons are cool, but you'll 
 rarely need them, once you get the pulse rifle there really is no need to swap it for anything. 
 The Extra Dinosaur faction in Turok makes the game really fun, but it makes the enemy soldiers 
 seem really lack luster, which is unfair because they are challenging and have quite good AI, they 
 are constantly tacking cover, re-grouping and trying to flank you, though sometimes they take cover 
 in front of you, though this is probably because they don't see you, rather than because of AI 
 problems. Stealth is another feature of this game, not to the extent of the CRYSIS Nano suit stealth 
 abillity, but sneaking through the grass knifing people is a big part of the game in the early 
 levels, though it is phased out about half way through the game for a standard run and gun approach. 
 These features are neat and hopefully will be polished and re-used in possible sequels and other 
 games to come. One thing I don't understand is how a bow to the chest will kill in one shot, but 
 a shotgun to the chest will only do half damage, o' well.
  
  Onto the graphics and level environments. The graphics in Turok are very well done, the dinosaurs 
 look great, and shooting them will put craters of gore in their bodies, The bigger dinosaurs look 
 epecially cool, the Beast (the second boss) looks very cool and the T-rex is very well designed 
 and it looks even greater when it's chowing down on enemy troopers, or, god forbid, you. The troopers 
 look good. though there is little difference in the different types of troopers, they are still 
 recognisable by the amount of armour they have, for example scouts where light armour and carry 
 SMG's and have blue visors, while Heavy's where tons of green plate armour and carry's a chain 
 gun, it also has a large black visor. For some reason instad of blood on the troopers there are 
 sparks, even when you knife them. Your buddies look like regular action movie soldiers, from the 
 pale gaunt almost Nazi looking Sniper to the Big burly tank top wearing Black machine gunner. There 
 facial expressions are well done and there mouths move to their word pretty well, the real problem 
 with character animation is the hair, though there is a lack of it, the hair problem really only 
 applies to Kane (main bad guy) , he had long hair that seems to not re-act to anyhting, bw it wind 
 or movement, occasionally it goes through his neck, which isn't that good. The environmetns are 
 the down side of the graphics, with set pieces being repeated a lot, and there being a distinct 
 lack of freedom of movement, to be honest this game is something of an outdoor corridor shooter. 
 The grass is well donw in some ways, it parts as you move through it and waves in the breeze a 
 bit, but, like many other games, it just doesn't want to break away from bunching them together 
 in a 2D picture, the large plants are another problem, they don't move for you at all, the just 
 go through you when you move to them, which is annoying when a dinosaur bashes you into them, which 
 does happen a lot. The grround lacks a lot of detail and can seem at times that it lacks necessary 
 polygons. Otherwise the graphics are solid, they managed to take the Unreal Engine and not make 
 it look like they just rented it and planted it, they did make ome noticable changes, for example 
 the blood isn't wuite so viscus and bright, and the chracters do have more detail put in them. 
 Water effects are standard, which is okay because there really isn't that much water. The graphics 
 don't let the game down, they just really could have been better.
  
  Onto the characters and story. OK ay there really isn't much to say about the games story, so I'll 
 just say that it is a fairly standard Sci-FI actions story. The characters are also quite run of 
 the mill, they come in several different colours, the angry smart arse, who has a bone to pick 
 with you, who becomes your closest friend later on, the rookie who is always nervous and worried, 
 the friendly corpral who trusted you from the start, the quite Gaunt and weird looking sniper, 
 the crazy Seargent, the no nonsense Lieutenant who gets shot, etc. As the Gamespot review said, 
 this is an action movie blockbuster game, the voice acting is good, my favourite being Ron Perlman 
 who voices Slade, you may remember him as the smart arse merc from Alien Resurrection, who is constantly 
 pissing of everyone especially wheel chair dude. He actually has the exact same type of character 
 to play in this game, which, as funny as it is, is kind of sad.
  
  Turok is a good game, which could have been so much more, I think its failing was hype, there was 
 so much hype around this game it wasn't funny, it suffered the same fate as Kane and Lynch, though 
 not on the same scale, it had so much hype, that no matter how good it was it would come under 
 more scrutiny than any other game released at the same time.
  
  Antoher problem was the difficulty, now I love a challenge, but they really over did it in Turok, 
 Checkpoints are way to far apart, there are way to many enemies shooting at only you and you hav 
 way to little health considering, there is also a considerable lack of cover, and you can still 
 be shor and killed even when your in a dino mauling cinematic. You'll often play through an entire 
 level again after dying at the end of it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Well, I finally got my copy of Turok about a week ago. I've finally got the chance to play it, 
 now I must say that this isn't an bad game at all. Please don't judge it by the poor demo, it has 
 somethings in the demo that make you want to play more.
  
  Graphics aren't that bad, I wouldn't say it's breath taking, but it's not poor. The speed is okay, 
 I wish they had like a jog or run button which probably would of gave a better score. I sometimes 
 think the voices on the game could of been better, but you start to ignore it once the action takes 
 place.
  
  Weapons: Bow and Arrow simply hands down, It freakin' rocks. The other guns are pretty cool, but 
 having the classic arrow in hands looks cool. Same thing goes for the knife.
  
  Sound: It's fair, I think they did a okay job on this department. Probably could of done better.
 
  
  Gameplay: So far it's pretty fun, I haven't gone that fair in the game because I'm always at work 
 or busy playing something else, but this game is great so far.
  
  is it worth the 60 dollar price tag? I don't think so, but if you could find a good deal for 40 
 -45 bucks, for sure it's a buy. I'm lucky I got mine on Ebay for that price.
  
  Overall: Not an bad game, I'm a huge Turok fan, so I guess you could say that I'm pleased to play 
 it.
  
  One thing I really hate is the in game saving it's almost like you have to reach the check point 
 in order to save. Kinda sucks when you want to go somewhere or just want to do a quick save, but 
 thats the only thing I hate about it.
  
  I haven't tried out the online mode yet, just wanted to let you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bognman420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  first lets start off with the cons of the game wich are few i thought the aiming was a little anoying 
 but after an hour playin it will get easier. the only other problem i had with the game is the 
 checkpoints they only checkpoint is when u clear a chapter u could get very far only to die suddenly 
 when you turn a corner.
  My major problem with this game is the multiplayer is horrible well if u get into a game its fun 
 really fun but u cant get in a ranked game with ur buddys and its almost impossible to find a full 
 game, also the whole multiplayer setup prior to playin is the worst ive ever seen so if ur not buying 
 this game for online multiplayer i say go for it and there is not co op wich i thought would hav 
 made th e game so much better.
  now the pross im not a huge turok fan this is the fhirst game in the series i played alll the way 
 through and i was vbery pleased. The knife kills are amazing and the dinosaurs can sneak up on 
 you quite easily makin it challenging but very fun. The game is very addictive once you start you 
 will not want to put it down the gunas are very fun and the crossbow is my weapon of choice i say 
 if ur into the turok series this gam eis a must buy the graphics are great gameplay is sound not 
 glicthy at all and the creatures and story line will keep you wanting more. Something else i really 
 enjoyed was the ending alot of game have horible endings where they just make the last board extremely 
 hard wich i think is boring if you played concan you would understand the ending for that game 
 was so dissapointing but the ending for this game is great very much like uncharted drakes fortune 
 if you played that game through. overall i give turok an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GUER03
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Great kills, graphics, and story. I love the knife and bow kills as well as sometimes having friends 
 with you. However after just about completing it what a crock of crap these devlopers made us go 
 through! It IS too hard for normal level. They throw too much at you at once and in some areas 
 it WAY TOO f'n dark to see anything. I have a new 55" Sony HDTV and it's still too dark in some 
 areas to see what or who you are shooting at. Or to try and find the ammo.
  
  Also I am unable to save any progress beyond the automatic save so if you spend alot of time fighting 
 alot of guys and you die you have to go ALL the way back to the beginning of the last auto save. 
 What a bunch of crap that is. Forget that crap. That's too much to lose.
  
  Their soldiers don't ever miss us but it takes too much ammo to kill them. The so called 'Normal' 
 level is really a hard level as too much is thrown at you at once and it doesn't let you enjoy 
 the game. Instead it just frustrates you and make you not want to even finish this game.
  
  It could've been such an awesome game but this isn't enjoyable, it's rediculously difficult and 
 takes away from enjoying the game. Unless I'm wrong and we aren't supposed to actually enjoy playing 
 a 'video game' we shelled out $60 for? I'd rather buy it off craigslist or the local game store 
 used because this is f'n ignorant for them to do. THAT's why I say to not buy it brand new.
  
  Again, this is just MY personal opinion. You can bet I won't be getting the expansion game 
 if they don't significantly make some changes.
  
  Albert, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  After the series downfall, it seems only right that Acclaim packed their bags and left the Turok 
 series alone. Fortunately, Turok is not yet extinct as Propaganda Games have tested their skills 
 with this gruesome dinosaur romp. Unfortunately, Turok doesn't succeed in all areas and leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  
  Propaganda have stayed true to some of the series traits. The main character is still Native American, 
 there are still lots of dinosaurs, and the classic bow and arrow weapon remains untouched. However, 
 the main characters name is now Joseph Turok, and he's also a space marine.
  
  Turok is a member of Whiskey Company, a squad of heavily armed forces who are tracking down Turok's 
 former gang, Wolfpac, who are residing on a desolate planet. Turok is just as new to Whiskey Company 
 as we are, and this deems Turok untrustworthy in the eyes of his squad mates, but before they can 
 exchange hellos, their ship gets blown out of the sky.
  
  After crash landing on the planet, the squad find themselves separated, and hunted by vicious dinosaurs. 
 And if that isn't enough, Wolfpac are trying to kill the survivors. And this is what makes the 
 gameplay interesting. The dinosaurs are a neutral threat, and this makes them prone to attack the 
 Wolfpac forces.
  
  Using the dinosaurs to your advantage adds a strategical depth to the gunfights, and it never gets 
 old seeing your enemies mauled by a raptor. To encourage dino mauling, the otherwise average shotgun 
 comes equipped with a flare launcher. The flare's attract dinos to their position, so placing one 
 in the enemies cover can turn the tides of battle.
  
  All of the weapons have a secondary function. The minigun can also be used as a portable turret, 
 the bow and arrow can zoom in, and the machine gun can be equipped with a silencer. The stickybomb 
 gun can fire a exploding blob that can stick to enemies and detonated at will. It's secondary fire 
 lays a series of tripmines on the ground.
  
  And the knife... well, the knife can one hit kill enemies with a cinematic finishing move. Jamming 
 the knife into a raptors brain, and then kicking it's body to the floor is very satisfying. It 
 only feels satisfying the first couple of times you do it, though. By the time you've seen the 
 same animation multiple times, it does get old.
  
  Dinosaur fans will see a lot of different species in this game including raptors, brontosauruses, 
 giganotasaurus and the infamous Tyrannosaurus rex. And, for the most part, the dinos all look and 
 move realistically. The animations in Turok are amazing, but the graphics are mediocre. For the 
 most part, Turok takes place in a jungle environment, but it's blandness, linearity and muddled 
 textures are dwarfed by other jungle based games like Uncharted, for example.
  
  The single player campaign will last you around 8-10 hours with little reason to replay it. But 
 you'll spend a good portion of that sitting through the tedious loading times that occur everytime 
 you die, and even mid-game, pausing the action. The lack of people in multiplayer makes getting 
 into a game a rare occurrence. But once you do get online, there are dinosaurs stalking around 
 and it doesn't hold much surprises. It isn't going to pull you in for very long.
  
  All in all, Turok does provide a solid, lengthy single player experience which holds plenty of 
 mindless action and brutal kills. The game is good enough to keep you playing all the way to the 
 end, but there isn't much reason to go back to it. The stealth option isn't encouraged enough, 
 and the mediocre online feels tacked on. If you are interested, then Turok is worth a cheap buy, 
 but it isn't guaranteed to please everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  To begin things off with in Turok you play as the cool Turok himself.. a deadly skilled solider 
 that is sent on a mission with commrades to do a job that they thought would be simple. Of course, 
 its not. When they arrive on the new planet they find out that an enemie group is already there 
 and that is not the worst of it, the planet is occupied by dinosaurs. So Turok has to survive on 
 the world of terror while fighting both. (pretty cool huh)
  Good things;
  the action is always at a realistic and intense level, there are lots of very life like dinos to 
 combat thatyou can finish off in a lot of ways even in a great knife battle. A good variety of 
 weapons to choose from. The controls are pretty good once you get use to them. The graphics are 
 really good, the enviroments and creatures are awesome. you will notice all the little extras such 
 as how the rain reacts to the enviroment or how sun will reflect off your knif. A lot of time has 
 been put into this game. There is also a good mulitplayer online that is lots of fun. So if you 
 beat the game and still looking for a challenge, then you can pay it online with friends. Also 
 a challenging A I system . The sound is pretty good . 
  Bad Things:
  Its kind of hard to find a big game online. This game can also get frustrating real easy, its hard 
 to tell where you are at time because there are so many things happening. Some of the boss battles 
 could have been a bit better. Dont get me wrong the trex was good, but they could have done so 
 much more with it. The game is kind of short also. 2-3 days if you dont play it hard. Split screen 
 multi-player action would have been really nice. and maybe a 2 player co-op.
  Over all;
  Turok is a good game, it has been a long time since we had a good turok game and its finally here. 
 Well worth the money, and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about turok for the ps3. mainly because there wasn't anything out there soo inviting 
 besides unreal tourny... but, turok is a beautifull game but the elements and the detail are a 
 bit flat. not that this takes away soo much from the game but compared to games like uncharted 
 or even grears of war this game could have been considerably better. my main issues with this game 
 : the screen seems to be too zoomed in... like theres no sense of whats around you visually. its 
 too close. maybe if the developers zoomed out a little it would relieve me of the paranoia of looking 
 around hysterically just to see whats next to me. 
  
  Secondly, the controlls are by far the worst controls i've felt in a long time. and its very difficult 
 to get your reticle on your target especially while running. Not asking for an auto aim here but 
 a slight tweak in that department would help. you find yourself trying to aim more times that you 
 actually pull the trigger hoping you hit something WHILE STANDING STILL. It the soldier is doing 
 the "soldier boy" you definetly wont hit him unless you don't move at all. 
  
  Weapon reload times are sluggish and slow. and the knife play is soo hillarious that it makes no 
 sense in running trying to use it because by the time it locks on to target and you press the trigger 
 you do this weak slash and nothing happens. i was fighting this guy online and we were weak slashing 
 each other for nothing short of 15 seconds then a dinosaur had to seperate us and solve our pathetic 
 altercation by killing kim. i let the dinosaur make it because that was the best thing he could 
 have done for both of us. i happily ran off reminding myself never to do that again.
  
  the shotgun functions as a pistol and it takes 4 to 5 shots just to kill someone. I shot a dinosaur 
 in the tail with the sniper rifle and it collapsed and died. game mechanics here are horrible but 
 it is an ok game. i'm not that much upset. the soldiers are the dumbest i've seen in a while too 
 next to black for the original x box. they are 2 steps away from utterly pathetic. enemy AI is 
 just preschool here. 
  
  Game load times are another annoyance. thats the only reason i dread dying other than the fact 
 that the game saves for such long occurrences meaning you can get to an area fight countless enemies 
 move on for a bit die and find yourself doing that all over again. But overall its an ok game and 
 very entertaining none the less. Holla it was fun ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8nnwilder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Okay well first of all this isn't the best FPS out there especially with games like COD4 and Bioshock 
 out there but I got it on trade in and it was way better than F1 (the game I traded) ...
  
  So before I get going I have to admit i never played the original Turok so I had nothing to compare 
 it to. And I think that was a good think in my case. Sometimes you play the original and the remake 
 or the sequel just doesn't live up to your expectations.
  
  as I said it is a pretty average FPS in the game play and graphics department as i feel they could 
 have done so much better. especially with the story as it leave you hanging and wondering what 
 the point actually is... they should have gone into more detail overall as you sit at the end still 
 not knowing a g**damn thing about why Turok left Wolfpack.... well and just about everything else 
 is also left to you imagination...
  
  The "Boss" fight are just F******* difficult at first until you actually realize what to do. But 
 what makes it more frustrating as there is at no point any hints or indication on what that "secret" 
 is... So you basically keep trying.... and keep dying... until you figure it out. But then at times 
 you start way back which means you have to fight your way to the boss AGAIN just to be taken out 
 by 40 troops before you get there... then when you get there die again and redo the whole F***** 
 piece over.
  
  But as I said once you know how and you get the hang of things it won't be that hard.
  
  One 
 thing... well actually two things that actually saved the game (for me rating it a lower) was the 
 knife and the bow... It was fun to play with them and made me feel all native and S*** but what 
 would have been really cool is giving you cover option like in Vegas... Give you the chance to 
 be a little more stealthy... But still it works out okay. 
  
  This is by no means the greatest game out there but I think if you can get yourself to play it 
 a second time it might be a lot more fun than the first time round. might not have the replay value 
 for most people but i will play it again just to do it "right" and really have a go at everything 
 knowing exactly what to do.
  
  (Oh btw that is another thing the AI is all programmed a certain way so it will most like happen 
 in exactly the same way so you can go the trial and error route without having to worry to much 
 about the AI doing things in a different way. even thou at stages the AI seemed pretty tricky as 
 they found their way around you in the weirdest ways)
  
  Turok could have been so much more and I could see the potential in it... Why they didn't DO it 
 I don't know. Can't help but think what it would have been like if Activision (COD4) or Capcom (Dino 
 Crisis... I think) had to do this title..... It could have been GOTY material.... But sadly it's 
 not. 
  
  Rent it first if you are full of s*** and harsh on rating games.... Otherwise trade it for something 
 like I did. It was worth that for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I didnt really like the beginning at first, in the spaceship, but after, it becomes more and more 
 addictive. The sensivity control was a little bit too high but it still works pretty well. I thought 
 the story was a poor and way too much like the others. The guns are pretty neat. I saw some little 
 things that didn't work out but I won't tell you because I will let you discover them by yourself. 
 The PS3 version is a little better to me because I thought that the loading times were less long 
 and it lagged less during the game. The thing I hated the most was the artificial intelligence 
 of the ennemies and of your teammates. Sometimes they would just stay put and do nothing while 
 8 ennemies are shooting at you and sometimes the ennemies walk in zigzag for no reasons and they 
 shoot next to you so you just walk up to them and stick a knife in their head. In general, I reccomend 
 this game to anyone with a PS3 and nothing to do on a rainy day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  after almost 5 years and being acquired by Disney, Turok finally returns to consoles everywhere, 
 bringing back his roots and also showing off some new tricks. Lets take a look.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Turok is pretty much an old-school shooter that takes away the aim-assists of 
 the modern console shooter to add a new curve of difficulty. Call of Duty fans will no doubt be 
 troubled by the loss of the aim-down-the-sights accuracy, but most old-school vets will be happy 
 to see a return of no aim-assist, something many of them complain about when it comes to console 
 shooters. Now, as for the new tricks, this game adds probably only one, and that would be the reinvention 
 of dinos in FPS world. The dinos of Turok are now much more "Jurassic Park" in movement, making 
 them feel much more real than ever before in a Turok game. The knife has also upgraded, with a 
 new insta-kill attack when close to either certain dinos or a human opponent. The only other upgrade 
 to speak of is the new button-mashing dino mauling, which is where the dinos and Turok get in a 
 shuffle and you must preform the action on-screen to fight them off, via RE4's Leon and the infected.
 
  
  After those upgrades, the only other thing Turok has different is that you come with a permanent 
 Bow as well as that knife in your innovatory. Other weapons must be swiped, and you can only carry 
 up to two, so if you want to dual-wield shotguns, thats all you will carry outside of the knife 
 and bow. The weapons are all standard affair, and they also take a leap back in gaming time with 
 alternate fire on each of them. The good news is that all of them are actually pretty effective 
 weapons when used properly, including the bow, which can be the most devastating for distant shots.
 
  
  But what about the online? Well, its actually really fun, except for the fact that nobody was on 
 the PS3 version hardly. Its tough to get a match in any mode, like Co-op, FFA, and Team. But once 
 you get in with a good amount of people, the game is pretty fun to play ,with dinos jumping everywhere 
 and guys running around trying to get knife kills. Luckily, those said kills are hard to achieve 
 if you don't time it correctly, and most times you die right after the attempt thanks to the victim 
 killing you instead. The dinos were great distractions, and the Bow was awesome to shoot in this 
 mode. Still, its only this good when you actually find some players.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Very Pretty graphics that suffer from a horrid loading time. The game is constantly loading the 
 visuals, which is seen when a level starts and the visuals are still appearing as you watch a cutscene 
 and possibly afterwards. Sure, Gears of War did this as well, but not as bad. Also, the loading 
 screen is somewhat long, but its pretty much the same length as Gears of War. Why compare this 
 to gears? because its pretty much the same engine, right down to all the guys looking like they 
 are steroids. finally, the dinos look amazing, as they should, and the bosses look amazing and 
 giant. The dinos also get wounded very accurately, with machine guns making them a bloody mess 
 and rockets turning them into blood bombs. That reminds me, this game is very gory. It may not 
 look it at first, but when all the dinos explode into a blood bath and blood oozes from their mouths, 
 it can get gross for a few.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound of Turok is just awesome to hear. during this one night mission, I was walking back to 
 the base, and I remember the game just freaking me out with the amount of growls and grunts coming 
 from the hidden raptors just waiting to pounce. The level of immersion for this game when fighting 
 dinos is amazing and something to feel. However, fighting humans in the base is where the game 
 takes a landslide in immersion. The sounds hear are all gunfire, and the music is boring to listen 
 to. This game definitely needed to stay in the wild with the dinos.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10.0
  Turok is a great game that really didn't get much hype behind it thanks to its last entry "Turok: 
 Evolution" and its many faults. The game really does revive this series pretty well, and also comes 
 with a nice online mode to boot. For modern fans, I would say give it a rent and see if you can 
 master it with no aim-assist. For fans of the originals, you should have already tried this game 
 and bought it. For fans looking for a trip to old-school shooters, pick this one up, whether it 
 be for rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rare3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  The last Turok, Turok: Evolution, was disappointing to say the least. Fortunately, the latest installment 
 is far from. The graphics are next gen, sleek and polished. The forest in which most of the game's 
 single player is set is lush and varied, and almost never similar in any two places. The gameplay 
 is constantly challenging, persuading you to be tactical and use cover to heal. 
  
  The weapons of Turok are varied, from the ordinary combat knife to a powerful mini-gun. There is 
 also a handgun, SMG, shotgun, flamethrower, RPG, sticky gun, pulse rifle, sniper rifle, bow and 
 grenades all thrown in as well.
  The stealth kills are one of the best parts of the game, with either the bow or the knife. The 
 up close animations could be improved somewhat, however.
  
  The enemies in Turok range from small raptors to T-Rex and troopers to bugs. All boost enhanced 
 and intelligent AI, and therefore the game is very challenging. Once played on Normal or Hard difficulty, 
 you unlock Inhuman, which, frankly, would be honestly impossible. The sounds ingame are spooky 
 to say the least, with the gripping screeching noises and some brilliant voice acting. 
  
  The plot of Turok is that you are Joseph Turok, once part of an infamous elite covert-ops group 
 called WolfPack. Their leader, Kane, has hidden on a supposedly uninhabited planet. Turok's ship 
 is shot down in orbit and crash lands on a world full of dinosaurs, lush foliage and military bases. 
 The multiplayer, unfortunately, is unexplored to me, so you'll have to find that out on your own. 
 Interested yet? You should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mantisink
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  alot of people have been giving this game bad reviews or sub par. honestly the game is up to speed 
 with PS3 game quality. i bought turok a few days ago and i have to say im pleasently surprised. 
 the graphics are comprable to that of drakes fortune. Even on the easiest difficulty, the game 
 offfers a big challege. aiming can get hard to get used to, ecspecially if your used to playing 
 Unreal Tournament. AI is pretty smart, and a really good shot. Story is great and reviels a lot 
 about turok that the other games didnt offer. overall i am pleased with the game. it offers tons 
 of gameplay and multiplayer is fun too. weapons and graphics are great and is definatly a buy. 
 you could rent it but i played it pretty much straight for the last two days. its fun and hard 
 and youll find yourself trying to accomplish the next checkpoint over and over. if you have 68 
 bucks (after taxes) and want a fun overall single and multiplayer game, then i suggest picking 
 up turok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Overall Turok was surprisingly good and was a great rebound from Turok: Evolution, which wasn't 
 all that great. There was a lot of great features in Turok which made it the fun game that it is. 
 First, it had good next-gen graphics for the PS3, I do think the graphics could have been improved 
 some as well. The best graphical achievement of Turok was the kills. The stealth knife kills and 
 dinosaurs knife kill were great! It was also pretty awesome when you blew up the dinosaurs, especially 
 at the ending sequence with the T-Rex who swallows your grenade. The head exploded like it probably 
 would have, then it rained blood.
  Turok had limited weapons but they were all great, what with the  
 gun, pulse rifle, sniper rifle, bow, knife, and grenades. Turok also is a challenging game with intelligent 
 AI. I've beaten the game on Normal and Hard, but the Inhuman difficulty is an impossible dream. 
 Turok had great sound and voice acting. They brung in really good actors to do all the voices for 
 the game. The weapons and dinosaurs sound great as well.
  Plot- You play as Joseph Turok the infamous ex-member of Wolfpack, the crime gang lead by Kane. 
 You and your team's mission is to find, capture, and kill Kane. But on your way to do that, your 
 team's ship is missiled and you crash-land on a strange planet filled with Wolfpack and dinosaurs. 
 It is a fight to survive and in the end you have one on one face-off with Kane. Who will prevail? 
 Will Turok get off the planet to fight another day? Play to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I want to start with the story line of this game it really sucks you in and you never know what 
 can jump out of that jungle as you are experiancing Lost Planet. I was never a Turok fan, but when 
 i got this game i got really sucked in the game and game experience is just awesome, well graphics 
 could be better but its still good just imagine graphics as (Uncharted) then this game would be 
 perfect. Also its not that easy to play there is no Easy mode, you can choose between Normal, Hard, 
 and Inhuman. Game is still hard on normal and enemies never stop coming they are everywhere, you 
 get to kill humans and dinos, army people looks like Kill Zone enemies its pretty cool. I would 
 give this game a try and you wont be dissapointed. By the way best part about this games is killing 
 dinos with knife and dinos look awesome. Its Mature and bloody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andralo3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  In this game you start story mode as turok. You will have a mission were you have to go kill kane. The 
 mission sounds simplple but it turns out being a matter of life or death. In the online gameplay 
 its awesome, you could do all the usual stuff u do and more. I do garantee you will have a blast 
 out of this game. These game is pretty much like halo except i though this game was better, well 
 thats in my opinion. I really liked the story mode it was the best story mode i ever played. ever 
 since i saw the very first trailer of turok i fell in luve with it. i have been waiting for this 
 game for a very long time and i finally got it. when i chose a difficulty i was so happy there was 
 no easy mode. first i did normal, then hard. the good thing about this game is that its really 
 challenging. the enemies were smart, they flanked me and took cover from me. i love the bow and 
 the knife, imean this game never get boring. the kills with the knife are very cool and bloody. 
 the bow is cool and stealthy. the thing i recommend is that you use stealth first and then you can 
 do whatever you want. the weapons in the game are ones that you have never seen before. i only 
 bad thing is that you cant sprint, you cant keep all the weapons, you have to switch them out, 
 but you keep the bow and the knife always. like resistance fall of man you can keep all of the 
 weapons. you also cant hit with your guns. but overall i would give it a 9.4. i would really recommend 
 this game if you like fun, bloody first person shooters. the online multiplayer is fun too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeroen_batman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  the graphics are good, the gameplay is awesome and ofcourse the dinosaurs.
  its somekind a Remake of the First Turok...
  
  Turok is an amazing game, ive got it for the 
 PS3 and i didn't notice any lag or crash.
  
  the problems... yea they are just small problems and they are not problems
  that you can't continue 
 with the game.
  
  the AI is great, its pretty smart, it will try to flank you all the time.
  especially the Dinosaurs, like 
 in real life the dinosaurs did.
  
  one time i was shooting against the other humans and then you heard 
 
  it was a T-Rex and he eated the enemy, amazing!
  
  There are many more Dinosaurs in the game, flying, land and water 
  Dinosaurs.
  
  Sometimes 
 you must let the Dinosaurs eat the enemy so you can relax and enjoy the show.
  
  you're playing in- and outside.
  
  
  Turok is probably one of the best games available for 
 the PS3.
  So get you're ass up and get that Damn Game!
  Turok is a must have and Its Amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid0112
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. I even went out and bought it the day it came out. It 
 just is not everything that I was hoping it would be.
  
  Here are some PRO'S: 
  The story line is good. I haven't finished the game but so far I pleased with the story behind 
 the game. 
  
  The weapons in the game are pretty cool even though they can be hard to aim some times.
  
  
 Here are some CON'S:
  The Graphics: The graphics are at best, average. I have owned many PS3 games and many of them have 
 had smother graphics than this game. Many of the things have rough edges and come out not looking 
 that smooth at all. I could understand the poor quality if the game was being played on a PS2 or 
 an old Xbox - but come on, this is for a PS3. Just not impressive at all.
  
  Firing the Guns: I have been playing first person shooters for years now. The aiming for weapons 
 in the game is very touchy. When you go to shoot someone or a dinosaur the cross hairs for the 
 weapon are 1) very simple and plain and 2) very hard to move - with accuracy - to the object being 
 shot at. I complain about this because of all the awesome first person shooters (Resistance, Half 
 Life 2, Call of Duty 4) that have come out for the PS3 - all of which have really good weapon accuracy 
 and firing ability. By the mere fact that the ability to hit objects is effected by the poor design 
 of how the weapons fire, along with the average graphics, is enough for me to justify taking this 
 to Game Stop and selling this towards a different game.
  
  Rent this game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesonhorses
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  ever since i saw the very first trailer of turok i fell in luve with it. i have been waiting for 
 this game for a very long time and i finally got it. when i chose a difficulty i was so happy there 
 was no easy mode. first i did normal, then hard. the good thing about this game is that its really 
 challenging. the enemies were smart, they flanked me and took cover from me. i love the bow and 
 the knife, imean this game never get boring. the kills with the knife are very cool and bloody. 
 the bow is cool and stealthy. the thing i recommend is that you use stealth first and then you can 
 do whatever you want. the weapons in the game are ones that you have never seen before. i only 
 bad thing is that you cant sprint, you cant keep all the weapons, you have to switch them out, 
 but you keep the bow and the knife always. like resistance fall of man you can keep all of the 
 weapons. you also cant hit with your guns. but overall i would give it a 9.4. i would really recommend 
 this game if you like fun, bloody first person shooters. the online multiplayer is fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown57
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  this time around you are part of a faction that is sentto an unknown planet to hunt down Kane, 
 Turok's mentr while he was part of the Wolf Pack. But on their arrival to this planet they are 
 shot down and the pieces of the ship are scattered across the unkown planet, infested with MG's 
 , dinosaurs, and who knows what else. Very early you meet up with a fellow soldier whodislikes 
 you very much because he thinks you are a traitor, because his brother was in the Wolf Pack, and 
 was killed. Your mission: find the rest of the crew and capture or kill Kane, w/e comes first. 
 And while searching you encounter an array of dinos and Kane's soldiers. The characters, environments, 
 pretty much everything in this game is great visually. The only thing that bothered me, was the 
 lighting effects and for thte most part, on norfmal difficulty, the diffivulty level is just right, 
 but there are some parts where it might take you 3 or 4 tries, or more to get past a cretain area. 
 I say the lighting is bad onl because when you do occasionally get trapped in caves, or w/e. it 
 is extremely difficult to see where you are going and where you have been. There are a variety 
 of weapons to choose from, knife, bow, assault gun, shotgun... that keep it interesting. But the 
 best part I think is killing the T-Rex who, like all the dinos, is relentless in trying to eat 
 or kill you. Overall Turok is a great game, with some minor blemishes, but is deffinately something 
 you should pick up, and if you dont want to buy it at least rent it, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anopolis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The director of this title should quit... this had the potential to be an absolute blast.. and 
 at times is. Simple problems such as here goes OVERLY sensitive zoomed controls, insanely shaky 
 camera ( is like controlling a spec ops fella who suffers constant seizures) the game is designed 
 to HATE the player with directly behind you spawn points..
  
  it takes 30 bullets to put a human down.. 30 unless that is you pop them in the head. cue the overly 
 sensitive controls... stupid stupid choices. oh a note to the developers do you know what a ballistic 
 round does to human flesh sure with adrenalin pumping you might be able to take a round or two, 
 add some armor and then maybe a few more rounds.. 8 rounds tops for game purposes then the baddie 
 should fall down.
  
  how about some consistent AI? the dang dinos are smarter than the humans some times they're psychic 
 other times they lick windows.. the weapons choices were weaker than the n64 version in every regard.. 
 I mean this is the bloody future and mankind hasn't figured out how to make a gun fire more than 
 30 rounds without overheating?? especially one no more powerful than a 50 cal. Propaganda I"m calling 
 you out hire someone that has actually played a game before and doesn't hate people that do! a 
 Good freshman effort it had such potential but dang why did you utterly fail on all the simple 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeeyes190
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Remember the Show Cadillac's and Dinosaurs, probably not. But while I played Turok I couldn't help 
 but think of that show. Namely because it share's some similar points, set in the future, some 
 reason dinosaurs are alive and kicking, and while both have good concepts when executed they could 
 have been done a lot better.
  
  Turok isn't a bad shooter to say the least. It is well done. The dinosaurs are cool and the fact 
 that they attack everything not just you, are much appreciated. The only thing is that it isn't 
 anything really new. It's done well yes but it could be better. The game take's place on a planet 
 which is mostly jungle covered with some large faculties to explore. The weapons are the same as 
 any other game with pistol, smg, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, and heavy weapon. The story is 
 the typical action genre story of a Special Forces Unit with a questionable new member (Joseph 
 Turok) being sent to bring in a warlord on some distant planet on arrival the ship crashes and 
 the limited survivors fight to escape alive. It really isn't anything new, done well just not new.
 
  
  First off let's look at the Environment, it's beautiful, it's vast, it's a jungle. Anyone who has 
 played Far Cry or King Kong The movie game, or just about any shooter has seen the jungle done 
 and done well. Turok is no different in that regard with the great looking jungle with every thing 
 dark, dirty and Green. Oh so green. That is one thing it is green there is very little colour change 
 and when there is it stands out like a white on black. The games are also dark and people can have 
 a hard time seeing were there going and there is no flashlight to aid in the darkest areas or a 
 least not one I came across. The three most common colours are green, grey, and black. Grey you 
 only really see when you're in a building and even there it's the only real colour in the building's 
 other then the computer monitors which are blue or yellow. The character design is well done for 
 both Humans' and beasts but at the same time it's the colour schemes of greys that is common, while 
 the Dino's do have other colour's beside the Greys, browns and greens they are mostly a darker 
 colour which makes them look realistic and looks good on them as it looks like natural camouflage 
 . The humans on the other hand are greys and black which as a colour scheme in buildings and around 
 them works well but when in the jungle were it's green they do stand out a bit and the only ones 
 you miss are in dark areas or are behind you. And finally the eyes on the enemies soldiers helmet 
 are bright yellow until a fight starts then they turn red this is quite visible against the grey 
 armour. Your allies do suffer from a similar problem of being dark coloured with lighter flesh 
 tones which at a distance appears grey in some cases and I found myself shooting allies and wasting 
 ammo. The animations are well done and natural looking but the colour of the game is annoying. 
 
  
  Enemies are well stupid and smart all at once because they seem to switch in AI. The standard soldier's 
 you encounter is at some points knows were you are no matter what and at other points seem to be 
 completely blind even when your right in front of them. And seeing as there is a stealth element 
 to the game a limited one because of how the AI is set up, let's face it if the enemy knows were 
 you are before you do stealth has already gone out the window. The dinosaur's on the other hand 
 are just cool because they act like really hunters sneaking up on you a mauling you from behind 
 then disappearing into the tall grass and rocks, and not just the small one I mean the man size 
 raptor's. Here's a tip don't lose eye sight because once you do it's tough to find them again before 
 another mauling gets you. Also if they do get close to you use a knife that will kill most of the 
 creatures in one hit. Actually use the knife when ever possible namely because of the cool kill 
 sense when used. The Dino's are better then the Merc's but still cool when ever you see it.
  
  The weapons are the FPS standard and that being said they suck for the most part. They don't 
 have a lot of stopping power when firing them. The weapons seem to take an entire clip just to 
 kill some enemies. They honestly feel weak. The best weapon I found to use was the bow which is 
 both a "stealth Weapon" as well as the only good long range weapon which doesn't take more then 
 two shots to kill an enemy. The other big problem is the aiming is a bit hinky in that even if 
 you got a solid bead on an enemy you may find yourself missing and being discovered. The two best 
 weapons are the ones you have all the time, the Knife and Bow, if used right both are one hit kill. 
 The knife need's you to get close to do a special kill, the bow has been explained. The one problem 
 with the bow is if you keep it armed for to long it will just fire on its own so be careful, arrows 
 can be hard to fine.
  
  The story is the A typical type for this style of game because it center's around the theme of 
 a soldier being brought back to active service to hunt down an old mentor and isn't trusted by 
 the new unit. While it's not new it is well done and it does have some cool point's I just don't 
 want to go and spoil it for any one. But there is a natural organization to the game which does 
 make the ending predictable.
  
  Mechanically the game is linear in that it doesn't give a lot of choices on what to do or were 
 to go. Even when you do not know were your going any allies you have will force you along the right 
 path. AI is a problem because of how it seems to change in difficulty and they seem to be better 
 shot then you are. And while there is supposed to be a stealth element it doesn't work well and 
 seems to come and go. Finally the aiming control is an issue because of how it seems that even 
 the clearest shot seem to miss.
  
  Multiplayer is were the game can shine because first your not just fighting other player but also 
 AI controlled Dino's. Apply that with good maps and the game can get interesting, especially with 
 the aiming issues creating some closer fighting then some would like. 
  
  Okay so the game is not a new game in terms of ideas and execution but it is done well and does 
 have good dinosaurs. Really what it need's more work to improve the story and AI and it could be 
 a great shooter, maybe in a sequel if there is one. If you like shooter's this isn't a bad one 
 but really only play it if you're tired of the other ones that are out and rent it before buying 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Right, I'll start this review off with a bit of history about the series, Turok for the N64 was 
 a brilliant shooter. Released just before Goldeneye in a time when console shooters had only just 
 began to truly take shape. Sure there was doom and quake and various other pc shooters some of 
 which were ported over to the consoles, but never before had a game really brought a shooter into 
 people's living rooms. Given the series history I had some great expectations of the game. So now 
 theres a new one for the PS3 and Xbox360, I got the PS3 demo as soon as it arrived on the PSN (US 
 store anyway) .
  
  I found this game to be a fairly mediocre experience, there are several problems with this game. 
 First of all since it's N64 hayday back in the 90s the first person shooter has seen many additions, 
 possible too many, but there have been some great additions to the genre such as Half-Life and 
 Halo which are really big names to contend with. This means that any new shooter (i realise Turok 
 is not a new series) has to do something pretty incredible to get it's name out there and really 
 help shape the genre. This game, however does not. Yes there are dinosaurs in the game but this 
 does not really feel like anything special which it really should do as not that many games have 
 dinosaurs, off the top of my head I can only think of Dino Crisis but in this game it doesn't seem 
 like a big deal, these dinosaurs could easily be aliens or zombies, i know then it wouldn't really 
 be Turok but it would not have a major impact on the game. Also, the weapons in the game do not 
 feel all that balanced, you can pretty much run through it up to the point were all the human opponents 
 are with just the knife. I do not believe that a knife will kill a dinosaur quicker than a gun, 
 to me that just doesn't make sense. Another thing is how much do dinosaurs weigh? as soon as a 
 dinosaur is dead you can pretty much kick its body around wherever you like and thats another thing 
 that does not make sense. Its not all bad there are some good points to this game namely the bow 
 and arrow, it has returned to shooters once again but this is another weapon that seems a bit too 
 powerful for its own good.
  
  Overall this game is just another one of those shooters that may keep you amused for a few hours 
 but once the honeymoon period is gone you'll probabky want to trade in or just never touch again. 
 For me there are just too many issues, which athough compared to some other really problematic 
 games seem minor but they all add up. Seems as this review is based upon the demo I cannot comment 
 on multiplayer but usually thats not going to add much from single player. Really I feel that Propaganda 
 games need to push back the release date a few weeks in order to fix the problems and they could 
 potentially have a really good title. But at the moment, Propaganda must try harder with their 
 next title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akagen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  "This review is based on the demo only"
  I decided to play the demo to see if it was everything I had read about, early on in the demo I 
 started getting tired of the game. The control setup could have been better, the graphics are ok 
 but nothing spectacular, the enviroment was reasonable but didn't give me the feeling that other 
 game enviroments have and last but not least the worst in my opinion is the aiming/shooting in 
 the game, I found it to be extremly frustrating, they seem to have made it harder then normal to 
 actually shoot someone, be it with the bow or a shotgun. The best part of the game I would have 
 to say are the dinosaurs, who doesn't love killing off huge and small predatorial dinosaurs...
 
  To shorten it up, if you like killing dinosaurs and don't mind ignoring the "bad", then this is 
 your best option.
  Now if you worry about gameplay, grafics and story ( didn't seem to be anything great, a slight 
 ripoff of farcry in my opinion ) then look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFKR95
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Now as you know Turok has amazing games for the N64, but this new one has lots of mixed reviews. 
 Now, Turok takes place in a world where dinosaurs rule this planet known as the Lost World. The 
 thing new about this Turok are the stealth kills. If you pull out your knife and if you are behind 
 an enemy, you perform a finishing move. What I hate about this game is that the textures of the 
 maps are sometimes funky as in they would change, the online could have some work done like too 
 much lag or some mic support, it is 2008. But the Dinosaurs look amazing and they have great animation. 
 Another thing that bothered me is the boss. The only "real" boss is a T-rex thats it..... In the 
 old Turok games, there was a T rex combined with robot parts or a giant mosquito. They could have 
 came with better bosses. None the less you will find better and worse fps than Turok. Give it a 
 rent first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_9608
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely a step-up from the first 3 where your enemies are not only dinosaurs, but 
 soldiers and other strange creatures that inhabit harm to the main character Joseph Turok and there 
 are different areas to explore which is good. The traditional hunting knife and bow prove to be 
 useful weapons for the purpose of performing stealth kills on your enemies and the enemies are 
 hard to kill which came as a bit of surprise. It has been 3 or more years since I have played a 
 first-person shooter and I must admit that I am impressed by the audio, graphics, and gameplay 
 for this game. The entire layout of the game is just amazing and the vast area of where you can 
 hunt your enemies is the best part among many others. If you enjoy the first 3 Turok's for the 
 N64, PS2, and X-Box, then you must get this game, enough said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad5553
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  ok ill first start off as yeah the demo sucked *** but i was willing to take a chance and just 
 get the game and it was worth it the bow and the knive are amzing endless fun one thing that i 
 have yet to try is the online play of the game im to wraped up with the story mode. something i 
 really like about the game is that you could die at any moment theres so many enemys like the dinosars 
 and the humans. its a fast pace game and my type of gaming is up front and personal this game couldn't 
 get much butter the reason why i only gave it an 8.5 is because i haven't playen the full game 
 and i didn't play the online. to me online makes the game playable after you beat the story mode 
 otherwise you put the game away and never take it out. games like call of duty 4 not game is amazing 
 when it comes to online!! hopefully turok will do just the same 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
