-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: UEFA EURO 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/uefaeuro2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plays a great game of football.
 Excellent crowd noise.
 Realistic, challenging AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Almost the same game engine as FIFA 08.
 No club teams.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: May 19, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
UEFA Euro 2008 plays a better game of football than anything else on the market, but only just. 
 

  UK REVIEW -- First things first: UEFA Euro 2008 plays a better game of football than any other game 
 currently available for either the Xbox 360 or the PS3. EA Canada's gameplay team has been hard 
 at work on the core engine since it finished FIFA 08, and its work shows. UEFA Euro 2008 isn't 
 that far ahead of the latest FIFA offering, but minor improvements are apparent all over the pitch. 

  As you'd expect, Euro 2008 features a much smaller roster of teams compared to FIFA, only featuring 
 the international teams that are eligible for the European Championship, without any reduction 
 in the sticker price to compensate. The football is slightly faster than in FIFA 08, the animations 
 are smoother, and the addition of a manual celebration mechanic lets you control your player after 
 scoring. All of these things add up to make UEFA Euro 2008 a slightly better match experience than 
 FIFA 2008, but not that much better.  

           Captain Your Country mode lets you try for the captain's armband.      

  Euro 2008's 
 single-player modes are as varied as could be hoped given the limited nature of the licence. You 
 can play through your chosen team's qualifying campaign or just jump into the finals with your 
 team. You can also play through in the Be A Pro mode or its new cousin, Captain Your Country.  
 

  The Captain Your Country mode expands on the Be A Pro mode introduced in FIFA 08. You create a 
 player and control him during the course of the qualifying campaign rather than in just one match. 
 The aim is not only to see your team through to qualification, but also to rack up a large enough 
 number of good performances to be made captain by the time you reach the finals. The weaker the 
 team, the easier it is to become captain, but the harder it is to make it to the finals. Your personal 
 score for each match is based on how well you perform in your allotted role; as a defender, you 
 can run forward to knock in goals, but you're more likely to do well staying at the back and waiting 
 to put in that goal-saving tackle instead.  

  You compete against three other players bidding to make the transition from B-team unknown to captain, 
 with your scores out of ten displayed as you go along. This leads to some interesting gameplay, 
 as there are a number of factors to bear in mind. Firstly, you want to perform as well as you can 
 in your chosen position. Secondly, you want your team to get through to the finals and then win. 
 Finally you want to do better than your fellow captaincy candidates, which can lead to a certain 
 amount of gamesmanship as you try to ensure that they don't get the chance to impress. This is 
 an interesting take on co-op play, and it works really well in both single player -- where the other 
 players are AI controlled -- or in multiplayer, where the mode really takes off as the competition 
 hots up.  

  The football itself is very similar to FIFA 08, complete with its advanced trick system that allows 
 more skilful players to skip past multiple defenders when mastered. As with FIFA 08 this system 
 can seem overpowered in multiplayer games when one player has mastered it and the other has not, 
 but the online skill matching does a good job of ensuring that this is rarely an issue.  

  In addition to regular matches and competitions there are a number of scenarios to play out, which 
 put you in control at moments from the actual qualifying campaign that were particularly significant. 
 For instance, you might be tasked with coming out on top after having been dumped into a game 2-0 
 down with 10 minutes to go, or you might be required to replicate Scotland's famous 1-0 victory 
 over France in Paris. Winning the European Championship with any side unlocks a batch of new scenarios 
 from Euro 2004.  

  In previous midseason football titles released to coincide with major championships, playing through 
 the full qualifying campaigns was a nigh-on pointless experience when playing as a high-ranked 
 team, because you would steamroller the poorer international sides, but that isn't the case here. 
 The opponent AI changes are noticeable from the get-go of your campaign, with weaker teams defending 
 in numbers and making your life in front of goal very difficult indeed. Crowds are more vocal than 
 before, too, and are more hostile both home and away. When you're already a goal down in a match 
 that you have to win, hearing even virtual fans chanting "We want our money back" does nothing 
 for your confidence. These changes do really give the game a lot of added value as it  

  The other significant gameplay factor that has been tweaked is the weather, which now plays a more 
 significant role than before. Rain has noticeable effects on the speed the ball skids over the 
 surface; if you hit wet turf, your pass will fly off faster than you'd expect, but if you hit a 
 muddy patch, you will howl in dismay as the ball slows down and a defender slips back to cut out 
 that seemingly perfectly weighted pass to your advancing centre-forward.  

           UEFA may look just like FIFA, but there are some noticeable differences between the two 
 games.      

  The multiplayer game has also received a certain amount of attention. The most obvious change is 
 presented to you front and centre: UEFA Euro 2008 features a metagame that will tally up the performance 
 of the various European nations throughout the tournament, with daily prizes for those who perform 
 best. This performance is measured with a new in-game scoring system that attempts to quantify 
 the skill you've shown. This is based on not only the number of goals you score and let in, but 
 also on pass completion, shot accuracy, and more. It's adjusted for the skill of your team and 
 the skill of your opponent's team. This may help to address the main problem FIFA 08 has had online -- where 
 Barcelona, the best-rated in-game club side, are the most popular team to play because they're 
 so good -- but we're sceptical. More significant is the introduction of quick 16-player tournaments, 
 which can be set up among friends or with random people over Xbox Live or the PlayStation network. 
 This is a compelling addition to the series' basic multiplayer modes and is something we hope to 
 see replicated in FIFA 09.  

  Despite its smaller scope, Euro 2008 replicates the drama of a major international cup competition 
 very well. The gameplay isn't a significant enough an improvement over FIFA 08 to make it easily 
 recommendable as an upgrade given the sticker price, but if you're yet to experience EA's football 
 offerings this season then now's the time to start.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hippnfunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  UEFU EURO 08 is a football game based on EURO 2008.
  
  Very well presented and lovely player models and great kits and shirts. The fans cheer, sing, scream 
 and sing their anthem like in real life. Also the stadium effects are a neat touch.
  
  
  The managers scream and shout, they order their team and get very frustrated.
  The basics are 
 still there, circle to shoot, x to pass and so on. When you shoot, and pass a green bar comes up 
 showing the power of the shot. A bit like FIFA.
  
  
  Potential the best part of the game is scoring. When you score you can do your very own celbration 
 by combining the l2, l1, r1, r2 and the two sticks.
  However there is a odd delay when shooting.
  
  
  Be a pro is renamed captain your country 
 where you control your created player or a pro and become part of the team.
  The kits are perfectly replicted and the teams are well made as their living counterparts. Although 
 Holland dont have their real names.
  
  Apart from that a brilliant game and a football masterpeice in its own right but the best part 
 it is, its darn right fun!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  UEFA Euro 2008 is a great game and a even better sports game. But there are things that need to 
 be talked about and that's why I'm here. Well it's a Soccer/Futbol game so the main thing about 
 these type's of games are the gameplay, and this game delivers and it delivers in a big way. With 
 loads of different game types that keep you playing for a weeks. It's one great sport's game experiance. Well 
 now for the controls. They are very solid but I think it could have used some minor tweaks. Like 
 when you are playing Captain Your Country (Or Be a Pro mode) you use X to call for the ball but the 
 problem is that if they pass it when you are pressing X it makes your player pass the ball and 
 you'll find that happeining frequently. And I still can't stand the whole automaticaly changing 
 player's while the other team is running because you can be running after one person and then it'll 
 change and you'll find yourself running the complete other way. And the other trouble with that 
 is if somebody is trying to do a header and you want to swap player's so you can try to block that, you 
 can press L1 but that will usally change to someone close by so you usally just have to settle 
 for what your teamates do. Another thing that could have used another bit of tweaking is the graphics, They 
 are beautiful at first but after awhile you'll notice the small things like the ball going in the 
 net although it wasn't a goal, and there is points where the ball will go right through the players 
 leg when you pass it. Now for the good things. It has some wonderful sound effects. The crowd is wonderful (Although 
 they look crap) , when I say that I mean they sound wonderful. The AI is amazing. They can give you 
 a challenge on the easiest difficulty. The fields look great to you'll notice a sprinting trach 
 around the field and if you watch close enough you can even notice some grass sometimes flies up 
 when you are sprinting down the field.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: UEFA 2008 has local and online multiplayer. Neither one of them have major problems. But 
 on the online I experianced countless numbers of games where I lagged out of the game. But they 
 do kinda slow down the gameplay for when you are playing with lag, so you rarely have a bad laggy 
 game that you don't lag out of I'm not for sure if that's a good thing or a bad thing. The local 
 multiplayer is fun and there is nothing like beating your brother in a penalty shootout.
  
  
  
  Re-play value: Well with one great game modes you are sure to be playing for a while. You'll 
 have a great time being a Captain of your Country and taking on the world and then winning that 
 great UEFA Euro Cup. But you can also play in a leauge or just play ahainst some random guy in Australia 
 that is so much better than you.
  
  
  
  End It! All-in-all this is a buy for soccer fans and sports fans. But for anybody else this is a 
 rent it just might get you into sports. You'll enjoy weeks of re-play value with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  First let me say that this is the best soccer game this year. Its very realistic espically on the 
 Playstation 3 which obiusly has the best graphics engine.
  UEFA EURO 2008is based on this years european soccer cup so no clubs obuiisly. The controls are 
 easy excaclty like Fifa 08 that there gameplay engine are the same too. As you'd expect, Euro 2008 
 features a much smaller roster of teams compared to pro evoultion soccer 2008 and Fifa 08. The 
 football is slightly faster than in FIFA 08, and the graphics and the animation are way more cleaner 
 than the lastest game in the FiFa series.
  Euro 2008's single-player modes are suprigly better than fifa 08's because Euro 2004 wasnt a very 
 good game in single player and the gameplay and the animations werent very good. The football itself 
 is very similar to FIFA 08, with the best thing that Fifa 08's gameplay had to offer the trick 
 system that was a major point in the gameplay. Overall UEFA EURO 2008 is a fantastic game that 
 you will remeber for years to come. now for other sites ratings.
  
  GameCell UK 7 / 10 DarkZero 4.2 / 5 GameSpy 3.5 / 5 Thunderbolt 8 / 10 Electronic Gaming Monthly 
 86.7 / 100 PlayStation: Official Mag (US) 4 / 5 Play UK 62 / 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar09
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Really great game to play its a lot better and easier to run then fifa game. Better controls. Still 
 same amount of fun. Great captain your team mode. Me and my brother are on the 2nd season. You 
 play matches and better you rate better exp you get to trick out ure guy. The multiplayer runs 
 smooth so is the game it self. The animations are great. The controls are awesome i think this 
 is a really good soccer game for a while. Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done 
 Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done 
 Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done 
 Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done
  Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done Im Done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Euro 2008 is underway, and that means another blatant rip off advertisement of a videogame, right? 
 Licensed games just have that tendency to be crap, not even worthy of the slightest look. ,Actually, 
 EA Canada's latest project, the official videogame of the Euro 2008 tournament sports some crisp 
 visuals, tight controls, and lots of content to justify its price.
  
  The best thing about this impressive soccer game, are its surprisingly outstanding graphics. Everything 
 looks incredible. The great player models move fluently with a large list of fluid animations, 
 that sell the believability of the athletic, acrobatic things that these players can do. The player 
 scans are about as impressive as any sports game on the market. The players and coaches look very 
 similar to their real life counterparts, even their height and weight are accurate. With over 50 
 teams, that's a huge accomplishment. What you don't see enough in sports games, are great looking 
 sidelines, and that's actually something that you'd find perfectly in this game. Coaches react 
 to what's happening on the field, they walk around, throw their arms up in despair, cheer, all 
 with nice facial animations to match. Players on the sideline are no cardboard cutouts. They don't 
 look quite as nice as the players who actually count, but they are there, and don't all move in 
 routine. Players' jerseys fold realistically, too. Stadiums sport much detail in the crowd, and 
 the field. Grass actually isn't just a green layout, it's all very dynamic, and it seems like it 
 actually exists. There are some slight framerate drops and pop in during pre rendered celebrations 
 and ceremonies, but overall, this is one of the finest looking games so far this year.
  
  Sound quality is also great. Crowd AI actually makes sense, with some booming chants that can get 
 in your head at times. Sound effects work well, also. The soundtrack is limited, but just about 
 every song is very well, with some Euro pop, and some alternative rock. These songs aren't hits, 
 but they seem like they could. The typical EA soundtrack.
  
  The actual soccer gameplay is very enhanced over FIFA 08. There's a new meter that effects passing 
 and shooting, depending on how long you hold down the button for. This has been somewhat a part 
 of FIFA in the past, but it's so much easier and forgiving to use this time, that it puts the ball 
 at your feet when you need it. Controls are responsive, yet the learning curve is steep. There 
 are 5 difficulties, I found the 2nd one the most balanced. It provides a challenge, but isn't impossible. 
 Opponent AI is very tactical. They know where defenders are at all times, they know which dekes 
 to perform, and they can find the openings in the net. It makes the immersion factor very high, 
 and it seems like you're actually playing professionals. Ball physics are also the best they've 
 been. There's no clipping, gravity is in full effect, it all works really well. Player animations 
 are so fluid, it's a wonder how the mo cap work was actually done for it. UEFA Euro 2008 is a very 
 engrossing and rewarding soccer game that's technical, yet easy to pick up.
  
  There's lots of ways to play the game. Of course, there's kick off, which is just a simple game, 
 but you can set the scenario for it, whether a friendly, or the finals for the cup. UEFA Euro World 
 Cup is where you'll get the most play. Pick any of the 52 teams, take them through the tournament. 
 You can pick up at the beginning, during qualifying, or at the actual tournament. The tournament 
 is presented just like it is broad casted. All the graphics are the same (images with info) , and 
 overall the Euro license is used well without being abused. Online play is great and lag free mainly. 
 There's a captain your country thing, which gives you points for whatever you do with your country, 
 which you pick when you first boot up the game. These points go to a worldwide leaderboard. Right 
 now, Romania is winning. Ugh. There's a Be a Pro mode, which is similar to Madden's superstar mode. 
 You can pick a player, or create one from scratch, and lead your team to victory. For 50 bucks, 
 there's plenty of content here to last you a long time, even after the tourney is over, and Germany 
 has won. =)
  
  It's hard to think of a soccer game that has everything Euro 2008 does well. Outstanding visuals, 
 good use of the Euro license, smooth controls, lots of game modes, and good sound quality are all 
 pluses. The only real minus I can think of is the fact that it's UEFA, not FIFA. This is a look 
 at where EA's soccer franchise is going, and the future looks bright.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  You may be thinking to yourself, 'why is EA releasing another soccer game? Don't we already have 
 FIFA?' Well, yes, we do. But, you see, with the Euro 2008 approaching its start, it's only right 
 for a videogame to fill the void of those who wish to virtually recreate their own Euro 2008. And 
 because FIFA is... well, FIFA, it can't quite perform those duties, now can it? 
  Euro 2008 continues to offer the same play-by-play commentary that FIFA 08 had. And that's not 
 a good thing. Color commentary is infrequent, and so what you'll primarily hear is the chanting 
 crowd, the ball being kicked around, and a few play-by-play calls from Clive Tyldesley. Andy Townsend 
 lends his voice to Euro 2008, as well, but his contributions are nothing deep or meaningful in 
 terms of commentary. You'll be disappointed by the generic commentary, but you'll likely enjoy 
 Euro 2008's loud crowd. 
  
  All in all, Euro 2008 is yet another superb soccer game from EA Sports. It picks up where FIFA 
 08 left off, and adds improvements to the overall experience. Players now run at a more brisk and 
 realistic pace and the controls feel a touch more responsive. While issues with A. I., a lack of 
 movable sliders, and poor commentary hinders the game, Euro 2008 remains a solid sports title that 
 fans of the FIFA franchise will absolutely love. The Captain Your Country mode is, arguably, worth 
 the price on its own. Check this one out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to EA Sports and their soccer (football) titles, I know them quite well. I have played 
 every edition of the game that has been released in North America since FIFA 98: Road to the World 
 Cup. I've seen the highs (FIFA 99 on PC and FIFA 06 on PS2) and the lows (The US version of FIFA 
 2000 all versions and FIFA 2004 (off the ball was a bad idea) ) . When I knew that the Euro 2008 
 version of the game was coming out, it was a no-brainer that I would pick it up and after two weeks, 
 leading my country and helping another one win the Championship, I feel that I've accomplished 
 my goal, but I wish I didn't spend that much.
  
  Unlike the FIFA editions of the series that contain both domestic clubs and countries from around 
 the world, Euro 2008 focuses solely on the 50+ nations that make up Europe. Most of Europe is represented 
 here, with a few omissions. Countries like The Netherlands and my home-country Serbia lack official 
 kits and official players, since EA couldn't obtain their federation licences, but other than a 
 small batch, most of the nations are represented really well. The players look like their counter-parts 
 and their kits (jerseys) are correct. What is also nice is that all the nations have a large selection 
 of players, so while the main 22-23 players might not be correct as they are in the real world, 
 you can simply move players to make it correct. Also, for those of us who don't have authentic 
 players for our countries, you can edit all the players to make them more accurate. 
  
  Considering the small selection of nations (if you consider 50 nations as small) there are plenty 
 of options to play with in this game.
  
  The first option is your basic Kick-Off mode or 'Exhibition'. Here you can simply play a Team match, 
 with your option of playing a Friendly, Qualifier, Group Stage, Q-Final, Semi-Final or Final (if 
 you've unlocked them) ; Be a Pro, where you control one player on the field and try to help your 
 nation win a match and Penalty Shootout, which is self-explanatory. The next mode is UEFA Euro 
 2008 where you can take any nation and lead them from the qualifying stage to the Euros and then 
 to victory. If you don't want to go through the entire qualifying phase, you can pick one of the 
 16 qualified teams and play from the Tournament phase. 
  
  The major mode in the game is your Captain Your Country mode. Almost like an RPG, where you can 
 either create your own player or take an established player and lead them from being just a regular 
 squad member on your B side to leading your country in the finals and lifting that trophy in the 
 end. This is a really well done mode since it takes both the Be A Pro option and the Qualifying 
 and lets you try to create a perfect story. To really enjoy this, you need to create your own character. 
 I created myself as a defender (a position I play in real life) and after having a solid first 
 game, I captained the B squad in our second game, which we won 4:0. That great game got me a call 
 up to the A squad and I managed to actually score a winning goal. 
  In this mode, you're competing against 3 other players to get that spot. What's really nice is 
 that if you have 3 friends with you, they can take part of it as well. The better you play, the 
 better your rating which gives you more experience points. Then you can take your experience points 
 and develop your player to a true superstar. The ultimate goal is to have you lifting that title 
 at the end of the tournament and it will take some time to accomplish this. I absolutely loved 
 this mode and hope they can continue this with FIFA 09 and the club scene (which has so many more 
 options and can last multiple seasons.
  
  The modes don't end there. There is even a Story of Qualifying mode where you get to relive moments 
 from the qualifying stage and try to mimicking those moments. The hardest one I have had problems 
 with is trying to mimic the record breaking Germany v San Marino blow-out. You need to score 3 
 goals in about 20 minutes of game time and it can be a problem since San Marino actually plays 
 with purpose (which they shouldn't; and an issue I'll address later on) .
  
  There is also your Online Options. You have your basic Play Online against friends or random people 
 then you have EURO Online Knockout Cup which creates an online tournament against other nations. 
 It's an interesting option, but the basic stuff that will appeal to those who really enjoy playing 
 online.
  
  The last mode/option is something EA is calling Battle of the Nations. When you start the game 
 for the first time, the game asks you to pick a country to represent. Of course, you're picking 
 a European nation, so if you're not from Europe or have no country to support, this already will 
 throw you off. When you select a country to represent, you're now playing for bragging rights. 
 Regardless of if you're playing offline or online, the game tracks your play. The better you play, 
 the more points you get for your country. If your country leads at the end of the day, the game 
 rewards you with treats. While you can represent any country, they want you to play as a lesser 
 nation so you can get more points. For example, if you play as England or France, you're not going 
 to get as many points in comparison if you play as Cyprus or Iceland, since the quality of players 
 are so much better with the former rather than the later. Since I chose Serbia, I will probably 
 never see what you get for winning but it's an interesting way of earning bragging rights for your 
 countryexcept for the fact that this ends on June 30th. The game was only released in North America 
 two weeks ago, and this mode only allows us to participate for only 45 days, so those in Europe 
 already have the leg up on the rest. Also, after June 30th, there is absolutely no reason to play 
 the game for any extra incentive. It's a nice mode in theory, but they'll need to work on it if 
 they ever use this again.
  
  I've gone at length about what the game has to offer, but now what do I think of it as a game. 
 To be honest, it's a Good game but not for the price you'll have to pay for it. At 50 dollars, 
 it's overpriced considering you'll only be playing it from now until the end of June or maybe July. 
 FIFA 09 will be out in October, so while you might dabble in this here and there, once October 
 comes, you're going to forget about this one. Also, the Battle of the Nations mode also hurts since 
 it becomes useless after the end of June. Had this been 29.99 or even 39.99 then I wouldn't complain, 
 but it's 10-15 dollars over priced. Other than that, the graphics are great. The stadiums, both 
 the real ones for the tournament, the stadiums for some of the nations and even the made up ones 
 are done really well. I've already commented on the detail on the players and jerseys, so you're 
 getting a really nice looking game. On the field, the player animations are well done and quite 
 fluid; the coaches/managers look good and the addition of the ability to control your goal scorer 
 after scoring a goal is a nice touch and should be around for a while.
  The sound is again top-notch. Clive and Andy do an excellent job as their regular duties in the 
 EA series, so you're getting the feel of an authentic experience. 
  
  The only problem I have with the game play comes from the adaptive AI. EA touted that teams are 
 more realistic. Strong teams will play tough while weaker sides will compensate by playing more 
 defensive. While this is nice, it does ruin the fun for some gamers who are looking for an easy 
 victory. This doesn't bother me except for the clear fact that while weaker nations will typically 
 play defensive, they are rated poorly for a reason. If they wanted to make it more realistic, smaller 
 nations like San Marino, Estonia or even Cyprus, should still be no problem for a nation like Germany, 
 France or Italy since those smaller nations are more prone to making mistakes. Those smaller countries 
 shouldn't be as fast as the bigger nations, should not have high passing percentages or control 
 of possession. They should be easy to take the ball from and more realistic. This essentially forces 
 you to try to play against teams of equal class since that is the best way to have a great or equal 
 match.
  My problem with the AI doesn't end there. I noticed that teams also play quite differently in Kick 
 Off mode depending on the selection you pick. If you play a friendly, you will easily win your 
 match, regards of the difficulty. But if you decide to play a qualifier, group stage or any of 
 the knockout rounds, the computer AI explodes. I took my Serbia and destroyed Italy 5:0 in a friendly 
 (which is highly unrealistic) , but when I played against lowly FYR Macedonia in a group-stage match, 
 our game went to penalties, something that should not have happened. Hopefully EA will improve 
 this. I like the fact that teams won't be cookie-cut, but they should still play realistically 
 (strong sides should ultimately win, unless the player controlling them sucks) .
  
  So in the end, if you're looking for a soccer (football) title to play before the release of FIFA 
 09, you can't go wrong with UEFA Euro 2008. You might want to wait until after June 30th and buy 
 it at a lower price, since right now the cost just doesn't seem fair. Had they released this game 
 back in April as they did in Europe, then the cost would have made more sense, but at the end of 
 May, it just seems like they released it because they knew footie fans like me would be dumb enough 
 to buy the game. While I have a problem with the price and a bit with the AI, it still has a lot 
 of great options, excellent graphics and the feel of a true football match, you can't complain 
 there. While I can't see my country win the Euro, at least I can have them win in HD and there 
 isn't anything wrong with that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maplecomics
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Flamedraco's Gaming Review, we will be reviewing Euro 2008.
  It is so called FIFA 08.5 and only feature European Countries and based on the European No 1 Competition 
 for Countries.
  
  Let's start shall we?
  We take a look at the new feature- Create-a-Celebration, as you score a goal, you can let out whatever 
 you want by doing moves. Moves like The Robot, Knee Slide and all other things. In Online play, 
 this is a great way to taunt your opponents. My Combination Celebration is R3 R3 Then R1+R3.
  
  Captain Your Country is the newest and the most innovative game mode yet, You can play it with 
 your friends and with the computer. The career spans from Euro Qualification all the way to the 
 finals.
  
  Let's go back to gameplay. This game is harder to defend as it shows the realistic gameplay of 
 the real game. You now need a bar (like in shots and lobs) to pass or through pass. This is indeed 
 a great feature to makei it more realistic. 
  
  Crowd Reaction, WOW it's really amazing. They know when to cheer, when to boo, when i played Portugal 
 Vs England in Wembley, the english fans are really booing....
  
  _______________
  INTERMISSION
  _______________
  
  Let's go for the bad parts.
  
  The images of the fans 
 were choppy, like 16-bit characters, it could be visibly seen when taking freekicks.
  
  After the Dead Ball, the screen will keep going to the center circle, then to the area the ball 
 is in, a small glitch but nothing bad.
  
  Now we go to online.
  
  There is a Euro Cup Knockout Tournament which allows you to repersent a country and play a knockout 
 game. You can play all the way into the finals..
  
  BOTN or Battle of the Nations is a way you can track down your score and represent your countries. 
 It can be activated or not.
  
  The frustrating thing about online is that almost EVERYBODY PICKS FRANCE, while i use lower teams 
 like Ireland and Serbia.
  
  Be A Pro Online is not there, hopefully a patch will make it possible.
  
  Overall, this is 
 a great game, you can choose to buy it or not, but you DEFINITELY have to buy FIFA 09
  
  Graphics : 92%
  Audio : 92%
  Gameplay : 95%
  Overall :92%
  
  This is flamedraco, signing 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  This is in my humble opinion the best football game ever to be released. 
  At least it is gameplay wise. The way the players move is great, so much more realistic than the 
 games of old, and the amount of skills you can do is unbelieveable. 
  The only thing, which i will say now, that holds this game back is the tournament that it's based 
 on. Even though it has some great tournament exclusive modes, such as "Captain your Country" (more 
 on that later) it does limit the game to countries with no club teams making an appearance. 
  Back onto the positives, however, and the games graphics. The best graphics i have seen on a football 
 game. Err, not much else to say about that, it is just so much smoother than Fifa 08, and you can 
 tell this. The game seems to have had more of a sheen put upon it. 
  Moving back onto gameplay, skilling round people and defenders is much more trialling now thanks 
 to the way the players move as much as the actual skills. Mastering some of the more advanced moves 
 is suprisingly simple, but they are all to easy to get wrong in the heat of the moment, which is 
 fair bearing in mind the advantage they insue. Defenders can only do the very basic skills, midfielders 
 can do more and wingers and strikers can do the entire skill list, although a player like some 
 Armernian striker (what? i dont know their names?!?!) cant do the skills to the same level as, 
 Cristiano Ronaldo, say. rolling the ball up your heel, smootly flicking it over your head and volleying 
 it past the bumbleing keeper has never been so fun!
  There are plently of modes to play, the most basic being one off's against friends, moving up into 
 the standard tournament mode, of which there is obviously one. The best one in my opinion, however, 
 is Captain your Country, a mode where you play as just one member of any country, and try to play 
 better than all of the AI players so as to become Captain. This is basically the Be a Pro mode 
 re-vamped, but i really like it. 
  The online modes are simple, ranked and un-ranked matches, but extremely fun, made all the more 
 so by the fully customizeable celebrations. Twiddleing the analogue sticks and shoulder buttons 
 can doo anything from pointing to the crowd right the way though to Nani's doubles back twist flip 
 turn thing. Very impressive stuff, and great to piss off your opponenet with :P
  Overall a really great game, and seeing as it is made by EA Sports, its one fault will soon be 
 eradicated. 
  I mean, of course, Fifa 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  This year will feature three new football games from EA, FIFA 09, FIFA Street 3 and this game Euro 
 2008, the official game of the Euro championship. The first thing to note about this game is its 
 continued using the new FIFA engine that was featured in the last game FIFA 08 from EA, It has 
 been improved and you will notice differences but lets not forget this is the game for the European 
 championship, not FIFA.
  
  First thing is the gameplay tweaks, a very good job done as well. From last years FIFA 08, players 
 will move alot more realistically and act much more realistically on the pitch too, more moves 
 have been added for instant control and a few new skill moves for the right analog stick too. Another 
 thing to add is the players will jump in and slide for balls to either knock them into the net 
 or to a nearby player which helps in tough games. The passing and long range kicks have had a small 
 power bar as well as the normal one for added accuracy and can help with corners and free kicks 
 too. One other thing is that I found it much more harder to get the ball back after losing it, 
 AI won't just simply dribble it into you anymore, when you go in for a tackle, they will try to 
 defend, take on and pass the ball realistically.
  
  Another new feature is the new weather, It rains. This sounds great and by all means looks brilliant, 
 not only does it have added effects in the match but the players actually look wet and for example 
 Frank Lampards normal spiked up hair will drop with the rain and it all looks very impressive. 
 However the rain does slow down and create both lag and frame rate issues which is abit dissappointing 
 and hard to play with at times. This is the only dissappointing feature I found on the new game.
 
  
  Another thing to note is the vast amount of international teams featured on the game, Its brilliant 
 to pick any number of teams and have a big selection of players for you to manage any way you like, 
 which brings me to another new feature added, you can now see managers on the touch line edging 
 the players on, although sometimes you'll just see the same clip and routine from them, so its 
 not such a big deal but a nice detail never-the-less.
  
  In all there is alot to do on a game that is just made for a simple championship, for example you 
 have the mega Euro event in which includes friendlys toos, you have the story of qualifaction which 
 is very intresting and good to play on when you're bored of the 90 minute games. And the new Captin 
 Your Country which ill get into next, so the replay value is good along with the gameplay tweaks 
 and teams.
  
  Captin Your Country is something that will take off over the next lot of FIFA's, Its something 
 EA tried last year with some success, It allows you to create or take control of your own player 
 and act as his postions or how you like in a match, for example if you create your own defensive 
 midfielder you will be requied to drop back and defend as well as pushing forward to attack in 
 order to get enough points to earn captinacy.
  
  This is a game worth your time for fans of FIFA or anyone else looking for a game to acompany Euro 
 over the summer, the new features are more than enough to make it more than EA's annual international 
 2 year game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is by no means perfect but plays a solid, beautiful looking game of football. Defenders 
 are more responsive, play is at a much faster pace, the added power bar on every trype of pass 
 makes the control better, also the through balls have been improved 10 fold.
  
  Im not goin to make this long but i want to tell people who love fifa like i do, please buy this, 
 the modes are limited but i only play online so if you are also like me in that aspect then i 100% 
 recommend to upgrade to this version, fair enough Fifa 2009 will be out in October no doubt but 
 40 for 6/7 months worth of FIFA goodness is a must buy. By the time you have finished each game 
 will have cost about 1p, if that.
  
  
  Pro evo fans, there may be life in this for you but i still think if you prefer pro evo over Fifa 
 2008 you'll still prefer Pro evo over Euro 2008 as they are very similiar engine wise.
  
  FIFA FANATICS ALIKE, GET OUT AND PURCHASE THIS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wbrkr
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  I've now had over a full week on this game which was originally an impulse buy as i love to watch 
 football, and i have to say i really like it.
  
  I didnt own FIFA 08 and only briefly played it a few times, i havent bought a football game for 
 a long time as they always seemed very 'arcadey' and nothing like the real thing this however was 
 quite different. My last footie game was PES 4 on the xbox 
  
  The gameplay is quite fast and fluid, you need to pass the ball around alot and move into spaces. 
 The animations are all very real as you would expect from a modern game. The graphics are pretty 
 good and i never experience any slow down during gameplay but you do feel the character models 
 should be better. Some of the players shirts look like they are made from cardboard, they dont 
 fit their chests properly at all.
  
  Compared to FIFA 08 you can expect slightly faster gameplay and some minor improvements which i 
 wont mention. There is however 2 big new modes and the Battle of the Nations. 
  
  There is ofcourse only European national teams. No clubs but it has all the European teams that 
 are eligable not just the 16 finalists. 
  
  The biggest feature in the game is Battle of the Nations which is basically a leaderboard of countrys. 
 When you first start the game you have to choose a country to represent, after this all your points 
 rating from every game is uploaded and then calculated into that countrys average which gives a 
 good reason to play as weaker teams or on harder difficulty to increase the points you gain.
  
  There are some other great features in the game besides the usual you would expect.
  
  
 Captain your country is basically a career mode that allows you and up to 3 friends to create a 
 player from scratch or pick an existing one, to control them directly through all the Euro 08 friendlys, 
 qualfiers & finals. Theres one bad point about this mode, if you create a player you will be forced 
 into the main team after just 2 games and your skills are so low in comparison to the other players 
 you just cant compete properly. I found it much more fun to just play as an existing pro.
  Story of qualifying allows you to replay famous moments of the qualifying and try to recreate exactly 
 what happened.
  
  A few other good points about the game - The commentary is excellent but occasionally they will 
 start a conversation about english players in a game England arent even playing in.
  There is alot of achievement style things to complete in the game such as scoring X amount of goals 
 or getting man of the match 10 times which add to an overall % complete, this along with the other 
 features gives you plenty to do in the game.
  
  Its not without its bad points though and these might make the difference between you buying or 
 not so ill list them :
  
  -There is no co-op online play. All you can do is basically 1v1 team mode in one of many formats. 
 If several people are on the same console they can play together against another person online 
 but no more than 2 consoles and no be a pro. This has made me not play online as i find 1v1 too 
 competitive and not fun 
  
  -One very frustrating part of the game is that the AI will very easily take the ball off you with 
 a standing tackle if you go close to any oposing player however when its the other way around and 
 he has the ball you wont be able to tackle him easily at all. The AI seems to be programmed to 
 always keep his back to you and your options are very limited. You can pressure him yourself or 
 have 1-2 com players do it. Pressuring seems almost useless as you can never tackle the AI you 
 will often see his players run around with 2 defenders stuck on them unaffected. The other option 
 is a sliding tackle but the AI rarely gets into a position where you can do one of these without 
 getting a yellow card. I find the only way to get the ball back is to have the com pressure and 
 you limit their passing options. This often leads to long amounts of time unable to do anything 
 and on some of the special matches where you have a short amount of time to score multiple goals 
 you will get angry.
  
  -Goalkeepers are too good. They are robotic, never make mistakes and will catch or parry everything. 
 You will find mosy your goals coming from rebounds or sheer luck. This was probably done to keep 
 the scores down and make it more 'real' 
  
  -Another really bad thing - 1 star teams. These should be pushovers,6-0 thrashings, but no not 
 in this game. They all opt to play all out defense and keep 9 players infront of you. This combined 
 with the last 2 things makes these teams harder to beat than the likes of Italy and France.
  
  If you already own FIFA 08 you could skip this one and wait for 09 but when it starts in the 
 summer and you see those players on TV you will maybe wish you had bought it. 
  
  Overall despite all these things i say this game is well worth 40. There is just so much to do 
 especially if you want to reach 100% completion. Compared to alot of other PS3 games i bought that 
 were done in 1-2 evenings this is a real bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  OK so yes I may have a slight bias to not liking football games, and yes this has perhaps slightly 
 affected the score somewhat, but recently I got hooked to FIFA 08. I thought it wasn't as bad as 
 some people had said or I had originally thought, and the player animations were superb, a likeness 
 UEFA shares with FIFA, as it is more or less the same game, but some things to niggle on me slightly.
 
  
  FIFA 08 was a very handsome game, like proper handsome, if your girlfried was going out with it, 
 you would definately be jealous. The animations were brilliant as Ronhildinho dribbled the ball 
 and performed all his magnificent tricks on the pitch, compared to Pro Evo 2008, it definately 
 was the looker of the two. So UEFA being built on the same engine, howcome it looks slightly less 
 amazing? I even sat down and compared it to FIFA 08 and it looked a lot more jaggy and pixelly. 
 Seriously WTF?
  
  The animations were still great but I couldn't tell who players were from a distance and in the 
 video sections celebrating a goal, it slowed down. It went all stuttery and and stuff, like a bad 
 TV signal. And it being a game about elegance on the pitch, juttering celebrations aren't a good 
 sign.
  
  The pitches don't even look as fantastic and it looks sometimes as a spewed out cash in.
  
 
  However, tactics and play have been significantly improved and make for a generally better flowing 
 and interactional game. Whilst playing my dad, who is 47 and loves games by the way, the tension 
 and excitement built to such a climax that when I scored, the sensation was fantastic. The crowd 
 atmosphere cheering at your stonker of a goal, it was captivating, something very few types of 
 games can do. Celebrating round the front room with my t-shirt over my head and going smack face 
 into a wall.
  
  All of this is accompnied by an up to date and fully licensed sountrack, all of which are either 
 classic modern day anthems or belting tunes that 100% capture the essense of the game. Pigeon Detectives 
 have been in a lot of EA games recently and they are more than welcome to return here.
  
  The lack of teams available compared to FIFA 08 is also a bit of a let down, but then I remembered 
 it was UEFA Champions League and of course there are fewer teams in the competition, but I still 
 prefer to have the choice. However all avid England leg-humpers can have a go with JT and the gang 
 and perhaps win a competition in UEFA, still though the chances are big and fat.
  
  Overall, UEFA makes a few tweaks to the formula which tighten up gameplay and perhaps is a step 
 closer to greatness for FIFA 09. Hwever disappointing graphics hinder this games from being as 
 good as FIFA 08 as the overall look suggest it was rushed out in time for the competition. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_THFC
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is by no means perfect but plays a solid, beautiful looking game of football. Defenders 
 are more responsive, play is at a much faster pace, the added power bar on every trype of pass 
 makes the control better, also the through balls have been improved 10 fold.
  
  Im not goin to make this long but i want to tell people who love fifa like i do, please buy this, 
 the modes are limited but i only play online so if you are also like me in that aspect then i 100% 
 recommend to upgrade to this version, fair enough Fifa 2009 will be out in October no doubt but 
 40 for 6/7 months worth of FIFA goodness is a must buy. By the time you have finished each game 
 will have cost about 1p, if that.
  
  You wont regret it trust me.
  
  Pro evo fans, there may be life in this for you but i still think if you prefer pro evo over Fifa 
 2008 you'll still prefer Pro evo over Euro 2008 as they are very similiar engine wise.
  
  FIFA FANATICS ALIKE, GET OUT AND PURCHASE THIS :D
  
  Andy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Wisely, UEFA 2008 keeps much the same feel and look as its big brother, FIFA 08. Of course, it 
 is questionable as to whether it is fair to compare a full FIFA game to what is essentially an 
 international tournament version of its predecessor. 
  What is for sure is that the customary EA polish is here, along with the online features we have 
 come to expect from the franchise. Graphically, the player models look a little sharper than FIFA 
 08, probably down to the reduced amount of players available in the game. The addition of short 
 cutscenes showing the remonstrations and frustrations of the managers on the touchline is a refreshing 
 add-on, as is the feature which enables changing of the goal celebrations in real time, although 
 the modelling of the fans leaves a little to be desired compared to 08. Furthermore, on the PS3 
 version at least, there is a noticeable drop in frame rate in the instant replays, although nowhere 
 near as bad as the latest Pro Evo offering on the same console.
  Gameplay wise, the EA effort has never felt so much like Konami's Pro Evolution series in terms 
 of smooth control and a refreshing lack of gimmickry. Sharp and intuitive, the controls seem to 
 have been tuned since last year's version.
  However, the reason I would say "rent it first" is that the lack of a manager mode of the like 
 seen in the full FIFA games means that playing through the tournament with your given team a couple 
 of times may exhaust your interest in this version of the franchise. Online features are of course 
 fun, but the lack of real longterm appeal means this, like the tournament it represents, will probably 
 have run its course by the end of June. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
