-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Uncharted: Drake's Fortune
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/uncharteddrakesfortune/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lush jungle environments are stunningly realized.
 Drake's animations are nuanced and naturalistic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Tough and plentiful enemies can make firefights frustrating.
 Platforming elements can be too forgiving.
 Certain story elements are underdeveloped.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 9.0, 76 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 9,008 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Naughty Dog
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 16, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Incredible production values and plenty of thrilling moments help make Uncharted an action-packed 
 adventure, in spite of some slightly uneven gameplay. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Uncharted: Drake's Fortune Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                           
         function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The 
 Good            Lush jungle environments are stunningly realized  &nbsp;      Drake's animations 
 are nuanced and naturalistic.                The Bad            Tough and plentiful enemies can 
 make firefights frustrating  &nbsp;      Platforming elements can be too forgiving  &nbsp;     
  Certain story elements are underdeveloped.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited 
        What's this?               Update:  Trophy Support    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:18 pm PT   
    In August 2008, trophy support was added to Uncharted via a free update. The 48 available trophies 
 are based on a rewards system that was already in the game, but theyre not awarded retroactively. 
 &nbsp;               

  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is not a game about new ideas. The gameplay can and has been summed 
 up as "Tomb Raider meets Gears of War," and the story plays almost like an unfilmed  National Treasure 
  script, which is another way of saying that the Indiana Jones influence on the story is palpable. 
 Keep in mind that "derivative" isn't the same as "bad." Developer Naughty Dog has assembled its 
 borrowed parts with great proficiency to create an action adventure game with momentum, one that 
 is filled with exciting set pieces, a real cinematic scope, and some of the most gorgeous visuals 
 you'll see in a game.  

           And this is just the beginning.      

  That Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a game that trades in archetypes is apparent throughout the 
 story. You'll play as Nathan Drake, an independent adventurer with a wry sense of humor who claims 
 to be a descendent of Sir Francis Drake. That fact figures prominently in the narrative as you 
 go hunting for an ancient relic believed to be hidden somewhere on an uncharted tropical island. 
 The supporting cast includes your friend Sully, who's a cigar-chomping, affable cad with a taste 
 for trouble, and Elena, a confident TV reporter who splits her time between being your sidekick 
 and your damsel in distress. There are villains as well, including Nathan's dry British counterpart 
 as well as a belligerent pirate captain, though you'll likely find their minions far more threatening. 
 The game attempts to add some twists and turns to the plot, but they never really pan out. Nevertheless, 
 the story generally moves with efficiency, as well as some occasionally snappy dialog.  

  Even if what's happening during the in-engine cutscenes isn't significant, it always looks great. 
 Much of the game takes place in dense jungle environments and a variety of ancient ruins, which 
 the game renders with a nearly photorealistic level of detail. Plants sway, water trickles, and 
 the textures really look like they've got  texture . There are a few moments when the game goes 
 outside its wheelhouse with some murky industrial environments that look flat and drab by comparison, 
 but these sequences are rare.  

  Nathan himself isn't a particularly flashy-looking character in his dirty gray shirt and jeans, 
 but the subtlety of his animation conveys more about him than any outfit would. He'll do a stumbled 
 half-step when traversing uneven terrain, and you'll see him wince when a bullet gets too close 
 to comfort during a firefight. Likewise, his arms will flail spastically during a big jump, and 
 afterward he'll dangle precariously by one hand on the edge he was aiming for. When he gets into 
 a fistfight, half the time it's surprising he makes it out alive. Even when he's performing seemingly 
 impossible acrobatic tasks with ease, the quality of the animation gives him a real sense of fallibility. 
 There's also some terrific facial animation, of which you'll see plenty during cutscenes, though 
 you'll catch glimpses of it during gameplay as well. When a grenade lands near Nathan's feet, you 
 can see the fear in his eyes. The technical feats required to produce what you see on the screen 
 in Uncharted boggle the mind, and the end results make it hard to look away.  

  The same terrific attention to detail in the graphics is paid to the way Uncharted sounds. The 
 dynamic score is appropriately big and sweeping, the weapon fire has a real clap to it, and the 
 voice cast really nails its characterizations. There are plenty of little touches that fill things 
 out nicely as well, such as the way you'll hear Nathan mutter to himself as he tries to calm his 
 own nerves, or the muffled ring you'll hear everything filtered through when an explosive goes 
 off nearby.  

  Uncharted ultimately uses all of this glimmer to deliver a gameplay experience that is fast-paced 
 and intermittently spectacular, but also really familiar and a little inconsistent. There are two 
 significant concepts in Uncharted that make up most of the game's running time, though they very 
 rarely intersect. There's environment traversal, which will have you leaping across chasms, scrambling 
 up ledges, and swinging on vines to progress through the game. As good as Uncharted is at making 
 this stuff look harrowing, the game gives you a lot of direction as to where you need to go next, 
 as well as a lot of leeway in the accuracy of your controls. It's easy fun to scrabble your way 
 across these occasionally contrived environments, but other games have done it more elegantly. 

  By comparison, the combat can be devilish at times in its difficulty. The combat consists mostly 
 of gunplay, and you'll be brandishing a variety of handguns, assault rifles, shotguns, and grenade 
 launchers over the course of the game. Nathan's a pretty fragile dude, and it takes only one or 
 two shots before the color starts draining out of the screen, which makes it important to find 
 and use cover intelligently. By comparison, the pirates and mercenaries that you'll face through 
 most of the game are remarkably sturdy, and can regularly absorb half a clip before going down. 
 Headshots help move things along, though oddly, we found pistols to be far more effective for this 
 than anything other than the sniper rifle, even at several hundred yards.  

  Enemies are also pretty smart, and if you stay in one position for too long during a firefight, 
 they'll flank you. Dealing with half a dozen cagey enemies who can take roughly as much damage 
 as you isn't impossible, but it can often take multiple tries, which can be fist-clenchingly frustrating 
 when dealing with wave after wave of enemies. There are portions of the game where it seems like 
 you're just moving from one infuriating firefight to the next, and it creates a weird contrast 
 to the easygoing platforming stuff. If you can get close enough to an enemy without getting perforated, 
 which is a rarity, there's some simple hand-to-hand combat. It looks more dynamic than it really 
 is in terms of gameplay, which is both a credit to how hard-hitting the fisticuffs look and a slight 
 against their simplicity.  

           Resilient enemies can make the combat mighty challenging.      

  Amidst all the jumping 
 and shooting, the game includes some straightforward environmental puzzles, as well as some really 
 entertaining vehicle sequences, including a lengthy chase sequence where you man a gun on the back 
 of a jeep, and another that has you piloting a personal watercraft up a raging river. The game 
 is also fond of those little interactive cutscenes that every God of War and Resident Evil seems 
 to be brimming with these days, and though the novelty wears a little thinner every time they crop 
 up in a game, they still work well enough in Uncharted. There's a little bit of motion control 
 wedged into a few spots, but their pretty halfhearted, which makes it a bit of a relief that they 
 don't show up that often. Interestingly, Uncharted uses a performance-based reward system very 
 similar to the Xbox 360 achievements to dole out making-of featurettes, concept art, alternate 
 costumes, and the like. It's a minor touch, but it's a smart and proven way to enhance replay value. 

  It took us about eight hours to get through Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, and it was an action-packed 
 eight hours, without much in the ways of load times or informational status screens to break it 
 up. The imbalance between the gunplay and the platforming is jarring but forgivable -- but the platforming 
 itself works pretty well and looks fantastic thanks to the game's excellent motion-captured animation. 
 If nothing else, Uncharted is a graphical showcase for the PlayStation 3, and it dazzles the senses 
 at nearly every opportunity.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (787 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  Review for Uncharted
  
  Graphics 9/10 : real stunning , from what i have read from Wikipedia , this game only uses 30% 
 of the PS3's graphics engine and it looks so magnificent to look at u will want to admire the bright 
 and beautiful jungle before advancing . ( Other parts looks better , like the waters) .
  
  Gameplay 10/10 : Gameplay is the one that really shines . Although u may get frustrated from the 
 enemy's attacks and they are really skilled , no matter what difficulty ur playing , better be 
 careful of them. U get to free aim while tkaing cover , run and gun which looks awesome and the 
 close combat. Close combat looks like ur really punching someone hard and destroying him. 
  
  Story : 8/10 : Story does not make sense whatsoever but it stood out like a romantic story 
 but the main point of the story is just finding a special treasure thats all , but there are unexpected 
 twits in the story and im bound ur sure to love it.
  
  Get this game , there are even trophies for it , making the game more worth of ur money!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of those games that you hear about forever, your hopes building as time goes on 
 until it finally releases. Good thing it's such a great game, or lots of people would be disappointed! 
 Naughty Dog hyped every aspect of the game from the graphics to the groundbreaking animation system. 
 It turns out that all their hard work paid off. 
  Uncharted is an extremely cinematic experience. The environments are breathtaking, and the animation 
 is top notch. You are Nathan Drake, witty treasure hunter extraordinaire. You are given a variety 
 of guns with which to dispose of your enemies and an awesome cover system. Nate can duck behind 
 almost everything although some things won't stand up to too much enemy fire. The gunplay is unique 
 to the point where you will probably have a hard time with precision aiming at first. Give it some 
 time, though, and you'll be pulling off headshots left and right. 
  Throughout your adventure, you'll encounter a host of fully fleshed out characters. The story is 
 quite good and gets very interesting near the end. The cutscenes are phenomenal, with the great 
 character models, stunning animation and graphics and the witty remarks combining to elevate uncharted 
 to high level of storytelling excellence. 
  Many people may have wanted another Jak game, but what Uncharted accomplishes is enough to almost 
 make me forget about Jak and Daxter almost
  Go out and pick up Uncharted, it's one of the best exclusives the PS3's got
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OcelotSnake
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune could have been a movie. The setting looks like it wouldn't be out of 
 place in an Indiana Jones movie, it has a blockbuster soundtrack, orchestrated of course, and a 
 cast of almost cliche made-for-movie characters. But Uncharted isn't a movie, and thank God for 
 that, because Uncharted is a really great game. In fact it's that Indiana Jones "I've seen this 
 a thousand times before" movie vibe that makes this such a unique game
  
  At the beginning of the game, you're introduced to two of the games most important characters. 
 Elena Fisher, an ambitious journalist, and the star of the game Nathan Drake. Drake is a likeable 
 character, humorous, light heartadly sarcasticcharming and somewhat over-confident, he provides 
 you with memorable and at times genuinely funny dialogue throughout the game. Drake is searching 
 for the lost treasure of El Dorado, and after uncovering the coffin and treasure map of his ancestor 
 Sir Frances Drake through underwater excavation, begins his journey. Sully, Drakes close friend, 
 comes with him as his partner in the search for El Dorade. An old ex-playboy, Sully is like an 
 older version of Drake, utilising that same sense of humour and sarcasm into his persona. It all 
 seems to be going perfectly, except they soon find out that there is someone else searching for 
 the same treasure
  
  The setting for the most part is that of a tropical island in the pacific ocean. The textures and 
 colour throughout Uncharted are outstanding, and the characters are all realistic and very lifelike. 
 It really is a great looking game that's easy on the eyes, and the tropical atmosphere is well 
 realised and is a definate presence in the game
  
  The gameplay here is like a combination of Tomb Rader, Gears Of War and Assassin's Creed. It combines 
 free running/climbing/jumping (Assassin's Creed) with exploration, puzzle solving (Tomb Raider) 
 and a cover and shoot mechanic (Gears Of War) . The climbing and puzzle solving aspect of the game 
 is great fun and the combat is fun and tremendously satisfying. It all works very well. All of 
 this is combined with fantastic voice acting, music and fx and a story that progresses throughout, 
 unfolds with twists and turns and compells you to keep playing.
  
  Uncharted is a great game. Everything just works! From the combat to the exploration and puzzle 
 solving, to the gun fights and fighting sequences that play out in a great looking game with a 
 great musical score and a compelling plot. You wont want to put it down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  So this was my first game on the PS3 with Ratchet & Clank Future : Tools of Destruction. My review 
 is a bit late and this is my first review but try to enjoy.
  
  Lets start with the good things
  Like I said; this game has a nice milieu and a very good storyline. 
 The graphs are pretty good too, though the game is getting a little old. The characters are interesting. 
 Nate has got some of that black humour. I'd still say the story is the strongest thing in this 
 game. I'm not sure why, but I've played thorugh this game three times. Thats my record on playing 
 through a PS3 game. :) The platinum trophy is pretty easy to get.
  
  Then the bad things:
  The gameplay is a little clammy, but we shall remember that this game was 
 one of the PS3 release games. I don't think a multiplayer would fit this game. So that's not a 
 problem. A thing that I must mention is the shortness of the game. This game really is short. Takes 
 atleast under 10 hours to play through, depending on how fast you are.
  
  Who can I recommend it to? 
  Uncharted : Drake's Fortune is not a that hard game even on the 
 "Crushing" level. I can recommend it to everyone who likes adventuring, a good storyline and can 
 take a little maybe scary surprise. :) There are little puzzles too for them who like. This game 
 is similar to the Tomb Raider games, so if you're a fan of Lara Croft, then this is your game.
 
  
  This game really is a must have on the PS3. We are waiting for Uncharted 2 : Among Thieves, which 
 will be released sometime in the end of 2009. You should play this game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog has never ceased to disappoint in my eyes and Uncharted is everything it is supposed 
 to be and more. A fantastic pulp fiction story, a la Indiana Jones and Tomb Raider, is the backdrop 
 for a new action hero that feels more real than most any other character ever inserted into a video 
 game. Nathan, the hero of Uncharted, has mannerisms (thanks to superb voice acting and animation) 
 that seem so convincing and real that it is hard not to fall in love with. He is a very capable 
 fighter with a touch of what i like to call "Jack Sparrow Syndrome". You will laugh at his antics 
 just as much as you will be wowed at his capabilities.
  
  Gameplay looks like it would be more on the Tomb Raider side of things ( a common misconception, 
 even from those who have played the game) but leans more towards a shooter/action title than a 
 adventure/puzzle solver. The beautifully rendered environments are overrun with dozens upon dozens 
 of enemies and you will have to wade through the bodies on your long quest to find El Dorado. The 
 AI is very challenging and when this is combined with how many enemies you will be blasting away 
 ... well... it makes for one challenging experience.
  
  Uncharted weighs in at a bout 10 hours of gameplay, give or take a few hours depending on your 
 own personal skill. The story isn't too much and isn't too little either. Characters aren't your 
 overdone archetypes that are seen in the majority of today's games but are more realistic, which 
 is one of the reasons why this title feels like a summer blockbuster flick (think Fool's Gold with 
 a whole lot less romance!) .
  
  Puzzles are almost non existent, meaning a three year old would be able to figure them out in no 
 time at all. But like i said, this game is about the action, not the puzzles, and you are going 
 to get plenty of it. This is one rollercoaster ride that any action or adventure fan shouldn't 
 miss out on! Personally, i'm counting down the days till Uncharted 2 Among Thieves releases!
  
  PS - It is funny to me how GS puts the difficulty of this game in its section of things bad 
 about this game..... even if it is a bit difficult, though not as difficult as some say (can they 
 not take the heat?) , the checkpoint system is among the best and the game is very rewarding with 
 a good amount of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:04 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a new IP created by Naughty Dog who were famous for their successful Jak and Daxter 
 series and as you would expect this game is top notch!
  
  Story: Nate Drake seeks to learn more about his ancestor's (Francis Drake) mysterious past, after 
 recovering his coffin from the sea floor Nate learned that Francis faked his death in order to 
 protect a secret that he felt must be kept, which was the location of the ancient golden city of 
 El-Dorado. After surviving a pirate attack and rescued by his old friend Sully, Drake heads out 
 to south America in order to discover the forgotten system and learn more about Francis Drake's 
 past activities.
  
  Game design: 
  Uncharted is an action platformer that mixes the element of platforming, puzzle solving and action 
 adventure (similar to Tomb Raider)
  Uncharted's graphics are simply amazing and one of the best looking games even to date.
  Most 
 of the game's environment will be jungle and ancient ruin based.
  The game is linear to a certain extent, you will basically be platforming to places with a few 
 gun fight sequences along the way, it may not be anything revolutionary but it is still fun and 
 very entertaining.
  The story is well presented with a great share of surprising and shocking moments as well as a 
 few plot twists, keeping you playing and stoked for the ending.
  There will be co-op moments with NPCs for puzzle solving and gun fight sequences (Although during 
 gun fight sequences they are not very useful) and whenever you get lost in puzzle solving you can 
 always open Drake's note book for hints.
  
  Game play: You will play as Nate Drake, you will be able to run, jump and climb. You will also 
 be able to cover behind objects and can crawl, jump over or even shoot from cover.
  Speaking of shooting you will be able to carry weapons around with you but you will be limited 
 to 2 weapons, after that, certain weapons will be replaced with other weapons (Shotguns, Sniper 
 rifles and etc) .
  The game also features button sequenced melee combat, where when you press certain combos you can 
 either dodge or parry enemy blows and can make for a stylish finsh.
  The health bar in Uncharted is like no other game, while standard games have you take hits and 
 stock up on health in order to regenerate, in Uncharted your health regenerates automatically, 
 the more hits you take the more blurry the screen gets and when that happens you will need to find 
 cover in order to recover, however if you keep getting hit you will die, this is a welcomed mechanic 
 as it will save you from having to look for health (When finding ammos for a particular weapon 
 is already much of a chore) the down side is you cannot upgrade your health as you progress but 
 that's OK, as it serves to balance the game well and it definitely makes it challenging, as it 
 will force you to make good use of the cover system.
  
  Sound: Music fits well with the atmosphere, voice works are well done and well scripted and character 
 dialogues are really cool, funny and charming, making for great presentation. Characters will be 
 talking during game play as well.
  
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune COULD be seen as a Tomb raider rip-off, however this is a rare case where 
 the rip-off actually succeeds the original, Uncharted pretty much fixed the problems that were 
 in Tomb Raider (The camera, combat and etc) and made them much better, It's got a fun and interactive 
 game play as well as an interesting story that could pass out as a good movie.
  The only complaint I may have with the game is the cover system's smoothness, sometimes when you 
 intend to run over the other side Drake crouches down for cover and becomes open for enemy fire 
 which can make the game frustrating at times, the game is also quite short, not as short as Heavenly 
 Sword but short still.
  
  Uncharted is a great joy ride and you should definitely check it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostfaceL94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Impressive graphics
  - Action pack story
  - Platforming's pretty cool
  - The beautiful Elena ;)
  
  Cons:
  - Brain busting puzzles
  - Tough enemies
  - Enemies 
 fall weird when you shoot them
  
  Summary:
  So this game still retails $60, but I highly recommend to rent it first because you can finish 
 this game in about 6-10 hours of dedicated gameplay. Plus 10-20 hours to get the platinum trophies. 
 Now on to the review, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is definitely one of the best graphics on the 
 market right now no doubt. The story is well written and there's unexpected surprises. All guns 
 are pretty tight and they're all effective and platforming is pretty close to Assassin's creed, 
 the only problem I had is the camera would follow the next rock you need to jump in where it took 
 some thinking part off. And how can we forget Elena? Man this chick's hot and she looks good in 
 HD. Now the bad side, tough enemies. It can really ruin your gameplay at first but if you get use 
 to it you can handle all of them at once. They also fall awkwardly when you shoot them. One particular 
 is when you shoot them with a shotgun and they would fly 10 metres in the air. The puzzles..... they're 
 not bad, but there's too much puzzles in the game and most of them I had to google for answers.
 
  
  All together this game is great but just rent it.
  
  Have a nice day brother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Nothing quite captures the imagination like a good treasure hunt. As far back as Treasure Island, 
 shifting into a more modern interpretation with Raiders of the Lost Ark, and finally roaring into 
 modern day with Uncharted: Drake's Fortune.
  
  The single biggest inspiration I noticed was the 1982 television series Tales of the Gold Monkey, 
 which was the direct inspiration for Disney's Talespin. With Sully's seaplane, the treasure hunting 
 motiff, and the island-hopping adventure the parallels are pleasing. Even the characters of Drake 
 and Sully correspond well with Jake Cutter and Bon Chance Louis. Enough with that, on with the 
 game:
  
  Graphics: 10 - Simply said this game is Uncharted... as in off the charts. The much-hyped production 
 values are evident and clear.
  
  Music: 10 - From start to finish the music sets the mood. Well enough that you can often get a 
 cue that the firefight is about to start. Well, that happens in movies too.
  
  Controls: 8.5 - Controls are fluid and responsive with the exception of the cover mechanic which 
 can unintentionally stick you to the wrong side of your cover in a firefight. It's a problem which 
 can be fixed but NOT using the cover button to roll from position to position, but then that makes 
 that function useless.
  
  Replayability: 9 - With lots of little hidden treasures and really fun gun battles this game has 
 a lot of replayability.
  
  Overall: 9 - This one would be a shame to miss. The critique that the enemies can take an inordinate 
 amount of gunfire is accurate but not broken. Overall the firefights are exhilarating and fun and 
 can all be passed within a few tries. The story is very satisfying even if it did take a little 
 while for me to open up to the characters of Sully and Elena. Drake was full of good dialogue along 
 the way and all the voice acting was splendid. The game had an excellent little twist near the 
 end that really affected game dynamics and throughout the AI showed surprising intelligence, even 
 moving to flank your position in nearly every battle. This one is a system-seller. If you're on 
 the fence about the PS3 pick up the 80g packaged with this game. It's worth it.
  
  As for me; I can't wait for Uncharted 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTiD1NG0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Very little Naughty Dog games fail to disappoint, probably none at all. So it wasn't a bad assumption 
 to suggest this could probably be a superb game especially since the event of pre release pictures 
 showing the superb graphics not to mention videos also revealing superb game play. Simply put in 
 the first paragraph, Uncharted is another Naught Dog game. Need I say more?
  
  When you start up Drakes Fortune, you are put into a very intriguing cut scene, curious and mysterious, 
 showing the superb graphics not to mention sound with exceeding original music and voice acting. 
 In your awe you are then put into the game play which is beyond awesome matching Gears of War to 
 the finest degree, in the shoes of Nathan Drake, you are to uncover a incredible story too. The 
 story is, you Nathan Drake wish to find your late ancestor mystery. Where he discovered something 
 but never revealed it not because of the amount of people trying to get it of him but for something 
 else. Although you alone couldn't fund this whole expedition, where you find your friend Elena 
 who works for a program, Nathan wants the treasure where Elena wants the story for big pay and 
 to get an awesome story on her show. Nathan is about late 20's and then in all obviousness your 
 partner Elena is in her late 20's with a small romance part which develops throughout. But it's 
 not just you two, facing hooligans to find this treasure; you are pitted with a husky old late 
 50's called Sulli. "Up to my eyeballs in debt" he says, this is where the enemies come in, Sulli's 
 sold the plan of Drakes Fortune to his seller and now the trio against all odds have to outwit 
 their enemies to find the treasure before their very eyes. The story faces many novel twists including 
 betrayal and surprises to enthral you and keep you glued to your television.
  
  Uncharted can take you no more than ten hours if you are well challenged but after your first play 
 through it can take any less than eight hours and get shorter each time. The not too hard trophies 
 help's the game get played multiple times since they can all be achieved within two or three playthrough's. 
 The difficulty is recommended to be played more on the easier side to start with, but on your second 
 play through you should unlock "Crushing" and already have Hard, either are challenging and not 
 to cheap on your second play through so you're not playing a too hard game. You won't face a variety 
 of enemies, but no spoilers (PM me if you want to know) , there is an interesting enemy towards 
 the end of the second half of the game which really freshens up the game play and you're not only 
 killing one enemy but two different enemies at the same time, if you stay away they will fight 
 between themselves so alot more tactical thinking is needed towards the end. Speaking of freshened 
 up game play, Uncharted doesn't keep you glued to your screen with the summer blockbuster story 
 but the variety of missions really adds to the compelling storyline which on one hand is probably 
 why you could quite possibly finish it in a day. You could be using the 50 calibre turret on a 
 jeep or driving a speed jet up waterfalls, to keep the game play constantly engaging. You then 
 have henchmen with pistols earlier in the game next you get into the henchmen with assault rifles. 
 With some more health and harder to kill, you have shotgun men probably because there fat is what 
 suits their gun and health better, then you have elite henchmen with laser tagged pistols and other 
 high tech weapons much later in the game. Although Uncharted is very short, it really has so much 
 replay value to complete it more than several times, I have completed it five times more than any 
 other adventure game I've played. An addition to the replay value is if you complete challenges 
 in game like finding so many treasures or killing so many people with a particular gun. With these 
 rewarded points, you receive rewards such as unlocking guns and infinite ammo on that gun or unlocking 
 one of the in game characters and ironically killing the bad guy at the end with you as the bad 
 guy himself is quite funny in all respects. Not only that but interesting engaging videos which 
 aren't boring at all and really are intriguing to help you appreciate the game more and really 
 give you more depth on Nathan's background that you never really knew from the game itself. It's 
 not like you get certain points and buy and start from zilch, you continue on to 1000 until each 
 challenge has been achieved and rewards has been rewarded. The harder rewards like unlocking bad 
 main characters and grenade launchers require 1000 points but easier ones can be at about 200. 
 
  
  If I was to describe the game play of Uncharted in three words it would be "Gears of War". The 
 game play is completely relevant and really does a fine job of it although the crosshair is small, 
 it just right and after a while you'll get used to it in no time. Shooting guns is a thrill and 
 especially since there are 30+ guns with each of their own superb sounds, it gives a really nice 
 nostalgia feeling if you see what I mean. You will use all you can find all too a big degree especially 
 since well balancedweapons and lack of ammo will result in you killing a man and scavenging for 
 his ammo. Those are the key words for fire fights in Uncharted. Let him get close, kill him, take 
 his ammo. Do this by rinsing and repeating and you'll be well on your way to becoming a treasure 
 hunter. Referring to the game as lack of ammo in Uncharted, it really doesn't make a difference 
 and finding more ammo is really rewarding. When you are constantly thrown in little tasks meaning 
 you'll never have a complete bandolier. When I say getting close, I mean close and personal not 
 just with a shot gun but with intense take downs, which really get exciting with specific button 
 timing which really adds more variety to the rewarding game play. Square, Circle, Triangle or Square, 
 Square, Square with some many combinations it's hard not to get bored of take downs. Sometimes 
 you'll just leave one guy and trudge through an entire battle field just to take down one guy because 
 of the intensity of the takedowns. Speaking of buttons, each button is so well placed and using 
 the reload feature as part of the d pad it's simply weird but incredible. It works so well, just 
 tapping it to reload with some slick animations of reloading. Just tapping a miniscule button for 
 some obscure reason feels great. Every button is well used to a fine degree. Square to start of 
 a takedown or Circle to take cover, every button even mostly the d pad is used although the triangle 
 button is preferably used for changing weapon, again using the d pad as a preference for changing 
 weapons feels alot better than using triangle for reloading. The main reason for this being great 
 because is it is easy and hassle free which works especially well using cover, if you buy it from 
 this recommendation, you'll see why.
  
  The graphics are stunning, immersive to say the least, while you'll be fighting in jungles and 
 in some parts in underground environments most of the game, in some parts, it's the lush jungle 
 environments and creepy, murky underground which sets it apart from most games making it immersive 
 not only that but the cut scenes shine to standards like Metal Gear Solid 4 does. Naughty Dog have 
 shown us a top quality game in game graphics and cut scene graphics as well setting a par for Xbox 
 360 games to compete with.
  
  Sound exceeds expectations of the standards of any game. Every area polished until it cannot no 
 more. The dialogue and voice acting is so believable from which suits perfectly with the cut scene 
 animations combining sleek and incredible audio and visuals to make this game one cohesive package 
 alone. The original soundtrack is very mysterious giving that Tomb raider feel to it, which is 
 one of the best soundtracks in years. Each one is unique from each other with no more than a massive 
 ten different tracks in total. With 30+ guns it's hard not to be astounded with each guns chirping 
 sound delivering a unique noise to suit the gun and please the user too. Each used to roughly the 
 same degree which makes the weapons equally well balanced and sound matches this just as well.
 
  
  It's hard to start about Uncharted's gorgeous visuals and enthralling game play and sound, making 
 it hard to stop as well. Every area of Uncharted fits together so perfectly to make it one incredible 
 package, if there was one thing which could have been changed about Uncharted and possibly made 
 it a ten would be to double or triple for that matter the summer blockbuster's length which truly 
 would have made it a truly perfect game. While you might not want to buy a Playstation 3 just for 
 an intense frantic story, you should definitely add this game if you own a Playstation 3. If you 
 do, there's no excuse even it was at full retail value. Buy this game! Now then!
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Pros
  .30+ Weapons feel, shoot and sound are completley beyond par setting a new standard for games.
 
  .Compelling storyline, keep you glued to your screen.
  .Not to mention, compelling characters each with their own distinctive personality.
  .Gameplay 
 is the ultimate reward along with very engaging missions with so much variety.
  .Gameplay uses a great "Gears of War" cover system and "Bourne Conspiracy" takedowns to make it 
 better than it already is.
  .Incredible amount of replay value including extra difficulties and extras containing costumes, 
 weapons and video clips.
  .Superb script with well crafted dialogue and voice acting to define the story even better.
  
 .The D-Pad works suprisingly well with the controller, as well as more superb controls to match.
 
  .There is alot of variety in the enemies which freshens up towards the end with a new type of 
 enemy.
  . Very well presented graphics cuts scenes are at Metal Gear Solid 4 standards and environments 
 like Jungles and Undergrounds are either lush or creepy and murky creating a perfect blend of both.
 
  .One of the best packages you can find on the Playstation 3.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Cons
  .Simply put, too short. As it's too engaging for some people it could be finished in a day. For 
 some in a weekend and if you are well challenged in a week but if you don't like it, you have bad 
 taste.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story Missions: 9.0
  Story Plot: 9.0
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound 9.5
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronin893
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  The game does follow the same platforming and exploring elements that have made games like Tomb 
 Raider, but I believe the team at Naughty Dog have improved on a lot of the elements that I had 
 issues within that game.
  
  Any great game has got to have a great story. I won't go into to much details and I know the idea 
 of finding lost treasure has been done a thousand times but I was immersed in story none the less. 
 You play as Nathan Drake as he tries to find the treasure that his ancestor Sir Francis Drake was 
 searching for and hopefully has found. You quickly find out that you are not the only one looking 
 for this treasure and that Sir Francis had the same problem as well.
  
  You encounter pirates and merchs and even something that I was hoping to avoid but not disappointed 
 that I had to deal with, as you traverse the jungles and tombs on this uncharted island. Thus the 
 name. The environments look great from the forested and viney amazon to a crumbling city that is 
 submersed in the ocean. Standing at the top of a tower and looking out to the ocean just feels 
 great. The characters all look great and with professional voice talents bringing them to life 
 makes this a very enjoyable experience. 
  
  The game play isn't new and it does not need to be. With a mixture of hand to hand combat ( although 
 limited ) and gun play. This is where I feel this game separates itself from Tomb Raider. You don't 
 have to shoot people a lot of times to take them out, even with a simple hand gun. You need this 
 because ammo is limited which I loved. You get an array of weapons which forces you to use them 
 all and you don't have a default weapon with unlimited ammo. 
  
  They could have improved the targeting system a bit. This was the only issue I had in the game. 
 It was difficult when you were behind cover and tried to pop out and shoot someone. A few more 
 unlockable weapons besides Sullivan's gun would have extended the replay value more. 
  
  Overall this is a game you have to experience. It has a great story, superb characters and voice 
 acting, with humor mixed in to an exciting gameplay that will keep you coming back for more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildDangles92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is one of the best PS3 games out there today, plain and simple. It's fun, 
 humourous, intense and mind blowing. Despite the short length of the game, every second you play 
 is worth it. Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a short game, with a big heart.
  
  You play as Nathan Drake, who is one of the most unique characters in video games. His light hearted 
 take on a life threatning situation is nothing short of humourous, and oh ya, did I mention he 
 can handle a pistol pretty well. The story of the game is well balanced, Nathan is the supposed 
 descendent of the famed Sir Francis Drake, and after finding his diary with a little help from 
 a TV host Elena, and his friend Sully, Drake begins his quest to find the famed treasure Sir Francis 
 left behind. Early on in the game, you meet Navarro and Romen, who serve as the games antagonists. 
 Throughout the course of the game, the story begins to unfold and it does a great job at keeping 
 you on the edge of your seat. Although the story isnt Oscar worthy, it is up there with some of 
 the great stories this generation, such as Halo 3, Metal Gear Solid 4 and Grand Theft Auto 4.
 
  
  To continue with the games presentation, we will now talk about the visuals in the game. Where 
 to begin, I am writing this review April 2nd, 2009. The game was released in late 2007, and yet 
 the game is still one of the best looking PS3 games, up there with Killzone 2 and Metal Gear Solid 
 4. Lighting and textures are terrific, the sun comes through the trees and casts a shadow on the 
 rocks and grass, and it is absolutely stunning. Early on in the game there is a scene where you 
 can look out at the entire forest, and what you see is a beautiful forest that is photorealistic. 
 A game that looks this good has to have some demerit to it, and those have to be the screen tearing 
 and texture pop in. When I played the game, I noticed it a few times, but they werent frequent 
 enought to stop me from playing. The presentation of Uncharted is absolutely outstanding, it's 
 obvious that Naughty Dog knows exactly what they are doing.
  
  The gameplay in the game is also top-notch. Think of it as a Gears of War meets Tomb Raider. All 
 the things that made the gameplay in Gears of War fantastic are raised in this game. Gunplay is 
 addictive fun, and the platforming sequences are easy and enjoyable. There isn't anything bad to 
 say about the gameplay. The enimies are a different story. Fights just seem to drag on as they 
 just keep on coming. When you think there done, more come, and when you finally are REALLY into 
 it, ready to take down every pirate in the land, they stop. Overall this isn't too bad, and doesn't 
 take away from the games fantastic gameplay.
  
  One defining factor of the game is replay value. Although it doesn't have much, it does have enough 
 to keep you playing at least 3 times. There are 60 treasures in the game that can be found, and 
 for every 5 you recieve a bronze trophy, and finally a silver for finding them all. You can find 
 all 60 treasures on your first playthrough if you have a keen eye, or a knack for looking at walkthroughs, 
 but the game also has other rewards, like getting a certain number headshots, certain number of 
 kills with a certain weapon and pulling off the brutal combo a certain number of times. These unlock 
 trophies to add to your collection. 
  
  Uncharted is a short game, clocking in at around 12 hours if you play it on the normal difficulty. 
 But the pace never lets up. The game is almost like a summer blockbuster action movie. Your also 
 in for at least 4-5 hours of laughter. To add more incentive to play it again, you can play on 
 hard and crushing mode, which are a little harder and will add more time to the game. Finishing 
 the game on these difficulties are your source for gold trophies, so the incentive to play again 
 is there, and its unavoidable, as the experience is so great that you just want to play it again.
 
  
  Lastly, the sound in the game is top notch. The musical score is fantastic as it truly gives the 
 game a mood fit for an action/romance movie. Voice acting is also great, as the performance for 
 Nathan Drake, as I said before, is humourous and fantastic. Other characters like Elena, Navarro, 
 Sully and Roman are also treated to amazing voice actors. Music this good is rarely seen in games. 
 In my lifetime, the only time I have seen music this good is in Metal Gear Solid 2 and 4, Final 
 Fantasy series, and Halo 1-3, and those are all revoloutionary franchises. 
  
  Before I played Uncharted, I had doubts, in fact there were times when I just plain didn't even 
 want to bother playing. But then I got it for Christmas, started playing it and haven't looked 
 back. Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a game that PS3 owners MUST play. Period.
  
  Story: 9.5
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  Replay Value: 9.0
  
  Overall: 9.5
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Singh_19
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune takes you on an adventures thrilling hunt to find the treasure known as 
 El Dorado. The main character Drake sets sail to find this treasure with friends of his.
  
  (THE GOOD)
  It just sucks you in, the moment you start playing you can't stop. There are 4 difficulties 
 such as Easy, Normal, Hard, and Crushing. There are also trophies for this game which keep you 
 playing each difficulty and keep you looking for treasures and mastering the headshot. Besides all 
 of the shooting there are also Brutal attacks which let you fight your opponent and sneak up on 
 them rather than just shooting them. There are also parts were you ride a car and a boat. The story 
 is great with a suprise ending that you will just love. This game has some of the best graphics 
 ive seen on the PS3 with great cutscenes that are funny and heart pounding.
  
  (The Bad)
  Even though the story is great I think that it was to short, there could've been a lot more to 
 it. Characters look to much alike.
  
  All in all this game is Fantastic and you should get it if you like adventure games or even if 
 you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvel93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Uncharted was one of the first ps3 games to be released and possibly one of the best so far. The 
 fighting style is similar to gears of war to a small extent, and the link to tomb raider is the 
 climbing system and the adventuring. Drake the main character is a funny quick witted character 
 who brings a humerous outlook on the game making it not only entertaining but funny. The game also 
 has beautiful scenery and visual effects. Uncharted also brings a very immersive storyline and 
 great twists. It also brings a good look on the history of Francis Drake .
  
  Uncharted also has a great bonus system which works like this if you fulfill certain requiremnents 
 like 10 headshots you are rewarded points which allows you to unlock new things like new costumes 
 and characters to play as, which brings a good amount of replay value to the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Engaging story and atmosphere, with plenty of likable characters.
  * A decent balance between gun play, platforming and puzzle solving.
  
  Cons
  
  * Introducing 
 monsters in these kinds of game annoy me. It's like. To begin with it's about the treasure and 
 beating dudes to finding the treasure and that's cool. But it feels like most every game or movie 
 with this kind of plot throws in a supernatural element and then BAM! There are crawling monkey 
 monster things that are trying to rend your flesh from bone.
  * It's short. I think I finished it in about 10 hours and that's taking into account the fact I 
 suck at this kind of game and had to restart a couple of segments a few times before I got it right.
 
  
  I haven't got a whole lot to say about this one.
  It's an excellent game and it's got me excited about the prospect of a sequel.
  It plays something 
 like Gears of War with a dash of Tomb Raider for good measure.
  
  Combat is Gears like, you'll take cover behind often destructible bits of... Cover and be forced 
 to move every so often to keep things going, but it's enjoyable.
  But like Tomb Raider between the combat there will be puzzle solving segments and light platforming 
 for a bit of variety.
  
  I perhaps wish there were a bit more puzzle solving and light platforming. Both because I quite 
 enjoyed those segments but also because the game was kind of short and a few more ledges to leap 
 from and switches to pull here and there could've extended the experience somewhat.
  
  The characters are all pretty much established cliched in the genre, but they're likable cliches.
 
  The back and forth between the characters is fun to listen too and I hope they put some more focus 
 on dialogue when the sequel rolls around. Nathan's pretty funny, but that could have been given 
 more chance to shine through.
  
  So it's a great game and being part of the Platinum Collection, well it's a steal these days - 
 so if for some reason haven't played it yet I'd say now is as good a time as any to get around 
 to it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gab0205
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  FANTASTIC...
  If you want to be surprised by a New Game... BUY Uncharted, the best Graphics until Now, the Water 
 is there, the Jungle is there, the Peaple are there, and its ALL perfect, the Body moves, the Gun Shots, the 
 Hand Fights its All so... well done in this game... to be honest i was Giving a **** for this Gamembut 
 he came with the bundlle and now im reaaaaally impressed...
  the Story its kynd of cliche but its great and it works, the haves something like Tomb Raider, buuuuut.. it 
 CRUSHED lara Croftmis so Much Better in ALL 
 
  The gameplay of the Game its Awesome, and its not frustating like Tomb Raider some times... if you 
 have to jump somewere you just press the X buton and well.. you are there, and the Guns have a nice 
 variable ,to Hand guns to Shootguns, you can also beat them up if your fists, and the Game its a 
 little short but have a GREAT replay, you have Throphies to get, Treasures,, and Well... not Spoiling 
 the game anumore, if you want a grat Game, and Have a Ps3, Good Luck its EXLCUSIVE =D
  Have a great Time Fellas =D
  Its a Nice Game ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinps2hero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:02 am PT
Review:  Uncharted puts you in the boots of a modern day treasure hunter, but not just any old treasure 
 hunter. Our hero, Drake, is a direct descendant of the great man himself; Sir Francois Drake.
 
  With a 400 year old clue hidden in a coffin, Drake sets out to find his very own holy grail. The 
 characters really bring this game to life in the early stages, as you find your feet, i. e buttons 
 you also get to know your allies... and adversaries!
  The game play takes you from the jungle, into long lost cities, tombs, abandoned WW2 ships.... and 
 back again. Along the way you get to use a couple vehicles. The levels and save points are set 
 out well, and the scenery is really beautiful. Naughty Dog (the design team behind the game) really 
 have put in over time on this game, superb graphics, the voices, and it glides in and out of cut 
 scenes perfectly... which is more than what can be said of some big releases of 2008!
  So, if your yet to meet Drake & Elanor, I suggest you get around to it, because there will be more 
 installments to come, for a long time!
  A platinum classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog has made a name for itself as a quality platformer developer. The Crash Bandicoot series 
 became famous from there work (before hitting rock bottom, after Naughty Dog left) , and the Jak 
 and Daxter Trilogy the following generation (Playstation 2) were impressive improvements to the 
 formula they started with Crash Bandicoot. Now comes Uncharted: Drake's Fortune a third person 
 shooter/action-adventure style videogame. 
  
  The initial story premise of this game is that the main character Nathan Drake a descendant of 
 the famous explorer Sir Francis Drake is on a quest to find the lost treasure of El Dorado. His 
 supporting cast is your typical womanizing, older character in debt Victor "Sully" Sullivan and 
 then there is the journalist Elena Fisher. He fits into the strong woman type characterization. 
 The characters can come off a bit clich, especially if you have seen many adventure films (such 
 as Indiana Jones, the Mummy, National Treasure, The Davinci Code, etc) . Along the way Drake runs 
 into rival hunters Roman and Navarro, as well as running into what is suppose to be a rival hunter 
 with a history with Drake in Eddy Raja. This ultimately leads to another enemy set you will face 
 in the final portion of the game, before getting your final boss fight. 
  
  Simply put the story is standard fair. It borrows a lot of elements from the adventure movies listed 
 before. The characters never really stick out, and just don't come of as interesting. As a main 
 character Nathan Drake lacks that spark of a Nicholas Cage in National Treasure, or that special 
 something that made Indiana Jones such a famous character. That said while it won't set a new standard 
 for story telling, it is quite enjoyable and has a fun "summer popcorn flick" like feel to it. 
 
  
  This is in due part to the game's fantastic presentation. The visuals in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 are simply stunning. The Jungle environment is bright, luscious, and breathtaking. The game separates 
 itself from the typical "grey" shooters with a much more varied color palette. The animations are 
 smooth and certainly help immerse you in the game. Every animation just comes of natural, and doesn't 
 come off as something weird like in other videogames. Simply put Uncharted is a looker. The character 
 models are really well done. The surrounding area is beautiful, and when needed (because of other 
 areas you will enter further into the game) can provide the right atmosphere for the situation. 
 The game is rich with detail to its visuals, such as the water effects and how it works with Nathan 
 Drake's clothing. The effects for grenades, and the handy dandy explosive barrel are as top notch 
 as you can get. 
  
  The audio department delivers on there end as well. The gun sounds are solid, as well as the grenades. 
 The voice acting is actually really good, however the script and story overall could have been 
 stronger. The musical score has your adventure movie theme, while also having the right theme for 
 something more creepy, intense, and mysterious. The game certainly shines through surround sound (well 
 every game shines through surround sound) . 
  
  Naughty Dog's strong presentation is backed up with solid gameplay ideas. Uncharted isn't a videogame 
 that brings anything new to the table. It takes the over the shoulder shooting mechanic from Resident 
 Evil 4. It has a lot of the puzzle, jumping, plat forming aspects of the Tomb Raider games (as well 
 as the concept) . It also has the cover system now made famous from Gears of War/Killswitch. The 
 health system in the now typical regenerating health system. This all together in one package comes 
 off as something highly enjoyable and entertaining. 
  
  The first major stretch of gameplay is all done extremely well. The scripted set pieces are a lot 
 of fun. The game ramps up the intensity, and the cover system really is productive in firefights. 
 The gunplay can take some getting used to, but it won't take long before headshots become natural. 
 The grenades will take some work, as the grenades use the six-axis feature to line up your grenade 
 throws. The blind fire in this game is used in a more strategic manor than in other games. In Uncharted 
 if you shoot near an enemy, you can spook them. Making them stop shooting, or run for cover. This 
 can give you that time to reload, or recharge your health. In the bigger fire fights, this strategy 
 will prove more than useful. 
  
  The AI in Uncharted is impressive as well. The will flank you, throw grenades to flush you out, 
 swarm together, and if needed run away to get back with the pack. As stated earlier they reaction 
 to blind fire is not only impressive, I found it to be kind of cool. The supporting AI isn't to 
 bad either. Elena can certainly hold her own in the game, and Sully is no slouch either with a 
 gun. You won't ever have to worry about baby sitting them, as the enemy AI mostly focuses on you. 
 That's not to say it won't focus on your partner and just skip him/her. However you will be the 
 primary target most of the time. 
  
  The melee combat in Uncharted is also quite interesting. It is mostly a quick time event to create 
 a more cinematic style fist fight. Most of these end in a quick 3 button press process. It can 
 be a productive way to take out an enemy quickly, while saving bullets. However this tactic can 
 backfire as surrounding enemies will continue to shoot. So getting into a fist fight can leave 
 you vulnerable to enemy fire, and on harder difficulties they will certainly kill you for making 
 this mistake. 
  
  The game also has more scripted events where you will man the turret on the back of a jeep, and 
 also ride a jet ski. These sequences aren't very long, and are solid overall. These scenarios show 
 a lot of tension, and defiantly offer more intensity than some of the other sequences in the game. 
 Other scenarios can lead to some quick time events. While the game isn't filled with these left 
 and right, they do pop out of nowhere. Which can actually be quite annoying, since you can go hours 
 without ever getting one, and then suddenly boom you die because you didn't expect a quick time 
 event coming. 
  
  The other portion of the gameplay is the adventure styled gameplay found in the Tomb Raider games. 
 You will swing from vines, climb ledges, cliffs, etc. It isn't anything you haven't seen before, 
 and it is done very well. The camera also does a good job of giving you good angles, so you are 
 never jumping blind. The plat forming isn't strong, but it is adequate and certainly gets the job 
 done. The puzzles in Uncharted seem to be uneven. Some of the puzzles in the game are grand and 
 are a lot of fun to work with. Some are short, but unique in design. Others are just too simple 
 and uninteresting. This is an area where games such as Zelda and Tomb Raider certainly excel in 
 with superior puzzle designs. 
  
  The other area where the game seems to suffer a bit in its game design. Is the second type of enemy 
 that is shown in the final portions of the game. They are more annoying and cheap. It takes the 
 game out of its strong blend of Adventure/Puzzle/Cover/Pop and Shoot style gameplay to a more run 
 and gun feel. This part off the game comes off as the weaker link to the game, but it isn't game 
 killing. I certainly preferred the more dominating game style of the game, than the run and gun 
 that shows up in the final portion. 
  
  As far as boss fights are concerned, the game doesn't have any. Even the final scenario is more 
 or less a quick scripted, more linear, combat set piece. It isn't anything special, but it does 
 provide that cinematic flair that goes hand in hand with the game's strong presentation. 
  
  The game also isn't very long. The game can be done in under 10 hours. However for the more 
 adventurous there are treasures to find. Which unlocks trophies as well as concept art/dev diary 
 videos, etc. There is also the hardest difficulty for those looking for a stiffer challenge. Just 
 remember don't leave yourself open for too long. 
  
  In short the game isn't very long, its linear, and it doesn't do anything new. The final sequence 
 offers an enemy type that gets away from the type of gameplay that made it so good, to a style 
 of gameplay that just comes off weak. The story isn't strong, but the presentation, graphics, and 
 audio work is fantastic. The blend of gameplay ideas from other games comes off as something well 
 designed and entertaining. The game is a high quality polished product. If you like those adventure 
 style movies, or were a big fan of the Tomb Raider games in the past. Uncharted Drake's Fortune 
 provides a worthwhile experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  Right from the off you are presented with a film style opening, which you then have to be a part 
 of when you hit the boat. With enemies coming from all angles and boats firing yuor forced to play 
 this game straight away, crouching firing and having some serious fun time with your "female" pal!!
 
  
  Unfortunately drakes fortune doesnt look bad but doesnt look good either, its a very good "computer" 
 game, it looks like a computer game not the "realistic" pattern i keep seeing in all games and 
 plays like one too. This is actually quite refreshing and pure fun, but the real deal neil here 
 is the Ai, it rocks and they wont die easily, they have used a point system (making the game) , 
 so when you walk around in the game the ai looks for you, the more points yo
  
  The sound is pretty cool with "orchestrial" mood setting music played depending on what your doing. 
 The guns feel like your firing them, they gameplay isnt just look around and find gold, oh there's 
 a guy shoot. It moves the camera behind you and the chase is on, you will be running scared from 
 the enemy, theres a portion of the later levels devoted to it!!
  
  The water effects on the surrounding area realy adds to the feel that your stood by a massive lake 
 or watery area, the rocks glisten in the sun and your clothes will get wet and slow you down.
 
  
  A good story and cinematics are the in thing at the moment, but again drakes fortune pulls this 
 one off too, ok it looks quite "pc" at times but its smooth. Swinging on vines, puzzles galore 
 (hard in places) and swimming are all part of this game. There is a vehicle in the game but thats 
 later on and i wont spoil it, its not what you expect and my favourite part of the game, very difficult!!
 
  
  With a real twist at the end level, totally unexpected i can highly reccomend this game, naughty 
 dog (early crash bandicoot ps1) are very well respected and have made some stunners and classics. 
 THIS GAME WILL NOT LET YOU DOWN, as my dear old mother said when fell out her the womb "its huge!!", 
 another refreshing change, lots of well designed levels in different exotic locations (even watery 
 caves) .
  
  I really enjoyed this game and i cant wait for the second, i suggest you do too!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The old axiom of 'almost, but not quite' clings to this game heavily. At its core, Uncharted is 
 an action game with some adventure elements tossed in for good measure.
  
  You take the role of Nathan Drake, an adventurer bent on ascertaining the fate and discoveries 
 of his ancestral explorer Sir Francis Drake. Using an old relic as his guide, Nathan discovers 
 a map which leads him on an incredibly dangerous but thrilling journey to discover the lost treasure 
 of El Dorado. Of course, your treasure-seeking adventure game just wouldn't be complete without 
 a bunch of other people going after the same thing.
  
  The game relies rather heavily on its presentation, which would be fine if it weren't for some 
 rather noticeable issues as you play. For one, the characters themselves look more like plastic 
 dolls than actual people. Their skin is too shiny and the colour is off somehow. In addition, moving 
 the camera creates an utterly unsightly motion blur that you simply can't help but notice every 
 time you do it. Which is a shame, because the environments are really where the game's graphical 
 prowess shines. The colours in particular contrast very well. The lighting is even more superb. 
 Trees, plants and dirt are noticeably darker in the shade. You'll also easily be able to tell what 
 time of day it is by the intensity of the sunlight poking through the dense foliage. It even reflects 
 off the water, which you'll see very often because Uncharted spares no opportunity to present you 
 with beautiful tropical vistas. Clouds will float by overhead and look shockingly life like. When 
 you take a dip in a pond, you'll actually be able to tell Drake is wet. His shirt and jeans will 
 darken with moisture, which is a nice touch.
  
  At the beginning, you'll be solving a number of different puzzles to advance through the opening 
 chapters. Sadly, as you get deeper into the game, the emphasis on puzzle solving gradually diminishes 
 as you face increasingly tense firefights. This is unfortunate because the game's puzzles are actually 
 well thought out and keep it from feeling like just another old shooter. The shooting elements 
 themselves would be alright too, were it not for the fact that you're fighting super humans. The 
 thugs you'll encounter are dressed in nothing more than shorts, T shirts and light vests and yet 
 somehow, they will easily take half a clip from your AK-47 to put down. One foe near the end of 
 the game, just a regular old thug, took over an entire clip from a submachine gun before he gave 
 his last breath. Considering that the game tries as hard as it can to look photorealistic, this 
 was a pretty questionable design decision. Headshots will often put down your foes pretty quickly, 
 but this is harder than it has to be because a lot of the time Drake's aim will shoot around your 
 targeting reticle rather than dead centre.
  
  There are some pretty impressive set-piece battles, and you'll definitely have to be on your toes 
 to survive a lot of them. To supplement your arsenal of weapons are melee attacks which are a lot 
 of fun to pull off. These only really come in handy when you're squaring off against a single enemy 
 though, as others will simply shoot you while you're busy breaking necks, throwing baddies into 
 walls or just pummeling them with your fists.
  
  Close to the end of the game though, Uncharted turns into a survival horror game. What Naughty 
 Dog was thinking when they conceived of this change is anyone's guess, but the game makes absolutely 
 no attempt to explain how mutated, cannibalistic Spaniards have survived on a deserted island for 
 hundreds of years. Even more interesting is the fact that World War II-era weapons still function 
 in damp, underground tunnels where they have been sitting to rust for some 60 years. Nevertheless, 
 you'll have to shoot hundreds of these pesky little monsters with said WWII weapons and they all 
 run much faster than you do and only need a couple of quick swipes to put an end to your adventure.
 
  
  To round out this experience and conclude the short 22 chapters is an atrocious, wholly unsatisfying 
 and clich ending with an antagonist that's never really developed. You'll find yourself wondering 
 exactly why this particular character was chosen for a final showdown, as he doesn't really play 
 any significant part throughout the story. Needless to say, the way you finish him off is pretty 
 ridiculous if not a little funny.
  
  The game certainly has its own charm. Drake can have a pretty good sense of humour sometimes, and 
 you'll grow attached to him and the other good guys through the extensive banter you'll hear between 
 them throughout your journey to find the treasure of El Dorado. This game could have been a lot 
 better if there wasn't such a huge emphasis on shooting super humans and ancient zombies, and stuck 
 closer to its adventure elements and developed them further. Still, it's an enjoyable action adventure 
 that's worth at least a rental. If you're into gun-heavy adventure games, Uncharted is definitely 
 right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  If you are into problem solving and adventure games, then you will love Uncharted...... This game 
 had me on the edge of my seat the entire time. Loved it from start to end. It's probably one of 
 the most addicting games that I have ever played. Every game has its pro's and con's. Fortunately, 
 the pro's in this game supercede the con's. 
  
  The Good -
  1. Graphics and visuals are amazing..... Especially the ocean and river / dam scenes.
  2. Atmosphere 
 is unique and detailed giving you the feeling of almost being in the action yourself.
  3. Audio and effects are just right, especially with surround sound. You can hear the breeze at 
 high elevations in the game.
  4. Gamplay is perfect. Controls didnt take long to get use to. I like the fact that you can crouch 
 behind thinks for cover and peak over corners. Jumping from ledges and swinging from vines also 
 add a touch of uniqueness to the game and make it very exciting.
  5. Jeeps and Jet-ski's are extremely fun to maneuver and action packed.
  6. Original ideas and 
 action scenes add to the adventure this game produces. Problem solving equations really break up 
 the minotany of the never ending enemies that spiratically come out of nowhere.
  
  
  The Bad -
  1. The story gives a feel that Naughty Dog ran out of ideas in the end and had to 
 make up something to fill in the game. It started out great hunting for Drakes fortune and having 
 the camera girl get in the action as well, but then, went down the crapper in the later stages 
 (18+) . Pretty much as soon as the zombie's start coming out......
  2. Enemies are all the same with no bosses at the end of levels. They also seem to be never ending. 
 You can be in a fire fight with 30 guys, and when it's all over and you think you're done wiping 
 them out, another 30 will come out of nowhere. It can really get old after awhile.
  3. It takes 100 shots to kill anyone (unless you get a headshot) .
  4. Would be nice to be able 
 to get in the prone position or crouch while walking if you chose to do so.
  5. The enemies know when you are in the area. There is no stealth to the game at all, which is 
 by far the most annoying part about this game. The enemies will virtually see you before you even 
 know there are any, even if you are not even out in the open!
  6. I dont like the fact that you can carry 4 different high capacity rifles or shotguns...... not 
 very realistic and makes the game much easier.
  
  
  I am hoping that Unchated 2 revise the mistakes they made in the first game. I think if it does, 
 it will have a good shot at being "game of the year". This is truly an unforgetable game and definately 
 will remain on my top 10 list for a long time. I highly recommend purchasing this game used or 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted was a game I had speculation over at first. No one could tell me anything solid about 
 it. All I heard was that it was comparable to Tomb Raider. In many ways I think you could compare 
 them, but Tomb Raider hasn't been good like this game since its second go. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 has everything, but sex...... Action, adventure, comedy, and cliffhanging moments. It's a great 
 original property and a nice way to start the second wave of gaming for the PS3.
  
  Story -- There is an outstanding and original story in this game. A descendant of the great Sir 
 Francis Drake is trying to track down his supposed lost treasure. Although that premise is not 
 original the way the events unfold are. From double crosses to people feigning death this game 
 is great. 
  
  Graphics -- Just like almost every other PS3 exclusive property this game has outstanding graphics 
 and shows that if third party programmers/ Dev's would take their time and use the technology they 
 could make the games of tomorrow today. If Fallout 3 had been made with the PS3 in mind one can 
 only imagine how much better it would have been. Nathan moves and adjusts to almost everything 
 that happens in the game. He dodges bullets with incredible detail. He takes cover and whence at 
 near hits. He steps over things with careful thought. All of his motion capture moves are abundant. 
 The lighting, backgrounds, and settings are vibrant and thoughtful. This game is a joy to watch 
 even when not playing.
  
  Sounds -- The music is far and few between, but kicks in when needed. It's the voice acting and sound 
 effects that carry things here. Not just during the story sequences, but Nathan will make remarks 
 you and I might make while under fire. He will say things like: "What was I thinking!" or "Boy 
 talk about close calls" or "Sh! t, Sh! t, Sh! t". This and many more lines can be heard throughout 
 his adventure. 
  
  Game play -- Another great area where things come together. The controls are perfect. It's never 
 too hard to get Nathan to do what you want him to do. He has an arsenal of moves at his disposal 
 as he can perform punch and kick combos, fire numerous weapons, dodge and take cover. I read the 
 GS review of the game where it compared it to Gear of War, and I'll tell you this if Gears had 
 this games controls and Nathans abilities it would have been way easier to handle hordes of locust. 
 It's just fun to take on the enemies' wave after wave and not get bored. 
  
  Replay -- To me this is the best game for trophy collecting. Even before trophies were added this 
 game was giving awards for head shots, blowing enemies up with grenades, and so forth. They just 
 took that and applied it to trophy winning. There is no online, but to me it's not needed as you 
 hunt for treasure along your way and try to earn all the titles and awards I mentioned earlier. 
 Plus there are different difficulty levels. While not high the replay value is rather modest. 
 
  
  The bottom line here is it's another great title if you own a PS3 and I didn't even hear about 
 this game until it was on store shelves. No hype or anything for a great game like this. Kind of 
 like a sleeper hit of sorts. Pick this one up and I promise you won't regret it. PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (UDF) is a mixture of adventure and action. The adventure part of the 
 game is very fun. The high quality environment adds a lot of pleasure when you solve puzzles or 
 hunt treasures. The adventure part consists of two sub-part; treasure hunting and riddle solving. 
 The riddle solving is very few but it is fun. The ancient environment and the riddles may remind 
 you of the mysteries from Indiana Jones. The treasure hunting part is more fun. The complex environment 
 holds many hidden treasures which you should find. These treasures help you to get medal points 
 which unlocks cool rewards. The treasure hunting process requires you to look everywhere in the 
 scenes which also shows the beauty of the environment design. 
  
  The coolest part of the game is its action part. This part also consists of different cool sub-parts. 
 Either you run from the enemies or try to kill them. Running away from the enemies has a lot of 
 thrill. You have a little time and should decide the best you can because if the enemy gets you, 
 you are dead. The killing part is more strategic and requires the full utilization of the firearms 
 and also requires the decision to choose the best cover to both stay away from enemy gunfire and 
 also make a good shooting point.
  
  The joy may be more by using dual shock sixaxis controller. You feel the thrill in your hand! The 
 shocking from the rifle firing or explosions keep you thrilled. The sixaxis part also adds extra 
 functions. Throwing grenades or getting away from demons require you to move the controller from 
 side-to-side or shake it very hard.
  
  There are a few graphics issue but not much. It may happen under certain rare conditions but aside 
 from that the game is one of the best in action adventure genre which totally worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one of the most complete, immersive, and outright FUN games I have 
 ever played. It is a remarkably fluid game, that transitions seamlessly from pulse-pounding action 
 to epic exploration, all tied together in a fantastic cinematic style. The game is relentlessly 
 entertaining and delivers the goods on EVERY level, with some fantastic twists leading up to a 
 truly satisfying finale. It was with some regret that I watched the ending credits roll, but now 
 I get to go through the game again! (It took roughly 12 hrs to complete on the "Hard" difficulty 
 -- finishing on Hard unlocks the "Crushing" difficulty) .
  
  Gameplay is where Uncharted really shines. Since you are constantly doing and seeing new things 
 (there are some truly dazzling set-pieces) , there is never a "grinding" feeling to the game that 
 too many action games seem to have these days. What surprised me most is the fact that not only 
 does Uncharted succeed as an adventure game (you will visit all sorts of exotic locales and climb 
 cliffs, scale walls, etc.) , but is also a great action game in its own right with a well-designed 
 and balanced combat system. The game features both gun-play as well as viscerally thrilling melee 
 combat. Unlike the Tomb Raider series, the gun play requires some skill (there is only 'limited' 
 auto-aim) and has a lot of depth. The different weapons are fun to use, and you are forced to make 
 some tactical choices due to the fact that you can only carry around two weapons (plus grenades) 
 at a time. The enemy AI is pretty intelligent and will sit back or aggressively charge/flank you 
 depending on your own posturing.
  
  The story line is well written and neatly ties the whole package together. Let's be clear -- the 
 story is not the Next Great American Novel. What it IS is the best of adventure pulp fiction, rolled 
 together with some faux historical intrigue a la the Da Vinci Code. Most importantly, all the characters 
 in the game are likable and deliver some good laughs in the process. Note: the game is rated "Teen" 
 and deservedly so - without any spoilers, there is some content that would likely be pretty disturbing 
 for younger children.
  
  The graphics and audio are top-notch and well-polished, which adds greatly to the immersive feeling 
 of the game. The whole world feels alive - trees sway in the wind, fish swim in the ponds, ambient 
 noises are well balanced by heroic in-game contextual music. Close attention has been paid to details: 
 Nathan Drake (the character you play) will grit his teeth and mutter under his breath when bullets 
 go whizzing by him, if he is too close to a concussive blast you will hear the ringing in his ears 
 as the other sounds fade out. The level designs in Uncharted are also amazing. While the game play 
 is linear (story-driven) , the world still feels expansive and the architecture of the various ruins, 
 castles, etc. are beautiful and allow for plenty of exploration (you can find treasures hidden 
 throughout the game that allow you unlock various extras in the game) .
  
  The unlockable extras and the built-in rewards system make the game well-worth replaying as well. 
 In summary, this is a terrific game that shouldn't be missed. I can't wait for Uncharted 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I know this might sound cruel but I did not find anything all that excitingly different about this 
 game that I havent already seen in several other games. It has to be compared to Tomb Raider and 
 pretty much lives up to that billing. Only you trade a mfemale for a male main character.
  
  You take the role of Nathan Drake as he is in search of Francis Drake and the lost treasure 
 of El Dorado. As you uncover clues and follow the trail you encounter a simple story line and of 
 course many pirates who are out to ruin your day. Most of the time you are alone but in some instances 
 you are joined by Elena who is a camerawoman for a TV station doing a story on Drake. Although 
 she does have a decent shot, you will be doing most of the work yourself.
  
  The weapon system was dissapointing as you can only have one small gun and one large gun at any 
 given time. However the enemies come at you with all different type of weapons and you spend your 
 time trying to decide which one would be good for any select level your currently on. Ammo isaround 
 but not overabundant so you cann run out if your not carefull. There is a melee feature but I wouldnt 
 recommend it too often.
  
  The gameplay follows TR almost exactly as the platforming puzzles are painfully easy to solve. 
 Even the climbing and jumping are almost an exact match. Every level has you fighting pirates, 
 then climbing and jumping then solving a simple puzzle with minor aid from Drakes book. The big 
 negative about all this is the horrible camera angle which moves on its own sometimes, completely 
 throwing off your need-to-be accurate jumps. I died many times becuase the camera moved while I 
 was in a climbing sequence only to fall to my death. 
  
  The graphics however are amazing and detailed. Each level is very colorfull and beautiful to look 
 at which makes the game a joy to play. The sound and water makes the scenery come to life. 
  
  As for the game itself, there is nothing new to actually report on that hasent been done before. 
 Even after you get through the gameplay, the story itself was typical and the endign was horrible. 
 I guess I just expected more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  There is nothing in "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune" that you haven't seen before and in most cases, 
 done better in other games. However, the combination of gorgeous graphics, great pacing, and solid 
 gameplay make it a very fun action-adventure game. That is, up until you reach the absolutely terrible 
 ending, which comes close to spoiling the entire show and leaves a bad taste in your mouth in the 
 process. Uncharted provides eight hours of great entertainment, followed by an hour of spectacularly 
 bad "What in God's name were they thinking?"
  
  "Uncharted" is one of those games that makes a wonderful first impression on you. The opening cut 
 scene is so gorgeous, you will think that you are watching pre-rendered CGI, but you aren't. The 
 main character, Nathan Drake, and the beautiful reporter sidekick/love interest that he is with 
 look stunningly lifelike from head to toe. They would be perfect, were it not for some funky mouth 
 animations when they speak. The water looks downright inviting. The lush jungle rounds out a beautiful 
 outdoor look that takes second place only to Crysis. The combat animations for Drake are pretty 
 good  what you would expect from a cover-based shooter. The platforming animations are OK, but 
 not on par with Assassin's Creed or Prince of Persia. The explosions are also pretty boring to 
 look at. Even with these minor issues though, the graphics are a huge asset for the game.
  
  Beyond the graphics, the game does have some gameplay to offer that is solid, albeit not extraordinary. 
 It alternates between cover-based firefights, platforming sequences, and occasional puzzle solving. 
 To call the gameplay completely derivative would be an understatement. Everything in it is something 
 that you have seen a half dozen or more times in other games, and in some cases, done better. That 
 is not to say that "Uncharted" has bad gameplay  it may not excel at anything, but it also doesn't 
 fail at anything. In addition, it has excellent pacing and finely tuned combat and levels that 
 keep the fun factor at a high level for most of the game. All of the gameplay elements come together 
 very nicely along with the characters and story to make a convincing action-adventure. 
  
  Cover-based shooting makes up for about half of the game. It is not extraordinary in how it tackles 
 the shooting, but it is still very fun. It executes the mechanics very nicely. The game seems to 
 have been designed with a great deal of knowledge about what makes cover-based shooting actually 
 work. Unlike Gears of War, for example, there is actually a separate button for jumping and clinging 
 to cover. Hey, a game where one button isn't mapped to 100 different functions. Wow, what a revolutionary 
 concept! Enemies do a little bit of moving around, but not a lot. They are pretty good at using 
 cover themselves. They are also adept at using grenades if you linger in one place for too long. 
 The weapons are adequate and typical shooter fare. The ammo dropped by enemies is tuned so that 
 you will probably use all of the weapons in the game, constantly switching to whatever you have 
 most recently found ammo for. 
  
  Platforming adds a sense of adventure to the game, although it doesn't add many memorable moments 
 from a gameplay perspective. It gives you the sense of being a movie action hero/treasure hunter, 
 and thus, it is also is an asset to the game. Beyond this sense, it is very unremarkable, and it 
 has nothing that you haven't already done many times if you are an experienced gamer. It is simple 
 and takes few chances. You jump from one high ledge to another and mantle up. You shimmy along 
 ledges, swing from ropes, and find treasure in hard to reach places. The controls work very well, 
 and the game has very few really hard jumps or timed sequences in it. If you have played a pure 
 platformer like the Prince of Persia series though, then you probably won't be blown away by what 
 you find here. 
  
  Puzzle solving is the last significant element of "Uncharted". Like the platforming, it fits in 
 with the Tomb Raider/Indiana Jones theme of the movie. However, it is very mundane and easy. It 
 basically boils down to "flip the switches in this order", "shoot the exploding barrel to get through 
 this wall", or "rotate the statues in the right direction". If you are an experienced gamer, then 
 you have seen these types of puzzles hundreds of times by now. They work in this game, but it is 
 somewhat disappointing that Naughty Dog didn't spend any effort at all trying to come up with something 
 more interesting.
  
  Without a truly memorable element of gameplay, it is difficult to describe what makes the game 
 fun. The game excels at execution, pacing, and tuning  concepts that don't make for bullet points 
 on the back of a box. For example, the default difficulty level in this game is very well calibrated, 
 so that you can pop out to aim for a head shot just long enough to line one up before you get killed. 
 There are some very challenging sequences that may require a few retries, but not much more than 
 that.
  
  One feature of this game that may go unnoticed by a lot of people is the generous placement of 
 save points. Uncharted saves so often for you that it is almost as if you had a quick save key. 
 If you die during a fight or in a platforming sequence, it is rare that you will ever have to play 
 more than about a couple minutes worth of gameplay. Sometimes it is only a few seconds. The way 
 in which this game always challenges you but rarely frustrates you is a tremendous asset that many 
 other games should imitate. It never gets boring, and by the same token, it never makes you want 
 to throw your controller across the room. Pacing is another aspect of the game that "Uncharted" 
 accomplishes perfectly. There are no loading screens in the game, and it constantly changes up 
 the gameplay. A combat sequence or a platforming sequence never overstays its welcome. There is 
 also a hint system if you get stuck, which can happen occasionally.
  
  The story in "Uncharted" doesn't sound like a lot on the surface. You are a treasure hunter, a 
 descendant of Sir Francis Drake looking for one legendary artifact. Along the way, you travel with 
 a beautiful woman and an older mentor type guy. The story manages to be surprisingly good though. 
 The dialog is very well written and the voice acting is top notch for all of the major characters. 
 Towards the end, the story reveals itself to be deeper than you might expect with a pretty big 
 plot twist. 
  
  "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune" is a great action-adventure game with a fun story, up until the end. 
 What you have read up until now about the game's solid design goes completely out the window in 
 the last hour. Quite simply, the last few chapters of this game are a disaster of epic proportions. 
 I have finished over 150 games in my life, and the abysmal ending here easily qualifies as one 
 of the top 10 worst. I don't want to spoil the story by telling you why, but I will say that suddenly, 
 the game changes from a cover-based shooter with platforming into something resembling a survival 
 horror game where you are constantly fighting groups of enemies that rush at you and jump on you 
 at close range. The controls clearly weren't designed for these parts, and thus, they fail miserably. 
 At this point, the game also inexplicably becomes very stingy with save points. Not only does the 
 gameplay tank horribly, but the difficulty skyrockets. I was truly enjoying this game up until 
 a major plot twist. After the end, I was relieved to just get it done and get the thing out of 
 my PS3. 
  
  The ending isn't enough to make me tell you to stay away from this game, but it is enough to make 
 me not want to replay it. Since it is a standard linear 10-hour game, it is tough to recommend 
 as a purchase, but easy to recommend as a rental. It is a great showcase for the graphical abilities 
 of the PS3 and a fun game for most of its length. Ultimately, if you haven't played this game you 
 should. Hopefully, Uncharted 2 will avoid a couple of the pitfalls from the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  There has been much debate over the graphics and overall quality of Uncharted since it came out 
 a while back. Lucky for all of you, now I can throw my view into the mix and prove to myself yet 
 again, that no one cares.
  
  Visually, the game is obviously a standout. Character models, water and lighting/shadow effects 
 are some of the best I've seen. I never noticed any pop-in or framerate drops even during the most 
 intense moments of the game. Character animations are also very good. That being said, I still 
 think it looks on par with Gears of War 2, and games like Metal Gear Solid 4, Killzone 2, Crysis 
 and more look better. 
  
  The soundtrack is very professionsally done, it's what you would expect to hear in a big summer 
 action flick. So it's epic and very high quality, but nothing truly spectacular. The voice acting 
 is excellent, and for added fun you can change the language to "nederlands" to hear a truly interesting 
 language.
  
  The storyline is almost entirely a super generic Indiana Jones ripoff until right near the end, 
 where there's a pretty unexpected twist that I found to be very welcome. The characters are all 
 very likable except for the annoying documentry chick who pretty much consistently screws things 
 up and acts like an idiot.
  
  Gameplay here is where the game strangely enough, both shines and falls short. First of all, the 
 game case says that drake is "one ordinary man", which is a lie. He can leap roughly twenty five 
 feet or more in some cases. He has no set distance that he can jump, the developers essentially 
 make him reach whatever platform they want you to reach even if you couldn't jump half that distance 
 ten minutes ago. So, the platforming is pretty much a joke, the only challenge being when you swing 
 on vines because you need to find a certain spot depending on where you're trying to reach. The 
 enemy A. I. is erratic, switching from stangely smart and even dodging bullets to being somewhat 
 suicidal. Friendly A. I. on the other hand, is just plain stupid. The gun based combat is pretty 
 fun, but hand to hand combat is broken and sometimes unresponsive. It's also a very fairly short 
 game, I'm not what you would consider a skilled gamer and I finished it in around ten hours. Overall 
 it's a fun but flawed experience.
  
  Uncharted, despite all of it's flaws, emerges as a great game that is certainly worth your time 
 if you're a Playstation 3 owner. Definitely a looker and definitely a lotof fun if you're into 
 action platformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quanloco
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Here's the thing about Uncharted, the final sum is far greater than the individual parts. Maybe 
 you don't dig the combat or maybe the pop-in gets you down, but the overall package of an endearing 
 story, outstanding score, great performances and fun gameplay should put this title on the top 
 of your holiday wishlist. Say what you will about the PS3, but Uncharted isn't just a standout 
 for Sony -- it's a standout for gaming as a whole.
  
  This is a fantastic game. Graphically, Uncharted's beautiful as you tear down trees with turrets, 
 watch Nate's clothes saturate with lagoon water and the sun filter through the leaves, but there 
 is a lot of texture pop-in on the jungle floor and treasures while aliasing on the walls and screen 
 tearing are par for the course. It shouldn't take you out of the experience, but it is noticeable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kleeyook
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a Tomb Raider-like action adventure which is better than Tomb Raider 
 itself. U don't have to watch such an unnecessary gymnastics here because this game is more of 
 realistic. The hero is very good at gymnastics but he's not as incredible as Lala Croft so the 
 game itself feels more intense.
  
  Pros: amazing artwork, nice graphics, good plot, trophy for replay value, good puzzle, good platforming
 
  
  Cons: gunfire is frustrating, some treasures are easy to miss, ridiculous trophy like Hang-grenade 
 and insanely hard ones like Charted! Crushing, camera angle is great but the character's movement 
 is not, worthless motion sensitive control
  
  ^^ seems like cons are more than pros ^^ :P
  
  What is that annoying gunfire!? In the beginning 
 of the game, u will know what does this mean. U'll have to fight enormous enemies in the beginning 
 of the game, and what worse is that later in the game, u'll have to fight against more enemies 
 at the same time while magazine is very limited! : (
  
  Guns are pretty good, u can kill enemies in one shot with typical shotgun, but it's not use for 
 range weapon. Some guns have very low bullet capacity so u'll eventually ignore using them. But 
 u'll have to use them if u want to get trophy anyway (my suggest, use and die and use and die) .
 
  
  I first played this game with frustration over collecting treasures. Although later I just ignored 
 it and play what I want. And it's fun! I'll collect them all later!
  
  Seriously, I don't have a chance to use frag grenade while hanging on the ledge. It's just that 
 there's too many enemies and I can't cover up if I'm hanging or I don't have enemy when I have 
 both ledge and grenade. This is really annoying. And to kill 3 enemies with ONE grenade is very 
 hard too. I haven't had a chance to use it. Well, later in the game it can be used if I were lucky 
 though.
  
  I beat it in easy mode, I still wonder how can people beat this game in crushing mode that u die 
 in ONE shot. Well, I'll play normal mode to get gold trophy later (finish the game in easy mode 
 give u only silver trophy) .
  
  I don't know what's wrong with this game, but the character's direction is very bad. I face toward 
 something and and to it, but then I miss and fell to dead (10 times in some platform) .
  
  Motion sensitive control!? U'll eventually use it when u walk on the lumber (2-3 times in the whole 
 game) , using frag grenade (quite useful here) and push off the mutants (This is what I love about 
 this game! I feel like playing survival horror game back then.) . That's all about it.
  
  Finally, I have nothing else to say. I wish this nooby review will be a little or more useful to 
 u!
  
  PS. GS is biased against SONY! : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lalucar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is a really interesting third person shooter/action game with an addictive 
 story. The graphics are amazing in the lush jungle scenes and the great character modules. It's 
 pretty challenging as you'll have many enemies overwhelming you at different points of the game, 
 but the duck and cover system, combined with easy to use controls all make Uncharted fun and easy 
 to get used to, yet not take the challenge out of missions. Some of the best parts involve looking 
 through a centuries old diary to solve the puzzles in caves, ruins, and the jungle. My only complaints 
 are the lack of stealth, which is annoying when even while hiding enemies know where you are, and 
 the other is shootout sequences can be a bit overdone, like walking room to room taking out enemy 
 by enemy. The game seemed a bit short too, considering I completed it in about 3-4 days playing 
 all day... Anyhow it was A must buy for any PS3 owner, and I truely can't wait for the sequel this 
 fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobinoLatino
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Think of Lara Croft as a guy and you've got a pretty good idea what this game is about. I'm into 
 games such as Tomb Raider, Prince of Persia, etc, so this was an essential purchase for me.
  
  Visually: The scenery is stunning. Lush mountains, crystal clear waters, majestic temples and 
 ruins. There is the occasional 'stutter' and if you scroll the camera round too fast you may feel 
 a little sick. so don't. But I think that is true of many PS3 games and it doesn't detract from 
 game play. It certainly shouldn't be a consideration when buying the game.
  
  Story: Nathan Drake, a distant ancestor of Sir Francis Drake (who comes up in conversation several 
 times during the game) is on the trail of Eldorado. Something his 'alleged' ancestor was also looking 
 for. Accompanying him is his friend and mentor, Sully and journalist/TV presenter Elaina. Both 
 of whom come and go during the game, helping and hindering Nates progress. However, both also lend 
 themselves to humorous conversation throughout the game. Including some sexual chemistry between 
 Nate and Elaina, giving the whole thing a 'movie' feel about it.
  
  Game Play: Difficulty is set just right. Difficult enough to keep you coming back for more. Not 
 too difficult that you give up at the first hurdle. Experienced gamers will finish this over a 
 long weekend but don't let that put you off. There's a reason why an experienced gamer would spend 
 a whole weekend on this game.. it's really good! I'm a casual gamer myself, mainly weekends, Saturday 
 mornings and Sunday afternoons. It took me 22hrs to complete this game. About a month of weekends.
 
  
  As I mentioned earlier, Uncharted has a definite Tomb Raider feel to it. Lots of jumping, swinging, 
 fighting and shooting. You soon pick up on the pattern of the levels. First shoot your way out 
 of a situation, then puzzle your way out of a level (working out what order you need to pull switches 
 or what to jump on to get over a wall) , some more shooting, then some more puzzling, shooting, 
 puzzlingbut what's wrong with that? I personally love games like this! There are also many things 
 to collect along the way which, if you collect enough, will give you alternative clothing and other 
 prizes (a good enough reason for me to go back play the game again!) . There is also a bit of a 
 twist in the last few levels, something which I didn't expect and took me a bit by surprise.
  
  To summarise, if you like Tomb Raider, I think you'll like this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  The very first thing you will notice about Uncharted are the beautiful visuals and engaging scenery. 
 Each area in the game is vividly shown and detailed which instantly puts a positive point into 
 the game.
  The gameplay is good, though I think gunfights get way too repetitive by you having to constantly 
 take cover then pop up and shoot someone. There isn't much variety of weapons to be used either, 
 and none of them are very interesting to use. The enemy AI isn't very good because they usually 
 just all file out a particular gateway and take cover, or try and go around you.
  The game's story is great though, with you always wonderering what the treasure is, and the game 
 also finishes off with a fantastic twist that you wouldn't expect.
  Uncharted Drake's fortune has many great points but also some very dull points that drag it's rating 
 down. But it is still a good game which is well worth playing.
  
  Story- 5/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 3/5
  Controls- 3/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 3/5
  Length- 2/5
 
  Replayability- 3/5
  
  Good Points: Beautiful graphics, detailed and realistic environments, engaging story with a superb 
 plot twist, Some nice platforming and action scenes
  
  Bad Points: Very few weapons to select from, repetitive gameplay with some frustrating gunfights, 
 poor enemy AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game play from beginning to end. Reminds me of Indiana Jones and Pitfall Harry. The best 
 of both with its own twists. Definitely a keeper for all game collectors. Drake is a stand up guy 
 that holds his own during the whole game. His partner Sully is a character but comes through in 
 the clutch. They have you follow clues left by Sir Francis Drake to find a hidden treasure. The 
 treasure turns out to be El Dorado. Along the way you collect hidden treasures which unlock different 
 features in the game. Medals are rewarded for different tasks completed during your journey. The 
 game can get a little intense at times but over all it is a BLAST!!! Take your time finding the 
 hidden treasures so you don't have to play the game again to find them. Play the game again to 
 beat Crushing mode. They do ask you if you want to keep achievements from prior game which was 
 cool. Now we have to wait for Uncharted 2 to see where Naughty Dog will take this story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ben99_
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: there is a major drag in the gamplay that is the take cover and shoot mechanic which 
 is totally bulling this graphically stunning game down.
  but it must be given it credit for its platforming section of the game . It's totaly awesome and 
 way fun what with the long jumps and the stunning backgrounds. Puzzles are simple most of the time 
 but that doesn't affect the the game as a whole , which I would call a balance.
  You should also know that there is a survival horror level and you should be warned that they are 
 freaking scary, Big Time. 
  Graphics : I hold my breath for like a couple of times seeing this wonder. It's the most beautiful 
 looking game I ever played. It is quite the looker. 
  
  Story: Amazing with twists. Though the main character (Drake) is not the character to like easily. 
 
  
  
  Uncharted is one of those games that I've always been looking forward too given that I'm a platforming 
 fan and also a fan epic stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikram89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  It is said that you should never judge a book with its cover but in the case of Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune the saying was proved absolutely right. When I first saw the cover of the game it instantly 
 drew me towards it. It promised me that it will take me to an exotic adventure that I will remember 
 for some time to come. And guess what, it kept its promise. The PS3 exclusive is just the right 
 game that the action adventure genre needed. 
  
  Now to the plot. Nathan Drake is a treasure hunter and is looking for a Spanish treasure which 
 was sought by explorer Sir Francis Drake, who is also Nate's ancestor. He is ably supported by 
 a TV journalist Elena Fisher and his conman friend Victor Sullivan. The trio race through the South 
 American jungles to find the lost treasure of El Dorado. They are also hunted by some villains 
 on the way. I will not delve further but there is also a twist in the tale that will surely take 
 you by complete surprise. And it has to be said that this twist is precisely what elevates the 
 game from being great to being cool. All credit must go to Naughty Dog for creating such a beautiful 
 environment for this game. The lush green Amazonian jungle really comes to life in the game and 
 is very pleasing change from the dull and dark environments of today's games. If you will stop 
 and just stare around you. You will find the leaves swaying with a gust of wind. The gameplay mainly 
 consist of 3rd person gunplay, some hand to hand combat, some platforming and some a bit of motor 
 board riding. Yes you read it right motor board riding. Well the gunplay is very pleasing as there 
 are large varieties of guns to choose from. The controls are very easy and fast. There are some 
 levels where you can shoot and dash but as you progress in the game you will have to use cover 
 very intelligently. The game uses a cover system where you can hide behind a boulder or something 
 and pop up and shoot the baddies. And with that you can also beat the baddies with you bare hands 
 by unleashing combos which are very elementary but fun none the less. There are sections of the 
 game where you will have to do some platforming which are very easy for anyone who have played 
 games like PoP. The game uses the motion sensing capacity of the Sixaxis very intelligently.
  
  There is only single thing that I don't like about the game is that the firefights get to repetitive 
 at some point of the game. This could have been a big problem but thankfully it doesn't get much 
 bigger. Overall the game is really tons of fun and is a must buy for every PS3 owner. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindibudd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the first game I bought for my ps3 and what a gorgeous game it is. 
 It looks phenomenal and is a real joy to play. You play as Nate Drake in search of Sir Francis 
 Drake's lost treasure. I've always had a soft spot for games that reference historical figures 
 like this and Uncharted comes through in spades. The gameplay is very natural and intuitive and 
 the voice acting is great as well. I never had any difficulty getting the hang of the controls 
 at all. The hand to hand combat is also very cool and enough to make you want to toss your weapons 
 at times just to validate your Man Card. The story keeps your attention and the cutscenes are not 
 too long or too short. And I think the killer aspect of the game that just brings it all home is 
 the fantastic score. This is what developers need to look for when getting the music for a new 
 game. This is even better than my other favorite modern game score Halo 3. This is also one of 
 the first games to come out with trophies after Sony announced them for PS3 and I will always give 
 props to developer Naughty Dog for giving the people what they want. This is a fantastic game and 
 should be owned by any ps3 owner and doubly so if you like good action adventure games.
  
  Pros: Jaw Dropping graphics. Jaw Dropping Movie Quality score. Excellent story. Trophies!
  
 
  Cons: Um. No, I can't really think of any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great single player game. I'm glad that I picked up a copy and I would still be 
 happy if it was shorter. The game itself is amazing. I don't know why I didn't pick one up earlier, 
 but once I popped the disc in... I was sucked in. It's that great.
  Uncharted is a single player game. It's really fun and you play as Nathan Drake. The characters 
 were well developed too and they are quite interesting. You can attack with a gun and there's hand 
 combat too. 
  The story is amazing. There was definitely some hard thinking during the development process. The 
 AI is also great. Enemies will flank you if you just sit in one location. You gotta be quick because 
 sometimes you never know when your enemy shows up beside you.
  I am extremely pleased with this game and I couldn't be happier. This game didn't deserve a 10 
 because of some technical glitches. 
  Overall, I would recommend getting this game. For those people who don't have a PS3, but are dying 
 to play it... I think it would be worth picking up the console too. It's that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred1102
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  I rented the game, playd it for few hours, gone to the store and bought it. its that good for its 
 time. there are some funny cutscens and characters like eddy and drake himself. about the game... 
 the animations was cool in 2007 you get really into the gun fights and just jumping around and 
 trying to find the next place to go is quite fun. Its like reading a good book but today are somehow 
 repeatable . the graphics are impresive and sounds/music are very good. the main music reminds 
 me some movies. you will notice what there are many treasures laying around. these are needed for 
 100% trophy system and are fun to watch them in the menu. Anyway... watching a movie+play the game 
 and gain trophy's = FUN.
  
  the only thing i didnt liked at first is the monsters in the game. they was very unexpected but 
 is i see it ntoday its not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has potential. The second one is going to kick even more ass but this one really did 
 its job. I like how its 3rd person because I play a lot of COD4-5 so its nice to change it up sometimes. 
 The story doesn't go that deep but the gameplay is so engaging. You get really into the gun fights 
 and just jumping around and trying to find the next place to go is quite fun. Its like reading 
 a good book. Your always wondering whats going to happen next. Even though sometimes it just seems 
 like its another gun fight it still manages to stay interesting. It definitely sounds awesome too. 
 The guns and the noises from the forest really sound great. If you have full suround sound with 
 stereo and all you feel like theirs birds in your house from the sounds of the game and its really 
 something. The graphics are gorgeous. Just plain great. One of the better looking games on the 
 ps3. I recommend this game to anyone and even though sometimes it seems like all you do is gun 
 fights, the game throws in other stuff that gets you into it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaararulz4192
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  It took me a while to get this game, I wasn't interested in it. But I was curious about it, since 
 at E3 when they announced this they dubbed it "Dude Raider" and I am a huge Tomb Raider fan. But 
 when I played it, the graphics were outstanding, and very immersive. Some flaws were more focused 
 on the combat, the combat was sorta in between a 3D platformer, and a 1st person shooter. But the 
 main flaw of the combat is the damn amount of enemies you fight, every time you turn a corner, 
 there's enemies. Here's a tip if you haven't played it, I you see guns in an area you haven't explored 
 yet, combat is on it's way. But the exploration of the areas, is too slight, that's why I'd prefer 
 to play a Tomb Raider game over Uncharted. Despite these flaw's be able to recognize it's perk's 
 like it's amazing character's, mysterious plot setting's, and enjoyable environments.
  
  Overview:
  Gameplay - 3.5/5
  Graphics - 4.6.5
  Plot - 4/5
  Controls - 4/5
  
  Total 
 - 4.025/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  Again, i got into this game kinda late... but it's one hell of a great action game! it gets better 
 and better as you play along! i had doubts of getting this one at first coz i didn't like the idea 
 that its somehow similar to Tomb Raider (not much of a fan) , but after seeing the gameplay videos... 
 i got convinced. Even my girlfriend loves playing it too! good combination of action, adventure 
 and puzzles... though there are too much enemies at times, but its fine with me, means more action! 
 what keeps it from being almost perfect to me is because the shooting isn't that too accurate, 
 you sometimes aim good enough, but still a miss... and i want better headshots! it also lack enemy 
 reactions when getting shot at on particular areas of the body, i wish there was like disarming 
 an enemy when you shoot at his gun, etc... but then again, this little flaws could be easily overseen 
 because of the game's greatness! Truly the next best PS3 exclusive to date after MGS4. you have 
 a PS3, you gotta have this... you might be able to say that "who needs Gears...?!" when there is 
 Nathan Drake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  For all the inspired adventuring that movies like Indiana Jones bring us, developers have had a 
 hard time creating a game that captures quite the same feeling. Tomb Raider is the only real candidate, 
 but everybody knows that Tomb Raider sucks. Finally, however, you have the opportunity to play 
 archaeologist/grave robber without a glitchy camera or crappy controls. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, 
 is a lot like Tomb Raider, except it's good. There's a lesson to be learned here: feel free to 
 "derive inspiration" from crappy games, as long as you make your version better. 
  
  And that's just what Uncharted does. Tomb Raider games have always had some inexplicable appeal 
 to me, but every time I played one of the games I had to work hard not to put my foot through the 
 TV. Uncharted essentially takes that exciting, adventure atmosphere and weds it with a gameplay 
 mechanic that, while repetitive, is actually a lot of fun. 
  
  Uncharted is essentially divided up into two main sections: platforming and combat. The platforming 
 really goes hand-in-hand with all the exploration that you'll be doing throughout the game. The 
 controls are about as simple as possible: press X to jump, and that's it. Running around environments 
 and interacting with the environment proves to be a lot of fun. The platforming, while easy, is 
 a lot of fun. 
  
  But what's more important than the jumping and exploring itself is that the platforming segments 
 really give Uncharted a chance to show off it's drop-dead-gorgeous environments. Of course, these 
 are the same environments that you'll be fighting in, but the intense combat never gives you a 
 chance to just stop and view some of the absolutely amazing vistas that make up the world of Uncharted. 
 
  
  It's this graphical achievement, in part, that gives Uncharted it's entirely believable sense of 
 reality. As you wander through jungles, scale cliffs, and explore mysterious caves throughout the 
 island, you can't help but smile as you realize just how life-like the environment is. Uncharted 
 sports graphics that do more than provide a pretty background for your adventuring; they go a long 
 way in making the game genuinely better. 
  
  I've always been an advocate of the "gameplay over graphics" school of thought. That said, I'm 
 even more enthusiastic about graphics that enhance gameplay. Recent games have been getting away 
 from that, but not Uncharted. Enjoying Uncharted is a process, and it doesn't all just revolve 
 around the exploration and shoot-outs. Soaking-in and appreciating the atmosphere is also huge, 
 and that wouldn't have been possible without the beautiful, lush visuals. 
  
  That's not to say that the exploration is perfect, because while it's a lot of fun there's an annoying 
 inconsistency with what environmental objects you can interact with. Sometimes you can grab onto 
 window ledges; sometimes you can't. I understand that this was necessary in order to make the game 
 as linear as it is (the dev team didn't want you crawling around on buildings just for kicks) but 
 it's an annoying problem nonetheless. 
  
  Combat is the other main component of the game, and revolves around a cover system. During the 
 course of Uncharted, you'll kill a LOT of enemies. And these aren't pushover, one-shot-and-they're-dead 
 enemies either  they can sustain about as much damage as you can, so it's important to stay out 
 of harm's way as best you can while you methodically take down the pirates and soldiers that are 
 out for your blood. 
  
  But while the platforming is thrilling and intuitive, the gunplay has some definite quirks. Firstly, 
 the cover system isn't always particularly reliable, because Nathan can take cover behind just 
 about anything. Hitting the cover button could result in Nate taking cover behind whatever you 
 wanted him to hide behind, or it could result in him taking cover behind a little stick on the 
 ground, which inevitably ends either in him taking a crapload of damage or dying. 
  
  Luckily, though, the checkpoint and autosave systems are well-done so dying is never a big deal. 
 There is definitely a trial-and-error feel to parts of the game, but save times are quick and checkpoints 
 are liberally distributed, so it's never a big deal. 
  
  Another thing that really pisses me off about the gunplay is that while there are probably 8 or 
 10 different weapons scattered throughout the game, in reality you won't be spending much time 
 with anything other than a machine gun and standard pistol. Yes, there is a sniper rifle, a rocket-launcher, 
 and a shotgun. But all of these weapons come with something like 4 or 6 bullets, giving you just 
 enough time to kill a few guys and then throw it away in favor of the machine gun, which holds 
 something like 1,345,379 bullets. Weapon variety in a shooting game is great. But fake weapon variety 
 is not. 
  
  There is an upside to this, though. The combat sections are somewhat repetitive, because every 
 once in a while you'll come to a huge open area wit lots of cover and tons of ammo, and you know 
 that you're going to kill a few hundred baddies in the next ten minutes or so. But to relieve this 
 repetition is the fact that in some areas you'll get a new or infrequent weapon. There's only a 
 little ammo, so it's not going to last you long. But the idea is obviously that you use it to take 
 down some bad guys, then throw it away and go with a more lasting gun. It's an interesting, albeit 
 sometimes annoying, way to spice up the combat. 
  
  Ultimately, though, my biggest problem isn't with either the combat or the platforming; it's with 
 how the developers choose to combine them. You know how when you combine water and vegetable oil, 
 they form two very distinct layers? That's a really great way to describe Uncharted. Separately, 
 each part of the game is solid, though not without its occasional problems. But together, the game 
 just feels jarring and inorganic. 
  
  Uncharted switches from combat to exploration and vice-versa in just seconds, and with little warning. 
 You'll drop of a ledge, and bam: there's a veritable army of pirates waiting for you. There's absolutey 
 no transition, and this gets to be disconcerting after a while. It would have been nice to have 
 some sort of combination of platforming and combat. But aside from a few occasions where there's 
 an enemy or two shooting at you as you traverse the landscape, the two main components of the game 
 are kept very separate. 
  
  This disparity between the two mechanics of the game even carries over to level design. The platforming 
 sections of the game are wonderfully built, with defined pathways and really awe-inspiring environments. 
 But the areas for major combat are little more than huge fields with lots of cover. They feel nowhere 
 near as sharp or as intelligent as the explore-able environments. 
  
  And then there are the puzzles which, while fun, come at you out of nowhere. Climb a building, 
 kill some guys, open a gate, and... solve a switch puzzle. That's not to say they feel out of place 
 in an adventure game, because they don't. But again, some sort of logical transition or build-up 
 to these puzzles would be great. The puzzles themselves are excellent, though. They're never too 
 difficult, but they're challenging enough to make you feel pretty clever when you complete them. 
 
  
  But for any minor flaws, Uncharted is still a really intelligent, enjoyable action game. There's 
 this wonderful level continuity throughout the game, and different parts of the adventure may take 
 place in the same room. For example, in one part of the game you'll traverse the precarious ceiling 
 of a church. Then, later on, you'll come back for a huge firefight on the ground, taking cover 
 behind the pews and the alter. Situations like this add a real sense of purpose to the game. Then 
 there's also the generally interesting story and excellent voice acting, which serve to further 
 immerse you in Nathan Drake's world. 
  
  Uncharted is a pretty short game, but I think that's a good thing. It feels like a movie in many 
 ways, and it knows when enough is enough. Frankly, by the time the credits roll, the player will 
 likely be glad that the adventure is over. Despite any combat variety, it gets to be trying towards 
 the end of the game. Almost in a recognition of its flaws, Uncharted ends just before you could 
 feasibly be getting frustrated with all the fighting you're doing. 
  
  But for all its problems, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a top-notch action game. Aside from some 
 discrepancies between game components and one of the lamest late-game "plot twists" I've ever experienced, 
 Uncharted does things well. It's a sharp, slick, action-adventure game that every PS3 owner needs 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:10
  Gameplay:7
  Sound:10
  Replay Value:6
  
  
  The ps3 started rough and it took quite a while for it to get out of the rut it was stuck in, its 
 no secret and even Sony I'm sure would admit that the ps3 had a very awrkward start.
  
  Soon enough though with all the updates and some much more memorable exclusives came churning in, 
 the ps3 was finally start to reveal its hidden potential.
  
  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is possibly one of the biggest boosters to get the ps3 flying off the 
 shelves, its extrodinary graphics had set the stage for just what was on offer from the ps3.
  
  Yes Uncharted is quite a looker, well no its not just a 'looker', the games enviroments you'll 
 traverse through are a source of great beauty that should even stop you in your tracks just to 
 take witness of its wonderous sunset, its many run down castle's and even just to check out the 
 Hunk that is Nathan Drake :P. But it still has more to offer, it may not equal to what its graphics 
 can give but its good enough to keep you entertained.
  
  So graphically can obviously be simple said as one of the best looking games around, artistically 
 its wonderful to explore around and have the immersion just swallow you up and have you truelly 
 feel your traversing through a vast jungle, well a jungle with only one exit...
  
  It certaintly would be a success as say a piece of art for all to admire, but even the animations 
 that brings the game to life is just as flawless. Nathan especially, he runs through realistically 
 with his arms slightly keeping to a pace that shows Nathan is obviously a lil tired after this 
 all, his erratic jumps all seem realistic with his fluid movements in the air to his even sometimes 
 incredibly flawed landings.
  Nathan is no superhero, even if his acrobatics and unanimous luck with the platforming sections 
 may give that vibe off, the animations of it all will reassure you some that hes having a pretty 
 tough time.
  
  The gameplay that connects it all together is overall fun, not incredibly varied but still able 
 to keep you going for the 9 hours or so the game offers. It all boils down to platforming sections 
 which will then lead to some gun fights.
  
  The platforming is very entertainting to watch, again for Nathans animations of flaying all over 
 the place n jumping, falling and swinging in every direction, but for one its all much easier than 
 it looks to pull off. Sometimes you may even just need to constantly tap the jump button and Nathan 
 will literally do the rest. There will be some troubles involving the platforming sections. Pieces 
 of rock falling down at you or even the object your currently hanging off will start to crumble 
 can add some needed tension, but again its all very easy and almost comes to instinct as to avert 
 from the danger.
  
  The gun fights though will completely mirror the difficulty of the platforming bits. The gunfights 
 play out like a 3PS, but with keeping in cover a major neccesity. Similair to gears of war so I've 
 heard. Staying behind cover you will then have to pop out and take aim at each of the enemies. 
 Charging with a death wish isn't the best of tactics but its still an option if you start to get 
 desperate.
  The cover you crouch yourself behind may also be destructable too forcing you to make some quick 
 thinking, etheir running to another piece of cover, making your stand and hoping for the best or 
 even getting close enough to get some melee moves in.
  The melee at first may seem rather useless, but soon enough its just as helpful as your usual ''taking 
 potshots behind cover'' routine. If theres only one guard, charging at him followed by some melee 
 attacks can easily secure a victory. 
  
  Weapons to fight your way through the hordes of pirates and mercenaries is varied enough but not 
 to anything spectacular. You'll have some standard merc weapons at first ranging from 9mm handguns, 
 AK's, shotguns and grenade launchers. As the game goes on you will come across some new n violent 
 toys, but there practically just sort of cooler looking versions of what you've been using. Everybodys 
 favourite shotgun the SPAZ will replace the shorter barreled MOSS, the M4 will replace the AK and 
 so on.
  Ammo for all these is rather limited, fortunatly though the corpses you create will always be willing 
 to supply you abit more killing juice. 
  Your able to have two weapons equipped, one for side arm- ( (handgun, Uzi ect.) ) while the other 
 for primary ( (assault rifle, shotgun ect.) ) . You will sometimes find yourselve running out of ammo 
 to then run around and quickly keep trading through all the other weapons.
  Grenades are also available, but there severly underpowered and are nigh useless for the most part.
 
  
  So with destructable cover, very limited ammo it can only get harder thanks to the impressive AI. 
 The enemies you come across have got appropiatly tough AI to set Uncharted as a difficult game 
 for most. There aim is almost always dead on and they will of course take cover themselves when 
 given the opportunity. They will swerve around to dodge your shots and will constantly flank you 
 if they have the men to spare.
  The gunfights are intense and incredibly fun at first, but sometimes they will tend to drag on 
 with you taking on hordes of enemies to then after all are declared deceased, have another wave 
 to come straight after. You may question just when will it end and with limited checkpoints among 
 the firefights may lead to frustration. Melee though is actually one of the highlights, theres 
 much to it. You have two combo's one which just requires you to press the square button in quick 
 succesion while the other, called a brutal combo, is to press square, triangle, square in a stead 
 pace. The animations for the fights are impressive and will show Nate doing dropkicks, plenty of 
 punchs to the face and even jump shots.
  
  Mixed with the platforming is also a few occasional puzzles, but what is surprising considering 
 its theme of treasure hunting, their almost insultingly easy and while they brake up the pace they 
 seem like they were implemented for just that purpose, not to give any satisfaction of figuring 
 out a clever puzzle. Plus theres no hidden puzzles etheir to garner you some goodies, all the puzzles 
 you'll come across are all holes in the path that have to be solved to further the story.
  
  The story though is a fantastic acheivment. Not that its entirely original, infact its all 
 rather predictable and the twists won't leave much shock in your system. Its the characters themselves 
 that manage to really pull the story along at an enjoyable pace. Nathan especially is almost impossible 
 not to like. He may be like some sort of spiderman wannabe at times with unimaginable gun skills, 
 but he still manages to come off as a very ''real'' guy with plenty of personality and plenty of 
 grief to share with the situations he keeps finding himself in.
  
  Which then leads to the sound, the sound is probably tied with the graphics for Uncharteds greatest 
 acievments. The voice acting is impressive to say the least and Uncharted also a very grand soundtrack 
 of big band tunes to set the atmosphere. It reminded me of Circle of Blood in fact its soundtrack 
 is that great. The enemies however do have reptitive lines and the voices are all basically your 
 typical 'evil' one sided foreigners. But the notable characters are all performed well with Nathan, 
 Sully and Eleanor all giving good chemistry with one another and ending up as a likable trio.
 
  
  The game as a whole though still carryed with it the curse that most of the earlier titles. Its 
 very short. Again taking at most around 9 hours long and with not much to go back for unless you 
 find yourself becoming a serious fan (like myself) There is at least achievments (and trophies 
 now) to strive for which in turn can unlock a few tid bits such as character skins, graphical rendering 
 and some documentaries concerning the development. Its satisfying to be awarded some of the tougher 
 ones, but I can expect that just completing the game is good enough.
  4 difficulties, one of which is damn near cruel, can also keep the completionists occupied too, 
 but theres nothing notable that can bring you back, no minigames or alternate endings.
  
  But still it all adds up to a memorable game and one that finally allowed the ps3 to spread its 
 wings. A graphical masterpiece and with a wonderful cast of characters, it may be just worth a 
 rental for some, but for others it can be seen as an exclusive to be proud of and is just the start 
 of a franchise with a great deal of potential to only get better
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is thought it might be good, well I wasn't wrong at 
 all it was just simply great. And I always thought Tomb Raider was good, well this game just kicked 
 a field goal with Lara Croft.
  
  The story really sticks out as being really great in this game, it grabbed me and wouldn't let 
 loose of me. It's got a lot of twist in it and all of that great stuff you wouldn't expect. For 
 people that really like story in a game to be good well this is one of those that you're looking 
 for.
  
  The game play is also great and another thing I love about this game, A big mixture of platforming 
 and a third person shooter. I guess it will remind you of Tomb raider at times but in my opinion 
 it's a lot better. I have also heard of the game having problems sometimes like freezing but I 
 never had them.
  
  The graphics look pretty good they could also be a little better I guess, but when it comes to 
 graphics they aren't a big deal to me and it doesn't matter. But if you like graphics and there 
 a big thing to you then you might thank they could be better but you want be disappointed.
  
  The sound is basically great some of the best, and overall it makes for a lot better experience 
 and will make you enjoy the game more. Don't expect them to be perfect because there not but you 
 want be disappointed with them at all.
  
  Overall Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a must have game if you have a PS3, it's really great and 
 I enjoyed it a lot. I have beat it a few times already and will more to, I can't wait for the second 
 one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CountyChamp
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Awesome awesome game. Graphics, story, sound, voice acting, control (platforming and shooting) 
 .. everything is great. The only reason why this game isn't perfect is ... well ... it isn't perfect. 
 Uncharted is fairly short with no real means of replaying except for trophies or medals (which 
 don't unlock any secrets.) The shooting battles are a lot of fun but can be quite difficult because 
 the aiming system isn't a perfect 10/10. More like a 7 or 8 out of 10. Also, where the heck do 
 these bad guys comes from. I just jumped over 10 roofs, climbed 3 vines, unlocked a secret room, 
 and they somehow manage to find another secret entrance. Obviously, these are minor complaints 
 and only there to add some more challenge and meaning to the game. Here's to hoping that Uncharted 
 2 is even better and that Naughty Dog iron's out the few minor issues that the first game had. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blank33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a game that any PS3 owner should experience. The game sets you, playing 
 as Nathan Drake, in a dense jungle environment in the search for the lost treasure of El Dorado. 
 Drake, who is avid treasure hunter, embarked on the journey to find these riches using the diary 
 of ancestor Sir Francis Drake. Drake will have to fight his way through hordes of mercenaries who 
 are seeking the treasure. You will experience plot twists and many other engaging events, which 
 all fit together to make a very enjoyable experience. With Drake's witty remarks and quick puzzle 
 solving abilities, this game will easily draw you in and you will want to finish it. Even then, 
 you may want to replay the game to find the remaining treasure scattered throughout the game. Though 
 this game may be one of the first for the PS3 it is easily one of the best. Fun to play, enjoyable 
 environment, worth playing to get the trophies, and with Uncharted 2 in the not too distant future 
 if you have not yet played this game, go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughTumbler101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is the first game I played on my PS3 and also in my opinion the best. With great graphics, 
 epic music, and an engaging story it hooked me from the very beginning. You can think of this game 
 as what an Indiana Jones game should be. The characters are interesting and well developed leaving 
 you genuinely caring about their well being. Even if you don't care about the story in games the 
 combat is engaging enough to keep you playing although the hand to hand can be a bit frustrating 
 if not used properly. A negative is no online which I personally would have enjoyed but not every 
 game is perfect. A cool extra in the game are trophies which unlock extras such as concept art 
 and even slow motion mode. In the end if you sre looking for a game with a good story, fun combat, 
 and just an overall great experience Uncharted is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a brilliant game that has same strategy as tomb rider, I believe. 
 
  
  
  
  Most of playing is inside a jungle with great trees and leaves. This game has lots of weapons that 
 give the player the ability to switch from any type to another with any difficulties.
  
  
  We can say that this game satisfies different players who like different weapons and do not 
 like to stick with a specific gun for the reset of the game.
  
  
  Graphics for the game are very very very great you imagine yourself inside the jungle and taking 
 the place of the character. You can feel these big trees and leaves as you go through the game. 
 Also, explosions and fires are much close to the real. 
  
  
  Also, not like other games, this game is somehow long enough to play. I will take you long time 
 to finish it. Just be sure to feel each chapter and you will realize that this game is really very 
 great game along with story.
  
  
  This game is difficult somehow. Because you need to kill some specific number of enemies in order 
 to proceed to the next stage. You need to be expert enough for killing different kind of enemies. 
 Sometimes you need to load from checkpoint five or more times just to discover a strategy for busting 
 all of them. For some people, this is considered to be nice and tough and for others it is considering 
 to be boring. We can say that this is an advantage and disadvantage at the same time.
  
  
  The most greatest feature of this game is graphics. ND did a very great job for creating such 
 great graphics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok so that I can get this out of the way, I'm currently pissed at my PS3 for not wanting to load 
 my game that was at 98% so technically I haven't finished the game, but I got the general idea.
 
  
  Overall, the game was great. That's why I'm writting this right now. The graphics were good but 
 were faulty in some places. For instance when you blow something up, the smoke looks real, but 
 in the same sence you know its fake. But really, the graphics are good. especially the water effects. 
 I slapped my gop when I noticed that when you wnet in the water part-way, your clothes got that 
 wet. That's it. 
  
  Wepons department... come on. I went through almost the entire game with one wepon, the pistol. 
 You couldn't find ammo anything else, except the Tommy gun but that was in only one place... bastards. 
 And what's with... nevermind I'll get in trouble for spoilers.... fart lickers. But I degress BACK 
 to my point. Seriously, most the guns suck except for the pistol. Stick to the pistol and your 
 great. 
  
  The controls... mostly smooth. I say mostly because in some instances.. they get snobby and give 
 you a nice middle finger as you die either by fall off a ledge/building or your enemy shoots you 
 to death after you shot them in the head like three times previous but they just won't die. Personally 
 I'd like to blame the controler because I just don't want to blame the game designers. Naughty 
 Dog especially because they made a childhood favorite: Crash Bandicoot. So DAM YOU SONY AND DAM 
 YOU (the comnpany that make dual-shock... add name here) !!!
  
  Story, well can't go much in depht here or I'll get in trouble... god I hate limiting myself... You 
 play as a fortune-finder name Nathan Drake and you're out looking for the lost treasure of El Dorado. 
 Nice to see we're back onto this again. Although, it's nice to see we're out of the rut of WWII 
 and crap like that, that started to get old. Heh, I like it when people from combat shooters like 
 COD4 or Halo 3 come over to play this game they suck at it and then I get it back and pwn their 
 sorry butt... but then they do the same to me when I play a combat shooter, fair enough. 
  
  But I strongly recomend this game. Wether you're looking for a fun adventure game, or you wanted 
 to get out of a rut... or both... this is a game definately worth trying at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Lets all agree, the Jak games were all beautifully designed, artistically and plot-wise for their 
 time. Naughty Dog has proven itself worthy of praise 3 times.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a good game with stunning graphics that are just below a handful 
 of games. Naughty Dog surprised be with the bewildering brutallity of this game though, with each 
 game that they've made, they've made a point of making their games more violent, daunting and dark. 
 This game has you fighting pirates, private soldiers, and zombie nazis. If you watch the two videos 
 that are out for the second game it looks even darker than this game.
  
  The Graphics feel as though they were taken out of a picture, almost every single environment feels 
 as though it was a watercolor.
  
  There are few too many guns in the game. It is fun to take a Desert-5 a. k. a magnum to the enemies 
 and blow the crap out of them.
  
  Nate (the main character) is very comical and seems to have a knack for choosing the wrong friends, 
 being in the wrong place at the wrong time, and making occasional poor choices. Hey there wouldn't 
 be a game if he didn't get caught by a few pirates and find the treasure in the first place he 
 looks. And like all loveable characters he has a generic catch phrase that is shared by the apparent 
 love interest Elena. "Oh, Crap!"
  
  The Jak games are not for young children, but i'm sure lenient parents would let an eight year 
 old play it. This game however, is standing on the proverbial bridge leading to M games. When you 
 shoot someone a plume of blood behind them. They say s*** more times in a T game then I've ever 
 heard before and having to watch a zombie bite into Nate's spinal cord is a little disturbing.
 
  
  The plot is beautifully written, with enough plot twists to keep you playing until the end.
  
 
  For all of you action/adventure/horror game lovers, this game is well worth the $60. Make sure 
 you download trophy support if you didn't get it with the game too. I highy recommend buying this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameGoddess
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a really good game merging Indiana Jones with Gears Of War style combat cover. The 
 game is nothing like Tomb Raider this games more like a fun shooter set in forests/temples which 
 is awesome. Anyways the game has awesome characters and voice acting. Im not too keen on blondie 
 though. The graphics of the game are awesome. It think games that are set outdoors in lush areas 
 etc usually very beautiful and Uncharted is definatly that. The actual levels/areas may be beautiful 
 but they are pretty linear and theres not much to do. The start of the game starts out really well 
 up until a certain part in the jungle where you get bombarded by tons of guys over and over. When 
 this happens the game starts getting tedious and annoying. Most of the enemies are human apart 
 from one other thing later on in the game. The puzzles in the game are easy as counting to 10. 
 The game is best with its combat though and it certainly is entertaining. The cover system is great 
 and aiming is very accurate. The game also has a good length and the unlockables are really good. 
 The only negative is that the game should be more varied with enemies like some more supernatural 
 stuff and the same guys over and over gets old/boring/tedious and pretty easy. The areas maybe 
 should have been better too. Too much jungles for my liking. Overall id say Uncharted is a really 
 good game for the PS3 and im very much looking forward to Uncharted 2 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TevoxZi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The game was quite exciting and it made you like climbing, even if you didn't really like it in 
 real life. The musics of the game is a plus too, since it fits in the environment of the game. 
 The graphics are nice for a great game like that as well, the sentences that Nate made were also 
 quite funny and they fitted in the right places ( I mean, whenever a lot of enemies came, he just 
 knew what to say to make it fit in there :) )
  
  The only reason I'm not giving this game 10, is because the puzzles were too easy to solve and 
 the game wasn't really long. But it was fun as long as it lasted, and I'm so gonna get the Uncharted 
 2 once it gets out. The trailer for the 2nd Uncharted already starts pretty good, so I bet the 
 game's gonna be as good as the first one, or even better, but it doesn't need to get better to 
 be honest, as it was good enough already in my opinion. :-)
  
  Great game, and I highly recommend anyone to play this whoever owns a PS3.
  
  I hope the review 
 that I made, wasn't a bad one, but I'm not really a good reviewer, so meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (PS3) review
  
  Point-loss
  
  Unrealistic blood- 0.1
  Repetitive- 0.4
  Not much difficulty level differences- 0.3
  Short- 0.7
  Gunshots are not-that-good- 
 0.1
  No online play- 0.4
  
  Uncharted begins as Nathan Drake finds 400 year-old Sir Francis Drake's journal in a coffin. Nathan 
 (I'll call him Nate from now on) uses the journal to help him try to find the treasure of El Dorado.
 
  
  Uncharted has hands-down the best graphics ever. Even better than Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 
 Every single thing, from the grass on the ground, to the bark on a tree, to Nate's wet clothes 
 after emerging from water, to the facial expressions of everyone, to the orange-sunset sky, to 
 the beautiful waves of the ocean, every little detail was treated as if to be inspected by a critic 
 with high expectations. There is literally no difference between the graphics in cutscenes and 
 the graphics during gameplay. You'll see slivers of light on the ground when under a canopy of 
 trees, and the shadows are transparent gray, just like they should be. It's like watching a movie 
 the whole way through. Except for blood. When you shoot someone, blood comes out, but it looks 
 more like bits of strawberry Jello than blood.
  
  The music is great. It's not buy-on-iTunes music, but it is well-suited for Uncharted and enforces 
 the emotions being felt by the characters. Like, if Nate is scared in a dark room, then the music 
 will help you to feel what Nate is.
  
  Speaking of sound, the gunshots are kinda meh. Some are fair, but the rest are just not that good.
 
  
  If you're scared that the characters could be ruined by some bad voice acting, then no need to 
 worry. Uncharted has outstanding voice acting. The voice actors really knew what they were doing. 
 When someone is angry, you'll know they're angry. When someone is scared, you'll know they're scared. 
 You get the point. At a few points in the game, Nate is talking while lifting someone, and you 
 can clearly hear the struggle in Nate's voice.
  
  The gameplay can get repetitive, unfortunately. Usually, it's solve a puzzle and/or swing from 
 vines and then fight some enemies. That's not that bad, but it eventually just gets annoying.
 
  
  Let me add that Uncharted is the most realistic game ever created. In terms of Nate's movement. 
 When he walks over a log, he'll stumble a little. When hiding behind cover, he'll flinch when a 
 bullet hits somewhere near him. Nate will go down each individual step in a set of stairs, instead 
 of magically floating down.
  
  No, I'm not done. Uncharted has 4 difficulty levels: Easy, normal, hard, and crushing. There's 
 almost no difference between them. I don't even think there is any difference between easy and 
 normal! And, easy will take you 9-10  hours, so this is a pretty quick game.
  
  This is a PS3 game, so you're probably wondering: Are there trophies? Yes there are. There a lot 
 of trophies, but they're relatively easy to get and is probably one of the easiest games to get 
 a platinum in. You can get trophies for completeing the game, getting a certain number of kills 
 with a specific gun. getting a certain number of headshots, etc.
  
  To end it, there's no online play. Yes, this is disappointing, just because there isn't any online 
 play, and because there's a short story mode and that's all you got.
  
  So, this is a very fun PS3 game, with great voice acting and amazing visuals to match. You should 
 definitely check it out, and it will leave you excited for Uncharted 2: Among Thieves.
  
  Score: 8.0/10= Great
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  -red0584
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GirlsPlayToo89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:20 am PT
Review:  When I first got my ps3 I didn't know what games were fun for the system. I love action adventure 
 games and saw this and thought I would try it and it turned out amazing. To me, I get bored of 
 games that have way more adventure than action. This game does a great job of balancing both out 
 perfectly. You have just enough platforming and then it goes into all out shooting and dodging 
 behind things. If you are a big fan of trophies there are a lot to be found on this game. The graphics 
 and scenery look amazing and there are 4 difficulty levels making great replay value. Also, there 
 is variety in the levels. Sometimes you are driving a jet-ski while shooting, one level you are 
 shooting people from the back of a moving jeep, and there are creepy decendents you have to fight 
 off in dark rooms. Plus you can run up to an enemy and hand fight them if you don't have time to 
 use a gun. It feels like you are in your own action movie. If you are a fan of the action adventure 
 genre I would strongly recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewareOfTrees88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:17 am PT
Review:  Though this is not far removed from other "cover, shoot, repeat" games with your random vehicle 
 chases and wall climbing, it is definitely the most fun I have had doing exactly that in a long 
 time.
  
  The great thing about Uncharted is that no aspect of the game was sacrificed for the benefit of 
 something else. The story worked great for a game of this genre, and it is well supported in every 
 aspect. I never felt irritated when I was taken out of the control position and replaced with cut 
 scenes because they were beautifully animated. Plus they were hilarious without being cheesy, making 
 it impossible not to love the characters. But the animation of these scenes was not the only place 
 where the art of the game could shine; every environment and character rendering were perfectly 
 created. 
  
  Though this game leaves little to complain about when everything is said and done, something that 
 did get a little obnoxious was the number of enemies. Half of the time I felt like I was watching 
 the wildebeest in the Lion King flooding down the walls of my surroundings to keep me from advancing 
 to the next area of the level for just a while longer. And then, as the game advanced they became 
 harder and harder to pick off. I know if I had seven bullets in me I wouldn't be running around, 
 throwing grenades like a cheerleader throwing t-shirts out at a baseball game. Then again, I would 
 be down for the count after one. But I'm only human
  
  Which brings me to one last thing. Now I will precede this by saying that horror games and I do 
 not mix, so after shooting down men for 6 or 7 hours I was nowhere near the right mindset for a 
 creature feature. So when those cave dwellers come out of nowhere towards the end I was in shock 
 and ready to hug my shotgun and call it a day. But after a hunkered down and got through it, I 
 was all the more satisfied with the experience, though still slightly frazzled. 
  
  With the great gameplay and replayability this game has to offer, Uncharted is one of the best 
 games I have played in a long time. In other words, if there is any game that will make me question 
 my loyalty to my 360, this is the one, and I cannot wait for the sequels to follow.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamernut
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Alright, well first things first. This game is no cakewalk. The platforming is mildly amusing and 
 easy, but the fighting is near impossible at times which makes things a little less exciting. But 
 don't get me wrong, Uncharted is not a bad game at all. You start out as the treasure hunter, Nathan 
 Drake, who finds a diary of his claimed ancestor, Sir Francis Drake. From there you shoot, climb, 
 swim and run through jungles, underground tombs, and even a German U-boat. The graphics are simply 
 amazing, they are about as good as it gets on the ps3. There are some incredible moments of action 
 in this game that blend combat and platforming together. In one moment, enemies fire at you from 
 all sides and you jump from platform to platform as you shoot them and hide behind columns. More 
 moments like this have you running across a crumbling bridge or operating a jet ski. It is moments 
 like this that make Uncharted an exciting action title that stands out among others. The combat 
 is solid, but at times it can get really irritating. The platforming is great and fun, and should 
 keep you from getting bored. So if you are looking for a game that feels like a fun action movie, 
 Uncharted will leave you satisfied and happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgeek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  Uncharted has set the bar for the PS3
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Setting/theme: 8/10
  Dialouge/cutscenes: 9/10
  
  Uncharted starts on a high note, you have 
 just found a coffin believed to be the coffin of Sir Francis Drake, pirate, and you, Nathan "Nate" 
 Drake, are his desendant. Even though it is said he had no children. You open the coffin and lo! 
 behold, it is empty with only a small diary (in suprisingly good condition) in it. 
  Suddenly you see pirates in the distance, you tell the action reporter, Elena Fisher, if she knows 
 how to shoot a gun. "Sure, its like a camera right... ya just point and shoot, right" "Good girl". 
 You take control of Nate now, you start off with the PM 9, accurate, powerful, high magazine capacity. 
 The pirates are pretty much sissys compared to the other enemies you'll face in the future, or 
 in gametime, 2 days. after you have taken care of the first wave you'll have to fight the pirates 
 with hand to hand combat, easy combo that's it. This is one of the few levels you can fire your 
 gun without needing to worry about ammo, enemies drop ammo as they die. After you kill a few pirates, 
 they bring out the big gun, which is child's play in later levels, this is when you go into a cutscene 
 when Nate's dear friend Victor "Sully" Sullivan somehow destroys the boat with his plane.
  You get on the plane and go to a Panamainian port where you ditch Elena and go to the Amazon. Here 
 you find a rusting German U-boat on the edge of a waterfall. Of course, Nate goes in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreMattic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted 1 Review 
  
  Gameplay - consists of traversing environments and shooting bad guys throughout the game. Now, 
 doing any one of these for too long can make one weary. However, the brilliance of Uncharted is 
 that it carefully blends the two elements so well that you never really get tired of doing one 
 or the other and yet it all makes sense. The enemy AI is excellent, almost too excellent. The badies 
 will systematically use anything and everything to put you on your back. The friendly AI, (that 
 is your allies) is also well done. I was very surprised when I found that my counterpart had precisely 
 taken out a grenade launchin' adversary that really saved my tail.
  
  Storyline - is probably the number one reason I'd buy this game and play this game again. These 
 guys could seriously make a movie of this game and do really well. There is love, mystery, action, 
 dialogue, betrayal, and plenty of uncertainty which all make a good story. There were many times 
 where I just had to start the next chapter because I was eager to find out exactly what happens 
 next.. only to want to start the next chapter. and so on and so forth. 
  
  Graphically - the game is done right. Plush jungle environments, with real looking leaves, trees, 
 water, ships, boats. In short, I had no problem believing that I was really in the middle of a 
 jungle shooting guys to a pulp. The characters also look very well (especially sidekick Elena!) . 
 The scary thing is that this game was developed very early in the PS3's life, when the hardware 
 capabilities weren't even fully tapped. Uncharted 2 will be a masterpiece!
  
  Complaints (2)  I would say that the game is a little short when playing through for the first 
 time. It took me about 13 hours and that was coasting (not really trying to beat it extra fast) . 
 Lastly, I found that some of the weapons weren't as rewarding to shoot as I had originally thought. 
 Even the M4 rifle was inaccurate and a pain to use. 
  
  Conclusion - Uncharted = Decent Gameplay + Very Intriguing Storyline + Above Average Graphics. 
 Uncharted is a very very solid game on all levels. Yes, it does have some occasional nuances primarily 
 with the length and shooting elements, however it makes up for it with great graphics, gameplay, 
 storyline, and the ability to replay again and again thanks to the various unlockables and rewards 
 scattered throughout the game.
  
  A must have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbow1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  After having played numerous PS3 titles including Metal Gear, COD4, Assassins Creed, and others, 
 I can say with confidence that none provided the level of entertainment that Uncharted did. The 
 story line was excellent and Drake was actually a likable character. You might find yourself actually 
 caring about what happens to him throughout the game. I was ecstatic to find out that a sequel 
 is in the works. We can only hope that it builds on the greatness that is Uncharted: Drakes Fortune.
 
  
  By now, you should be able to get this game at a bargain price. Even at full price you couldn't 
 go wrong, but the bargain shopper will be able to find the game at a significantly reduced rate. 
 It is worth every penny you will spend, and I would suggest that if you haven't already played 
 it, you should do so quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:38 am PT
Review:  Until very recently, the most highly regarded (and one of the only) "Old Dungeon Searching and 
 Finding Old Valuable Objects" games (basically, game like Indiana Jones) was Tomb Raider. Though 
 there were not many other games to compete against Tomb Raider, and even Lara Croft games were 
 getting very similar to each other and every new installment into the series was met with criticism. 
 No game now could use the full potential of the genre. Or so we thought.
  
  On November 16th 2007, an all new adventure, over flowing with great thrilling action, spectacularly 
 presented story and a level of sheen and quality so high that no one could ever imagine- Uncharted- 
 was released. Yes. Uncharted is here to take matters into its own hands and give this genre the 
 sheen and quality that it once held again. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has everything going for 
 it: it has the action packed, thrilling gameplay, the spectacularly crafted cutscenes, a great 
 story, amazind sound, and high production values. In short, Drake is here to dethrone Lara. And 
 he has done that very successfully.
  
  The enemies in this game never stop coming. Always, at one point or the other, there's a horde 
 of enemies waiting to jump up at you and rip you apart. The game features the shooting mechanic 
 that most shooters these days do. You take cover when your enemies are shooting at you and when 
 they stop shooting and take a pause to reload, you pop up and shoot them dead. But yo can get into 
 a firefight and start shooting your muchine guns or assault rifles at every pirate or mercenary 
 you face. You can even get into fist fights which are really awesome to look at and even better 
 to play. But its almost a surprise if you get outta there alive. 
  
  Then, there are a lot of platforming sections that make this game even more fun. You might be jumping 
 across chasms, scaling walls going here and there and everything. Even though this is nothing new, 
 its a great deal of fun. But soon, the gameplay gets repititive and almost tiring. Always there 
 are enemies running towards you and once you've gotten through about 80% of the game, you'll groan 
 in frustration when you see another horde of enemies running at you (whih is almost thrice a second- 
 obviously thats a exaggeration but you get the point) and get into a firefight to just get over 
 with it. But it still is a great deal of fun.
  
  And the there are some great vehicle sections, including a lengthy chase sequence where you man 
 a gun on the back of a jeep, and another that has you piloting a personal watercraft up a raging 
 river. 
  
  Also, there are also the God of War type interactive cutscenes. Even though it's nothing new, its 
 great fun, 
  
  There's a little bit of motion control thrown into a few spots, but they dont work out that well, 
 which makes it a bit of a relief that they don't show up that often. Interestingly, Uncharted uses 
 a performance-based reward system very similar to the Xbox 360 achievements to dole out making-of 
 featurettes, concept art, alternate costumes, and the like. It's a minor touch, but it's a smart 
 and proven way to enhance replay value.
  
  The graphics of the game are brilliantly done. The environments, be it lush green fields or dark 
 and dense forests are done very beautifully. The graphics are sharp and a lot of work has been 
 puit into making them one of the best ever- and it shows. 
  
  Even more beautifully done are the animations. The normal major animations are spectacular, as 
 they are in every other game, so thats so big deal. The big deal is the very minute scale of animations. 
 Nathan will do a stumbled half-step when traversing uneven terrain, and you'll see him wince when 
 a bullet gets too close to comfort during a firefight. Likewise, his arms will flail spastically 
 during a big jump, and afterward he'll dangle precariously by one hand on the edge he was aiming 
 for.
  
  Even when he's performing seemingly impossible acrobatic tasks with ease, the quality of the animation 
 gives him a real sense of fallibility. There's also some terrific facial animation, of which you'll 
 see plenty during cutscenes, though you'll catch glimpses of it during gameplay as well. When a 
 grenade lands near Nathan's feet, you can see the fear in his eyes.
  
  So much time and money has been put in to make this game the technical marvel that it is, that 
 is seems almost impossible to look away from screen.
  
  The presentation of this game is mind-blowing. It is so movie-like and well crafted that it almost 
 seems unbelievable sometimes that its a game, not a movie. 
  
  Basically, Uncharted is a technical marvel and awesome to play and look at and NO gamer should 
 be missing this brilliant game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indescent_X
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to live like a Treasure Hunter. Travelling to exotic locations in search of treasure, 
 Traversing deadly cliffs and narrowly escaping enemies. Well in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune you 
 can.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an action-adventure video game developed by Naughty Dog, and published 
 by Sony Computer Entertainment exclusively for the PlayStation 3. Combining platforming and third-person 
 shooter elements, the game charts the journey of protagonist Nathan Drake, supposed descendant 
 of the explorer Sir Francis Drake, as he seeks the lost treasure of El Dorado, with the help of 
 friend Victor "Sully" Sullivan and journalist Elena Fisher.
  
  When you first start Uncharted you are immersed into a cinematic experience that delivers and has 
 immersion. Naughty Dog the company behind the legendary Crash Bandicoot series has gone all out 
 in this game. It's quirky humour and intense battles form together to make quite a unique game.
 
  
  Now the gameplay side of things. 
  Uncharted is a third-person shooter mixed with the 2D-3D platform element. That is probably its 
 primary downfall. While in platform mode, the game has the annoying 3D camera (not all the time 
 but quite allot) which means that some areas that you need to get to are not visible and sometimes 
 completely off screen. 
  
  Now the combat system of the game is quite unique it is the usual third person shooter with a melee 
 system fused into it. The game also features a cover system. Where Nate will use walls and pillars 
 as cover and also any object that is about waist height.
  
  One thing that annoyed me about the the weapon systems is Nate can only carry one pistol at a time, 
 and may also carry one rifle, whilst there is a limited amount of ammo per gun; picking up a different 
 handgun or rifle switches out that weapon for the new one.
  
  This game has several similarities or may even be inspired by the Indiana Jones series and even 
 the National Treasure series. Yet it has its own twist on the treasure hunting genre. The hero 
 Nathan Drake is a Mans-man, he just seems to be really realistic as just an everyday guy.
  
  All and all I give this game a rating of 8 out of 10. For its immersion in gameplay and quality 
 characters. But on the downside it has the Bad camera choices and annoying choices with gunplay.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  So I just finished my 3rd play through this game and it was the best yet. That is coming from a 
 guy who almost never plays a game twice and possibly never thrice. Uncharted is one of those games 
 that is addictingly fun and entertaining.
  
  The gameplay has been done before as far as the combat and shooting goes, but that does not take 
 away from the fact that it is good. Also, I enjoy getting trophies in games and this one was no 
 exception. That is one reason I played it 3 times, but not the only reason. It allows you to unlock 
 "cheats" which can add to the replayability.
  
  The story is exceptionally told and really leaves you on cliffhangers making you want to play through. 
 The story also takes alot of twists and turns which always makes for a better game.
  
  The graphics are also pretty impressive, especially for a game that was created early in the PS3s 
 lifetime. It is hard to make a lush rainforest look like... well a lush rainforest, but this game 
 really does a good job of the look and feel of the environment they are trying to portray.
  
  This is one of the best games that I have played on the PS3 and definately look forward to 
 the next in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  As a die hard Tomb Raider fan I never thought that any game can even come close let alone surpass, 
 in some aspects my beloved Lara, however, after playing this game, I found it to be a very close 
 call. Let me first start off that the visuals in this game is breathtaking as Naughty Dog did a 
 fantastic job with this. The sound is also very note worthy as the attention to detail is equally 
 amazing, for instance when a grenade gets too close to you the sound gets muffled and you hear 
 a ringing in your ears. The story is fascinating and was very interesting. The game play was a 
 mixed bag however as the platforming was too easy (for instance you can leap from one ledge to 
 another with your eyes closed as opposed to Tomb Raider where you at least have to be in the area) 
 and the shooting was pretty difficult (takes around 3 - 4 shots to kill any enemy and there are 
 a lot in this game) . I hope Uncharted 2 makes the game play more even, however even with these 
 things the game play was still not terrible by any means. The voice acting was very good and the 
 characters was very believable. Almost everything in this game worked for me and is a fantastic 
 game with a great story and unforgettable characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjam0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first show casing of the Playstation 3, many have anticipated that the system would 
 produce titles with stellar graphics heads and shoulders above the competition. However, it didn't 
 quite live up to what most expected compared to the 360's Gears of War and Bioshock. Thankfully 
 Naughty Dog, the creators of the Crash Bandicoot and Jak series, brought their new IP Uncharted: 
 Drakes Fortune to Sony's platform, an ambitious new title that pushes the Playstation 3's hardware 
 while bringing together elements making it a thrill ride.
  Uncharted tells the story of treasure hunter Nathan Drake, an ancestor of the well known Sir Francis 
 Drake, who is in the search of the lost treasure El Dorado. With the game set in the Amazon of 
 South America, Uncharted not only displays the best visuals on the console to its date, but among 
 the best across all platforms managing to compete with Gear's of War's Unreal 3.0 spectacle. Drake's 
 Fortune beautifully renders the crisp vivid foliage around Nathan. Climb to the top of a waterfall 
 or a hill, and you can see the setting sun in the background with the orange sun-lit trees of the 
 Amazon. Waterfalls cascade down to the rivers below with realistic collision effects. The dynamic 
 real-time shadowing, lighting models, and advanced water simulations all bring together what makes 
 Uncharted's fantastic presentational value and breath taking sights, especially with the chicks. 
 A neat addition Uncharted brings to the table is allowing players to actually see characters' clothing 
 get soaking wet and gradually dry off after they've gotten out of the water. However, most games 
 that deliver high end visuals often come at a price, whether it'll be a frame rate drop, or delayed 
 texture loading; Uncharted suffers from the later. This doesn't happen often, but it is worth acknowledging. 
 Certain surfaces will first appear muddy and bland like a roll of chains or a rusty control panel. 
 Sometimes an entire scenery will be missing, only to appear a good three to four seconds later. 
 This also occurs during the treasure hunt imbedded in the game. There are 60 treasures hidden throughout 
 Drake's Fortune and each time you discover one, the artifact's image will appear on screen. A large 
 amount of these artifacts will have their textures loading in real-time, some of which where the 
 item itself doesn't appear after a few seconds. This shouldn't be much of a surprise as this is 
 a very beautiful game.
  Uncharted has a great sense of personality with its cast of characters. Nathan Drake is your typical 
 charming after-shaved reckless kind of guy, who is accompanied by the persistent Elena Fisher. 
 There are also others such as his old time partner Victor Sullivan, and his nemesis Eddy Raja who 
 shouts my favorite line, "No one messes with Eddy Raja!" Parts of the reason for these well crafted 
 characters are the voice talents of Nolan North (Nathan) , Emily Rose (Elena) , Richard McGonagle 
 (Sullivan) , James Sie (Eddy) and many others. These actors are the center of what gives these characters 
 their distinct personalities. The voice acting is so well incorporated with the motion capture 
 that one can't help but get the sense that this game is coming to life. Like when a frightened 
 Drake says, "Oh s**t!" you can relate to how he's feeling. With its unparalleled visuals, full-body 
 motion capture synchronized with talented voice acting, Uncharted presents a Hollywood quality 
 cinematic experience. 
  Being that Uncharted plots a treasure hunting theme, many accused it of being a male version of 
 Tomb Raider. But this is far from the case. Naughty Dog didn't just replace the sexy seductive 
 Lara Croft with the handsomely charming Nathan Drake. While platforming bares resemblance to Tomb 
 Raider, like the Prince of Persia series, Nathan brings the human quality to play as you can see 
 the stress on his body as he barely makes that seemingly impossible jump. But what really sets 
 Uncharted apart is the combat. Nathan doesn't just go gun-a-blazing; he takes a more cautious like 
 Marcus Fenix in Gears of War. Using the cover based stop-and-pop combat system; Uncharted adds 
 another component to the already high quality cinematic ride. Nathan can also engage in hand-to-hand 
 combat in quick time events. If he approaches and enemy, the camera zooms in and quick-time buttons 
 will show as the combat slows down. He can also take down enemies by sneaking up behind them and 
 going for the silent kill; a great way to infiltrate enemy territory without being seen. The enemy 
 AI will use aggressive tactics to push you back, keeping you on your toes and forcing you to watch 
 your flanks. Often, they will also try to frag you out of your vulnerable positions. It's up to 
 you to seek out cover as you move along clearing out enemies so that you can reach your destination, 
 something that was quite prominent in Gears of War. 
  The only sore-thumbed weak spot in Uncharted are the jet-ski sequences. Most games add a vehicular 
 component to the gameplay attempting to give it some flavorful variety. In these cases however, 
 since they're not the focal point, they usually end up being nothing more than a thrown together 
 element. Uncharted is no different. Jet-skiing feels like a haphazard zigzag ride up and down rivers 
 and rapids. Turning is far too sensitive and becomes increasingly frustrating when you're riding 
 against the currents. Throw in a few exploding fuel tank obstacles and some enemies on the docks, 
 and players can't help but say to themselves, "I can't wait till this is over." Luckily they won't 
 have to wait long as they are rather short and there are only two of them in the game. What is 
 worth mentioning is that there's an on-rails jeep sequence the works well and looks spectacular. 
 It would have been better if Naughty Dog used it again, or at least tweaked the jet-skiing controls.
 
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune managed to bring together so many elements in a game and do them all 
 right, something many developers can only hope to accomplish. It holds rock solid platforming, 
 frantic gun play with a well incorporated cover system, engaging characters brought to life with 
 talented voice acting and fluidly animated motion capture, all coated in some of the best polished 
 visuals to its date. With the minor technical issues aside, Uncharted is a welcomed new IP to the 
 Playstation 3's library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobubba
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo, I couldn't believe my eyes. I initially bought the PS3 because there 
 is a game that I am anticipating. I didn't expect to find a game that I would be so intrigued by 
 so early in my ownership of the console.
  
  I'm not a big shooter fan, so the gun-play in the game was not a draw; however, I found that the 
 classic duck-and-cover play spectacular, especially while watching Drake's animations during the 
 battles. This appears to come straight out of a movie (Indiana Jones comes to mind) . For those 
 gun lovers out there, you should enjoy this a little.
  
  There is also a little treasure hunting involved throughout the game, and some pieces can be tricky 
 to discover. If you don't cheat and go straight to someone who has already found the loot, finding 
 the treasure can be both exhilarating and frustrating.
  
  The largest draw to this game has to come from the story line, though. It's cinematic. It's immersive. 
 It's everything an action/adventure film should be, only you're involved. While you don't get to 
 make choices for Drake, you are responsible for helping him reach his goal, which, if you have 
 any sense of adventure in you, is what you ultimately want to do.
  
  Anyone should be able to enjoy this game. I did. My wife did. The rest of my family did. We made 
 it practically a family affair playing through this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy128
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  I just want to make note of something right off the bat. Uncharted used a reward system that awarded 
 points for things such as headshots and things of that nature. The more points you got with this, 
 the more you could unlock (I saw things such as costumes, videos, cheats and things of that nature) . 
 With the latest game update, these rewards have also been converted into trophies making it one 
 of the older games to take advantage of the new Playstation trophy system.
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune was one of the first Playstation 3 exclusive titles. Uncharted was made 
 by Naughty Dog, the company responsible for my childhood memories of Crash Bandicoot. Instead of 
 a furry marsupial collecting fruit and jumping and sliding, Uncharted gives us an entirely different 
 adventure revolving around a character named Nathan Drake, a descent of the famous explorer Francis 
 Drake. Nathan is searching for El Dorado based on a clue recovered from the coffin of Francis Drake. 
 Tagging along on Nathan's adventure are his older friend, Sully as well as a reporter named Elena. 
 Even though these two start the adventure with you, they are with you for only specific parts of 
 the game since Nathan does most of the exploring and shooting himself. 
  As I already wrote, the story is pretty much about finding El Dorado but of course things get more 
 complicated than just going around searching for it. A band of pirates and mercenaries are also 
 after the treasure so as you explore the island on which the game takes place, you'll have plenty 
 of firefights. As the story progresses, you'll be treated to many cutscenes which look stunning 
 and the voice-work is phenomenal as well. The great thing about the believable characters is that 
 you get invested in them and want to find out what happens next. The story pushes you forward and 
 you end up wanting to find out what happens next. 
  As far as the shooting mechanics go, it's very similar to Gears of War (a comparison I'm sure you've 
 already heard) in that the combat revolves around taking cover and peeking out from behind cover 
 when you have a clear shot; also, the health system is similar since color drains from the surrounding 
 when you take damage and will regenerate if you avoid being shot at for a certain period of time. 
 The enemies aren't particularly challenging but there are a LOT of them. In a few fights, I ended 
 up dying just because enemies started pouring in from a location behind me and I wasn't able to 
 anticipate this. Luckily, the few times it happened to me, the game is usually pretty good about 
 checkpoints which are great for the longer fights. The enemies take cover and will try to flush 
 you out of cover with grenades and the like. Later on, the weapons they use become more deadly 
 (rocket launchers, sniper rifles) and some even attach laser scopes to their weapons for more accurate 
 shooting. Aside from different weapons, the enemies don't really change which can cause the numerous 
 firefights to get a bit tiresome though the various trophies that call on you to kill people in 
 specific ways or with specific weapons can keep things fresh as can trying out the different weapons. 
 In game, Nathan can carry one pistol-like weapon and a rifle or shotgun along with grenades. Things 
 can get a bit intense with only two weapons since you will sometimes be forced to leave cover to 
 grab ammo or a different weapon entirely. The aiming mechanics are solid and you'll be able to 
 accurately get headshots. The one awkward aiming mechanic in the game is using the SIXAXIS to adjust 
 the distance that a grenade is thrown-it feels out of place and is difficult to adjust fast enough 
 to avoid getting shot close to death. 
  In the later stages of the game, the way fighting is done is completely changed from the cover 
 system as you adapt to a new situation, but that's something you'll see later on-the change is 
 fresh if a bit weird. One thing worth mentioning is the last (and only) boss fight which I found 
 a bit frustrating since you are outnumbered-regular enemies shoot at you and when you pop up to 
 shoot them, you risk getting killed by the boss-and the cover you have to use can break; it took 
 me several tries and made me a bit angry, especially since I was so close to the end. But thinking 
 back, it may have just happened because I suck or something like that but once I got into the rhythm 
 of it, I was able to finish. 
  The action is thrilling and there are a few segments in which you and Elena are together and you'll 
 man the turret on a jeep or you'll be in a speedboat taking down enemies along the way. These sequences 
 are fast and fun and add some variety to the regular straight-forward fights. All in all, the combat 
 is fun and considering the game is short (about 8 hours) the repetition in fighting isn't as huge 
 a deal as it could have been.
  Aside from the shooting segments of the game, you'll get to do a lot of exploring just like in 
 Tomb Raider games. Nathan can jump across gaps, use vines to wall run, climb up buildings and the 
 like. The platforming is simple and fast-paced but still enjoyable. It helps that the environments 
 that you go through look absolutely amazing thanks to next-gen (or I guess current-gen at this 
 point) graphics. Hidden throughout the environments are treasures that you can find to add to your 
 collection. There are trophies connected to finding these treasures in increments of 5 which add 
 incentive to go back through the levels to find them, especially since upon completing the game, 
 you can choose to return to any of the game's chapters and replay it. 
  Uncharted shows great production value in everything from gameplay to graphics to sound. As previously 
 mentioned, the voice-acting is phenomenal but the great sound also applies to the firing of guns 
 and explosions as well as to the music. The gunfire all sounds genuine and bullets sound as you 
 would imagine. The soundtrack is also great featuring beautiful and appropriate orchestrated music 
 that blends in some more ethnic-sounding instruments. There are tracks that have a native feel 
 to them since they use bongo drums as well as an ancient flute sounding instrument-perhaps the 
 pan-flute. The music combines with the natural environment that you are in as well as the ruins 
 you will explore. The battle music is percussive and has a driving feeling behind it as you struggle 
 to survive against the numerous opponents you face. The music sounds phenomenal and always seems 
 to fit the scene you are viewing or the situation you are in, further engrossing you into the game. 
 
  Drake's Fortune features a blend of Gears of War and Tomb Raider style gameplay which works very 
 well considering the differences between those two franchises. However, the end result is not perfect 
 and there are a few problems with the game. As I already mentioned, there are a few difficult firefights 
 since the enemy often outnumbers you. There are a few fights where Sully or Elena are with you 
 but I didn't notice them contributing a whole lot, plus it's easy to lose track of them; they don't 
 die but they are usually safe behind cover so while you take out a wave of enemies and more enemies 
 come from a different location than before, they are nowhere to be found (since they already knew 
 about the incoming enemies but didn't want to tell you) as you run to find some new cover. Another 
 issue I had with the game was the length; it only took about 8 hours to complete and while it the 
 story was never rushed and the pacing was fine, I just wish a $60 game had a bit more gameplay 
 length to it; however, the flip side to this is that since the game is fun to play through and 
 there are trophies to unlock, the replay value is good. 
  With fantastic visuals, sound, fun and exciting gameplay and an action movie feel to it, Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune is a phenomenal game for the PS3 that showcases what the system is capable of while 
 providing a fantastic story. The only possible deterrent against buying this game is the short-length. 
 Nonetheless, it is still worth checking out if you are at all into action games. Now we all just 
 have to wait for Uncharted 2 to come out! (NOTE: the score I'll award this on GameSpot is equal 
 to the score they awarded the game since I don't like giving out random number scores when my real 
 opinion is more complex than that.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  Uncharted has the most beautiful graphics you could possibly find in a video game. It really pleases 
 you to stare at these vivid and photorealistic environments. The animations of the characters are 
 equally stunning. Also the adventurous music, the voice-overs, and generally the acting are no 
 less than perfect! 
  
  The plot, although dependent on clichs, is very interesting and well structed, having a true cinematique 
 quality. Another strong point of the game is its many rewards- new costumes, weapons, behind the 
 scenes footage- that can be unlocked, which will probably be good enough reason for the the gamer 
 to conclude the story at least one or two more times. The game also supports the trophies system 
 of PS3, which also adds a lot to the overall replay value of the title.
  
  In terms of game play mechanics, the title is a hybrid that borrows the best traits from different 
 game genres. It uses the dynamic platforming of the "Tomb Raider" series and "Prince of Persia" 
 the advanced combat and healing techniques of "Gears of War", and the button hit sequences from 
 "God of War", while the whole game still has a fresh feeling of an "Indiana Jones" or "Romancing 
 the Stone" film.
  
  Never the less there are reasons for some criticism. Realism is the first issue.
  At the second 
 half of the game and near the end of it, I realised that Nate, besides his genuine passion to find 
 treasures and search for the truth of the past of Sir Francis Drake's, Nate had also massacred 
 so far, thousands of soldiers, that not even Rambo himself, or the Exterminator, or even Kratos 
 (God of War) could had dreamt of. Don't be fooled by his cool and relaxed attitude, whether you 
 believe it or not, this guy caused a hlocaust entirely by himself!! The next question that 
 is arisen is how the game's main villain could have gathered around him such a vast army. He kind 
 of recruited the population of a whole small nation. Of course these are known video-game conventions, 
 but since the game tries so hard to be realistic in terms of vision, it wouldn't harm to be at 
 minimum realistic in its game-play proportions too.
  
  Apart from these easily forgiven "improbabilities" the main problem of the game is that there is 
 a poor sense of balance in it what so ever. Whether it's a platform or a gun action sequence, most 
 of the times it is stretched to the limits. Especially, all these countless shootings are exaggerated 
 in length and frequency, which gets really old after the second half of the game. Also the player 
 will be hardly be surprised in the game. For instance as you enter a large hall you see, for no 
 apparent reason a bunch of weapons spread around, and some ideally placed hiding spots for you. 
 (Mmm, what this could mean??? Should I get ready for another shoot and hide sequence??? Oh not 
 again..)
  
  Of course Uncharted is overall an amazing game, and these faults shouldn't keep you away from living 
 this high level gaming experience. Games like this don't come up every day. 
  It should had been an absolute 10 title, but some things just weren't right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider8784
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a fantastic game. It's about a descendant of Sir Francis Drake, Nathan, 
 who is out looking for an ancient treasure once sought by Francis himself. As the story progresses 
 Nathan stumbles upon clues left behind by the English in their search of the ancient treasure, 
 "El Dorado." The story, while cliched, is really good and engaging and the characters are all very 
 likable. The gameplay is really fun and there's never a dull moment. Nate has some pretty impressive 
 climbing abilities and you're going to need to take full advantage because there are some crazy 
 stunts you gotta pull on your way. It's fairly easy to climb things in the game, it's really two 
 buttons O and X. Added in to the platforming is some pretty sweet gun play that can be rather challenging 
 at times. There aren't many guns but the ones included are pretty cool and never get old because 
 you don't have that much ammo. Along the way there are also various treasures (61 in all) for you 
 to find which can be used to unlock rewards throughout the game such as costumes and different 
 modes. The only gripes I have with the game are really minor and they aren't any reason not to 
 play this game. For one thing you can't manually turn your flashlight on or off, Nate does it automatically 
 at certain points in the game. This is annoying because some areas are very dark and it would seem 
 obvious that you need a flashlight to see where you need to go. Also some enemies take a lot of 
 bullets to kill and it's quite unrealistic and can get quite annoying at times. Overall the game 
 is really good and I encourage anyone who mildly enjoys adventure/action games to try this one 
 out. The game should take around 8-10 hours to beat on normal.
  9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_csa
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  This is really an amazing game. It is good in all directions: story, gameplay and graphics. The 
 only thing is that its a bit short but its OK. Its fun to play the game and watch the cutscenes 
 with some good jokes :) . The graphics just blows your mind and the fact that this is just 30% of 
 the PS3s power (offically said) , just... I dont know, lets you feel good :D. I really want to play 
 the next part when it comes out (I cant wait) . So, thats all I wanted to say about this amazing 
 game :) :) :)
  
  Its worth to buy it maybe just to rent because its short but, you have to play if you have a PS3 
 or you will miss something huge...
  
  So, see ya
  
  Oh man, sorry for this but, its not long enough to post it so I have to do this: :P :P :P :P :P 
 :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P 
  OK, I hope its enough now GS :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune i have had my eye on this game before the playstation 3 came out i think 
 this game is truely amazing.
  
  The Good:
  Great enviorments 
  Beautiful lighting 
  Really fall in love with the characters
  Story is just like a movie
  Puzzles are interesting
 
  The game sounds awesome
  
  
  The Bad
  Sometimes the ledges blend in with the enviorment so you cant tell were to go
  the aiming can 
 get annoying
  difficulty can get rediculous
  
  
  
  
  Overall this game is fantastic definetly rent this game if you dont buy it a great stroy with awesome 
 gun battles a twist in the story amazing puzzles and great platforming. sometimes the gun battles 
 are to hard and get u frustrated but the game is still worth the play because its amazingly satisfing 
 at the end the game is about 4 to 4 1/2 hours long seems short but you will play it over and over 
 again. One of the greatest games i have played and i was really loosing hope for these games after 
 tomb raider messed everything up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  It's immediately clear that Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. The plot itself feels like Hollywood Blockbuster's 
 Indiana Jones or National Treasure. The puzzles have a Tomb Raider feel to them, and the combat 
 resembles the cover-mechanics present in Gears of War, and Kill. Switch before it. This compilation 
 of lack of originality does not injure Uncharted, as with these strong qualities it is easily one 
 of the greatest titles to own on a PlayStation 3.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune centers the narrative on Nathan Drake, an adventurer with a sardonic 
 sense of humor whom appears to be the descendant of Sir Francis Drake. The story starts in the 
 middle of the ocean as Nathan (or affectionately named Nate) fishes up Sir Francis' coffin only 
 to discover its empty expect for a notebook. Before any time is given to examine the goods, pirates 
 with an unhealthy interest in Drake's findings stomp the party. 
  
  The spectacular presentation of Uncharted goes leaps and bounds. The story grasps attention the 
 for entirety of the game. Nathans quest contains a memorable supporting cast; Sully a cigar-munching 
 retiree with a taste for adventure and glitter, and Elana, a dauntless reporter who doubles as 
 a sidekick and maiden. Together, the trio hunt for an ancient relic of unspeakable worth on an 
 uncharted island. 
  
  The cut-scenes are great, lip syncing perfect, and animations are without exaggeration as good 
 as it gets. Nathan scurries up steps, and side-steps his way down. Hanging from ledges, carefully 
 maneuvering and staggering is a treat for the senses. The boldness does not end there, branches 
 and trees go with the wing, and the water effects are beautiful. When he arises from a pool, Nathan 
 is noticeably soaked, but the tropical sunshine slowly drys him up. These small features add a 
 touch of realism to a super hero of an adventure character.
  
  Levels are beautifully designed and equally varied. From lush light-deprived jungles, in a rusty 
 German U-Boat, age-old rustic castles, or even labyrinths beneath the Earth, Uncharted's brilliant 
 and colorful environments are a sight to witness. On these stages, Nathan and his crew will partake 
 in Tomb-Raider like puzzle/platform work. The only distinct different is Uncharted is more lenient, 
 forgiving jumping sequences with plenty of checkpoints thrown into the mix.
  
  The other half of Uncharted's gameplay is firefights with cover-mechanics. Reminiscent to that 
 of Gears of War, a slab of rock or a wall is Nathans best friend. Cover is crucial, but staying 
 in one spot earns a quick death; intelligent enemies using flanking tactics and destructible cover 
 tally to that. Enemies can provide nearly as much damage as Nate, requiring some strategic thinking 
 in the firefights. A decent range of weapons are available; from Beretta 92FS, Makarov PM and Mini 
 Uzi, to AK-47, M4 and grenade launchers. Most weapons are delightful to use. 
  
  Complaints are few in numbers. Elongated firefights although entertaining, can become frustratingly 
 difficult at times, particularly towards the end. Certain weapons have incorrect statistics; AK-47's 
 lack a powerful punch and the M4's overpowered punch stand out the highest. The game is of average 
 length, ten hours. But as the story unfolds, a level of re-playability arises with the reward system 
 of trophies and points that allow the purchase of art work, music, trailers and more.
  
  Naughty Dog's bold move to the more realistic genre of action adventure is successful. With excellent 
 production values, an exciting and beautifully showcased story, accomplished platforming and thrilling 
 combat sequences, Uncharted adds up to be a jewel that owners of the PlayStation 3 would be wise 
 not to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOHWWII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted has to be one of the best games out there, no doubt about it. This game has it all, a 
 great story, terrific game play, and amazing graphics. The story is excellent and leaves you on 
 the edge the whole time. The cut scenes are great and fit right into the game play and it makes 
 it feel even more realistic. I've never seen better graphics than in this game, the environment 
 is very realistic, and it makes everything look and feel really real. The campaign has a lot of 
 levels and is a very good length. Also, there are a lot of rewards to unlock and treasures to find 
 so there is excellent replay value right there. I think the best thing though in this game is the 
 cover system. The way you can peak over and on the side of things is excellent. The gun design 
 is perfect and everything looks crisp and realistic. When Drake reloads and throws the clip away 
 and then puts the new one in is whats really cool. There are a really good assortment of weapons 
 in the game and I also really love the addition of the MP40. So in the end, this game has it all 
 from stunning graphics, to amazing shooting and cover, and also to hand to hand combat. A game 
 like this will always be remembered. I hope Uncharted 2: Among Thieves will be as good or even 
 better than the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  I reviewd this game back in 07 right after I beat it & somehow the freakin mods took it down. Yes 
 I am a target on these sites, but nevertheless this game will be reviewed again by me.
  
  
  
  Story- You play as Nathan Drake who is a treasure hunter on a quest to find out the secrets 
 of his ancestor Sir Francis Drake. Without spoiling anything you will cross pirates, other treausre 
 hunters & other THINGS. 
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is familiar to those who are into the tomb raider genre BUT with a twist. 
 You have some of your basic gun/grenades which you will be taking down baddies & other things down 
 with.
  
  
  
  Music- The music is very cool & fits the enviorment of the game.
  
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are very sharp & very realistic at some points. This was visually 
 one of the best games of 07.
  
  
  Replay- I played through this game at least twice already & never got bored. It's worth at least 
 a couple of play throughs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer987
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  A fun and very unique games. Great graphics good story and good weapons. I think that naughty dog 
 really outdone themself with this one. The game could of been a little longer though. I beat the 
 game in about 11 hours wow, It was one of the shortest and very satisfying games i ever played.. 
 But other than that excellent game. I look forward to uncharted 2 when it comes out. This game is 
 definnetly a good choice to buy it cause you'll want to play it over and over again. Especially 
 on hard mode which you unlock after you finish normal mode. Well now that you read my review i 
 think you should go buy the game if you dont have it. Oh yeah another thing i did not like about 
 the game was it had no multiplayer and online play. they should of also made cooperative mode for 
 this game. But still it was a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiusername
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  This was the first game i ever played for PS3, and it got me hooked for long time! The graphics 
 are simply amazing, the waterfalls, the caves, castles, jungles, all looks taken out of a Indiana 
 Jones movie, honestly, but makes you want to play more and more. The story of the game is also 
 very good, it resumes to a treasure hunting, but its so much fun to play and discover the incovenients 
 of the treasure hunt as well the mind puzzles you have to complete in order to continue the journey.
 
  The sound is great, i actually played in a portuguese speaking version, thanx to those who putted 
 their voice on it cause it definetly made it lot of fun. 
  The water motorbikes can be a pain to be driven, mostly cause you spend most time driving it against 
 the flow, even so it gets fun and reliefing when u reach the checkpoint! 
  The hardest part of this game only comes out when you have to face a certain monsters, once they 
 catch you it can be really dificult to get rith of them, so one peace of advice: dont waste much 
 time trying to kill them cause sometimes you dont even have to, all you have to do is to avoy them 
 and continue the journey, i definetly wasted lots of time on those :S
  Now the winning point of this game has to be the JUMPS, this guy can really jump, just when you 
 feel its impossible to reach some part of the platform just go ahead and try it cause you'll be 
 amazed by the guys hability!
  So i heard Uncharted 2 is going to come out someday around 2009, really anscious about it now! 
 Im tracking on that!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Uncharted Drakes fortune is simply amazing! I just don't know where to start with this one.
 
  
  The plot is that your Nathan Drake (Nate for short) and Nate thinks he's a desendent of the famous 
 explorer Sir Francis Drake. Nate happens to find Francis Drake's coffin only to find it... empty? 
 Anyway, Nate finds Francis Drake's diary in the coffin and after reading it goes out to find the 
 lost treasure of the lost city of gold: El Dorado. The plot is a pretty good one, lot's of twist's 
 in there you probably won't see coming.
  
  Into the actual game, the graphics are amazing! Perhaps some of the best graphics i've ever seen 
 from a game. Nate's clothes crumple as you walk, the clothes actually become wet as you walk through 
 water, you have to play the game to see it.
  
  The sound is quite good as well.
  
  Gameplay is very unique, it plays out most of the time like a regular action/adventure game, but 
 sometime's you get these puzzles you have to solve. For me, it's one of the few games i've played 
 that mixes action and blazing gun fights with puzzle solving that's actually got it right. Sometimes 
 in the middle of a gun fight, you become so outnumbered!!!
  
  The enemy AI is quite good, they will flank you, they will try all the tricks in the book just 
 to kill you.
  
  I found this game very enjoyable to play, and i highly recomend it to anyone with a PS3.
  
 
  Final score:
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  
  Sound: 4/5
  
  Gameplay: 4/5
  
  Entertainment: 4/5
  
  Overall: 17/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games I've ever played, possibly even cracking the top 5. If you're 
 a graphics hound, you will go bonkers for Uncharted, as it is easily the most visually striking 
 game to grace a console. The movie-quality music and voice acting round out a spectacular presentation, 
 which perfectly complements the riveting story and sharp gameplay.
  
  It's very possible that the developers at Naughty Dog made this game specifically for me, because 
 if I had the massive talent that they had, this is the game I would make. You get to run, jump, 
 swing and climb all over a spectacularly realized setting (I think it takes place off the eastern 
 coast of Mexico, in the Caribbean, but I could be wrong) of tropical jungles, a towering colonial 
 fortress, caves and a flooded Spanish-looking city. The combat is a blast as well, as the cover 
 system, intelligent AI and varied armory of guns combine for an excellent experience.
  
  To top it all off, there is a trophy/achievement style addition to the game that'll have you playing 
 through multiple times in order to reach a certain number of kills with each gun, collect all the 
 hidden treasures, etc. There's a lot here, which makes the astounding level of polish that much 
 more satisfying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4life15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Suburb Graphics, Gameplay and AI. And not to mention the the amazing story line. The visuals are 
 just breath taking and out of this world stunning cant get any better think so far i am amazed 
 at the effect that when you roll or swim in water that when you get out you a drenched and slowly 
 dry up in the sun its just amazing. the controls are easy and not complex so its easy to pick up 
 and play and a quick learning curve. The Ai of the enemies is pretty good like if you stay in a 
 place to long they try to flank you or bombard you with grenades to flush you out into their sights. 
 And the story line is just madly insane and got a sick twist to it beautifully thought of and smartly 
 put together its just great game in all only bad thing is that it ends : ( lol hopefully there will 
 be a sequel well should be there is a ending that hints for a number 2 of uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  First off, let's get the visuals out of the way because that's what has drawn the most attention 
 to this game. Uncharted looks spectacular. The attention to detail is rivalled by very few games. 
 It's been a year since release, and I still think there is no console game which can match its 
 environments and setting. Of the 12 or so hours it took me to finish the campaign, I wouldn't be 
 surprised if 4 of them were spent taking a break and having a close up look at a tecture or object. 
 If you want to showcase the visuals of the PS3 to friends, then look no further than Uncharted.
 
  
  Of course, no game can only get by with good looks and fortunately Uncharted also packs great gameplay. 
 Its true that basically every facet of its gameplay has been ripped from other similar games, but 
 that is not necessarily a bad thing. The gameplay varies enough along the way that it never becomes 
 stale, but at the same time does not become too chaotic. Everything about this game feels just 
 right.
  
  Normally stories in videogames lack in terms of depth and are more of an afterthought or a way 
 to justify killing hoards of enemies. I will admit, the story in Uncharted is on the cheezy side, 
 but it works well because of the strong voice acting. Nathan Drake comes off like a real life action 
 hero, even if he is a clear ripoff of Indiana Jones. Sure, this would make for a straight to video 
 film, but in the video game genre its one of the best there is.
  
  So, why did I give this game an 8.5 instead of a 9? With the current quality of multiplayer shooters 
 around these days, any game that does not feature some sort of co-op or online component will feel 
 a little empty. Sure, the story is great, and the visuals and gameplay are of the highest quality, 
 but so are a lot of shooters which also feature an online component. The worst part is that you 
 just know that a co-op (with elena) would work really well. And with the stunning maps played in 
 game, you can't help but feel a little short changed that there was no multiplayer component as 
 it would have added tons of replayability.
  
  Although I recommend this game to every PS3 owner, I'm not sure if it can warrant a $60 price tag 
 as there's many other better value for money games out there. Whether its a rental, bargain buy 
 or even at full price if you dare, this is one game that every PS3 owner has to experience. 
  
  I just hope Naughty Dog incorporates a multiplayer aspect in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  I have never enjoyed a Tomb Raider game but this game gets all the mechanics right. This is a great 
 game that, although not showing the PS3's power, really gives a visual showcase of it's capabilities. 
 
  
  Great story, voice acting, motion capture and visuals. This game starts with a bang and is pretty 
 much relentless from then on. It has a great mix of gunplay, platforming and puzzles mixing the 
 elements just perfectly. 
  
  There may be a moment or two where you find yourself in dire need of some more ammo and unable 
 to get any. Luckily the game is pretty forgiving and doesn't leave you completly without options. 
 
  
  I'd say buy this game, but at the very least rent it! This is as close as you will get to an adventure 
 movie that you can play (Metal Gear Solid 4 doesn't count) . It looks amazing and plays like a dream. 
 
  
  With the sequel coming up in the new year you owe it to yourself to play this game beforehand. 
 This game has a great story and a perfect challenge, throwing some amazing set pieces into the 
 mix for good measure. Whats not to like?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is filled with amazing vistas, gorgeous visuals and tight, responsive platforming, fun 
 gun-play and pacing is great.
  Uncharted has a very blockbuster action-movie feel that it pulls off realy well, and almost every 
 out-doors moment is absolutly beautiful to behold with quick and fun platforming all of which alone 
 sell the game (buy it) But it falls flat in some aspects. Visuals, are an amazing blend of realistic 
 waterfalls and tropical rainforest enviroments with slightly cartoony charecters, which animate 
 with such fluidity that you sometimes could swear they were real people running around, Sound is 
 one aspect of the game that is great thoughout, and will be ringing in your ears and have you humming 
 it to yourself, voiceacting, while pretty cleche is all acted realy nicely as well. Gameplay is 
 a mixed bag, on one hand you have clever little puzzles which are fluid/amazing thoughout as is 
 platforming, on the other hand the shooting (60 percent of the game) feels just a bit off.
  The aiming feels slow/sluggish and kinda jerky, subtle movements are hard to pull off. It is fundimentily 
 fine, but could have used more fine-tuning. Pacing is a mixed bag as well. About 70% of the game 
 is spot on, with a perfect mix of puzzles, platforming, vehicle moments (which are too few if you 
 ask me) and shooting. But the last 30% of the game it starts to rely on 80% shooting, 10% platforming, 
 10% puzzles and 0% vehicle moments (I loved the few they had) and this is sad, because shooting 
 is the least fun part of the game (but still realy fun) . So you get the first 70% of the game being 
 AMAZING (if it stayed this way I would have given the game a 9.5) Then 30% being so-so (relying 
 on shooting too much) then the last 10% of that 30% being annoying/too hard/cheap-filler moments. 
 Which the ending being unbeleavable stupid, is just out right a shame. Uncharted deserves to be 
 played, the game isn't perfect, it has some texture pop-in every once in awhile and a few moments 
 of screen tearing. The most damaging part of the game would be the length, it isn't terribly short 
 but whimpers in at about 7-8 hours long but there are dozens and dozens of unlockables and 4 difficulties 
 along with trophies to keep you busy for a long time. The good overshadows the bad, trust me. I 
 enjoyed uncharted ALOT, I was just disappointed by the ending. Please buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipy727
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Uncharted drakes fortune is the best game I have ever played in my life. I've played good ps3 like 
 resistance 2 and metal gear solid 4 but I think this is better. It has tons of replay value and 
 its better than metal gear solid 4 because mgs4 gets boring after you beat it the first time but 
 there is no arguing that mgs4 had the best storyline ever. The game is about a treasure hunter, 
 Nathan Drake trying to look for a treasure called El Dorado. He is following the footsteps of his 
 ancestor, Sir Francis Drake. He also gets help for finding the treasure by Sullivan and Elena. 
 The only people that are stopping him is this guy called Navaro this British guy, Eddy whatever 
 his last name and hordes of enemies. Uncharted also has trophies which you can go and get after 
 you beat the game. The only thing I didn't like about the game was the amount of enemies that kept 
 on coming. It kind of got annoying even though it made the game harder. If you have a ps3, you 
 have to get this game. It has tons of replay value even though on your first try, it takes about 
 8-10 hours to beat. Can't wait till uncharted 2. Add me on psn snipy727 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarshGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune was released exactly one year from now and it is a great game.
  
  Story:
  The story is about finding a treasure in the beautiful jungles of Panama where you 
 meet a lot of obstacles and competition for survival. It's one of the best game-stories you'll 
 ever find in a game. With on of the best characters, voice-acting and puzzlesolving in the industry.
 
  
  Graphics:
  It can very easily be said that Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has the best graphics on a console. 
 With the image being mostly alive throughout the game. You'll see flowers gracefully sway in the 
 wind, the water float down the river and the blood spurting out of enemies bodies. The amazingly 
 cinematic cutscenes make you think you're starring in a movie. Gives you a kind of Indiana Jones 
 feel, only better.
  
  Gameplay:
  In the game, you have approximately 15 weapons to use. All from pistoles and grenades, to AK-47's 
 and Sniper-Rifle's. You move peacefully amongst the nature, before you come upon an enemy. You 
 either hide behind an object, with the greatest cover-system i've ever seen, or you storm the front 
 and shoot as much as you can. The game has a lot of re-playability with it's challenging trophies 
 and hard difficulties you are optional to choose from. It's definitely a challenging game that 
 truly deserves it's place of top games of this generation of gaming.
  
  
  
  At last, my conclusion of the game, that it's definitely worth either a cheap buy, or a short rental. 
 A short rental because of it's short time of gameplay. Takes about 7 hours to complete the game 
 and of course it has it's re-playability-values, but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesSoprano
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  The Story is about a Treasure Hunter named Nathan Drake Looking For Sir Francis Drake's Treasure 
 Which he has been Searching for quite sometime. and happens to get so close each time leading him 
 Directly to the treasure but it's just not that easy, Their are other people Nathan knows that 
 wants the treasure as well but doesn't find out till about half way in the game chapters or alittle 
 past that and before he can take the treasure he has to take care of The other people who want 
 the Treasure.
  
  I have to say this game has One of the Best Visuals i ever seen ( if only i had a HD TV ) The storyline 
 in this game is sorta like a Indiana Jones Style Movie Story In It's Own Way. The Voice Acting 
 is great. another great thing with this game is ( if your into it that is ) is TROPHIES you can 
 have hours of players going back collectiong Treasure too completing the game on Harder Difficulties. 
 
  
  I have to address something. i dunno why people don't like the Cover And Fire system in this game. 
 i think it's fine
  
  I give this game a Solid 10 i LIVE for this kind Story Telling in Games or Movies and everything 
 about it is Superb, Great, Awesome, Excellent !!!!!!!! 
  
  I Reccommend anyone this game if they like action platform games. if your not sure and can download 
 demos and such download the demo but i'm sure this game will not dissappoint ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkee
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  After 4 Crash Bandicoot games on the original PlayStation and 4 Jak and Daxter games on the PlayStation 
 2, Naughty Dog has again decided to start a new franchise, a more realistic adventure game with 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune on Sony's latest home console.
  
  You play Nathan Drake, an experienced treasure hunter, who starts off having found Sir Francis 
 Drake's diary in what was supposed to be his coffin. He is joined by archaeology show presenter 
 Elena Fisher and Nate's business partner Victor Sullivan. Together, they head off in search of 
 Francis's fortune. The story is easy to follow and plays out more like an Indiana Jones film than 
 a National Treasure movie. Cut scenes break up the action at various points, and track our heroes 
 as they explore the main island setting.
  
  Platforming has Nathan jumping from ledge to ledge, grabbing and shimming along ledges and climbing 
 and swinging along ropes and chains. Unlike the Tomb Raider series, each jump doesn't require an 
 exact execution but gives a greater degree of flexibility to platforming stages and keep you from 
 throwing your controller against the wall in disgust. There are also some jet ski and jeep levels, 
 which require simple driving and shooting. These help break up the game, keeping things fresh and 
 interesting.
  
  The game is split up into 22 chapters, all of varying length and difficulty, each one of which 
 can be accessed once the game has been completed. This makes collecting all the medals a little 
 easier and allows you to replay your favourite moments again and again without having to proceed 
 through the whole game every time. 
  
  Enemy pirates start off few in number with basic guns, but as you progress, they will soon be carrying 
 more powerful weapons, like sniper rifles and shotguns. They also become cleverer, where, if Nathan 
 remains in the same place, they will circle around and pin him down or will start throwing grenades 
 to flush him out. Like Nathan, they will also take cover behind pillars and boxes, only peering 
 out to take quick shots. There is no health bar, but the screen colour will turn black and white 
 as Nathan's life is lost.
  
  Graphically, the game excels, with highly detailed environments showcasing a variety of locations 
 and colours and a solid frame rate, which supports about a dozen enemies on screen at once. Water 
 effects are very impressive, reacting realistically to gun shots and Nathan swimming, but most 
 impressively when flowing against the jet ski, giving the vehicle a real sense of weight. As well 
 as the textural detail, the game also excels in the animation department. Seeing Drake leaping, 
 climbing, walking, running, or providing any action is a joy to watch and brings the life to the 
 game. Little touches, like Nathan just grabbing onto a ledge with one hand, or ducking his head 
 as bullets whistle past bring the characters to life. Cut scenes are rendered using the in-game 
 engine and are just as excellent. They are well directed and tell the story effectively, with each 
 scene lasting up to a couple of minutes, with the option to be skipped if desired.
  
  The soundtrack is on par with many big budget films, and changes seamlessly between moments of 
 peace and tranquillity and moments of intense action. Other effects, like bird noises, bullets 
 firing and Nathan grunting and muttering help bring the environment and characters to life.
  
  A medal system has been implemented with rewards for completing the game on the varying difficulties, 
 including a very difficult "Charted!" mode, certain number of kills, collecting treasures or for 
 successive one punch kills. Each medal earns a certain number of points, which unlocks bonus galleries, 
 making of documentaries, weapon choices whenever you want, or just ways of selecting different 
 character models or environment styles. Since release, the game has been patched with trophies 
 support, with each trophy replicating the 47 medal equivalent and the addition of a platinum trophy 
 for collecting the rest.
  
  The main story will take about 8-10 hours to complete, with repeat performances needed to complete 
 the trophies. Some sections, mainly the shoot-outs, will require trail and error to vanquish enemies, 
 but this isn't as frustrating as it sounds. Some chapters could be longer, with the addition of 
 some more puzzles or platforming action, but this is also a minor concern. The only annoying part 
 of the game is the inability to fire when driving the jet ski.
  
  As a single player action adventure, Naughty Dog has come up with another excellent game. The amount 
 of time spent completing the game may be on the short side, but the simple game mechanics and the 
 pick up and playability make the experience fun, satisfying and leaving you wanting the sequel 
 to arrive as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is visually something completely different from anything we've seen before, or have seen 
 in ages. The Jungle seems to really pop in Uncharted with the developers obviously using a Super 
 Realism to base the environments on. This creates a world with fantastic color and truly vivid 
 spaces.
  
  Although the game does not run on full 1080p resolution (like most PS3 games) , it actually looks 
 pretty good. The Characters are really well thought out and super realistically animated. From 
 Cut Scene to game play, I doubt that there is another game that can match the realism of this game.
 
  
  Game play is quite unique in the sense that you will be running around trying to solve a puzzle, 
 then suddenly you find yourself in a gun battle. And while that is still going on, you can get 
 in some proper fist fighting. The Puzzles themselves aren't really all that complex, but I think 
 that makes the game a little more fun as you aren't spending hours on the same level trying to 
 find that one switch you missed. 
  
  The Music used in this game really suits the theme and the feel of the movie with the composers 
 using all the exotic types of instruments not usually seen in games or movies. It's a great score 
 that totally helps set the mood.
  
  The story line is something fresh and new. I did find the game to have ended a little quick and 
 there really isn't all that much in terms of Replay value.
  
  All in all, I'd say Drakes Fortune is a solid game and a total must have if you want to push the 
 PS3's limits a little bit more than the older games we've seen so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  I can't believe they put too many enemies and too hard as negative reasons against this game. I 
 played through it on Hard my first time and then unlocked Crushing and went through on that (without 
 any cheats) and you get what you ask for. If you select hard, it should be hard. If you select 
 crushing, expect nothing less as well. So wtf are they smoking?
  
  There is nothing frustrating about this game except maybe the ps3 controller.... its a good controller 
 dont get me wrong but I never hit reload on any game by accident on the 360... the ps3's r1 r2 
 l1 l2 buttons are too close to each other (the r1 with the r2 and the l1 with the l2) .... but that 
 is more of a hardware thing than a software thing... (maybe not for everyone this is the issue, 
 but if you big hands you will find yourself hitting reload while ur in the middle of shooting and 
 have most of ur clip left LOL... )
  
  All in all.. this is my favorite game so far for the PS3. Yes I own mgs4, resistance, littlebigplanet, 
 etc... all great games but this game is what all of the sequel Tombraiders should've been like. 
 This game is as enjoyable to me as the original Tombraider was on PS1 when the game was originally 
 released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nba1day722
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune. I dont know were to start!. This game did surprise me. Im not the type 
 who likes Massive adventure games unless its a fighter. But Drakes Fortune has a little in it for 
 everyone. Shooting, Wall Scaling, Jetski Driving. All of these points this game in the right direction. 
 From the get go this game is action packed and fun. One thing about this game that disappoints 
 me is that you give you a lot of help with the puzzles, making them pretty easy to solve! However 
 if you enjoy the easy way out sometimes then you will like that! It isnt like they give you the 
 answers but it does get a little annoying when you like to figure things out on your own. Sharp 
 and precise graphical animations really show the work that was put into this game. Drakes body 
 and clothes acually look drentched when he exits the water! Thats pretty cool. In all this is a 
 pretty impressive game that I would reccomend to pretty much anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKungFool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  From the moment the first trailer was released, the doubters and naysayers were foaming at the 
 mouth to call Uncharted Drake's Fortune a rip off of "Tomb Raider". And, while the comparison is 
 certainly valid, Uncharted did manage to set itself apart from Tomb Raider in one very important 
 way; it was actually fun to play!
  
  So lets get this out of the way; Uncharted IS essentially 1/3 Tomb Raider, 1/3 Indiana Jones, and 
 1/3 Gears of War. But honestly now, could you find better sources for inspiration? Can you blame 
 a developer for recognizing the best aspects of those sources and combining them? Personally, I'd 
 like to thank the development team at NaughtyDog for creating an instant classic, and the type 
 of enjoyable single player action adventure the industry has been lacking since MMOs and Sandbox 
 Beat'em'ups became the "new gen".
  
  Simply put, Uncharted Drake's Fortune combines the best aspects of several genres, and crafts them 
 together to form a very enjoyable and most importantly, very playable package. It contains duck 
 and crouch 3rd person shooting action ala "Gears of War", and mixes it seemlessly with the platforming, 
 jumping and climbing type of exploration you've seen in "Tomb Raider". The "Indiana Jones" aspects 
 relate to the serial or comic-like story and characters, which was also a highpoint of the the 
 game.
  
  You'll be running, jumping, swinging, hanging and climbing your way around the environments, you'll 
 gunsling your way past thugs for hire and pirates, and of course, you'll naturally solve a few 
 puzzles and discover a few ancient treasures along the way. I know, you've done that all before 
 right? Wrong. The first thing you'll notice about Uncharted is that for a game thats supposedly 
 a copy-cat, it does everything right that previous games have done wrong. The most frustrating 
 thing about previous games like the Tomb Raider series was the clunky controlls and unforgiving 
 manner in which you had to perform the various manuevers. Those who have played Tomb Raider know 
 what I'm talking about; Lara Croft manuevers like a tank with one track stuck, and often times 
 you end up repeating a series of jumps/climbs ad-nauseum because of it. Uncharted changes all that, 
 and offers up the fluid gameplay and seemless controll functionality that Tomb Raider fans have 
 only been able to dream about since 1997.
  
  Aside from the fantastic playability and familiar charm of the story, the other thing you'll quickly 
 notice about Uncharted is the production values. The environments are lush and beautiful, textures 
 are rich and vibrant, and the attention to detail is at times jaw-dropping. I hate to go back to 
 the Tomb Raider comparison yet again, but its honestly the best way to relate. Lets face it, while 
 she's a knockout to look at (especially in film format, thank-you Angelina) the game character 
 of Lara Croft has always seemed wooden and has never moved realistically (and how could you with 
 breasts bigger than your head) . Nathan Drake on the other hand, stumbles. He trips. He doesn't 
 always hit every jump the same way, and he certainly doesn't always land perfectly. His reactions 
 seem... well... human, and his clothes even get wet if he's been in water! The character animations 
 and detail are an easy example of how much attention went into the game, and trust me, the various 
 environments and settings are equally as impressive. The story is also enjoyably played out, and 
 the voice acting and music are fitting and of top quality, and this is aided by the games other 
 major production based achievement: the cutscenes are seemless. Never before have story sections 
 and cutscenes been so fluidly melded into the gameplay. 
  
  It would be easy to judge Uncharted by its cover, and dismiss it as a copy-cat or imposter, because 
 the game admittedly borrows heavily from other sources. But it also manages to use those features 
 better than any game to date. You won't find an online component or the plague-like vulgarity most 
 games throw about just to earn an unnecessary "M" rating. What you will find is addictive and intuitive 
 gameplay, a classic romp that harkens back to when people appreciated a wonderfull story driven 
 single player experience, and the most enjoyable action-adventure titles to come out in years.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzykidzzy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Jesus, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an awesome game!! it son of a b***h tough game, like you have 
 killing all b****es enemies, or scary monsters. plus, there have many unlock to video; how make 
 a video game, developer this game blah, blah. you can watching movie which you had missed previous 
 watching movie on this game. Trust me, it is awesome game. if you choice very hard, it will get 
 big f**ked up by enemies shoot the fire, and/or ugly b****es monsters running after you. but sadly, 
 you cannot carry more than 2 heavy guns or handgun, you have to decide to prefer to hold the gun 
 or heavy gun. it is similar Gear of War, but too much puzzle solves. and there have a funny clip. 
 you'll have a laugh when the guy said "Ah S**t" after he shock. man, i love it so much but no time 
 to play it : ( cos this game so freak when there b***h monsters coming, lol. have a enjoy if you 
 buy it game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  
  POSITIVES: The environments deserve a big thumb's-up, great character animations and motion capture, 
 enormous replay value  an adventure you'd want to experience time and again but still won't get 
 enough of, original though repetitive background score, excellent  if not over the top  physics. 
 
  NEGATIVES: Inappropriate conclusion (according to me at least) , short story - the game and story 
 both could've been longer & customizing & upgrading elements could've been inserted to make the 
 game deeper. 
  
  Well that almost sums up my review, except that I must declare that I bear strong downbeat influences 
 against reviewers who say that they completed the game in less than six hours. That is a great 
 deal not possible, and if that's all you got to say about a game this good, I regret your point 
 of criticism is inexorably absurd. There is no way the game can be completed in under six hours. 
 I completed the game on Normal difficulty and it took me a good 11 hours and 38 minutes to be exact, 
 without putting my time into searching all the locations for the intriguing collectibles in the 
 form of ancient artifacts. If you intend to explore fully all the locations and play on harder 
 difficulty levels, the game will definitely hold you up for 13-14 hours or more, taking the average 
 goes, I mean, gamers into account. 
  
  So for those of you who are skeptical about buying this game just because its too short, forget 
 that, just own it. Remember  Go for Uncharted if you still haven't
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolverineqb
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted didn't break a lot of new ground in its technical achievements. But the combined package 
 -- the production values, the game play, the graphics -- really came together splendidly. Its story 
 was so engaging that I was almost playing just to get to the next cut scene. I also enjoyed the 
 cover system during the gunfights -- it added strategic depth that I didn't expect in a game of 
 this type.
  
  I only had a minor gripe with the platforming aspect. The range of actions that Nathan could perform 
 was limited, so when a puzzle required something out of the ordinary, it was obvious that a special 
 action was required. It would have been nice if the puzzles were more open-ended, say, by requiring 
 Nathan to do his basic actions in novel combinations.
  
  All in all, Uncharted is an absolute must-have title for every PS3 owner. It shows off the capabilities 
 of the platform extremely well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrg_hr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Just a few words.
  -amazing graphics.
  -realistic and unique.
  -lots of fun.
  -interesting story.
  -cut scenes were really cool.
  -sound and music... excellent.
  
  I 
 playing games long time (37) and i see lots of games. good or arghh bad ;) . PS3 have 2 months. 
 Uncharted is really fresh blood in gaming-body veins... must play for any ps3 user. Music and ambient 
 sound is a real and follows story and action. AI is not stupid like we see how can be in some others 
 games. Graphics is very nice, and have lots of eye-candy. Maybe sometimes saving positions is not 
 what you want, but all games, loading cutscenes, playing music, saving and other stuffs works perfect. 
 Ah... i really like this game.
  
  Uncharted is not game without black spot, but score of 10 is for really lots of gaming pleasures.
 
  
  Nice work! I really waiting now for Uncharted 2... maybe this game have potential to be like MGS 
 serial.... maybe :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJoel1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game i was amazed by the graphics alone! It was amazing how well 
 done the water was in this game. This game was extremely realistic and unique. I had not enjoyed 
 a game of this type since the indiana jones games. It was lots of fun, even though at times could 
 be really difficult. The story was really captivating and the cut scenes were really cool, i personally 
 think cut scenes can make or break a game, and these were well done. I give this game a 10/10 because 
 not only was it an original story/game type, it was one of the few games that captivated my attention 
 till the very last level. I cannot praise this game enough and i hope there is a sequel on the 
 way. 
  
  Altogether, with a combination, of story/cut scenes, interesting gameplay and amazing graphics, 
 this game is a must buy for all ps3 owners!!!!
  
  This game is off the charts, lol, lame, i know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babanator
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing! The story is incredible it takes place on this beautiful island where you 
 have to serch for the lost treasure of el dorado. You face many problems on your way. Rarely I 
 beat a game I usally only go half way or worse, but I beat all 22 levels on normal mode and am 
 currently on level 13 on my replay. The gameplay is amazing it's a mix of shooting, platforming 
 and puzzles. The fire fights are very intencse on this game and you'll have to practice them a 
 lot untill you master them. The graphics are some of the best I've ever seen espically the water! 
 Best water ever in a video game and the cutscenes are amazing. The game feels like a movie! The 
 only problem about this game is that it's a little on the short side, but the fact that you will 
 want to play it again and again makes up for it. All in all this is a great game and a must have 
 if you have the ps3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an exiting adventure through the dense jungles, deep caves, and dark castles. This 
 game is the best game for PS3 so far with the best graphix, game play, and everything else. The 
 game never gets old or boring and it's not just all shooting, though the fire fights are very intense 
 and fun, there is a lot of puzzle solving, but it is nearly impossible to get stuck do to the fact 
 that after a few minutes or so the game gives you clues. There are many weapons and the story is 
 relatively long so you can go uncharted for many long hours. Even after a year since its release 
 i have not found a more fun and well made game, i just hope that there will be a sequel so i can 
 get my head back into the game for some more uncharted fun. Another interesting fact is that that 
 voice acting and body movements in game and in the side movies are great, the best i have ever 
 seen in a game and i am a pretty heavy gamer, the graphix are just about as good as if it were 
 Pixar animated movie, this game is just unbelievable. IF YOU DO NOT HAVE THIS GAME ALREADY BUY 
 IT RIGHT NOW, TRUST ME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DataDream
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Where to start...
  
  I am a long time Tomb Raider fan, and will say that TR: Legend was one of the best in that series 
 IMHO.
  
  So I read all the hype for Uncharted and was thoroughly intrigued. All the comparisons to the TR 
 series saying that Uncharted was hands down the better of the two and even in some instances being 
 called the Tomb Raider "Killer", while not 100% right IMO are not too far off the mark.
  
  50% of the way through the game while I was very impressed with the story and visual elements of 
 Uncharted I still didn't see how it was really much "better" than any of the TR games - however 
 it was definitely never worse either.
  
  A few days ago prior to completing the game I would have said that the two games (Uncharted and 
 TR: Legend) were equal in most regards with neither truly being superior. However...
  
  by the time I had finished Uncharted it had converted me to an all out fanboy!
  
  I still love 
 the TR series and venture a guess that I always will - but I will say that I believe that Uncharted 
 has raised the bar significantly for what we have come to expect from these types of games.
  
  Uncharted is not "perfect" and has a few minor faults but they are quickly forgotten as you 
 delve into this amazing adventure.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Most people who have played the game (including pro reviewers) will agree that the graphics are 
 nothing short of stunning in this game. The upside is the level of detail seen, especially in forest 
 foliage and water effects. The only downside to the graphics IMO is that the levels are not quite 
 diverse enough to really show the engine off. Maybe I am slightly spoiled by TR because in a single 
 adventure you have a wide range of locales for different levels. One level you may be in ancient 
 ruins and ano9ther atop rooftops in a high-tech city. From a purist's standpoint Uncharted could 
 be considered better for not doing this though as every level is definitely integral to the story. 
 So that's not really a negative that all of the levels are in a jungle setting as it is more accurate 
 to the way the story would truly play out. Drake isn't a man of unlimited wealth like Laura so 
 he doesn't have the capability to just jet set to any place in the world whenever he wants. When 
 he arrives at the adventures location (after one little plane trip) - he is there until the end 
 of the adventure. So while this may not show off what the graphics engine can do across the scope 
 of multiple locations - it is more true to the story and does show off the graphics of those locations, 
 Drake visits, extremely well.
  
  Audio: 10
  The sound effects (including voice acting and script) and music in Uncharted are second to none. 
 The bird sounds of the jungle don't sound pasted in like most games - they sound as if you are 
 actually there with ambient noises and all. The music is phenomenal and draws you into the story. 
 Most notable is the scripting/voice acting which are absolutely superb - I would venture to say 
 the best I have ever heard in any game! Not necessarily the way the voices sound, but what is said 
 and at the times it's said actually draw you further into the story immersing you in this other 
 world. I can't remember a game that voice acting has actually on its own merit drawn me into a 
 game - however with Uncharted it does just that. You will find yourself laughing many times as 
 Drake has a grenade land next to him and starts saying "crap, crap, crap" or "oh no" and things 
 of that nature. While you are laughing you soon realize that he is reacting the same way you would 
 if you were in the situation he is in. That adds to the immersion in a new way for me.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay is great, however it does suffer from some minor glitches and annoyances 
 occasionally. Let me clarify that the "issues" that Uncharted encounters are no more (and possibly 
 even less) prevalent than in other games of this genre (such as TR) . However there are still issues 
 that at times, for a brief moment may have you frustrated and gritting your teeth. A couple of 
 the most notable "issues" I encountered are:
  Falling for about one story into water should not by itself kill you - even if it takes you off 
 the beaten path of play. Falling into water from a short distance should not equate to you dying.
 
  Sometimes the camera angle locks from a distance on Drake when you are required to complete some 
 task or puzzle - and there is no way to move the camera during these times in order to get a better 
 angle on the ledge you're trying to jump to, etc...
  Objects that allow you to climb on them in one area and look identical to some objects in another 
 area but it won't let you climb on those. This was particularly noticeable with stacks of crates. 
 There may be a stack of three crates you can climb on in one spot and right across the courtyard 
 are three more crates stacked in the same manner but you aren't able to climb on those. This unfortunately 
 makes the game feel more linear than what it should feel like.
  Jumping mechanics could be better - meaning that if you jump from the exact same spot at the exact 
 same angle you should achieve the exact same outcome every time. Unfortunately there are a couple 
 times during the game that may have you jumping 3 or 4 times from the same spot to grab a chain 
 or ledge and even though you are doing it exactly the same every time, it takes a couple tries 
 before Drake actually catches hold. This wouldn't be so bad if you didn't die after every attempt.
 
  So as I said these are all thing I have also encountered in other games in this genre so all in 
 all not a bad thing - just not much of an improvement here either.
  On the upside the combat mechanics in Uncharted hands down blow away any other game I have played 
 in this genre. There are way more enemies to deal with and your heart will be racing in later levels 
 after the effects of El Dorado are discovered.
  So I still give the gameplay the solid 8 - which is really good - it is just not as good as the 
 other aspects of the game. If the gameplay mechanics had been improved and the annoying issues 
 I just stated had been resolved then this game would have no doubt been a perfect 10 for me.
  
  
  In closing...
  Is Uncharted the Tomb Raider killer so many tout it to be?
  In my opinion 
 no. However it greatly raises the bar in a way that will force the TR franchise to improve.
  Uncharted is a MUST HAVE title for the PS3 and should not be missed by anyone who has the opportunity 
 to play it. It is an absolutely fantastic adventure that may not destroy the competition but does 
 in fact improve on the genres formula in almost every way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maukka94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Good.
  
  Beautifull graphics.
  Nice weapons.'
  backgrounds are awesome.
  good action.
  nice turning plots.
  Bad.
  first u are shooting criminals than demons.
  too 
 short!!!!!!!
  g
  g
  gg
  
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  gg
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
 
  g
  g
  g
  g
  d
  
  d
  d
  dd
  
  d
  ds
  s
  
  s
  s
  s
  s
  ds
  fds
  fd
  fd
  fd
  f
  d
  fd
  sfds
  f
  dsf
  ds
  fdsg
  g
  fd
  g
  fga
 
  fgfg
  fg
  fgdfg
  fgd
  fdg
  fg
  fdg
  fdg
  fdgfdg
  fdgfdg
  fdg
  fgd
  fdgfdgfdg
  fdg
  fgd
  fg
  fgfgd
  fg
  fg
  dfdg
  fdg
  fdg
  fdg
  g
  fd
  fdg
 
  fg
  fgd
  fdg
  fdgfdg
  fg
  dfg
  dfdg
  fdg
  fdg
  fdg
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  gg
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  gg
  g
  g
  g
  g
 
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  gggg
  gg
  g
  g
  gg
  gg
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  gg
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
 
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonidinos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  ONE OF THE BEST GAMES THAT I EVER PLAYED. IT IS SO GOOD THAT WHEN YOU FINISH IT YOU WANT MORE. AMAZING 
 ACTION, UNBELIAVABLE BACKGROUNDS WITH DEPTH AN A MAIN CHARACTER THAT IS IN THE RIGHT PLACE. IT IS 
 ONE OF THE FIRST GAMES OF PS3 AND THE PLAYERS GET MANY PROMISES FOR THE FUTURE.
  VERY GOOD WORK , VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, 
 VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK, VERY 
 GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK , VERY GOOD WORK, VERY GOOD WORK .
  THANK YOU NAUGHTY DOG!!! 
  THANK YOU NAUGHTY DOG!!! 
  THANK YOU NAUGHTY DOG!!!
  THANK YOU NAUGHTY DOG!!!
  THANK YOU 
 NAUGHTY DOG!!!
  THANK YOU NAUGHTY DOG!!!
  THANK YOU NAUGHTY DOG!!!
  
  
  I THINK THAT EVERYONE WANTS A SEQUEL
  IT IS DEFINETLY AT MY TOP 10.
  JUST ENJOY THE GAME
 
  
  SONIDINOS
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  As you play through Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, don't be surprised if this island getaway feels 
 a little familiar. And why shouldn't it, since you'll be stop-and-pop-shooting like you did in 
 Gears of War, pulling off unbelievable wall-crawling acrobatics like a regular Persian prince, 
 and traversing exotic locales  la Tomb Raider's svelte spelunker? Hell, it'd seem wholly appropriate 
 for the cocksure lead to don a weathered fedora and sport a perpetual five o'clock shadow that'd 
 laugh in the face of any Quattro razor. But don't think this culling of mixed inspiration makes 
 for a lesser product. Developer Naughty Dog brings these pieces together to create a compelling 
 quest that embodies the word "adventure." 
  
  The story puts you in the shoes of Nate Drake, who's supposedly descended from storied explorer 
 Sir Francis Drake (whose diary provides guidance throughout) , on a relic-finding documentary tour 
 turned sour, which means lots of guns, fisticuffs, and platforming in this third-person action-adventure. 
 Drake's accompanied by spunky and nubile camerawoman Elena and the raspy-voiced oldster Sully, 
 he of suspect motives. It's not a terribly unique setup, to be sure, as Uncharted follows a path 
 worn out by many adventure classics, with the expected one-note enemies, last-minute harrowing 
 saves, and flirty banter between the leads. What it does do well is move at a good clip, constantly 
 pushing the story between locations and set pieces, and the "aw, shucks" characters are easy to 
 take a liking to. 
  
  It's also easy to appreciate the visuals. Naughty Dog created a stunning world: The jungle and 
 lush vegetation look sharp and alive. Impressive lighting effects ratchet up the creepiness in 
 torch-led treks through caves. Crumbling architecture leaves you gawking, and then it scares the 
 hell out of you as you start to scale it. And while details abound throughout the world, the animations 
 add to the immersion. Drake fills each moment, be it a clumsy stumble through a porthole or placing 
 a steadying hand against a wall. Of course, the enemies animate to perhaps a laughable degree, 
 overacting each time you strike them with a shot and looking like they're ready to dance a jig. 
 
  
  But that's a small complaint in what's an otherwise great shooting system. Whereas games like those 
 in the Tomb Raider series stumble with sketchy lock-on mechanics, Uncharted employs a slick cover 
 system not unlike that found in Gears of War. You can "attach" Drake to almost any form of cover 
 with the press of a button, from which point you can blindfire or lean out and bring up a reticule 
 to aim (while also exposing yourself to enemy fire) . It works quite well -- the optional Sixaxis 
 grenade control not as much -- and it's a good thing, since game progression typically involves 
 you hitting cover-filled rooms of enemies. And once you clear them out, you can expect another 
 wave to jump in. You'll acquire the typical assortment of weapons to assist you in the good fight, 
 including a devastating shotgun that knocks enemies off their feet with a satisfying kick. Also 
 appreciated is the ability to swap your firing shoulder like in Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 
 by pushing in the analog stick. 
  
  Less prevalent than gunfire is the melee combat, which consists of an assortment of standard punches 
 with one cool element: a timed "brutal" combo that you can pull off. Do it correctly (and the timing 
 is tricky, even by the end of the game) , and you get twice the ammo from the defeated enemy. Mess 
 up and he'll sock you back for big damage. It's a fun risk/reward mechanic that isn't quite as 
 satisfying as Gear of War's superb active-reload system, but it's enjoyable enough to make those 
 close-up encounters worthwhile. 
  
  Complementing the combat are the scenes in which you make use of Drake's surprising acrobatic acumen. 
 If the next goal is somewhere above you, Drake will think nothing of scrambling to the top of a 
 pillar, jumping to a groove in a wall, shinnying a few feet over, and then hoisting himself up 
 to a ledge. And that's an easy one. Some of the lines you have to traverse are stunning, as they'll 
 have you swinging via ropes across sheer walls and leaping across chasms, clutching for dear life 
 on the other side. (Did Naughty Dog really try to sell this guy as a bumbling everyman? In addition 
 to these impressive feats, he soaks up bullets like a sponge -- with the screen turning white as 
 he gets injured -- thanks to an appreciated Halo-esque regeneration system -- good-bye, first-aid 
 kits.) Fortunately, the controls are responsive, and costly mistakes will be your own. A nice touch: 
 Given that you'll often need to jump-scale walls in diagonals and it's not always clear which way 
 you need to go, Drake will reach out a hand to indicate you're pressing the right direction. On 
 a more general scale, given that you almost always need to shoot or scale to progress, if you get 
 stuck, chances are you just need to look up and start climbing. 
  
  What's disappointing is that the actual puzzles don't get much trickier than that. No, you won't 
 find any block-pushers here (well, maybe one... and exploding barrels pepper the ancient ruins -- 
 come on, now) , but the ones that are here aren't much more inspired. Almost all of the handful 
 or so of puzzles require you to crack open old-man Drake's diary for a hit-you-over-the-head solution. 
 Think turning statues to the four compass points or rotating some rotting engravings. On par with 
 these brainless puzzles are your enemies. They generally appear at trigger points, tend to crouch 
 then pop out into your sights a lot (although they will use grenades to flush you out of hiding) , 
 and have that whole annoying Borg mentality -- if one spots you, they all know where you are, spatial 
 positioning be damned. 
  
  At least taking these guys out in different ways offers rewards, as Uncharted dishes out medals 
 as its form of an Achievement system. Pulling off tasks such as shooting 10 guys from the hip, 
 racking up the head shots, and using some melee combos lets you rack up points that unlock costumes 
 and other bonus content. 
  
  The vehicle scenes are also worth mentioning. They break up the action but aren't particularly 
 memorable. A rollicking truck ride with Drake manning the turret is standard issue, and the Jet 
 Ski scenes should be more fun than they are. While you are behind the stick of the ride, you have 
 to stop when you need backseated Elena to shoot -- why can't the otherwise-computer-controlled 
 gal take care of that on her own? 
  
  The breadth of Uncharted's entertaining acrobatics/gunfight gameplay mix more than makes up for 
 its shortcomings, as does the safe but satisfying story (even if it does get a little ridiculous 
 by the end) . It's definitely the type of game that makes you glad you have a PS3. 
  
  Overall, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_ps3mad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, is to this date one of the best looking console games, not only are 
 the graphics amazing but also the animation is just done perfectly (something like 4000 animations) 
 which makes Drake walk, run, shoot, climb more realistically than any over character from a game. 
 The Physics are brilliant mostly the water, example if Drake walks into water his cloths looks 
 really wet but what the best thing is that he will only be wet up to the level of water he went 
 in.
  The story line is good, not the best as it does take lots of ideas from multiple films, but then 
 again in this world most tend to steal other peoples ideas, the story itself is good enough to 
 keep your attentions on listening to the characters instead of just admiring the amazing graphics.
 
  The action is solid, easy to use shooting, with a great cover system keeps it fun, seeing as there 
 is a lot of shooting that really is needed! The puzzles, there needs to be a few more, and something 
 where Francis Drakes diary doesn't give you huge hints on how to do it as most were really simple.
 
  Overall i give this an 8.5 mainly because it was a bit to short, and has kept me waiting for Uncharted 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog seems to have a habit of creating new franchises for every PlayStation console. First 
 it was Crash Bandicoot in 1996, then, 5 years later, Jak & Daxter. And now, another 5 years later, 
 a brand-new IP, Uncharted - Drake`s Fortune, is here - Tomb Rider, coupled up with Gears of War, 
 in juicy jungle environments, multiplied by exciting storyline and superb cast of characters. Yep, 
 that`s pretty much Uncharted in a nutshell.
  
  To be honest, Drake`s Fortune is not too original, in fact the storyline is a collection of all 
 possible cliches of adventure movies that have come out in last 100 years. But, as everyone knows, 
 people like see the same crap over and over and over again. I guess this is why people still go 
 to Jean Claude Van Damme`s movies.
  Anyway, the story is about an ordinary, grave-robbing, 16th century Spanish speaking and all-American-badass 
 Nathaniel Drake, who believes that he is the grand-grand-grand- (...) -son of the legendary buccaneer 
 Sir Francis Drake. Accompanied by Elena Fisher, an attractive and stubborn journalist, and Drake`s 
 friend Victor Sullivan, also called Sully, Nate is on a trail of his ancestor`s hidden treasure. 
 The Quest is taking them to an uncharted, once colonized island in the middle of Pacific Ocean. 
 Unfortunately so are an army of armed-to-teeth fortune-seeking scum.
  You might have guessed by now that it is nothing awfully new. I mean, look at the characters! Elena 
 - typical female stereotype - is persistent and, of course, quite attracted to Nate. Sully has 
 just got over his middle-age crisis, fell into million debts and just can`t keep his mouth shut 
 about things you shouldn`t tell your creditors, who just happen to own a mercenary army. There 
 is no point describing the villains - all three major cliches are present here and I don`t want 
 to ruin the plot twists anyway. 
  
  The gameplay consists of two parts - Tomb Rider-esque platforming and puzzle solving and Gears 
 of War action sequences. The first one takes about 1/4 of all gameplay. The first levels are pure 
 platforming heaven diluted with some unoriginal and fairly easy, push-the-lever type puzzles. You 
 can solve them in a few minutes, but to avoid any frustration, a "Hint" button appears and shows 
 you the direction you should be focusing to. Sounds quite like Gears, huh? Sadly, the platforming 
 is far from perfect as well. It uses the old "trial and error" method. Expect alot of dying, just 
 because you didn`t see THAT ledge or THAT cliff wasn`t the one you should have leapt to. Very strange 
 for a company who made platformer games for two console generations.
  Then there comes the action part. There is alot of run and gun but even more stop and pop. Naught 
 Dog has carefully copied the Gears cover system, which works well for the most part. Even though 
 the action is uninspired and done before, it still stays dynamic and exciting. To make the adventure 
 into an actual adventure, developers have put jumping sections between firefights. Not that great 
 idea in fact. It breaks the rhythm and annoys you with at least few cheap deaths. There are also 
 a vehicle and jet ski sections, which are pretty fun.
  What I found really annoying was the level design. We get a lot of jungle and a lot of old ruins, 
 which basically recycle each other. There is also some backtracking which doesn`t help the variety 
 either. It is also quite obvious where to jump and where to fight. If you see a potential cover, 
 draw out your gun and prepare for a battle. When an area is cleared, expect another wave of bloodthirsty 
 cutthroats. About in the middle of the game you`ll eventually gain a reflex - "see a cover - get 
 behind something - shoot - reload - wait for the next wave". While arsenal is not too big, weapons 
 are satisfying to shoot. As in any other modern day shooter, Nate can carry only two guns - a pistol 
 or revolver and a rifle, shotgun or grenade launcher. However you`ll mostly find using pistols 
 and AK`s for the most time, since the majority of your opponents use them as well. To spice thing 
 up, melee attacks are also included. There are two types of combos - 4 Square pushes and Square-Triangle-Square 
 combo. And if the enemy is caught off guard, you can execute him with a single melee move - either 
 braking his neck from behind or landing your feet in poor bastard`s face. After beating an enemy 
 with your bare hands you receive twice as much ammo than usual, but otherwise the feature is quite 
 pointless.
  The opponents are only pirates and mercenaries (near the end you will encounter something more... 
 intimidating) . Luckily, Naughty Dog has put some effort into AI. Enemies will try to flank you 
 and flush you out with grenades. In fact, I`ve never seen them doing something really stupid. Since 
 Nate is not a superhuman (still he can give some handicap to Max Payne himself) , using covers is 
 essential and going head-on to a group of pirates is a bad idea unless you play on Easy. The AI 
 really makes battles tougher and more exciting, I give a credit for that. But what I really don`t 
 understand is the lack of wildlife. Jungle is supposed to be full of creatures, from birds to reptiles, 
 right? The only animal I saw in Uncharted was a single bird. Duh.
  To add replayability value, Naughty Dog has added Medal system - pretty much the same as X360 Achievements. 
 Completing them, you`ll get lots of great bonuses - different outfits, videos about making the 
 game, screen filters etc. If you have an Internet connection, the patch includes Trophy support. 
 Unfortunately, they are not retroactive, so I you will have to start a new game and do the thing 
 over again.
  
  Everywhere I look, everyone`s praising the graphics. Well, not me. Textures sure look nice, character 
 models, especially facial animations, really bring them to life, prefect corpse poses (I always 
 squabble about that) , there are no loading times between levels, only when starting the game. You 
 can see how Drake`s shirt gets dirtier through the game, how his clothes get wet and dry up, how 
 naturally he leaps, falls, rolls and shoots. What really looks bad is the jungle itself. The colour 
 palette is bright green and only. Jungle is ALL types of green and brown. I realised that when 
 I was still drawing comics as a kid, damnit! What needs a lot of work is fire and smoke. No exceptions 
 here - when you shoot a barrel or blow a grenade you get a neat mini-nuke look. Not only that - 
 invisible walls here and there, Nate freely walks through vegetation and levels are straightforward 
 corridors. Despite various small quirks and glitches, Uncharted looks great. Period.
  
  Drake`s Fortune pleases with good musical score and terrific voice acting. Each voice is unique 
 and perfectly fit for the character. Guns and explosions are very authentic but the weakest point 
 is jungle sounds. They are silent and feel lifeless.
  
  To sum things up, Uncharted is a thrilling roller coaster ride while it lasts and a good start 
 for potential series. Since PlayStation 3 lacks good exclusives like this, not getting this game 
 is a punishable crime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormbringa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best adventure games that I have ever played. It plays true to the "Indiana 
 Jones" genre. Amazing graphics, breath-taking scenery, well etched characters are the first things 
 that strike you about this game.
  As we move forward, the game play gets increasingly deep & you will not stop till you finish the 
 game, just like an addictive novel/storybook.
  The controls are very good for most of the game but during some jumps, climbs etc., it is a little 
 'tricky'.
  The voice acting is superb and is true to the characters depicted. The background score is not 
 continuous which is actually great. It picks up and drop depending on the in-game situation.
  The game length is just perfect. Any shorter, it would leave you wanting more and any longer may 
 have made it monotonous which would have ruined the experience.
  Overall, its great package. Simply go & play it as its one for your PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firextreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an awesome game, which in crushing can easily last 30+ hours on just one go through.
 
  
  The forestry has been absolutaly mastered with loads of different locations and surprise events 
 hidden all around it. I won't give any of it away but the stroy twists and turns around all over 
 the place!
  
  Basically, the gun system works well, especially in the easier difficulties. But, if your up for 
 a challenge then go for crushing, as one shot to your head practically kills you, one shot to their 
 head practiacally kills them. This is what is so unique about uncharted. In crushing, you really 
 are no stronger than them, and with fantastic AI uncharted is a must buy game for all you action/adventure 
 lovers out there.
  
  Also as you get further through the story and complete more challenges and get more trophies, you 
 unlock cool perks like spawn AK-47, or Unlimited ammo, or possibly change costume. Unfortunately 
 though, you can't get many of these until you've completed it ideally on hard, then when you go 
 through crushing you can't use any of these cool perks!
  
  This game really is a must buy game, with fantastic clips, cool vehicle chases and a variety of 
 different enemies to attack. You'll always come back to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EBA
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Uncharted
  
  Graphics 10
  Gameplay 9 
  Sound 9
  Control 10
  
  Has seen in PSN demo Uncharted about game knew, that it like a clone Tomb Raider only about the 
 man. Has decided to play, has passed all demo. The game has interested, has decided to buy the 
 complete version.
  The game strangely enough not Tomb Raider, Uncharted is a mix Tomb Raider + Born Conspiracy and 
 Gears Of War, only with a plot and without synthetic as in Gears. The game supports and Dual Shock 
 and system of trophies and, with trophies play to become more interestingly, there is a sense to 
 look for each corner to find all ancient values and to use in fight every possible kinds of the 
 weapon (instead of to be focused to one) or to try to make 100 Head Shots. Jumps and puzzles as 
 it can seem, in game make ~20 % from all gameplays. In comparison with Tomb Raider all jumps and 
 capture for ledges here are passed from several attempts (it is not necessary to sit on them for 
 30 minutes!) . Shooting, which makes 80 % of game time is executed in the best traditions GoW. Also 
 we run to the nearest shelter (wall, columns, every possible ledges) and we shoot of enemies. The 
 arsenal is submitted more more than in "Gears", grenades are executed more conveniently and they 
 need to be used (thanking Sixaxis grenade it is possible to throw, where wants and, to not throw 
 it on 5 meters a maximum...) . If in GOW the near fight was reduced to a partition petrol-powered 
 (beforehand written to one scripts) that here smart system of hand-to-hand fight including tens 
 of kinds combo (with various animation) . Or at all to begin to render impact by fists and to alternate 
 shots from the weapon. And if wants something as Stealth - please, creep imperceptibly to an enemy 
 and from a back and smother him.
  The diagram looks is more tremendous - Uncharted it is possible safely to entrust a rankthe 
 most beautiful jungle, and most entertainment pursuit on jeeps on jungle (Indiana Jones in flight) .
 
  Result: the very qualitative game which is possible to recommend to everyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  "The adventure game the PS3 has been waiting for" is definitely right. 
  
  Uncharted, IN
 
  Tomb Raider, OUT
  
  
  The Good:
  Visuals, Characters, Game-Play, Animation, Plot, Voice Acting, a great laugh.
  
  
  The Bad:
 
  Gun fight can be a bit hard.
  
  
  Uncharted is without a doubt a brilliant adventure game for the PS3 and what makes it even more 
 better, it's an excusive only for the PlayStation 3. Games like Uncharted, Resistance, Metal Gear 
 Solid 4, Little Big Planet, Heavenly Sword and all PlayStation 3 Classics and they make the PS3 
 stand taller than other consoles. I'm not the type of person that will say PS3 is better than the 
 XBOX or whatever. The XBOX is good in it's own way same with the PS3.
  But between you and me, the PS3 rules all. 
  
  Anyway you play Drake who is the type of character 
 you hardly know much off to begin with but will love him. Drake is a unique character. He's funny, 
 sarcastic, and smart but acts first and to hell with consequences later. My type of character. 
 
  
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics are fantastic from the jungle details to big deep tomb and caves. The graphics are 
 very nice to look at indeed. 
  
  
  Game-Play 8/10
  The game-play is pretty much simple. 3rd person view, Drake can fight, shoot, jump, dive, duck, 
 roll, climb, and other stuff but it's how he does it that makes the game more unique and realistic. 
 If Drake gets shot at he's reactions are fantastically animated. Drake will duck his head down 
 while you control his movement to run for cover. When you control Drake, running or walking, Drake 
 body movement reacts with the environment. When it comes to combat Drake can fight his enemies 
 hand-to-hand, or weapons to weapons. Hand-to-hand combat can be really cool when you get the combinations 
 right. As amazing the game-play is, the game-play can be a wee bit hard at first to get into. Fighting 
 using weapons can be a bit tricky sometimes with some weapons like using grenades or sniper rifles. 
 
  Every now and again some in game cut senses will require you to press the correct bottom in order 
 for you to move forward. Sometimes you'll find it quite annoying; because there is no warning then 
 they'll pop up. If you're anything like me, when a cut sense starts I put the controller down and 
 sit back and watch, only to find that I have to hit the X bottom. But sometimes it can be quite 
 cool especially when it comes to the end. 
  The puzzles are quite good though fairly easy. You may feel good with one or two puzzles after 
 solving them but still, a monkey could do them. 
  
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound effects, music, voice acting is all top notch. From the sounds of the water falls and 
 the birds tweeting in the jungle, to the stir of echoes and the rock falls in the tombs are just 
 fantastic. 
  
  
  Lifespan 8/10
  The game is not that long. First time through will probably take you about 10hrs to finish. Once 
 you know what you're doing, you could probably finish the game in under 5, but is there a replay 
 value? Well, I love the game and I've played and finished the game so many times going back collecting 
 treasures and trophies and so forth and I will probably play it some more. Probably up until Uncharted 
 2 comes out. (I HOPE THERES AN UNCHARTED 2)
  
  
  Overall 9/10
  I love Uncharted and i give it a 9/10. Amazing graphics, great game-play, cool and memorable characters, 
 nice plot and just one darn amazing adventure game. 
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamilinho19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog shows they can make every kind of game from Crash and Jak to Uncharted ,without any 
 mistakes in gameplay :p. My second favourite ps3 game after MGS4, It's another must have for ps3 
 owners, great graphic ,awsome stunts eating on dinner every Lara Croft jump :p Shooting like in 
 Gears of war-using cover etc ,very good steering ,good story and in fact of all good things about 
 this game not satisfing game time... few hours (8-10h) and game's beated... good thing is the replayability 
 for me was very good :D i beated this game few times and i dont feel like i waste time playing 
 it. If you like the Tomb Raider and Gears of war placed in junle xD you might like this game i think 
 :p ps. while playing this game i was feeling like in tpp far cry 1 with much better graphics of 
 course ;p its good choice right now cause its really cheap and really good :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_T-Rex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune follows Nathan Drake, a man who is supposedly a descendant of Francis 
 Drake, and his two comrades in quick witted Sully and reporter Elena, who is looking for her big 
 story.
  
  A 400-year-old clue in the coffin of Sir Francis Drake sets the modern-day fortune hunter on an 
 exploration for the fabled treasure of El Dorado, leading to the discovery of a forgotten island 
 in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. The search turns deadly when Drake becomes stranded on the 
 island and hunted by mercenaries.
  
  The game it's ups and downs. The aiming and controlling can at times be tedious and the enemies 
 at times,. difficult. But, the game makes up for that, by a self healing process where the scene 
 turns black and white when your about to die, and you can sneak away and hide to regain your health, 
 without the need for medipacks and the like. But, dying is actually quite easy considering the 
 amount of enemies you will encounter.
  
  The story is engrossing though. It's a great story. Something like Indiana Jones should have been 
 and the characters are right up there as the most enjoyable characters that this genre will ever 
 encounter. The enemies, while not that well documented, are quite cool aswell from what you can 
 see of them. But, overall, the story and characters are all very good and various plot lines will 
 keep you guessing and wondering until they are answered.
  
  What annoyed me about the game was the twist. That saw Zombie like creatures enter the game about 
 3/4 of the way through. They added an extra challenge; but, they just felt out of place considering 
 the story beforehand, and made me feel less about the game as I played. Another negative was the 
 lack of challenging puzzles that I expected when I purchased the game. I felt the game could have 
 added more in this regard.
  
  But, overall, a very good game. A game that is short enough to have fun with, and if you like it 
 enough, replay value is there to collect trophies. A very solid title, which could easily improve, 
 but was fine the way it is and with a sequel on the books, I think this is the start of another 
 great gaming franchise.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of the best games on PlayStation 3. This and MGS4 have the best graphics ever 
 created on a system ever. Ever. No exceptions. The plant life and the environment looks amazing. 
 Now lets get to gameplay. You play as Nathan Drake who is searching for his family fortune. You 
 get weapons and you shoot these weird people on the island. This, and a cover system and some interesting 
 platform moments and some vehicles and you have Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. In my opinion the cover 
 system on this game is much better than Gears of Wars'. My only complaint is that some of the action 
 does get repetitive. You will be often shooting people. A lot. Also, the main story IS rather short, 
 but this has its upside downs because it can be fun to go back and get treasures or maybe trophies. 
 Anyway, Uncharted is an amazing game anyway, and you should definitely play the freakin thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  i decided to review this game after collecting trophies.
  Its one of them games you can play over and over again and it will never get old. Out of all my 
 games this one has to have the most breath taking graphics. This was my first PS3 game, and looking 
 at it the first time was mind boggling. I didn't want to go back to my PS2 for awhile after playing 
 this game. Graphics isn't all that makes a game but its a plus. I would say Drake is the man version 
 of Lara Croft from tombraider, he can't do any fansy flips, but like when he jumps from ledge to 
 ledge it looks pretty cool. The game has very good gameplay, its much like Grand Thef Auto 4's 
 shooting play, hiding behind walls then pecking guys off one by one. You can also get achivements, 
 like kill 50 guys in a row without dying or killing 100 emienes by shooting them in the head. Beating 
 the game in Crushing mode is one of the hardest things I've ever done, but that and a few more 
 stuff is worth a platnum trophy. This game is up there with naughty dogs Jak.
  
  I usually don't get into storylines this much but this one does have a decent beliveable storyline, 
 its kinda like your getting into a movie and you want to see whats next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I am not a storyline spoiler, 
  
  this game is AWESOME. this is one of the best games on the PS3, and i hope it is put on the greatest 
 hits list so everyone can expereince it.
  
  basically a 3rd person shooter with some innovative hand melee combat interwoven with minor cutscenes, 
 and some awesome Assasin's Creedesqe climbing challenges. now it isn't necesarrilly straight forward, 
 because it flows well, sometime you feel directed, but it flows well; mission objectives, paths 
 in jungle, in buildings, extras. 
  
  I enjoy the in game extra treasures to find and things to unlock, but i do not enjoy the amount 
 of ammo you must go through in order to kill someone. this is the biggest downside to this game, 
 people won't die. they will with a headshot, and if you can get close and melee them down, shoot 
 and punch run and gun style works too, but shooting 6-10 times in the chest is annoying.
  
  i don't have to tell you about the graphics, detail, beauty, story... because Naughty Dog speaks 
 for itself, check out the screenshots.
  
  One of my top games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yichun4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a game that is possibly maybe a tomb raider and gears of war combined with out multiplayer. 
 The game's looks are amazing and I have to mean that and the gameplay is fun but its really hard. 
 The enemys are smarted then ever they flank you in seconds and they overwhelm you eventually but 
 its fun to beat the crap out of them. The story is amazing but it got a little comfusing after 
 lvl 17 where the mutants come out and eddy dies. but all in all this is most likely the greatest 
 PS3 game I have played to date. Just the fact is it has no multiplayer, and drake is like an ordinary 
 man he never does anything perfectly but thats my review! hui hik dafjlj d; ajdl; ksd fjkdlsfjdkfj 
 dkfj df df hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hihi ih hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hihi hi hi h i hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi h i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartantec1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a 3rd person action/adventure that truly shines on a good interesting 
 plot, beautiful graphics and solid gameplay!
  
  Drake starts his adventure with his friends and you are immediately sucked into the game. Uncharted 
 is a game about mercenaries, puzzle solving, and pure adventure. The game doesn't make things too 
 complicated u understand the controls well, u will know where to jump (at least occasionally) , and 
 get to understand the characters well.
  Nathan Drake being the good, motivated, easy going, funny guy and Elena the tv show reporter who 
 is quite not the average girl... she is daring, cunning, and the adventurous type and Victor a 
 seasoned old man, always business minded and a good actor.
  
  The game relies heavily on the duck-cover and shoot mechanism which is implemented into the game 
 pretty well. The weapons is your typical sidearms, shotgun, semi autos and full automatics with 
 a support of grenades. Another good point of the game is its importance given to its close quarters 
 hand to hand combat system which is very useful and effective. There are a lot of jumping and swinging 
 in the cliffs, trees and ruins and perfectly gives you the experience of an Indiana Jones type 
 adventure! 
  
  One of the best points of this game is its Visual appeal!!! Its candy to the eyes, each and every 
 look to the game is amazingly made and beautiful. From the color of the leaves, mountains, water, 
 ruins, sky, etc to the shadows, characters and effects and art direction is fresh and immersive. 
 This game has a lot of interesting twists as well, and the puzzles are intelligently crafted. Humor 
 and fun are other strong points to the game... which many games lack these days. There are also 
 several driving missions as well even on a water jet ski's upstream!! there are changes in enemies 
 as well which i wont spoil to you. Only slight bad point to the game is that it is over too soon. 
 Overall, a very good solid action/adventure title which surpasses many games with its beautiful 
 fun formula!
  
  Personal Opinion and view:
  I saw a bit hesitant at first as i heard the game was too short... but it the quality which mattered 
 and i picked the game nonetheless. I have no regrets it is seriously worth it. It was surprisingly 
 good, fun, action paced and gave me that sense of treasure hunting pretty well. The visuals is 
 one of the best i have ever seen in any game so far. You can just look at the game for hours especially 
 in sunny parts! Only down side is i wished it to be a little longer. This game is a must buy for 
 any ps3 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune takes you on a romp through a jungle filled with gun totting pirates 
 and booby traps. The guy at gamestop advertised to me as a "Male TombRaider". 
  
  The game starts off no a diving ship; with Drake recovering a coffin from the depths... I'll try 
 to avoid spoilers as much as I can; so I'll just go into the gameplay. 
  
  The first thing you'll notice is a lot of reflections off the water, and amazing facial reactions 
 from characters; from grimacing to smirking mischievously. The overall character details are simply 
 amazing, even during gunfights you see that Drake is afraid of dying; you can see his reactions 
 as bullets wizz by and hit the cover you're hiding behind. 
  The scenery itself in the game is simply amazing; almost every scene fills the screen with amazing 
 detail and beauty, it's nonstop through the game, whether you're in the middle of a rain forest 
 with the sun beating down; or in the darkest depths of a cave trying to find your way out, the 
 details remains excellent. 
  
  Gameplay wise Uncharted is definitely NOT a TombRaider game; as Drake is far more sluggish and 
 less graceful than the fem fatal Lara Croft. He doesn't flip; twirl, cartwheel, or even run gracefully; 
 but he does however, jump from ledge to ledge, scale walls and buildings like a human spider; and 
 swing around on chains and vines. The game seems to revolving mainly around climbing/jumping puzzles 
 and you'll run into one in almost every other scene; sometimes it gets annoying to barely miss 
 a jump and either die, or just plain have to start from the bottom again.
  
  Gunfights are often, and sometimes EXTREMELY hard. I honestly haven ever heard of a man taking 
 six shots from an M4 rifle, and still be standing to shoot back; that goes double for a Desert 
 Eagle wound, but maybe these guys are roid raging, who knows. If you manage to hit their head, 
 they'll go down with one shot, even from your weakest pistol. There are plenty of different guns 
 to choose from, but choose wisely, because ammo is scarce and you can only carry one long barreled 
 gun and one pistol at a time.
  Hand to hand combat is simply put, a joke. Either mash square until the baddie dies, or try to 
 "time" the Brutal Combo and get double the ammo off the guy. You're better off mashing square, 
 because if you're fighting someone while in a gun fight, you'll be shot, and if you miss the brutal 
 combo you'll also be beaten.
  
  There is no life meter; but the screen starts to lose color as you take more and more damage, and 
 will regain after a few seconds of taking cover; which makes it slightly hard to die in a gun fight.
 
  
  The story telling isn't bad; but seriously.... mutants? What the hell? That honestly "ruined" the 
 mood of the game for me. Everything up to that point was pretty interesting and definitely left 
 you wanting to know more about the Fortune, and Drake's ancestors... and then? Mutants.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobytels
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Drakes Fortune offers fantastic visuals for still quite early in the PS3's life cycle. I found 
 the progression of environments to be smooth and all offering their own vibes from dingy, ancient 
 underground tunnels to jungle settings.
  
  On a first play through, some of the gun fights were a bit frustrating as you found yourself being 
 flanked by enemies and pinned down for an ultimate death.
  
  I enjoyed the game so much I upped the difficulty for more challenge and have found in more runs 
 through the game that I am much better at dealing with these situations. Often a smart mixture 
 of aggressively closing the distance to win better cover vantage points and then sitting tight 
 to pick a few enemies off was the best tactic and becomes very enjoyable.
  
  Which brings me to another great point about this game. The AI of enemies is pretty good. No 2 
 gun fights tend to be identical. The enemies spawn from the same points at the same times however 
 they can and often do surprise you with different behaviour. 
  
  I loved what happened towards the end of the game with a significant injection of tension and strategy 
 required in the later gunfights.
  
  Overall I think the game was a great interactive experience. Maybe not the challenge for hardcore 
 gamers and maybe a little tough for the casual gamer at times but all-in-all it hits the right 
 marks with the entertaining if not derivative storyline and some wonderful moments. I found myself 
 highly immersed in Drake's story and felt the need to get him through the events safely to find 
 el Dorado.
  
  Highly recommended for any PS3 owner to at least finish once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wopenka_11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The thing with this game is, its a mixture of a few things. Indiana Jones, Tomb Raider, and some 
 kind of jungle explorer movie about a main being greedy at first but then gets the **** scared 
 out of him by some rich guy wanting treasure and becomes some what good. Thats Uncharted. Its a 
 great game, plenty of pretty good action, fantastic presentation: Sound, visuals, AI, Story all 
 good. The only bad thing about it is, theres no multiplayer aspect. I'm sure that with the gameplay 
 style they could have created or still create a multiplayer section or game with the engine. But 
 dont let that turn you off buying this game, because its truly a gem. 1 of the best adventure games 
 out there for people who want an impacting game story.
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeeyes190
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Treasure, brings to mind ideas of gold, jewels, and large amounts of highly valuable objects. But 
 what of the great legendary treasures, how far of the map would you go to find it. This is the 
 story of Nate Drake (this story's Indiana Jones) and his guest to find proof that Sir Francis Drake 
 lived beyond his death and burial on the high sea. This mission expands far beyond that to come 
 to include the quest for El Dorado. With Nate travel his long time friend Sully an old adventurer 
 deep in dept and a young film maker Elena Fisher who wants to be made famous for her work on documentaries. 
 The story goes from the jungles of the Amazon to a small island in the middle of the south Atlantic. 
 Within this story there is a somewhat strict complaint have, at a point in the game you start to 
 encounter rather mutated creatures (Far Cry style) . The story comes to involve other adventurers, 
 island natives, pirates, a lost colony, and a mystery from the Nazi's of world war two. While this 
 sounds like any adventure novel or movie and that is what it is but it is still well done and quite 
 interesting as the story goes (or that could be my fondness for adventure stories) .
  
  In terms of Game play, the game is not really an original so much as a glories tribute to other 
 games. You find yourself solving puzzles, shooting villains, swinging from vines and climbing the 
 environment. The puzzles are varying degrees of complexity and in some cases will change the environment 
 on an extremely large scale, early on they puzzles are simple like opening a door by using counter 
 balance or dropping a stone through it, these parts of the game reminded me more of tomb raider 
 or resident evil in the level of complexity. What is an adventure game with some sort of enemy 
 and there minions (god I love that word Minion) , in this game there is an extremely good AI that 
 in the game does use the environment, will throw grenades and will flank you if in sufficient numbers, 
 add that to the fact that the average minion in the game has more health then you do and you are 
 really forced out think a computer (bring it on Skynet) and early on you will see a lot of death 
 (namely yourself) until you get use to the difference. Now you do have travelling companions who 
 are just as good as the enemy and do stand there own, when you actually have there help, because 
 you are mostly on your own (you got there voices of support via Radio, Ain't that nice) . Weapons 
 wise this game actually screws you up more in that the pistols you have/find is more useful then 
 any other weapon in the game (that because you have to aim for the head of the minions to kill 
 them quickly) . Hand to hand combat is more akin to a fighting game were a person has to remember 
 various combos that punch and kick the minion rather then just hitting a button and smacking the 
 guy with the gun. Prince of Persia style acrobatics have been more common in these types of game 
 and this one is no different other then you can't really run up walls and there aren't any sequence's 
 that require getting past swing blades while swing on a vine. Finally there is the driving runs 
 were you are running though the jungle in a truck or Jet Ski. The game offers a large amount of 
 different events that are extremely well done and quite fun (minus the difficulty of the minions, 
 there bloody hard) .
  
  Graphically the game is gorgeous. It's bright, colourful, and full of different style objects and 
 the water looks like water (nice and wet) . Okay the game does offer the standard style of environment 
 for a jungle treasure hunt, you now the ones, jungles, ruins, cave systems, old forts, and the 
 god awful giant villa of sorts and while these are great looking (yawn) , we have seen them all 
 before and don't notice them as much but the new environmental features are worth remembering. 
 One image that always comes to mind when I think of this game is (drum roll please) the sight of 
 a German U boat circa World War 2 is sitting on top of a waterfall (how the hell it got there I 
 don't know) in the middle of the Amazonian rainforest with the sun going down eliminating it in 
 a end of day orange glow (quite Beautiful sight until the shooting starts) . The other great sight's 
 I won't mention because it is worth the surprise of what is to come but that is just the tip of 
 the iceberg. Character wise the game does give the different player and other NPC's a very human 
 look and the imagery of the game in some of the different lighting almost gives it a look of a 
 mid range independent movie (compliment for the level of detail being similar to an older filming 
 camera) . In the cinematic sequences the character are extremely expressive and act and react like 
 a real person would with out all the jerkiness of older adventure games. Now the water looks more 
 realistic then any game currently available (that's about it in terms of water) .
  
  Sounds and music in the game is just as good with an apparent high level of detail placed on the 
 standard sounds of the game (gunfire sounds like gunfire yeah.. yawn) as such rather then explain 
 how well done it is I am just going to say it was well done. The musical score is just as well 
 done with a heavy focus on tribal and jungle theme music as well as a sort of broken down degraded 
 music that fits in with the caves and ruins and other regions of the game. Voice acting wise the 
 game is just as well done with emotion both believable and realistic and also including a variety 
 of extra lines of the witty comments for Nate to say in combat (insulting a guy shooting at you 
 smart idea) .
  
  While Uncharted is well done (Really well done) and does have a fair variety of tasks to do it 
 is somewhat a rehash of other games it is worth playing. Rent it buy it, I don't care just play 
 the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle341
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  the good: beautiful graphics, great story, great shooting and platforming elements put together, 
 trophies, smart enemy AI
  ----------------------------------------------------
  the bad: 12 hours long
  ----------------------------------------------------
  this is a really 
 addicting game.. the only thing I dont like about it is it's legnth.
  all characters look realistic and the voice acting is great as well.. the gameplay is fun and addicting 
 and u will most likely play through this game more then once.
  great game really worth your money (specialy now that it's greatest hits) some might not want to 
 buy it becuase it's very short.. in that case I recomend u to rent this game becuase u really owe 
 it to yourself to play it.
  
   
 for all the: "---".. my review is too short and I need more characters..) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  The best part about Drake's Fortune is the graphics, yes, but the fact that it's a straight forward 
 game. It's been a good while since I played a very straight forward game and it's nice to finally 
 play one again. No convoluted plots, no 4161684643465464 side quests to keep you distacted. 
  
  Th plot is pretty simple. A few moments that catch you off guard, one or two moments that were 
 pretty obvious. The story itself is out of an Indiana Jones sorta.
  
  The game play is pretty simple. The platforming is a little too forgiving for the most part, but 
 some what should be obvious parts are actually instant deaths. After the first half the the gun 
 fights are more frustrating/irritating than fun, but they add to the action. (Obvious... no?)
 
  
  The voice acting is very, very good. Outside of the typical grunts, the main cast does a good job. 
 Except for one character. 
  
  The visuals are amazing. If the game was nonlinear, I don't think they could have put so much into 
 it. Some characers look a little cartoonish, but I can deal with that.
  
  This is a great game to buy if you wanna play a game that's plain fun instead of a mind**** or 
 has a really intricate plot. My only issue with the game is the fact that on certain steps or at 
 random times Nate would start twitching like he had Parkinson's or something. It may have been 
 the fact my controller is about to kick the bucket, but it really hampered some parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 10
  Audio 10
  Story/Multiplayer 9
  Chin Factor 9
  
  TrueScore 9.2
  
  "Despite it's flaws, Uncharted weaves a terrific pulp action plot, beautiful 
 graphics, memorable characters and great level design into one superb package."
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the latest offering from developer Naughty Dog, famous for their 
 Crash Bandicoot and Jak and Daxter franchises. Don't be fooled however, Uncharted is a whole different 
 bag of tricks, moving the company away from stylized fantasy worlds into a realistic modern day 
 action romp. Uncharted plays out like an Indiana Jones movie or one of those old pulp serials from 
 the 30's. The subject matter is serious and the game even moves into the realm of horror at one 
 point, but it still maintains that wonderful devil may care adventure attitude throughout.
  
  The protagonist is Nathan Drake, a witty young adventurer and possible descendant of famous 
 New World pillager Sir Francis Drake. As adventurers and pillagers are wont to do, Nathan is in 
 search of treasure, and not just any treasure. Setting his sights on the grand prize from the get-go, 
 Nathan goes after the legendary City of Gold, El Dorado. Tagging along for this rollercoaster ride 
 is his old friend and ne'er-do-well gambler Victor Sullivan and Elena Fisher, a stubborn journalist 
 in search of a good scoop. Along the way you'll also meet Nathan's older, eviler British counterpart 
 Gabriel Roman (resembling Belloq from Raiders) and a loud-mouth Indonesian pirate going by the 
 name of Eddy Raja. The characters all have depth and believabality, which really helps the story 
 overcome some of it's more cliche moments. After getting conveniently shot down over the very island 
 they wanted to get on, things get hectic for our trio, thanks to the pirate army present. The story 
 plays out like a lost Indiana Jones movie, with some twists and turns thrown in for good measure. 
 Close to the end of the game we are introduced to a third party in the story, one which took me 
 totally by surprise. It delivers a nice pay off in the end, despite feeling a bit tacked on at 
 first.
  
  The gameplay is made up of two very different concepts; platforming and gunplay. The platforming 
 is strongly rooted in Naughty Dog's previous offerings and as such, it is highly refined but way 
 too easy. The game is very forgiving in regards to the controls and your placement of Drake. A 
 lot of the time it's simply enough to steer Nathan in the right way and press jump at the right 
 time. While this might be good news to those of you fed up with the more precise and demanding 
 gameplay of early Tomb Raider games, it still manages to suck some of the fun out. Sure enough, 
 swinging from vine to vine and climbing up cliffs towering over an ocean filled with jagged rocks 
 looks intense and harrowing, but it doesn't feel like it. The second concept is gunplay, which 
 also suffers from some poor design choices. In addition to some obvious faults like a wonky aiming 
 system which takes a lot of getting used to and a cover system that seems to have a mind of it's 
 own, Uncharted also stumbles in a few profound ways. In an odd reversal of well-established gaming 
 logic, you the player are actually weaker than your enemies. Whereas Nathan can only take a few 
 direct hits before buying the farm, his enemies regularly suck up an entire clip from your AK before 
 going down. Adding insult to injury, the enemy AI is extremely aggressive and extremely fond of 
 rushing your position. On the one hand, the health system favors a cautious approach, maximizing 
 cover and playing it safe. On the other hand, the enemy AI makes sitting behind cover for even 
 the slightest of periods tantamount to a death wish. All these things add up to some extremely 
 annoying and tense firefights, especially near the end. It takes a lot of trial and error, though 
 eventually you'll either get lucky or learn to try some different approach. Nathan also has some 
 close combat moves in his repertoire should foes get too close, but thanks to the enemy having 
 pinpoint precision, fighting is more of a triviality than a viable tactic.
  
  Early on the game tries it's hand at SIXAXIS motion controls, which turn out to be pretty half-assed. 
 Apparently the design team realized this as well, since after a few portions during the early game, 
 they never crop up again. Also making an appearance are the ever so popular dynamic cutscenes (which 
 are decent but scarce) and vehicle sequences. Vehicle sequences either have you driving away from 
 pirates while letting loose with a machine gun or traveling upstream on a jet ski, avoiding explosive 
 barrels and shooting any pirates that pop up on the way. Both are well executed and oftentimes 
 dramatic.
  
  Uncharted also features some light puzzles. And I do mean light, as in light even for someone working 
 at McDonald's. Occasionally you're tasked with flipping switches and turning levers to open up 
 the way forward or if the game really feels like testing you, it presents you puzzles tasking you 
 to rotate statues or other objects to face a certain way, thus exposing a secret passageway. However, 
 a generous hint system (available by pressing L2) and a notebook that practically spells out the 
 solution leave little reason to actually use your brain. Rest assured, if you know your basic Roman 
 numerals and how a compass works, this game will not test you.
  
  At the time of release there was little doubt as to the fact that Uncharted was the prettiest PS3 
 game around. Now, almost a year later, it still stands proud and beautiful. There is something 
 to be said of the startling contrast between the lush jungle vistas overflowing with color and 
 the dark, muted underground halls and passages where the dynamic lighting system really comes into 
 it's own. Also worthy of a special mention are the water effects, which are some of the best this 
 side of Bioshock. Most impressive however, is the fact that Uncharted crafts all these stunning 
 visual delights without so much as a single hiccup or framerate drop. Indeed, the game remains 
 buttery smooth even through the most intense firefights and largest set pieces. If I had to find 
 fault with the visuals though (and since this is a review, I do) , the weapon effects range from 
 lackluster to outright ridiculous. Bullets ricochet off every surface accompanied by a shower of 
 sparks, much like in the Bond movies of Pierce Brosnan. Most jarring however are the explosions; 
 bright, round balloons that turn into hilarious black clouds that drift upwards and slowly dissipate. 
 The environment is extremely static with only a few, obvious destructible objects scattered throughout. 
 These minor annoyances turn potentially visceral gunfights into regrettably tame affairs. Some 
 might see this as an extension of the game's pulp motif, but since it's set in the modern day, 
 there's really no excuse for such understated effects.
  
  Continuing along it's path of excellence, Uncharted crafts a sound world seldom heard in gaming. 
 Each weapon packs a unigue, powerful punch that punctuates the action marvelously. The soundtrack 
 is pure awesomeness, with a mix of soaring orchestral scores and indigenous jungle music, reminiscent 
 of Mel Gibson's Apocalypto. Using a variety of wind instruments and other "archaic" tools of the 
 trade, the soumd department totally nailed the atmosphere of an uncharted island lost in time. 
 The score effortlessly eases from care-free, happy-go-lucky tunes to scary, mythical notes whenever 
 the game requires it. Perhaps the crowning achievement though is the voice work. Everyone from 
 Nolan North (Nathan Drake) , Emily Rose (Elena Fisher) and Richard McGonagle (Victor Sullivan) to 
 Simon Templeman (Gabriel Roman) , Robin Atkin Downes (Atoq Navarro) and James Sie (Eddy Raja) delivers 
 an impeccable performance that really sells the characters and story. Even incomprehensible snarl 
 expert and monster man Fred Tatasciore makes an appearance. Aurally, Uncharted delivers on so many 
 fronts, you'd wish every game would achieve such a high pedigree.
  
  Underneath Uncharted's super slick presentation and charm lies a thrilling game. Like all games, 
 it has it's share of faults, but once you acclimate yourself to the controls and learn to accept 
 the relatively short length of the game (the main drawbacks) , you're guaranteed to have an experience 
 unlike any other. And even though there is no multiplayer, a reward system and integrated Trophy 
 support will keep you coming back at least once more, if only to unlock some more concept art and 
 making of featurettes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is Naughty Dog's first game for the Playstation 3. In it, you play as 
 Nathan Drake, a descendant of Sir Francis Drake and a treasure hunter, in search of El Dorado's 
 treasure along with Victor Sullivan and Elena Fisher. While they are searching, they are attacked 
 by pirates and trapped on an island. The plot continues in interesting ways that make you want 
 to keep playing through, even if some the plot elements are cliche.
  
  The gunplay is this game is coverbased, a la Gears of War. I do have a few problems with it though. 
 The cover mechanic doesn't always work. Sometimes you won't be able to take cover behind some things. 
 I also thought it felt awkward to use grenades, which you aim by tilting the controller. Meelee 
 combat felt fine. The other main gameplay element is the platforming, which is a big part of what 
 Naughty Dog is known for. The only problem that I have with this is that its sometimes hard to 
 tell whether something is a backround texture or part of where your supposed to go, leading to 
 you falling to your death. There are also quicktime events.
  
  The environments in Uncharted are absolutely beutiful and the water effects are the greatest that 
 I've ever seen in a game. The voice acting is good. But unfortunately the dialogue is corny sometimes.
 
  
  So, in the end Uncharted: Drake's Fortune turned out to be a fun game, despite its flaws. If you 
 are a PS3 owner looking for a fun game its definitely worth checking out.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 7
  
  True Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liaam
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog have done it again, with an excellent game in their great record of series.
  
  I loved every minute of the game, and obtaining the trophies just made this game even better. The 
 normal and easy difficulty are way to easy in my opinion, which is the ONLY downfall this game 
 has, but the difficulty of Hard and Crushing! make up for the lenient difficulty on the earlier 
 modes.
  
  The graphics of this game are amazing, and you can only stare in awe at the way this game has been 
 constructed. The game first starts off to be a jungle adventure and your standard fighting off 
 enemy guards to obtain the treasure you are heading for, it then takes a quick change into a Resident 
 Evil look-alike. This just makes the game 100x better and adds flavour to the indiana jones 'theme' 
 which you assume will be throughout the game.
  
  The fact that you can obtain rewards for the medals you receive AND a plentiful amount of trophies 
 aswell makes this game a game that gives you countless amount of enjoyment and keeps you wanting 
 more.
  
  By the end of the game you will be wishing you had the monkey powers Nathan Drake has, the way 
 he jumps from one ledge to another, swings on ropes and maneuvers his way around the jungle and 
 terrain proves that we originated from apes, lol.
  
  If there is ever a second installment (which I've heard of and also hope for) I will be surely 
 buying it. I recommend this game to ANYONE who has a Ps3. I'm sure you could find it for $49.95 
 (AUD) which is quite cheap for a Ps3 game this GOOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I have almost nothing bad to say about this game. I guess ill start at the core of the game. The 
 story starts out whith the main character Drake opening a coffin of Sir Francis Drake and finds 
 something in there that will lead him to a mysterious island. Drake is a rare kind of character 
 that you dont find in a video game very often. There are several characters in the game that are 
 what make up the story. The story is also a very thrilling tale that makes you play for 4 hours 
 straight (that is exactly what happened to me the day i bought it) and still make you go what's 
 going to happen next? OK enough of the story now to the gameplay. The control scheme isnt the greatist 
 ever but it is good and easy to use. You use guns as weapons and you slowly find better weapons 
 as you progress. The game is a very long game and will leave you thinking i thought i was done 
 with the game. But you meet new enemies and there is always some twist or I thought he was dead 
 in the story that keeps you playing. Now the game isnt just about gunslinging. There are lots of 
 puzzles and places where you will get to ride or drive vehicles (no planes sadly) . Now to the Graphics. 
 You may noyice that this is a 720p game but dont be fooled. This is one of the most technically 
 advanced games ive seen on the PS3. The enviremonts are beautiful and sometimes just want to make 
 frolic through the flowers (until you fight a new enemy and you will probably never guess who; and 
 no it isnt nazis) . There are artifacts scattered throughout the game to find and enjoy (such as a 
 gold monkey or a silver toothpick. Beat that Bill Gates!!) I forgot to mention that the difficulty 
 level can be hard even on normal but is a minor flaw. There is no online gameplay or Co-op gameplay 
 which means if your looking for a game that you can have friends over to play em with this isnt 
 the game for you. This is also one of the easiest games to get trophies for to. All in All this 
 game is fun combined with beautiful graphics and an immersing story with a hard difficulty to keep 
 you playing tell your twitching of bladder infections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  UDF brings nicely needed 3rd person shooter to the PS3. The game offers great enviroments which 
 will have you jumping from ledge to ledge. Graphicaly this game deserves a 10. It makes me cry 
 for those who play this game without HD. UDF is a surviver shooter where you must scavenge from 
 dead thugs. Your mission is simple get the gold of ElDorado but of course its encountered with 
 many intense gunplay. The only thing that can be annoying is the fact near the end you need a lot 
 more ammo and at times you'll run out and have to improvise. If you die your sent to last checkpoint 
 which is very nice since there are so many frequent checkpoints. Enemies stay the same but vary 
 with weapons, the enemy thugs get harder with more tech, stronger guns and laser sight which is 
 frustrating because it makes them rarely miss you or your head. Cover system is great and gun play 
 satisfying also blind fire but doesn't really help. There is a boss fight and losts of backstabing 
 (story characters) in UDF. Yes its short but very satisfying one of Sony's best titles. I recommend 
 renting it because you can beat in the 5 day rental period but I promise you won't be disappointed.
 
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Story 10/10 =29/30 A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunknmunky3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  *Minor spoilers follow*
  
  What can I say, Naughty Dog have more tricks up their sleeves! Drakes Fortune is a fantastic game, 
 special note goes to the detail that has been put into the graphics, it's the only game i've ever 
 seen where if the character comes out of water he's actually wet...
  
  The game is a bit easy at first, where you can just shoot everyone in the head and not have to 
 worry about getting killed in the process. But this is part of the learning curve and it does get 
 progressively harder as the game continues. Same goes for the action adventure parts of the game, 
 they start off easy - letting you learn the basics before putting you against the hard stuff.
 
  
  Drakes Fortune has a good storyline that isn't too over dramatic, which gives you motivation to 
 carry on playing feeling like there's actually a point to it. Kudos to the first PS3 game to incorporate 
 a goal based system that rewards you for doing things that you don't actually need to to complete 
 the game such as getting a specific number of kills with one type of weapon or finding random treasure. 
 Also there's replay value due to it being just the right length to let you forget exactly what 
 happens in the story and not say to yourself at the end "Well, I'm glad that's over...". 
  
  A good third person shooter/action adventure game and a must have for fans of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRaider087
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Great Game i think Nate is rly cool nd they should definitly make a sequel the only part of this 
 game that disappointed me a little is the part with the zombies other than that it is an amazing 
 game you should definitly buy it nd id give it a 10/1O i LIKED HOW SULLY WAS FUNNY nd how nate 
 could do like everyting and wipe out a whole army of pirates
  
  i dont know wat else to write ill just tell u that this game is one of the best games i have evr 
 played this is also one of my favorite games 4 ps3 so far AMAZING GAME GO GET IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  This is the game playstation 3 gamers hve been waiting for. Its terrific voice acting and its gorgeous 
 graphics makes this game a instant classic. Its story is incredible for an adventure game, as you 
 will find twists and turns as you porgess through the game. The music is perfect, and fits in well 
 with almost every see. The gameplay is great as well. It is not too hard no too easy, and the puzzels 
 are challenging but fun to solve. Weapons are pretty limited and expect to find ammo evrywhere you 
 go. The game features a lot of cinematic gameplay .The problem with the gameplay however is the 
 boat handling. Expect to throw your controller against the wall as you will find it difficult to 
 control your boat at times. A. I. is pretty broken as well. Enemys apparently dont know what a grenade 
 is. The game is also pretty short and has no online component. However there are some tresures that 
 you can find all over the place thus giving you trophies. The graphics are the best in any console 
 .Enviroments, water effects and facial animations, make this game one of the most technologically 
 adavanced games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbofthecs
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I went out and and rented it and will have to take it back in a few days but homework is keeping 
 me from playing this game as much as I would like. I have only gotten to chapter 6 and out of 22. 
 It is probably to short for me to go out and buy it until it drops in price (maybe $30??) .
  
  I enjoy playing this game. It is a nice mix of platforming and action shooting. The new PlayStation 
 trophies gets you to try and do things you normally wouldn't in a game.
  
  I like the story and it has compelling characters and an interesting story. Great visuals for its 
 time. I made the mistake of playing it after playing games with AMAZING visuals such as MTG4 so 
 it didn't look as spectacular as it could have for me. But still looks good.
  
  Drake is a really fun guy to play as with his little comments and the cut scenes just make me happy.
 
  
  All n all this game is pretty fun. And if I wasn't so damn stingy I would go out and buy it the 
 day I take it back to Hollywood Video 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadford2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Most exciting movie/game I've ever played. This games uses the power of the PS3 and the graphic 
 are just stunning. None of those 30 min frustrating problems solvers like Tomb Raider, just non-stop 
 action. Like a movie that you can play. I want a sequel! Story line is engaging, voice acting believable, 
 and have I talked about the graphics!! Game gets stuck a few times for no reason, and there are 
 some wicked camera angles that lead to your untimely death. Ammo is readily available, no "boss" 
 fights, but in a real game, there are no such things.. I loved the game, needs a few tweaks but, 
 I'll play it again. Trophies are pretty easy to gain and I played through it again to find all 
 the treasures. Drake 2 has a lot to live up through, and I hope Naughty Dog is working on it now. 
 Til then, I; m gonna play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokz69
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  All i heard about this game was how good it was and that it should have gotten a better rating 
 then it did but i think most were to generous with there reactiong to this game. I will say that 
 yes it is fun and it is nice but you could finish it in a couple of days. you dont get alot of 
 weapon choses, the grafics are almost not up to par for this generation of system and the caracters 
 are anoing at best. Now i know that isn't much to complne about but when you drop $60 on a game 
 you would like to come away from playing a game thinking that it was worth the time invested, but 
 i just didnt feel that. when i was done it i just traded it in and never thought twice about it. 
 if you want to get wait till its a greatest hit or in a bargin bin. i usually lite naughty dog 
 games but this is a pore showing and if they do do a sequel i hope they make it a lot more entertaining. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_J_911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing, but you have to calm down if you want to finish the game 100%. Because you 
 must get all the treasures, trophies and finish the game in Crashing Mode. Then you will get the 
 Platinum Trophy.
  But there is a mistake or maybe a trick. The number of the treasures appears 60 of 60 but the real 
 number of the treasures is 61 of 60. I am not sure to tell you that you are going to get the platinum 
 trophy if you finish the game without getting the extra treasure. I did not Try, but you try if 
 you want. I finished the game with the extra treasure and got the platinum trophy. This is my first 
 platinum trophy I have got. I finished the game three times to get all the treasures, trophies 
 and finish the game in Crashing mode. I wish to see Uncharted 2 with new adventure and better graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10 (Nate ROCKS, amazing, non-stop and dynamic action)
  
  Graphics: 9/10 (Just look how beautiful the island looks)
  
  Sound: 10/10 (Very atmospheric, 
 really suits to the action adventure game)
  
  Value: 10/10 (Can't stop playing, you will play it over and over again)
  
  Reviewer's tilt: 
 10/10 (One of the best games I have ever played!)
  
  O yeah, I really couldn't wait for this outstanding game! I watched all Indiana Jones movies and 
 I love them (Indy RULES ;) ) ! So I was very exited when I got Uncharted and I tell ya, this game 
 is awesome! 
  
  Let's start from the beginning. We play as Nathan Drake, an explorer, a treasure hunter. Nate is 
 a really funny guy with cool sense of humour (I like those kind of characters like Nate best) . 
 You will laugh often when you will hear his comments like: "Yo're kidding me!" or when he's ready 
 to jump off from the plane he says to himself: "You just jump, count to five and pull the cord, 
 that's it, how hard can it be". Then he jumped off from the plane, opened the parachute and says 
 really fast: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5! Oh no, crap, carp, crap, crap, crap! There are more Nate's funny 
 comments hehe. 
  
  Ok, the story. Nathan is looking for the treasure which was probably found by his ancestor Sir 
 Francis Drake who was also an explorer like Nathan. The game starts on the small ship when Nate 
 fishes out a coffin. In this coffin he founds Sir Francis's diary which will be very helpful during 
 the adventure. The diary will give us some tips where we have to go or what we have to do for example, 
 it's really helpful. There is a women on the ship also. Her name is Elena, she's a reporter. She's 
 cool and really cute hehe. Elena is like Marion Ravenwood from Indiana Jones and Nate is like Indy 
 hehe. 
  
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is a fantastic adventure. As Nathan we will explore beautiful and dangerous 
 island which is full of pirates who want to kill us and get the diary to get the treasure before 
 we will do it. But not only with pirates we will fight. There are also ugly creatures like zombie 
 hiding deep in the island. We will visit lots of interesting and great places like catacumbs full 
 of traps, a U-Boot from the World War II and other. We will be able to drive a scooter on the water, 
 shoot from the jeep which Elena will drive and do many other awesome things. There is lots of action 
 so tons of weapons is waiting for us. From pistols, shotguns to granades, grenade launcher, machine 
 guns, uzis. I'm sure everyone will find something which suits him hehe. Another great thing about 
 Uncharted is that we can fight with the enemy and use only our hands or legs. These fighting sequences 
 are awesome. We have also momentum times where we have to push the correct button before something 
 will fall on us for eaxmple, I like these momentum very much hehe. There are some puzzles to solve 
 and here the diary is coming with helpful tips.
  
  The whole game is highly addictive and I really couldn't stop playing it, I just love this game. 
 Let me back to Nate. He can do things like Prince of Persia. Nate can climb up walls, jump to the 
 places which are almost impossible to reach, he can do lots of cool acrobatic moves.
  
  Shooting sequences are looking like in Gears of War so they are really well done. The whole game 
 is like an amazing movie when you can't stop watching it and here as I said before you just simply 
 can't stop playing, it's absolutely awesome! I can talk superb things about Uncharted over and 
 over again really, I love this game! The character animation is awesome and very realistic. The 
 enemy A. I. is well done, but sometimes their reactions are stupid. Well, for example they sometimes 
 do nothing when see us, but only sometimes.
  
  The graphics are brilliant no doubt. From the characters models to environment. Just look how beautiful 
 island's panorama looks and you will be amazed I'm guarantee it to you. The light and shadows, 
 the sun's reflections are great. When Nate get to the water and then he get out from it he's clothes 
 are actually wet, it looks superb. The explodes when we throw grenade are fantastic. The graphics 
 in Uncharted is awesome but I know that it's not everything what Ps3 offers.
  
  The sound is gorgeous. I like the voice over very much and the soundtracks in the game are very 
 atmospheric and they really suit to the Uncharted cuz it's an action adventure game.
  
  Overall Uncharted: Drake's Fortune for Ps3 is a MUST BUY for everybody! It's an amazing and highly 
 addictive game with cool characters (Nate is THE BEST! :) ) and with fantastic and interesting story. 
 This game is like action movie. Cool things to do, non-stop and dynamic action! BUY THIS GAME! 
 It's THE BEST adventure since Indiana Jones! You will love Uncharted! BUY THIS MASTERPIECE! ;)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckat609
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  To be completely honest, I got this game almost a year ago. Had it sitting there gathering dust 
 for almost a full year, getting hyped about other games that just didn't deliver.
  
  Graphics are pretty cool, sound is ok, music is awesome, gameplay is fluid, difficulty feels just 
 right, controls are right on, characters are likeable and almost believable and the story is immersive. 
 The only reason I didn't give it a perfect score is because I would've loved for it to be at least 
 five chapters longer... but that's it.
  
  I had written a longer review but I realized it was kinda like a spoiler for people who hadn't 
 played it, so I'm just gonna say this... To find this game in the used games section at stores 
 and see the price is still quite high after a year, has to tell you something. Get it and play 
 it, believe me, you won't be disappointed at all. I now ask myself why the hell didn't I play it 
 back when I first got it. I just hope Naughty Dog gets around to making the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbabvi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has great scenery and storyline. It always seems to keep you on the edge of your seat, 
 even the third time you play it. Your location always stays fresh, from on the ocean, in a Madagascar 
 jungle, to a island that has a lot of secrets... hint hint..... I have played and beaten this game 
 in med, hard, and crushing, and all three times it was still very exiting, and if you plan on just 
 playing it once, no doubt you will be entertained for about 9 hours. The graphics are so good in 
 this game that sometimes it looks like real pictures that they just copied and pasted into the 
 game. Although hanging from vines and grabbing onto cracks is not that entertaining, the climbing 
 in uncharted will often have something different, like walking on logs and having to use your si-axis 
 controller.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  In uncharted game you can really see an amazing graphics animation and on of the best on PS3 with 
 nice texture and colourful world or jungle around you ,The game is include an exciting gameplay 
 where you can explore the jungle doing some acrobatic moves , solving puzzles and of course killing 
 some bad guys on your way you will take control of the main character NATE and the story its simillar 
 to indiana jones stories where you are trying to find a treasure in different parts of the world 
 also there is a female character Elena which its taking the riole of reporter trying to help you 
 and find a good story for herself. The gameplay is a combintion of action shooting and adventure 
 similar to tomb raider games, a great value for this game with the supporting of trophies so it 
 will take a time to leave this game, so give this game a try if you want a third person shooter 
        8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple_b2k
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of the best games on PS3. It takes full advantage of all the PS3 elements. With 
 a great story and incredible graphics, the game is a must have.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. It was a lot of fun to run around the jungle and other levels to see 
 the amount of detail put into the game. It's extremely colourful and if you have a HDTV, you get 
 an eye full.
  
  The biggest drew back is the annoying enemies. At times you have to fight off multiple enemies 
 with a faulty targeting system. I found it easier to use the auto aim but when you do that, you 
 expose yourself which can get you killed. Aside from that small flaw, the weapons are fun to use 
 and fighting is always great. One of the best elements is drop kicking enemies. 
  
  The cover system was a big bonus. This was the first game I played where you could use walls, pillars, 
 benches, etc as cover from gunfire and explosions. Many games are taking this on now and it's more 
 than welcome here in annoying and difficult gun fights.
  
  With the recent addition of the PS3 Trophies it made me play the game once more. There are a lot 
 of trophies to collect. Some take a lot of game play to unlock but it's a fun add-on.
  
  Overall I think Uncharted is a great success. It could easily spin off a few hit sequels and a 
 movie. The story is excellent and the power of the PS3 system allows for amazing gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the commercial for Uncharted: Drake's Fortune on TV a year ago, I thought it looked 
 like it would be crappy and generic. I'm pleased to say I was pretty wrong.
  
  Uncharted is a third-person-shooter adventure game, where the player's character, Nathan Drake, 
 is looking for El Dorado, which is a big golden statue instead of a big golden city.
  
  The graphics with the game are consistently amazing. Jungles are pretty believable, though the 
 level structure is extremely linear. Characters have tons of details, and textures are extremely 
 hi-res.
  Uncharted allows you to collect a total of 60 treasures throughout the game, which are revealed 
 in-game with shiny sparkles. You can't actually see them when you walk over to pick them up, but 
 a big icon will appear telling you to press triangle. When you pick up the treasure, you get to 
 look at it close-up and spin it around and whatnot.
  Treasures are supposed to unlock stuff, but just seeing the treasures themselves makes them worth 
 finding. The amount of detail put into each individual treasure is beyond impressive. The shaders 
 they use make the surfaces look realistically shiny or dull, and the textures have realistic tarnishes 
 and scrapes. The treasures are just 3D models but they look photorealstic.
  The fun doesn't stop at models, shaders and textures. The game also has a big crapload of great 
 animations. Unlike generally every other game in existance, animations are really believable and 
 blend together perfectly. Animations are really important to a good visual experience but most 
 games seem to concentrate of everything but animations. One of the "Making Of" videos for Uncharted 
 explains how they actually use ten times as many animations as they would in other games, which 
 is a lot if you consider that most games have tons of animations for all the necessary stuff.
 
  Characters' expressions change in-game to show realistic expressions. When Drake is getting shot 
 at, he looks nervous and worried, or just outright scared, and when running up to push someone 
 against a wall and punch them in the face twenty times, their expressions look surprised and Drake's 
 expression turns angry.
  
  Expressions are also clearly conveyed through characters' dialogue. Drake has a ton of sounds expressing 
 what the player might be thinking, and what someone in Drake's situation would definitely think 
 in reality. When a grenade lands nearby, he says things such as "Uh-oh!" or "Nonono!", and after 
 a ton of deadly rock-climbing, he'll reach safety and sigh in relief, only to groan in annoyance 
 when he has more rock-climbing to do.
  Drake's allies will shout "NATE, NOOO!" when he dies, showing that they actually care unlike allies 
 in other games who usually won't say anything. Even Drake's enemy, Eddy Raja, who helps him out 
 in one scene, screams for Drake when Drake dies.
  Enemies also have witty things to say (not really) such as "Not so tough after all!" when they 
 kill the player. Dialogue throughout the game is appropriate and well-done, and voice acting is 
 actually done by prefessional actors who actually act out all the cut scenes for motion capture 
 and do their voice acting at the same time. Actually! These are some of the best cutscenes you'll 
 ever see. Seriously.
  Other sounds are decent enough, like ambience and sound effects. Nothing shocking or new to be 
 had, but still very good.
  
  So I've covered graphics and sound (at least I hope I did) and that leaves gameplay.
  The controls 
 are great. I never had any problems with them. Most third-person games make it easy to complain 
 about the controls, but Uncharted doesn't screw around. Everything is responsive and easy to do. 
 The player does tons of crazy climbing around throughout the entire game, climbing walls and jumping 
 from convex surface to convex surface until he finally reaches a safe place.
  The player, when climbing on ledges, can even hang on the ledge and shoot at the same time, giving 
 the player a ton of cover, more than he would in another game where he would usually have to climb 
 up the ledge and THEN shoot. For some reason, there's a balance function in the game where the 
 player balances the sixaxis as required to stay balanced on something, but this only happens like 
 three times in the very beginning of the game for like two seconds each and is otherwise a feature 
 that is never seen or used again.
  Levels are very linear, but a little bit of exploring is still required to find all sixty treasures, 
 and the right path isn't always extremely obvious.
  Puzzles are good, though no puzzle feels extremely clever or brain-busting.
  There are some vehicle 
 sequences. What kind of game doesn't have vehicle sequences? The player rides in the back of a 
 jeep and fires rockets and machine gun bullets in one of the sequences. I didn't think this scene 
 was long enough, because actually getting to shoot an infinite number of rockets was really fun 
 and made blowing up bikes, jeeps and trucks easy and satisfying. The machine gun helped too I GUESS.
 
  The other vehicle sequence is where the player has to drive a jet ski around. This is kind of 
 neat, but the player also has to control the gunner on the back, but if he manually aims he comes 
 to a complete stop. Basically, to get through at top speed, the player must accelerate and just 
 press R1 over and over, hoping that the gunner will auto-aim properly at everything. She aims at 
 anything in front of the jet ski but won't turn around. I did not much like the jet ski scenes 
 but they were fun.
  Actual fighting on foot dominates the rest of the game. At first, I thought it was an okay system. 
 You press circle to automatically take cover near something, and then you can aim to shoot people 
 or just blind fire. If you don't want to aim while you're walking around, you can also just pull 
 the trigger and Drake will auto-aim at whatever is in front of him. This is great when fighting 
 enemies close-up with a shotgun or SMG.
  Speaking of weapons, there aren't really enough. They have the right variety, I suppose, but the 
 player is constantly starving for ammunition. Drake carries one small weapon and one big weapon, 
 and he refuses to carry more than three clips for either of them. Generally, any time I found a 
 grenade launcher, sniper rifle, or magnum, I could only use it for that one location before I would 
 either run out of ammo, or have so little ammo left that I dared not go on without trading the 
 crazy-cool weapon for an assault rifle or shotgun. There's just hardly any ammo to be had. Whenever 
 I looked for ammo for whatever I was holding, I could only find ammo for any gun that I was NOT 
 holding.
  I got very little use out of shotguns or the desert eagle, and slightly more out of the uzi and 
 the magnum. Overall, the game forces the player to rely on assault rifles and pistols to get by. 
 It's really annoying, because the player is mostly by himself the entire game, and it's hard to 
 kill everyone in sight and find ammo for guns at the same time. It doesn't help that enemies only 
 drop like 10 bullets for an assault rifle and then Drake only carries a maximum of around 90 bullets, 
 which don't help out much since they're not terribly accurate and do little damage.
  It would have been nice if the player had teammates more often to make up for this lack of ammo. 
 For about 1/20th of the game, the player gets some backup, but he'll usually find a stupid reason 
 to split up and then he's alone. His teammate generally is not all that useful anyway, since in 
 most situations the AI would much rather ignore the teammate and go straight for Drake himself. 
 Teammates are still good shots, though. The combat system and the amazing animations would have 
 really done better in a game with some epic battles.
  By the end of the game, the player will have literally killed hundreds of enemies entirely by himself, 
 some with his bare fists. Any time you get near an enemy, you have a 100% chance of killing them 
 by tapping square over and over, or you can try to tap triangle after a hit, and then square to 
 kill them instantly, providing twice as much ammunition dropped by the enemy, though if the player 
 messes up the timing, he will get punched in the face.
  Melee animations are extremely believable. Most games just have a guy swing his arms and it somehow 
 instantly kills an enemy or some crap like that, but in Uncharted, you can really believe that 
 Drake is killing someone with his bare hands as he furiously punches their head and their ribs 
 and then finishes them off with a powerful hit, giving a fierce battle cry as the bloodthirst overtakes 
 him. He actually does give a lot of battle cries appropriate to someone who just mercilessly beat 
 someone else with his bare hands. I guess you could say he's just knocking them out because it 
 takes an awful lot of work to kill someone with your bare hands. Though he's definitely killing 
 them when he sneaks up behind them, jumps on their back and snaps their necks.
  There is a stealth mechanic in the game, as enemies will patrol around and sit on nearby objects, 
 allowing the player to sneak up on them and instant-kill them, but overall the stealth mechanic 
 is a big failure because an enemy can instantly spot the player all the way from across the level. 
 All the enemy needs is a line of sight, and then every enemy in the area is fully aware of the 
 player and knows exactly where he is at all times until they are dead.
  Even when enemies are alerted by something else, they will still know of the player's existance. 
 I thought this was pretty cheap that enemies did not have to see the player or know he was coming 
 or hear him to know exactly where he is at all times, they just need to be in combat mode with 
 anything at all.
  Sadly there are no wild beasts in the game. I know, it's terrible.
  Speaking of beasts, the AI is really good and uses lots of tactics like flanking against the player. 
 They throw lots of grenades, use suppressing fire (THEY get infinite ammo) and sneak around the 
 side to hit the player more easily. They're pretty smart overall, changing up their tactics often, 
 but smart AI are a lot more impressive and fun when they are also on the player's side, which is 
 not the case in this game, where the player's few allies will usually just sit still and peek out 
 every now and then to fire. A helpful team that actually put some effort into defeating the enemy 
 would have been nice.
  If I didn't say it already, the AI eventually get boring and repetitive to fight. The player gets 
 no teammates, so he must constantly fight dozens and dozens of enemies all by himself, and they're 
 all concentrated on the player all the time, and the player hardly gets any ammo. It's really annoying 
 and I constantly looked forward to the next cutscene to give me a break from all this boring badguy-killing.
 
  
  Ultimately, the game gets kind of annoying to play. The outrageous number of outrageous platforming 
 sequences, similar to Assassin's Creed, where the player is required to do things most mortal men 
 can't, are kind of neat and exciting but not all that fun. They say in the Making Of that the player 
 is supposed to be an "everyman in an incredible situation" but I guarantee you don't know anyone 
 personally (or anywhere) that can do the crazy jumps and leaps that he does.
  The characters in the game, despite being very well-acted, are under-developed. There's just six 
 characters, and only Drake gets any lines. The girl is in second place for character development, 
 and Sully, the cool old guy, is the runner up, and the three badguys hardly get any lines whatsoever. 
 Backstory and character development are pretty much completely lacking, despite the great acting. 
 Characters just hop in, having past relationships with other characters, but none of that is ever 
 really talked about. The player is left to assume most of the plot whilst wading through hundreds 
 of generic, easy-to-kill badguys who are all incapable of fighting just one guy.
  Then again, if Nathan Drake didn't magically absorb bullets and regenerate health, he'd be dead 
 from the very beginning of the game, so it really doesn't seem like the fault of the badguys if 
 you want to be realistic about it.
  
  Overall, I would advise against buying this game. Renting it is a GREAT idea, as it's a fun experience 
 and I was wholeheartedly willing to beat the entire game, but once it's beaten, there's no reason 
 to replay the extremely linear levels with the extremely repetitive combat. The combat could be 
 entertaining in a more fun situation, like epic battles with lots of teammates, but every battle 
 is the player by himself against dozens of guys who want him dead so it gets to be extremely boring, 
 but such is the case with most shooters.
  The acting is great but there's hardly any plot to be had. Replayability relies more heavily on 
 gameplay than plot, anyway, but even the gameplay is ultimately lacking, so a weak plot and repetitive 
 gameplay are both bad news.
  Still, like I said, the gameplay is just good enough to get by and the acting is entertaining enough 
 to make up for the weak plot, so the game is well worth renting and playing all the way through 
 for the experience of an overall great game. But there's no multiplayer and no replay value, so 
 buying it is a really bad investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  You're a treasure hunter, in the pacific, getting some treasure. No it ain't Laura it's Drake, 
 Nathan Drake.
  
  The gameplay consist's of cover and shoot. basic. You =have a primary weapon eg. AK47 or a shotgun, 
 a pistol and a grenade. The AI is great and will flank you from all sides constantly. You need 
 to use cover or else you'll die pretty quickly. The controls will take some getting used to initially, 
 especially if you play alot of FPS'S. Its up to reload, circle to cover etc.
  
  The visuals are beautiful and you won't find many - if any at all- of those muddy 2d areas.
  
 
  The story is pretty immersive. You need to watch the ctscenes and play the game over again when 
 your done to figure it out completely. I'm not saying any spoilers but let's just say it takes 
 a turn like far cry.......
  
  The puzzles are smart and can take the best out of the sudoko kings. You have a little handbook 
 to help you along most of the way.
  
  I have few complaints for this game except you can get stuck alot of times and have to wait upwards 
 of 5 minutes to get a hint outside puzzle's.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitefunk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Go buy this game. If you dont already own it, go buy it and play it. then play it some more. nuff 
 said, you wont regret it. the in game graphics are some of the best and most detailed iv ever seen. 
 The environment itself could almost be considered a main charecter, the plants blow in the wind 
 and the water reflections are amazing. not to mention the spot on lighting, and detailed textures. 
 Its also a very easy game to follow, theres not alot of getting stuck or lost. there was no point 
 where i got so frusterated i had to turn it off wich happens to me alot. I think this is probably 
 my favorite shooter for ps3 because of how smooth the controls are. I love the take cover and blind 
 fire features. also shooting from the hip with the magnum is badass. My absolute favorite part 
 is blowing guys away with the DE 5.0, so rad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a game definitely worth the purchase. The visuals are one of the best I've seen since 
 I've been playing video games; going back to the SNES days. One thing though that you will notice; 
 if you are as picky as I am, is that the visuals are not impressive throughout the game. Something, 
 that was surprising. I mean, if you have played let's say COD4, the visuals are impressive throughout 
 the game.
  
  Anyway, I also felt that the ending was just too scripted. Meaning, once you are in the scene, 
 you already know how to defeat the game. In comparison to when you are playing the game, it just 
 feels differently. I also felt that there was no replay value. Once you defeat it, you are not 
 interested in playing it again.
  
  So to sum it up. It starts off strong with impressive visuals, good structure in enemy AI and, 
 challenging stages. But, by the time it reaches the end, the visuals and challenges are about gone. 
 Still worth the purchase... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Genre: Action/Adventure
  
  Here is another PS3 exclusive that used to be considered the best game for the system back in 2007. 
 While it's not nearly perfect, Uncharted Drake's Fortune delivers a great adventure with plenty 
 of thrilling moments and entertaining gameplay to keep you playing for hours. 
  
  You play as Nathan Drake, a man on the hunt for the ancient lost treasure of El Dorado in the name 
 of his ancestor, Sir Francis Drake. The search quickly turns deadly when Nate and his friends Angie 
 and Sully become stranded on a remote island with many mercenaries all out to kill them and find 
 the treasure for their boss. Of course, this story's nothing new. We've all seen these treasure-hunting 
 tales in both games and films before, but Uncharted never feels like it's trying to be completely 
 original. It does this very well, so you won't find yourself saying "Indiana Jones could do that 
 better!" or anything like that. Although, the story is a bit foggy and sometimes slightly hard 
 to follow, because it doesn't necessarily draw all that much attention in the first place. 
  
  The visuals are something instantly noticeable in the game. Great production values come together 
 with detailed artistic and technical design to create lush jungle environments and eerie dark caves. 
 The environments, while usually almost all completely green, all look very good, from the bright 
 flowers to the huge, cracked boulders or statues. One of the most notable things, in my opinion, 
 was how lifelike and clear the water looked throughout the levels! Although, the opening level 
 looks like it was rushed and could a use a few more coats of finish, especially the poorly animated 
 ocean waters. 
  
  However, cutscene character models don't look half as good as those in the actual game. While Drake 
 looks relatively good throughout most of Uncharted, most other characters are weighed down by bland 
 and outdated facial features. While some environmental elements look fuzzy at first then load seconds 
 later, there is, for the most part, a complete lack of frame-rate issues, so you can forgive the 
 character animations. 
  
  You've got a soundtrack that's a mix of jungle-themed tribe music and grand orchestral work, which 
 comes together nicely. The voicework is decent despite most of the lame and cheesy one-liners being 
 spat out by Drake and others every now and then. Pirate enemies all say the same lines over and 
 over with the same voice, but sound good none-the-less.
  
  As with most action/adventure games like this, gameplay is divided between three things: puzzles, 
 platforming and action. You won't find as many puzzles in Uncharted as in a similar title like 
 Tomb Raider, and when you do they're blandly simple and unchallenging. Most involve holding the 
 Triangle button to push down a stone pressure plate, then raise some pillars to open a door, or 
 crank a chain to perform a similar act. You won't find yourself scratching your much, but overall 
 the design isn't too bad and some even contain some entertainment. Puzzles definitely aren't too 
 much of a strongpoint here. 
  
  Then there's the platforming elements. Of course, Drake will be performing the cliche platforming 
 acts of shimmying across ledges, leaping distances and swinging from vines. These platforming sections 
 are common and handle simple enough, but again lack some real challenge. Your character will grab 
 onto a ledge a bit too easily, even when it seems you haven't made the jump. Most of the platforming 
 movements are fairly automatic and forgiving. Drake is extremely acrobatic and it's in fact not 
 difficult to overjump from platform to platform if you're not careful, which represents some of 
 the only challenge these elements contain. Besides the lack of challenge, some platforming moments 
 are surprisingly thrilling, if not short. Moments when you'll be running across a wooden bridge 
 to avoid huge falling rocks or making your way off of small collapsing platforms are some of these 
 such times. When you cross a narrow platform like a log, you can implement Sixaxis control to keep 
 your balance, which works decently but usually won't be utilized more than once or twice. Apart 
 from leaping across rocks, there are also a few deathtraps and stunts that you'll make your way 
 through, sometimes requring quick and timed button-pressing. These things can keep you on your 
 toes most of the time, which adds a bit more thrill to the experience. 
  
  Then the game slaps you in the face with its fast-paced action. Your main weapon at first is a 
 9mm pistol and some grenades, but as you go along you pick up all new guns like shotguns, assault 
 rifles, sub-machine guns, snipers and rocket-launchers. You also have some really cool melee (punch-kick) 
 combos, which are of course great for close-quarters encounters. You can perform a cool combo, 
 a dropkick from a distance, or even sneak up behind an enemy and jump on his back, then break his 
 neck. 
  
  As for grenade throws, you will probably be disappointed by the controls, since you have to tilt 
 up your Sixaxis controller to measure the range, all the while exposed and most likely being shot 
 by enemies. You'll rarely get kills with the nades even if you pull off a solid throw. 
  
  Looking past the rarely-used grenades, your main weapons are of course the guns. Your pistol will 
 definitely fire the most rounds throughout a playthrough, and the shots do a surprising amount 
 of damage on enemies compared to other firearms. Some might have a little difficulty getting off 
 accurate shots with the small crosshair and the sensitive camera angles, but once you get used 
 to this, headshots won't be a problem. Assault rifles really don't do as much damage, but powerful 
 shotguns, colt revolvers and dragon snipers get the job done nicely. However, these powerful guns 
 usually only hold under 10 rounds, so probably aren't worth carrying around. You're better off 
 sticking with a ammo-plentiful combination of a pistol and assault rifle. If you're not a very 
 accurate shot, you might find yourself quickly running out of ammo with most guns. Luckily, you 
 can pick up plenty after most firefights are finished. 
  
  During combat you'll spend most of your time hiding behind cover, then emerging to fire off some 
 shots, then going back down, similar to games like Gears of War. It's really a major component 
 of the combat. The evasive and cover controls thankfully work just as you'd want them to and don't 
 get frustrating, except for a few times where you might stay behind cover while trying to maneuver 
 around an object. Not a major issue. If you want to run and gun with, for instance, a pump-action 
 shotgun, you can also fire from the hip without aiming. 
  
  You're main enemies are island pirates throughout your adventure, with some remarkably high AI. 
 The enemies shoot quite accurately, and frequently hide behind cover. At some distance, a pirate 
 will stand in one spot and fire shots at you. If you fire a shot back or hit him with one, they'll 
 duck and move around to make it more difficult for you to get another hit. Some can sneak up around 
 a corner and blast you with a shotgun. They're also very plentiful, you'll constantly find yourself 
 fighting off wave after wave of enemies, and when you think you're done, the game'll throw just 
 one more at you. Fortuneately, this doesn't happen enough to make the game too difficult or frustrating. 
 
  
  Most levels (played in chapters) are a bit short but remain entertaining, especially during vehicle 
 sequences when you'll drive a jeep or jetski while fending off against enemies. In later levels, 
 the game will throw you a curve ball by sending out waves of quick zombie beasts to attack you 
 in an underground power facility. It's a good, if not a little unnatural, twist in Uncharted. There 
 are also no bosses in the game besides your final foe at the end of the game. Your main environments 
 jungles, rivers, caves, tombs and power plants. Overall the game can be finished in around 8-12 
 hours, a fairly decent length for an action/adventure game these days. 
  
  Being a treasure-hunting game, you can also pick up hidden treasures around levels for rewards. 
 The reward system, which included rewards for combat feats like 5 headshots in a row or 20 stealth 
 kills, has been implemented into the new PSN trophy system. The Uncharted trophies are widely known 
 for being pleasantly unchallenging to obtain for the most part. However, the last difficulty mode 
 out of the four, Crushing Mode, presents some huge challenges even for an experienced Uncharted 
 player. But these difficulty levels, new trophies and treasures all add a good amount of replay 
 value to the game. 
  
  Despite some small uneven gameplay issues, Uncharted remains to be one of the most thrilling and 
 worthwhile adventure games that's one of the exclusive MUST-play games for any PS3-owner. 
  
  Pros:
  -Great adventure with tons of thrilling moments
  -Lots of weapons 
  -Entertaining 
 combat with tight shooting
  -Fun melee combos
  -Solid treasure-hunting story with good twists
  -Large levels with great vehicle sections 
 
  -High and challenging enemy AI
  -Lots of unlockables like rewards and trophies
  -Great-looking environments with top production values
  
  Cons:
  -Story mode is on the short 
 side
  -Story itself is unoriginal
  -Combat is a little loose
  -Puzzles are few and a bit boring
  -Platforming elements are a bit too forgiving
  
  Gameplay: 
 8.7
  Graphics: 9.4
  Sound: 7.9
  Replay Value: 9.5
  Concept: 8.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Since the 90's, Naughty Dog have blessed gamers with very fun, addictive classics. Also, some of 
 the most bizarre platformers ever made. You should all know Crash Bandicoot. He needs no introduction. 
 If you are reading this, then you have most likely played one of the Crash games, or you own at 
 least one of them. The Naughty Dogs were the ones responsible for the first four Crash Bandicoot 
 games, from 1996-1999. After Crash Team Racing was released on the PS1 in 1999, Naughty Dog started 
 working on their first PlayStation 2 title. Jak and Daxter. This too became a series, and it is 
 rumoured that Jak 4 is in the works for the PlayStation 3.
  
  Naughty Dog's latest game isn't a Jak and Daxter game however, but a completely fresh game. Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune. It may not be my favourite Naughty Dog game, but nevertheless, it will be a game 
 which will be remembered for a long time.
  
  This game refers a lot to Sir Francis Drake from the 1500's, who you have probably studied about 
 sometime in your life. If you haven't, he was a famous British pirate. Nathan Drake is the main 
 protagonist, in this Indiana Jones-like adventure, and he thinks he is a descendant to Sir Francis 
 Drake. So he, along with a journalist, Elena Fisher explore an uncharted island and look for a 
 mysterious treasure, and more clues of the history of Sir Francis Drake. At the beginning of the 
 game, Nate and Elena are on a boat when they have found the coffin of Sir Francis Drake. After 
 finding that it's empty, Nate finds an old diary which explains that he needs to got to El Dorado 
 to find the city of gold. Suddenly, their boat gets destroyed by Indonesian pirates, but thankfully 
 Nathan's friend Victor "Sully" Sullivan is there to take them away in his helicopter. The story 
 gets very interesting later on, as Nate and Elena unravel more mysterious of the past. The story 
 is pretty good, but kinda dropped a bit during the end.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has some very neat gameplay. It's a lot like Tomb Raider, but it is 
 also compared to Gears of War. The Tomb Raider part is pretty obvious, and it's tactical like Gears 
 of War. For a majority of the game, you'll be shooting the Spanish, and believe me, you'll be needing 
 to plan quite a bit too, as they can be pretty tough. Not many guns are available at the start, 
 but later on you'll have access to many other guns. You can only hold one handgun, one big gun 
 and a few grenades. When you pick up a new gun, there is no choice but to drop the old gun. I've 
 never liked this rule, but you do get used to it.
  
  There isn't just shooting however, there will be a lot of hanging onto things and jumping from 
 platform to platform. Those moments are always fun. Along with them, there are many puzzles to 
 solve. It kind of reminds me of those puzzles in The Legend of Zelda. A lot of the time, you may 
 get stumped on what you need to do. You also have the option of turning hints on and off. When 
 the hints are on, sometimes an L2 button will appear at the bottom left of the screen, and the 
 camera will point towards where you have to go. This will reveal to you ledges that you may have 
 not seen, and other "hidden" things. Sometimes, you can also refer to Francis Drake's diary for 
 clues on how to solve puzzles.
  
  To add on to the replay value of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, you may also find hidden treasures. 
 There are 60 of these treasures, and can be found in some obvious places, but some not so obvious. 
 They are similar to the rare Precursor Orbs in Jak II and 3. Also part of the replay value is the 
 rewards. Every five treasure pieces you collect can get you a reward. You can also get rewards 
 for other things, like 5 Headshots in a Row or Kill 50 people with an AK47, and many more interesting 
 achievements. From these, you can get reward points, which can be used to unlock special features. 
 Special Features include things like Behind the Scenes videos, New costumes, Infinite Ammo, and 
 many more unlockable goodies. Recently, Naughty Dog released a patch which could get you a PS3 
 trophy every reward you get, so now you PS3 buddies can look at your trophies from Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune.
  
  One thing to complain about however, is the length of the game. The main story is about 8-10 hours 
 long, making it shorter than Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. There is a fair bit 
 of replay value, such as playing it on a higher difficulty and getting every reward and trophy, 
 but I was expecting a lot more from the main story. Nevertheless, this doesn't make Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune much of a worse game.
  
  The graphics are some of the most amazing i've ever seen on any game.... if not the best. Of course 
 it looks better on an HDTV with an HDMI cable, but even on a normal TV, the graphics are jaw-dropping. 
 Every strand of graphic looks very beautiful, Naughty Dog have always been good with that. For 
 the cutscenes, Naughty Dog used motion capture. They got real actors and put them into the game. 
 The colours are amazing in Uncharted too. Naughty Dog realised that so many shooters these days 
 lacked colour, and had too much grey. So they decided to ignore the grey and only put it in when 
 they needed to, making the game look more interesting. Bottom line: The graphics are bloody brilliant!
 
  
  Sound is pretty decent. I didn't like it as much as Naughty Dog's older titles, but the music really 
 does suit the jungles and temples that Nate explores in. I found the sound slightly repetitive 
 at some points unfortunately, and sometimes there wasn't much sound at all. But it was still fair. 
 Voices are pretty good as well.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is another very good addition to the (hopefully) growing list of PlayStation 
 3 exclusives. It may be short, but the replay value really helps. The graphics and marvellous too. 
 I'd say it's a rent first, but if you find it for a good price, then it's worth the purchase. It's 
 definitely worth charting the uncharted.
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starkiller2008
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  firstly gamespot under rated this game. uncharted is a visual stunning game with great enviroments 
 and scenery that will blow you away especially in HD. great character modelling also . The gameplay 
 is fantastic and never lets up until the end. The gunfights are very intense an enjoyable to be 
 involved in. Especially when you get a headshot. The ammo limits is quite poor because your limited 
 to 25 bullets for pistols. 90 bullets for assult rifle. 9 for desert eagle , revolver and sniper. 
 The fist fights are fantastic with a variety of combos to perform which are enjoyable to perfect. 
 Mainly uncharted is one of the best games out on the ps3 in my opion and should not be missed by 
 ps3 owners who have not played it. I gave a 9/10 because of the lack of multi player , which if 
 included would have been even better . so take note naughty dog for the next uncharted game. so 
 for no multi player it loses 0.5 and another 0.5 for the lack of replay value. Still uncharted 
 is great and very enjoyable while it last.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abelav78
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow what can I say. I didnt expect it to be so good and entertaining. Its a great action-adventure 
 game from Naughty Dog. A cross between National Treasure meets Jason Bourne and Pirates of the 
 Caribbean. You got a cool story involving the hunt for a lost treasure, travelling to cool places 
 like jungles and lost cities. On top of all the gameplay is pretty good, easy to use, clean, no 
 framerates, decent aiming and more. 
  
  You play the game as drake a treasure hunter in search for the truth about a relative, thats how 
 the game opens. At some points you even got an ai partner to tag along. You also have to solve 
 puzzles to get thru checkpoints, do some climbing, swiming, driving, shooting oh well. I think 
 its a fun game either to buy or as a rental. I spent about 9 hours to finish it on regular difficulty 
 and 9 hours well spent . I never got bored nor the game lost its pace.
  
  The music is good, the graphics are great too, the variety of weapons is enough for this type of 
 game. I think its the best of its kind. One of my top 10 games for this new generation of consoles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hit300
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  The story, the graphics, the action, the adventure, the level design and a little bit of terror 
 make this game one of the best games ever. The game charts the journey of protagonist Nathan Drake, 
 supposed descendent of the explorer Sir Francis Drake, as he seeks the lost treasure of El Dorado, 
 with the help of friend Victor "Sully" Sullivan and journalist Elena Fisher. But anything is perfect. 
 Some Indonesian pirates controled by a man called Gabriel Roman have the same ambition. So this 
 is a run against time to know who will find the treasure first. But what they don't know is the 
 treasure have a terrible curse... The gameplay is very simple. In 15 minutes you can learn all 
 the controls. Also this game was one of the ten best games of 2007. Same games need half what this 
 game have to offer. Just amazing! 9.0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodwolf97
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  its really fun theres loads to do!!!!. the climbing is great!!!!!. the shooting is great!!!!. its 
 just really fun!!!!. good difficulty!!!. the levels are really long its quite a short game but its 
 still 20 or 30 hours of pure fun!!!!!!. possibly the best game i ever played in my oppinion!!!!!!!. great 
 storyline!!!!!!. lots of figuring out stuff and trying to find where to go which is good!!!!!!. im 
 57% through the game and im stuck but keep trying haha.!!!!!! it takes awhile to figure out where 
 to go and stuff!!!!!!!. i love the jumping from cliff to cliff stuff!!!!!!. i spent about 25 hours 
 on it and i enjoyed every bit of it!!!!. i think everyone should have this game !!!!!!!. cant wait 
 for the 2nd one gonna have it straight away when it comes out in shops!!!!!!. hope u enjoyed my 
 review i know it wasnt that good ha!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneNecromancer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  From the moment you start the game, and find yourself on the boat as a bunch of pirates attack, 
 you realise Uncharted isn't entirely original.
  Yeah, Elena will be the romantic interest. The pirates will torment you throughout the game. The 
 storyline revolves around a treasure.
  But the game somehow blends these together so brilliantly.
  The boat setting is quickly lost, 
 and you'll soon find yourself in a lush jungle setting, with a good bit of water and ancient ruins. 
 It's here where games truly start using the vast power of the PS3, and all those little details- 
 the bird calls in the jungle, Nate's mumbling to himself during a gunfight, the facial expressions, 
 even the great little reloading sounds for the guns- just add up together to make one great experience.
 
  The gameplay will usually switch between firefights where Nate always is an underdog, or platforms 
 and puzzles- which obviously get harder the further the player gets into the game. Sometimes you'll 
 feel like you're merely getting into fight after fight, with a little platforming as breaks- but 
 when you do, that's when the game starts throwing in some extras, be it using a turret on the back 
 of a speeding vehicle, or fighting on a jetski.
  Unlike some shooters, Nate can only carry two guns- typically a handgun, and something bigger which 
 can range from an assault rifle to a grenade launcher. As well as that, ammo is hardly plentiful, 
 and you'll prefer using cover and going for precise shots, rather then just charging out.
  The enemies are intelligent, and also have a very annoying knack of always seeming to hit you when 
 you aren't using cover. Fortunately, NaughtyDog, unlike their previous games where the character 
 needs to pick up health, have allowed Nate to regenerate his health. Unfortunately, this means 
 you don't want to be out in the open for too long.
  The storyline hardly consumes the game, but it does stay interesting, and at the risk of spoilers, 
 it does include a couple of great twists.
  The game also offers replay value, allowing the player to collect hidden treasures, trophies, which 
 also allow the player "points" which can be used to unlock guns, art, skins, and other features.
 
  Uncharted is one of the best PS3 exclusives out there, and it's definitely worth a place on your 
 shelf. 
  I simply adore this game, and Uncharted will be long remembered after most the 2007 games.
  Well 
 worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  People talk a lot about Uncharted. I was out of games, so I bought this at 24 at my local shop. After 
 playing demo I was kind of pissed, shooting felt very sad.
  Well, It begins with shooting, but after that, it really starts at great atmosphere, when you go to 
 cave, you are amazed by graphics, which are awesome. I just looked few minutes all little details 
 in background.
  
  Exploring is best in game, but there is not so much about it. You shoot half of your time.
  When 
 it comes shooting, if you try to run and shoot, you will die in few seconds.
  So its much hiding in cover and shooting from there. But enemies arent stupid, so they throw granades.
 
  Guns are pretty basic armory, pistols, ak, m4, desert eagle, granade launcher, shotguns.. Well If we 
 would have had some railguns, it would ruin the game.
  At near end, I was very scared when I was on submarine,1 flaslight at darkkness, and then they came.. Graphics 
 are so great you can actyally say that it has horrow game more than in some Alone in the dark.
 
  
  Well, you need to play this game to be able to undestand what all rewievers say about this game.
 
  But now its low price, buy it.
  It has trophies too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The year is 2007. After probably sick of working with platformers (and one racing game) with an 
 angst-filled elf-like character and his small wise-cracking animal sidekick, developer Naughty 
 Dog decided to take their PlayStation 3 debut in a different way. Instead of making yet another 
 Jak & Daxter title, they went for a more action-movie like game. The result is Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune.
  
  The story starts out with Nathan Drake uncovering a lost diary of ancestor Sir Francis Drake, talking 
 about the lost treasure of El Dorado. With help from an old friend and a documentary host roped 
 along for the ride, the three eventually find the Ark of the Coven- I mean, the lost treasure of 
 El Dorado, but later on Nate finds a disturbing secret about the treasure, and tries to stop a 
 British man and his hispanic accomplice from acquiring the treasure themselves. It feels like the 
 old film serials of the 1930s-1950s. Hell, the whole plot reeks of cheap B-movie fare that you'd 
 see in a local video store for $10. It definitely has that  
 vibe, which there's nothing wrong with, but it seems... well, to take a word from one of the characters, 
 it seems a little hinky.
  
  Uncharted takes a few gameplay mechanics from Gears of War as well as Tomb Raider. There's loads 
 of shooting "pirates", which are in actuality a bunch of black guys, hispanics, and a few asians 
 in the mix; as well as the occasional platform segment, brief puzzle segment and vehicle segment 
 to spice things up. It's done nicely for the most part, but each part has its flaws. The shooting 
 itself is pretty solid, except it seems enemies take a few more hits than what is necessary to 
 die. You can also throw grenades, but they're haphazardly done: You have to use the SIXAXIS controller 
 to adjust your arc. This is really tacky and hard to maneuver while being shot by enemies. You 
 have better luck just throwing it out to the wild without aiming and hope it kills somebody.
  
  If you run out of bullets or find a good opportunity, you can take a brief fight with them 
 and wail out combos. But the problem with melee, specifically the brutal combo (square, triangle, 
 square) is that half the time it doesn't work. I'll land the first punch, mash on triangle to make 
 Drake continue the sequence, only to have it broken by a stray punch from the enemy. You literally 
 have to fan your thumb between square and triangle to make the combo work. You could also hammer 
 on square, but it takes more hits. Never mind the fact that this is not recommended if enemies 
 are shooting at you, otherwise you'll be dead in seconds.
  
  Sometimes after a good firefight, you take a brief breather to do some platform jumping. Or ledge 
 hopping, whatever you want to classify it. You jump from ledge to ledge to platform to get to your 
 next destination. Sometimes you can skip a ledge, but there's no branching routes. It's all set 
 on one linear path, which makes it predictable after you miss the ledge for the fifth time. There's 
 no "Oh, I can take this route and skip past this" moments or anything. It would've made these parts 
 more tolerable, because otherwise they're a frustrating obstacle until the next shooting segment. 
 It seems we're still at that phase where platforming and shooting don't really mix, as Tomb Raider 
 is guilty of this as well.
  
  In addition, there's three sections during the course of the game where you acquire a jet ski and 
 try to use it. It seems we're still in that phase where vehicles are hard to steer. Maybe actual 
 jet skis are not supposed to turn on a dime or something, but it becomes frustrating to move around 
 and try to shoot enemies while trying not to die. The last occurrence of the jet skis features 
 an annoying segment where you have to drive up a current with it. This, coupled with the rough 
 driving controls, made this section quite annoying. Although, there is one section where you're 
 at the gun turret of a jeep, and that's a more enjoyable vehicle section. It seems Naughty Dog 
 still hasn't gotten vehicle controls down pat, Jak & Daxter had similar problems.
  
  People will constantly deride games for not having that "next-generation" brownish look, but I'm 
 glad Uncharted bucked the trend of brown-looking dystopian worlds. The areas are filled with lush 
 jungle environments and great ambiance in underground areas. Even the water looks damn good. Nate 
 himself can get wet and have the shirt and pants get wet as much as the player dipped him in. Although 
 I don't understand why his hair doesn't move when it gets wet... must use some powerful hairgel. 
 The voice acting is good and fits the characters just fine, and the score, done by Greg Edmonson 
 of Firefly fame, is innocuous enough. Ambient jungle sounds mixed with occasional heroic orchestra. 
 It fits, but it's not really memorable outside of one or two tracks.
  
  There is one other thing that bothers me about the game, and that its difficulty. I'm no means 
 a pro gamer, but there were several segments that kicked my ass even on Normal. Thankfully the 
 only major annoying sections are towards the end of the game, but there are still a few tough sections 
 before that, and it may seem a bit daunting for those who may not be used to the genre. However, 
 it's not bone-crushingly difficult unless you ramp up the difficulty to Hard, so it's not a complete 
 annoyance from start to finish. But nothing is more annoying when you try to get through a difficult 
 platforming segment, only to get shot to death and having to redo the platforming segment.
  
  Naughty Dog definitely made this game for replay value, as there are loads of medals, treasures 
 and other things to unlock. Hidden around the game are 60 treasures for observant players, as well 
 as medals for killing enemies with certain weapons, killing enemies with brutal combos (or other 
 melee attacks) , and even doing stunts like killing enemies with grenades while hanging on a ledge. 
 These medals give you medal points to unlock cheats, player models, graphical effects, even behind-the-scenes 
 videos and motion capture sessions. These are nice unlocks, and give the player incentive to play 
 the game again and do something they normally wouldn't do during gameplay.
  
  This is a fantastic game for the PlayStation 3. It's criminal this game didn't do as well as a 
 Gears or a Call of Duty. This is a great single player experience, and if it didn't have some minor 
 issues, this game would definitely be one of my favorites. But with all the unlocks, medals, and 
 various styles of gameplay, this game is worth playing more than once. It is definitely one of 
 the must-play games for the system.
  
  Pros: Good mix of shooting, platforming and vehicle segments; good voice acting, incredible visuals.
 
  Cons: Ridiculous B-movie plot, platforming segments are too linear, vehicles are hard to control. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sekiam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  I was never a big fan of the Tomb Raider series, which was compared to Uncharted, therefore, I 
 never really paid much attention to it. I've had my PS3 for almost two months, and since I finished 
 GTA IV (my only game until Uncharted) I've been longing for late October for some good games. To 
 quench my gaming-thirst, I went around looking for some good games at good prices, eventually, 
 I found Uncharted for the modest sum of 25. Immediately, I went reading reviews and saw some gameplay 
 videos of this game. I was awe-struck at the masterpiece I had turned my eyes on.
  
  Uncharted tells the tale of Nathan Drake, a direct descendant of Sir Francis Drake, a British explorer. 
 With the help of his friends Sullivan and Elena, he tries to find the ancient but not forgotten 
 treasure of El Dorado, which holds more than the stories tell...
  
  Anyway, the first thing you'll notice when you play Uncharted, is, without a doubt, the amazing 
 graphics. Everything looks so real; the sea looks beautiful, the facial details are great, the 
 whole environments are a work of art, and it pays attention to some reality issues, let's say, 
 for example, you jump into the water, you come out, you're clothes are all wet. Priceless.
  
  The sounds are also a trophy in this game. The voice acting is worthy of a movie, the environments 
 are really brought to life with sounds, for example, when exploring a cave, you can hear echoes 
 of your gunshots, etc.
  
  Now, for the real deal: the gameplay! Gameplay in Uncharted is like an alphabet soup, you've got 
 platform, shooter and puzzle-solving, all in one. The shooting is simple, yet addictive, using 
 an "hit-and-cover" engine pretty similar to GTA IV. The platforming is just plain fun, hanging 
 from castle walls to swinging in vines. The puzzle-solving is there, scarce though, and, without 
 the help of Sir Francis Drake's diary, would be impossible.
  
  Overall, Uncharted is nearly a flawless game, which, at the price you can get now, is definitely 
 a must have in every PS3 owner's shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  The company naughty dog, creator of crash bandicoot and Jak and daxter, have unvealed the new line.
 
  Uncharted follows the story of Nathan Drake, claims to be long decendant of Fredric Drake the 
 explorer, and is about to uncover one of the biggest finds in history, the treasure of El Dorado, 
 the probleme is he is soon hunted by Pirates and mercinaries on a lost island.
  the main 2 parks of the game are the navigation and the action, the navigation is similar to the 
 tomb raider games where you climb ledges, ropes and walls to get to your desired location, where 
 as the action employs a duck and cover element into the game, the only thing is that the enemies 
 are a bit harder to kill than in most games and it is extremely difficult in the later parts of 
 the game.
  The game goes for a decent length and has a lot of replay value, and is one of the few games so 
 far to introduce the trophy system.
  all in all it is worth a try and will keep you playing for ages to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maugely
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I actually purchased after I picked up my PS3. I played the demo and had 
 to go buy the full game. I am a huge fan of the Tomb Raider and Prince of Persia games. I love 
 the platforming and the puzzles mixed with a healthy dose of action. I am also a very big fan of 
 Gears Of War. The cover system makes me feel like I have more control and more opportunities to 
 think about my strategy. Which brings me to why I loved Uncharted so much. It has everything that 
 I have come to love about gaming in this generation of games. It has excellent graphics with sometimes 
 breathtaking scenery and the most enjoyable environments. It has a soundtrack that urges you to 
 survive and pulls you into the mood of the story. It has a story that you will not soon forget, 
 that makes you care about the characters and walk away sad to see the end. It has the perfect combat 
 style, with a cover system, 3rd person view, excellent and believable artillery, and a lot of enemies 
 to kill.
  
  But all those things that I mentioned are not all that made it a memorable experience for me. It's 
 the little things that made the difference.
  
  First of all, Nathan Drake, the protagonist of Uncharted, will make comments all throughout the 
 game. When you pop out and blast a guy, when you fall a little too far, when you get too close 
 to a ledge, when you pick up a sweet weapon, when you spot a bunch of enemies in the distance, 
 when you are in the heat of battle and there are enemies all around you, when you take damage Nathan 
 will voice his thoughts and his feelings and it never gets old.
  
  Second, one little detail that you should note that made an intense difference to me as I played 
 the game was the reaction of the surrounding characters if I died. To hear Nathan's friends scream 
 in horror or say something dramatic as I plummeted to my death or was shot down in the heat of 
 gunfire actually made me more cautious in my actions. I felt bad for them as they expressed their 
 emotions over losing a companion. If I hadn't died on occasion and heard these lamentations, I 
 may not have felt as deep of a connection with the other characters. I may not have fully realized 
 home much the three main characters actually cared for each other. As I said, it was a small detail, 
 but it had a massive impact on my experience. As a note to developers, when you make people care, 
 even some of the greatest flaws in a game may go unnoticed.
  
  With that said, there was one thing that really bothered me about this game, the controls. It's 
 not that they weren't tight. Everything worked great and just as I wanted it to when I pressed 
 the buttons on the gamepad. The only issue I had was the control scheme. Why on earth did they 
 not use the trigger button as a trigger? The right trigger is a reload and the bumper button above 
 it shoots your weapon. Why? I can't tell you how many times I died while trying to kill an enemy 
 with the reload button. I know it is not just because of Gears that I felt this way. A lot of shooter 
 games use the dang trigger as it was intended. As I got more used to it, it became a smaller issue 
 for me, but the struggle managed to stay with me just a little bit right up until the end of the 
 game. So, note to the developers of Uncharted, if you make this into a series, make the control 
 scheme editable. I would have given this game a 9 if it weren't for the trigger issue. The only 
 other thing that bothered me was that it just seemed too short, but that always seems to be a problem 
 with the games we love.
  
  So, I recommend this game with a heavy intensity to anyone who enjoys a good action adventure. 
 In fact, if they turn this game into a series, I will pre-order the next one so I can play it the 
 day it hits store shelves. Yeah, I loved it that much. Worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biophoton
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is a awesome game. When I first say I thought it was some action game, 
 but I was wrong, Uncharted is one of the best games I have ever played.
  
  To start, the story. The story is very good I think. Its about to old friends (Nathan Drake and 
 Victor Sullivan) and a girl from a TV show (Elena Fisher) , and they set out to find the lost treasure. 
 It has its twits and it will make you want to play more.
  
  Gameplay. The game play is very addicting. Its basically a run and gun. The cool thing about the 
 game play is how realistic it is. If Nate's running, and he starts getting shot at, he will run 
 faster. If Nate's behind cover and he gets shot at, he puts his hands above his head. He also breaths 
 heavier if hes hurt. Nate also does a lot of climbing. Climbing can be a little annoying a times, 
 because Nate does not always jump were you want him to, he will sometimes just jump to his death. 
 The aiming is decent, you will miss at times but most of the time you'll hit your target.
  
  CPU AI. The AI is alright, its very realistic. If Nate shoots by a CPU's head, the will duck 
 after the shot has been fired. Sometimes the CPU's will charge you which is very dumb at times.
 
  
  Music. The music in this game is awesome. When Nate's
  In a battle the music gets you really into it. The title Music is even really good.
  
  Graphics. 
 The Graphics are excellent. Uncharted has one of the most realistic graphics I every seen. The 
 expressions on the faces are amazing, they move perfectly with what there saying, or the voice. 
 Every thing looks real. If you walk into water half way, his pants will only be wet to were he 
 walked.
  
  Voice acting. The voice acting is very good. There are really no cheesy lines or anything, and 
 the voices fit the characters very well.
  
  Weapons. The weapon selection is decent, theres around 10-15 guns (I think) . Some, like the Revolver 
 are one shot kills. Ammo is very easy to find, you will most likely never run out of ammo.
  
  Glitches. Theres not very many glitches. Most glitches happen when you die, and its usually 
 the CPU's freezing.
  
  The only downside to Uncharted it that its short, the story only takes around 7 hours to beat, 
 though the bonus stuff will make you play the game over and over. Picture it as a really long movie.
 
  
  All in all, Uncharted is a most get game.
  
  Story-9/10
  Graphics-10/10
  AI-9/10
  Music-10/10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is the first exclusive game for PS3 which graphically impressed me. Not only for the 
 highly detailed environment but also for the color. There are a lot of tons of green, blue, etc...
 
  
  When compare with other PS3 exclusive game like Resistance fall of man, you may see that this is 
 a good looking game as well, but do not have a lot of colors, everything is too brown or gray... 
 few green and other colors.
  
  Now the most important thing in the game... the stoyline and the gameplay... This game is very 
 well done. The storyline hooked me through all game and the game play is... playable...
  
  I recommend this game because its originality, the storyline and it is very optimized for PS3 (take 
 adavantage of it)
  
  Now, I do not know if I am going to finish the game again in order to get the trophy due to I already 
 have a lot unfinished games and the upcoming games look promising.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  To be perfectly honest, Uncharted was one of the major reasons why I purchased the PS3. The mix 
 of action, and adventure segments seemed too good. After playing through the whole entire game, 
 I am taken aback, that's how good it was..
  
  Story
  Uncharted's story centers around Nathan Drake, a man essentially on a mission to find his ancestors 
 "treasure" The Gold of El Dorado. Not to spoil any key factors of the plot, but a lot of twists 
 and turns happens, but the way it is written, it never loses its main plot focus. In fact this 
 game features some of Naughty Dog's best writing I have seen in a long time.
  
  Graphics
  Uncharted is a graphical showcase for the PS3. A lot of the environments centers around jungle 
 areas, dotted with ancient ruins, but they are so impeccably detailed. There are some minor cases 
 of pop in, but its only the small stuff, such as some shrubs, and bricks etc. But it's hardly noticable. 
 Another highlight is the amazing amount of detail packed into the character models. The textures 
 are some of the best i've seen in this generation, from Nate's outfit when wet, to the detail in 
 the ancient ruins, its all simply stunning.
  
  Sound
  Naughty Dog has always had a track record for excellent audio, and Uncharted is no different. The 
 voice acting is stellar, the voice work for Nate and crew, actually makes you care for them. Truly 
 to file this under the story segment, the dialogue sometimes causes laugh out moments, especially 
 Nate's inner monologues to himself.
  The soundtrack features some great music, but i wouldn't go out and purchase the soundtrack CD. 
 It mostly fades in and out, and doesn't seem to be a central focus in the game.
  
  Control
  Nate controls like a dream, thanks to lighting responsive controls. Similar games in 
 this genre (Tomb Raider) always to me has stiff unresponsive controls. Here though the player is 
 blessed with a great control setup, and quick response. Thankfully the game has sparse SIXAXIS 
 control, the only times it is featured are when you have to balance yourself while walking on thin 
 beams, and to fight creatures off that attack you.
  
  Overall, Uncharted is a game very well worth the $60 price tag. Some people will find it too short, 
 but i find it just right in length. And trust me, its well worth return trips. Simply put this 
 game is absolutely stunning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is an action adventure game that follows the story of Nathan Drake who 
 believes to be an long lost family of a legendary treasure hunter Sir Francis Drake.
  
  After discovering the lost diary Nate decides to track down the lost treasure of El'Dorado. Without 
 much of a surprise things don't go as well as planned and the 22 chapters reveal lots of action 
 under its belt.
  
  Nathan is joined in his hunt by a energetic reporter and an old friend. One of the best moments 
 of Uncharted are developing dialog between those characters as well as some enemy ones. The voice 
 acting is excellent and everyone are quite believable. 
  The visuals are outstanding and probably the strongest point of the game. The incredibly lush jungle 
 environments will make you "wow" a few times but you might as well be distracted with beautiful 
 water effects.
  
  The game really feels alive and as you interact with Nate across numerous puzzles you will appreciate 
 more of the fine details that developer Naughty Dog put it. One of the details that you might notice 
 is how Nate struggles, he is not a super hero, but more an ordinary man. You will see him bump 
 over rocks, struggle running upwards the stairs and he will always make some kind of mistakes that 
 makes him such a believable protagonist.
  
  The gameplay pushes you to use action, platforming, puzzle solving and some hand to hand combat. 
 
  You can carry two weapons of choice at the same time, as the game moves on more weapons will come 
 by to try out.
  You can also equip up to 5 grenades as well. The controls are very good, but for some people it 
 might take a little to get use to.
  
  The whole adventure will take you average 8-10 hours with tons of Trophies to unlock. There is 
 no multiplayer or co-op. 
  
  Another excellent feature of Uncharted is enemy A. I. They behave very well, take cover, flank you 
 and will be aggressive if you wait to long. The game considerably picks up in strength on higher 
 difficulty levels.
  
  Upon completion of the game, Naughty Dog packed in tons and tons of concept art to look at as well 
 as quite a few full HD developer movies which gives you great insight on the team effort.
  
  In conclusion, I recommend every PS3 user to pick the game and play either by giving it a rent 
 or adding to collection. It's a great adventure and one of the excellent PlayStation 3 exclusives 
 that no gamer should miss out.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4bd3r3k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is perfect, if you liked the gunplay in "Gears of War", or the mobility of "Prince of 
 Persia" buy this game immeadiatly, IT IS WORTH $60, this is 1 of the 1st games for ps3, and it 
 is so great, it is still $60. besides that, the graphics are astonishing, every plant that is in 
 a forest is in the amazing 3d levels, the sun and shadows are a kicker too. the story is very creative, 
 taking actual events from history and filling in the blanks with a surprising twist makes this 
 game have the total package. the trophies arent extremly difficult to get, just little errands 
 like finding treasures and stuff like that, (YYZed helped me with his treasure guide here on gamespot) 
 i really loved this game, i highly reccomend it to any gamer, its awesome. stop what your doing 
 and buy it now!!!
  
  f4bd3r3k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an interesting game. Many times it feels like you're playing a new version of Tomb 
 Raider or the latest Indy movie. Let's face it, the plot isn't exactly new. However, while playing 
 there is so much eye candy to gawk at, and the gameplay has enough difficulty at the "Normal" setting 
 for it to be a challenge. 
  
  In Uncharted you play as Nathan Drake, a descendant of Sir Francis Drake who is out to find his 
 ancestor's treasure. Along the way they discover the treasure is that of El Dorado. But not everything 
 is as easy as it should be (but then hen is it?) as pirates show up wanting to get to the treasure 
 first and being very much willing to take your life to get it. 
  
  Gameplay is divided primarily into two segments, combat and platforming. Platforming is just grabbing 
 ledges, jumping from there to here and solving various environmental puzzles to proceed. For the 
 most part these portions of the game are very simple, but the background fooled me a few times 
 into thinking I could grab a certain ledge. 
  
  Combat is very fun, and the cover system has been refined to near perfection. You can choose to 
 aim or not with L1, and Fire with R1. Cover can be anything, a pillar, a makeshift wall, or just 
 a doorway, but it all can be leaned against with O, and you can peek with L1, or choose to fire 
 blindly with R1. Usually it takes 4 shots with a 9mm pistol to take out a person, but headshots 
 can lower the amount to 1.
  
  In fact, the game pushes you to get headshots. 100 of them will unlock two bronze medals and a 
 silver medal, as well as the corresponding trophy. Doing so will let you unlock bonus materials, 
 like different skins for Drake, different graphic filters, and behind the scenes videos. The majority 
 of these videos is a nice look into designing a game for the PS3, so if you have any intrest in 
 it, watch them!
  
  Sound in Uncharted is worth of a movie theater. With full Pro Logic support, your sound system 
 will be able to have a nice workout with the various explosions, environmental effects, and gunfire. 
 
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune's plot may not be original, but the gameplay and graphics are great 
 showcases for game design done right. It's clear that Naughty Dog (known for the Jak and Daxter 
 series) saw what the PS3 was capable of, and strived to make a better game for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueblur87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  If you want a game that mixes Tomb Raider or Prince of Persia style platforming and puzzle solving, 
 with Gears of War-esque run cover and shoot gunfights, this game is for you. Also, if you want 
 to test your PS3's graphics capability, the game also obliges to do that. The story is gripping 
 and you will probably want to keep playing to see what's going to happen next, and you'll be addicted 
 until you complete it. 
  
  The game is fairly short, so if you're looking for something that will keep on entertaining you 
 for years to come it is not one of those games. However, it does have replay value, since there 
 are hidden artifacts that unlock developer content such as making of videos and concept art, and 
 now that it has Trophies, there's even more replay value, challenging you to kill 3 people with 
 one grenade or kill 5 people in a row using unarmed combat etc. 
  
  The best way to describe the game would be that you feel like you're in a movie. The whole game 
 feels like an Indiana Jones film or something similar, and there are no load times between areas 
 or between game play and cut-scenes. 
  
  the close tie with a storyline makes the game linear, and the areas of jungle are not as open as 
 in Far Cry or anything like that, they are more like elaborate pathways, and sometimes you are 
 required to go back the way you came or take a different route in order to get further; for example, 
 another character is following you, but they can't climb as well as you so you have to find a way 
 to open the door or clear the rubble out the way of some ladders. Its done in a way that adds depth 
 to the game rather than make it repetitive, as you see everything from a perspective that you didn't 
 see the first time you were there. 
  
  There are also action scenes in the game which you take control of, such as a getaway in a jeep, 
 whilst shooting with a machine gun or a ride on a jet ski along some rapids whilst having to take 
 out men with a grenade launcher. There are some danger cut-scenes which require you to press X 
 or 0 at certain times in order to avoid death, but these are not so frequent that they become annoying 
 like in some games (ahem Bourne Conspiracy cough) . 
  
  The graphics - i'll go into a bit of detail about them because they are so noteworthy. The water 
 looks remarkably realistic, its not coloured blue artificially, it is clear and reflective as it 
 should be, and the ripples made when you walk or swim are amazing, and when you see the sunset 
 reflecting off it, and the distortion of whats underneath you have to spend at least a couple of 
 seconds admiring it, it is much sharper than the water in GTA4 for example. 
  
  The Shadows created by the canopy of trees and leaves moving in the wind is also something awesome. 
 You see the light flickering on Nathan as he's running in the patches of light and just think yay 
 for PS3. 
  
  This game also makes good use of High Dynamic Range lighting, and when you move from a dark cave 
 into bight sunlight you see the aperture change as your eyes would do in real life. You'll also 
 notice it when looking at the sun when walking past a tree that shades the view of it, the light 
 creeps around the tree like in real life. 
  
  The textures are also very detailed, perhaps the best in any PS3 game yet, they are also responsive 
 to the direction of light. E. g. you spend some time in the dark and your flashlight affects the 
 textures on the wall as if they are 3D as you walk past. 
  
  After looking at the graphics in more detail, I have noticed some clever tricks have been employed 
 in making the game look so good... But I don't want to spoil it by telling you what they are, because 
 it might lessen the impact it has on you when you first witness the game.
  
  One of the most remarkable things about the game is that the install file is only 256MB, yet is 
 has some of the best graphics on the system. 256MB is tiny when compared to Devil May Cry 4 (4.5GB) 
 or MGS4 (5.1GB) . I have noticed the disk drive makes more noise than other games, probably because 
 it is streaming the high-res textures constantly. 
  
  Some complaints about the game - some of the animations look silly, e. g. when running uphill/upstairs 
 it doesn't look right. when jumping a short distance Nathan will sometimes act as if he's doing 
 a leap of faith and other times he'll jump like its nothing, but I am very picky. Also, on normal 
 mode, enemies can be shot about 12 times in the body before they die, this is not realistic, surely 
 you'd be in unbearable pain or die by the time you've been shot 3 times? Hard mode makes the enemies 
 weaker for some reason, they take less body bullets, so theres very little difference in the difficulty, 
 besides you having less health, and enemies being slightly more accurate shooters, but you can 
 usually take cover and recover all your health. There is no health bar as such, but the screen 
 starts to go grey and blurry the more bullets you take, so you get a good idea of how much life 
 you have left. 
  
  All in all, its a very good game the first time you play it, probably worth a 9 the first time 
 and definitely worth at least a second playthrough to relive the good bits and do some treasure 
 hunting or try another difficulty level. It's just like a movie really, so if you're the kind of 
 person who likes watching movies several times you might even want to play it more than twice. 
 It's apparently better than Assassin's Creed, though I've yet to play it, but the store guy said 
 so because Drake's fortune is fun all way through, and I can second that; but apparently Assassin's 
 Creed gets repetitive very quickly after the initial few missions.
  
  I gave it an 8.5, the extra 0.5 because its special and outdid my expectations somewhat, but the 
 replay value and length of the game are the only real drawbacks - its not as long as Prince of 
 Persia The Two Thrones, but it would have deserved at least a 9 if it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game i ever played on the playstation 3 and i have to say this game was just 
 as engaging as when i first played Call of Duty 4 online. It was simply amazing.
  The gameplay and cover system is not a first but Uncharted has managed to polish this sytem and 
 it turned out incredible.
  The weapon selection is very broad although not the best and the sounds are very well suited for 
 the game, the graphics and textures take the third-person genre to new heights and when Nathan 
 goes in water his pants get wet and slowly dry, and the explosions are simply great along with 
 the vehicle's handling and streering.
  The story is great and very captivating but also a tad bit short. This Third person Adventure/Shooter 
 is a must have for any ps3 owner, action fan or not.
  
  Overall: Superb Gameplay and Graphics, Captivating Story but Slightly too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paddy_boy99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a slow-burner. The start of the game feels rushed and not in a good way, and it fires 
 off a clumsy burst of plot info. That Uncharted makes good of these clumsy first impressions and 
 goes on to provide an incredibly assured PS3 adventure - vibrant, action packed, romantic, light-hearted, 
 and wholesome - is down to the expertise of developer Naughty Dog. Sure it's responsible for the 
 hiccup in the first place, but over the long haul the quality shines through.
  
  After the slow start, Uncharted gathers momentum level by level, becoming more engaging and enjoyable 
 the longer you spend with it. Drake's acrobatics are nearly identical to Lara Croft's and nearly 
 has the same controls, but it's still great. And Drake has a better fighting mechanism at his disposal, 
 which blurs the gap between the climbing and shooting sections of the game. 
  
  The puzzles would rank among the gentler tasks in a tomb raider title but they fit the story perfectly. 
 
  
  Finally, there's a simple, yet effective melee system that basically boils down to whacking square 
 to perform 5 quick blows, chaining square, triangle, square for a power combo, or rushing an enemy 
 after you've softened him up with bullets and pressing square to deliver a show-stopping wallop 
 in the form of a dropkick or flying punch. the puzzles would rank among the gentler tasks in a 
 tomb raider title but they fit the story perfectly.
  
  One thing you will obviously notice with Uncharted are it's jaw-droppingly good graphics and it's 
 breathtaking sense of scale. There are some truly beautiful sights to be seen in the game. Someimes 
 you'll just want to stop to admire your surroundings.
  
  These assured touches guide the classical, three act story from strength to strength, moving from 
 brash, optimistic opening, through low-key moodiness and ultimately on to a revelatory marvel of 
 a finale.
  
  This exclusive title for the PS3 really shows off what the machine can do and is a must-play title.
 
  
  Great story. Beautiful graphics. Huge set-pieces. Great score. Fantastic gameplay. Why can't all 
 games be like this?
  
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 9
  Gameplay - 10
  Lifespan - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMurphy28
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a great action game with an immersive story and beautiful voice acting 
 along with solid gameplay and exploration. 
  
  The story is one of the best I've played. It's honestly like a movie where I get to control the 
 main character. The voice acting is superb and the characters fit the plot well. It was top 3 storywise 
 in my books.
  
  The gameplay, although not innovative is fun. It has the side view 3rd person like Gears of War 
 and a basic cover system that works well with the game. The exploration, although sometimes frustrating 
 is fun. Whether it's jumping over gapping pits or swinging off of vines, it is fun, although sometimes 
 the controls in the later levels can become a nuisance. The gunplay, although tough, is fun. Even 
 on the normal difficulty I had to re-do many parts over and over again near the end of the game, 
 but it just made my money more worth it.
  
  The only downside of this game is the lack of multiplayer. It has all the build for a great multiplayer 
 with nice looking maps, a variety of guns and a unique exploration that would work well with other 
 players. 
  
  The game doesn't necessarily have replay value because you don't get anything different from completing 
 it again, but it should leave you coming back for more once you complete it.
  
  The length isn't very long but really is the average length for your typical action game, although 
 most of them have multiplayer. 
  
  If this game had a good Multiplayer I'd give it a solid 10, but unfortunately, I can only give 
 it a nine without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordjt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an Action/Adventure in which you play the character Nathan Drake. 
 'Nate' as he comes to be known is an adventure/treasure seaker who also happens to be a relative 
 of the great explorer, Sir Francis Drake. During the story Nate is searching for an ancient treasure 
 by following a trail of clues left by Francis Drake. The story takes place on a tropical island 
 full of pirates and mercenaries who are trying to beat you to the treasure. Nate is joined by Sully, 
 an old friend of Nate's, and Elena, a TV Reporter who will fight along side Nate for most of the 
 game. The story is very well told and you grow to love the characters throughout cutscenes and 
 various dialogues. Multiple twists throughout the story keep it very interesting but still easy 
 to follow.
  
  While the game is classified as an Action/Adventure, I would probably classify this game as a Third 
 Person Shooter. While it is an adventure game which features a ton of exploring and platforming 
 sections, you will find yourself using you gun an awful lot. However, this isn't a bad thing. Uncharted 
 has about 13 different guns and each one of them is very different. Nate has the ability to carry 
 one pistol, one rifle (machine gun, sniper or grenade launcher types) and 5 grenades.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune uses a normal Third Person view while exploring the world, but when 
 you press the L1 button to zoom in and aim with you're gun the camera becomes an over-the-shoulder 
 view. In this view you can press the L3 to switch between shoulders. I found Uncharted to be one 
 of the smoothest games that I have ever played control-wise. All the controls just seem real natural 
 and very easy to learn if you have ever played a third person shooter. While controlling Nate you 
 have the ability to press O to get behind cover and Nate actually uses cover accordingly. If he 
 is hiding behind a pillar not a piece of his body will stick out, same with hiding behind a small 
 stone wall. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune also has platforming sections throughout the game which 
 change up the pace really well. Jumping from ledge to ledge and swinging on vines has never been 
 better done. What makes the platforming so good is that the penalty for missing a jump usually 
 isn't too bad. The game will usually restart you just before you made the jump.
  
  Visually, I don't think any game on the market right now has better graphics. Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune is on the same level as Metal Gear Solid 4 when it comes to graphics. To really experience 
 the whole experience that Uncharted brings to the table you should play it on an HD TV. I didn't 
 think a game could look this good! Even the cave/dungeon sequences look life-like. When you walk 
 past plants they sway. When Nate gets out of the water his shirt is wet and eventually dries off. 
 Lighting is amazing in this game, especially certain levels where the sun is setting and you're 
 up high on top of the cliffs. 
  
  When you start up the game you will have a load screen to begin the first level, but that is it! 
 There a no load screens at all during the game. Which is amazing because there a some huge cut 
 scenes throughout the game that you don't have to wait for. This is a huge plus because you're 
 never out of the moment.
  
  Though the game is pretty short, it only takes around 5-8 hours depending on whether or not you've 
 played it before, the game has alot of replay value. You start out with 3 different difficulty 
 setting: Easy, Medium and Hard. When you beat the game on Hard you unlock the Crushing mode which 
 is even harder! Also, throughout the game you can explore and find 61 total treasures and complete 
 different challenges (such as 50 total kills with each gun) to get points. As you gain points you 
 unlock playable characters, the ability to pick weapons and many other unlockables. Trophy support 
 was also just added to Uncharted: Drake's Fortune so you can show off trohpies earned in-game to 
 all you're online friends over the playstation network, with the ultimate goal being to get a Platinum 
 Trophy which shows you got every trohpy in the game.
  
  The ONLY downside I found in this game was the story length of 5-8 hours. I really wish it was 
 longer, however if you go for all the trophies in this game you will end up spending around 15-20 
 hours with this game which makes it well worth a buy.
  
  I could talk about this game all day! Simply put, if you own a PS3 you really should check out 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMorss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I purchased for my Playstation 3. Being a fan of the prince of 
 persia series and the tomb raider series I figured I would enjoy the game. The game was a great 
 experience.
  
  Storyline: I thought the storyline was great. It almost reminded me of an Indiana Jones movie. 
 It has some great plot twists. Each character was very developed with great personality. Overall 
 it was like participating in a great adventure movie.
  
  Graphics: Polish, Polish, Polish. That describes it best to me. The world is simply beautiful with 
 lush jungle enviroments. The level of detail was astonishing, and how well the Playstation handled 
 it was probably the most amazing part. Through the entire game I never once saw a stutter in the 
 framerate. With an enviroment that looks better than Crysis, that is quite an achievement. There 
 were also no texture pops at all. The level polish on this game is top notch. The enviroments really 
 make you feel like you are there with him in the jungle. The character animations were very fluid 
 and life-like. The graphics in this game are the best I have ever seen on a console.
  
  Game play: The majority of the game play was fantastic. But the gun controls prevented me from 
 giving this game a perfect 10. I really enjoyed the puzzle solving. It really reminded me of the 
 Tomb Raider games. And the cover system for gunfighting was very well done. However aiming at your 
 enemy I found to be a bit tricky. That is the one thing in the game I just couldnt get used to. 
 The climbing and jumping was a lot like Prince of Persia. 
  
  In closing I think Uncharted is a must-own if you have a Playstation 3. It really showcases the 
 Playstation 3's capabilities as a system. The game borrows great elements from many great adventure 
 games. All together it is an experience much worth the time. And the replay value is great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yohanjr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is an action packed, visually appealing, plot twisting helluva ride. You 
 start out in direct action being attacked by pirates. 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a quick combat game which is mixed with many puzzel elements.
  The combat system in the 
 game is so easy to use its either a brutal combo or a normal combo, the normal combo consist of 
 button mashing square while the brutal combo consist of pressing square, triangle then square in 
 a sequence which results in an instant kill. The shooting mechanic is correctly done it rivals 
 that of Resident Evil4. The game is very realistic there is no life bar so you will know when your 
 dying only when the screen goes black and white and you are hearing your own heart beat COOL XD!!
 
  
  Graphics & Sound:
  The Graphics in this game are outstanding, its visually stunning and it has outstanging sound. The 
 graphics are so defined that you see wrinkles in Nathan's clothes and they even get soaked, finally 
 there are water effects in clothing 10/10 here.
  
  Story:
  The story is a compelling tale that keeps you at the edge of your seat from beggining to end. Its 
 filled with Twist and many high points moving all the way up to the climax which is very satisfying.
 
  
  Replay Value:
  With added trophies the game ceases to be fun and eith the rewards you get ther is no stop to this 
 game.
  
  Conclusion:
  FIRST MUST HAVE GAME FOR PS3 PICK IT UP NOW!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo_360
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a wholly unoriginal game. It does very little to separate itself 
 from its peers, and despite some great production values, proves to be a forgettable experience. 
 The games' shooting mechanics are straight out of Gears of War and its platforming from the Tomb 
 Raider series.
  
  Uncharted follows Nathan Drake, a descendant of Sir Francis Drake (apparently) , as he searches 
 for an ancient treasure. Nathan proves to be a typical action movie style, smart mouthed protagonist, 
 who attempts to save the day. He is joined on this adventure by his cigar smoking friend Sully 
 and inevitable damsel in distress (and TV reporter as it happens) , Elena. As usual several villains 
 rear their ugly heads, an English pirate and the leader of the goons you'll be fighting for most 
 of the game. The story has several twists but they are so glaringly obvious that it's difficult 
 to be impressed by them.
  
  In Uncharted, the gameplay is split between shooting sequences, platforming and some light puzzle 
 solving. In order to survive in the game, you have to use cover effectively and only pop out to 
 take down your enemies. This can be pretty difficult sometimes, as the game tends to overwhelm 
 you with a seemingly never-ending amount of foes with extremely good aim. It doesn't help that 
 Nathan isn't the most resilient guy in the world. This makes Uncharted feel a little cheap at times, 
 but since the games checkpoints are so tight, you never have to repeat particularly long sections. 
 There is some extremely stylised hand-to-hand combat when you get up close to an enemy with a few 
 basic combos to perform, which look savage and can be quite satisfying.
  
  The other main gameplay element to Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the platforming. This involves 
 jumping between ledges, swinging on vines and other typical acrobatic moves. Making Nathan perform 
 these feats is awfully simple to do and in comparison to the shooting sequences, feels extremely 
 easy. This however can offer some much needed respite from the often-tedious gunfights. The puzzles 
 that appear in the game are few and far between, but when they do show up, they are usually simple. 
 If you are however having trouble, the game will prompt you to hit L2, and then essentially tell 
 you what to do. 
  
  The only outstanding feature in Uncharted is its graphics. The lush jungle environments look phenomenal, 
 as do the old ruins and industrial areas. The water also looks fantastic and Nathan's clothes will 
 get wet in the specific places that he has been in the water. The game also shows great attention 
 to detail, as there are never any bland environments, which really makes the game a lot more immersive.
 
  
  The character models in Uncharted all look relatively realistic and animate very well. Nathan runs 
 realistically, flails his arms on long jumps, and runs up and down stairs in an appropriately awkward 
 way. The story is told through in engine cut scenes which look as good as the rest of the game 
 and offer a cinematic experience.
  
  Uncharted has a decent original soundtrack, which amps up at expected moments in the game. The 
 voice acting is excellent, and fits perfectly with the look and feel of the characters. The guns 
 in the game generally sound all right, but some of the pistols sound a little poor and toy like. 
 
  
  Uncharted will take most players around eight hours to complete and the patched version offers 
 Playstation trophies for completing various tasks, such as collecting hidden treasures, getting 
 headshots and being proficient with melee combat. 
  There is no multiplayer to be found here and the game does suffer from a lack of replay value, 
 with only a higher difficulty setting as reason to play again. 
  
  Despite some great, production values, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune proves to be a forgettable experience. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a game that doesn't really push boundaries in regards to doing anything 
 special. It takes aspects you have most likely seen before, the platform sections are taken straight 
 from Tomb Raider, the over the shoulder shooting is straight from Resident Evil 4 and the cover 
 mechanic is ripped from Gears of War. However what Uncharted does is take each of these aspects 
 and implements each of them brilliantly to make an action packed and immersive adventure title 
 with visuals to die for.
  
  The story starts with the main character Nathan Drake, the supposed descendent of the legendary 
 English privateer Sir Francis Drake. He starts on a quest for El Dorado using hidden clues left 
 to him by his afore mentioned relative. Along the way Drake will run into various pirates and ruthless 
 business men willing to kill him to beat him to the gold. The wise cracking Drake will not be alone 
 in his fight though, he will also have the beautiful Elena Fisher, a tv host sponsoring his hunt, 
 and Sully, a lovable rogue, also known as Drakes partner.
  
  At it's core, Uncharted is a third person shooter with cover mechanics and platforming sections. 
 During the sequences where Drake is attacked by pirates he will need to fight back. He gets to 
 hold one small firearm (pistols, uzis, magnums) , one large firearm (assault rifle, shotgun, sniper) 
 and a maximum of four grenades. These weapons can be swapped on the fly during battle as required 
 and there are plenty of weapons scattered around not to mention that any enemy killed will drop 
 their weapon for Drake to scavenge either to use or for extra bullets. 
  Pressing 1 takes Drake from his normal third person running around view into an over the shoulder 
 view like in Resident Evil 4 for better aiming, though you can fire blind should you wish. Other 
 then that Drake can also take refugee behind... any flat low objects for cover at the press of a 
 button at which he can also pop out of and fire, or shoot blind or even throw round grenades.
 
  
  Flying fatality is not the only option available however, fists, drop kicks and neck breaks are 
 also good options to take. Sneaking up behind enemies who don't see you will allow Nathan to do 
 a "stealth kill" which will vary depending on where they are standing, or, you can just beat ten 
 bags of hell out of them in a fair fight using several combos mixing between square and triangle 
 which are visually satisfying.
  
  Intense firefights and beat downs are not all Uncharted has to offer however. As Drake travels 
 through various ruins there are inevitably puzzles to solve and platforms to traverse to continue 
 on with the story. Most of these puzzles are not to hard, but are entertaining to play through. 
 The platforming sections though have some problems. Firstly, at a couple of points through the 
 game it's hard to actually see where the next ledge is you need to jump to is, not because of the 
 camera, but because of the scenery, the ledge you can grab and a random back drop were occasionally 
 hard to distinguish, causing lemming drop death. The second being the random quick time events, 
 they happen very rarely and tend to not be obvious with the button coming up so your first time 
 through they will cause deaths which are pointless really, but both of these problems are few and 
 far between, and the checkpoints and jumping are very forgiving so even when Drake is pushing up 
 the daisies it's not frustrating.
  
  The graphics to this game are simply amazing. The backgrounds are lush, detailed and colourful 
 with some amazing looking backgrounds with U-boats, jungles, ruins, catacombs etc. The facial expressions 
 and character animations are also fantastic with a surprising amount of variety to boot. Even more 
 impressive is there is almost no loading to the game. I mean one load screen to start the game 
 then it just streams, even the cutscenes are Instantaneous and there are no installs either proving 
 what a good developer can really do with the PS3. If I had to mention a flaw, it would be that 
 there is occasional screen tearing (and by that I mean twice in 3 play throughs) .
  
  The voice acting to Uncharted is a perfect partner to the fantastic facial animations. Each voice 
 fits each character perfectly really helping to immerse into the atmosphere and the music is no 
 different with some almost epic slightly Indiana Jones music for the action and slightly moodier 
 more broody tones for the exploring. Perfectly atmospheric.
  
  Uncharted is however a short game, maybe 10 - 12 hours on your first play through, however there 
 are many unlockables to gather. Finding treasures hidden throughout the game, not to mention different 
 types of kills, and completing it on various hardness settings will unlock bonus making of features, 
 character costumes, artwork as well as slow motion, weapon select and other features. Uncharted 
 is also one of the few games that has been given a trophy patch for even more things to hunt down, 
 and even on my third play through I didn't get bored.
  
  Uncharted to sum up, is a game full of humour, action and beauty. It takes the best elements of 
 Indiana Jones and Tomb Raider to make an action adventure title that really every PS3 owner should 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temps567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves better than an 8.
  The games graphics are far beyond believable. The acton is awesome. Even though you find yourself 
 being in a gun fight for over 20 mins. tops (especially if you put the game on crushing mode.) 
 And the story is fantastic. GS says that the story doesn't make any sense but dont believe them. 
 All it is is just that the story has a few twist and turns. This game is very worth while. and 
 with the new trophy patch available, you'll be playing this game even more. Plus the difficulty 
 of this game is just right. I mean if you put this game on normal mode it is great. But if you 
 put this game on crushing mode or something like that ..... then yeah it'll get pretty hard.
  The story is pretty long with a large assortment of levels. I mean There is this one level where 
 you have to swim up the river rapids to save a your partner. Pretty interesting if you ask me. 
 So. All i have to say is get this game. Dont think...... just get it. It'll be worth your while. 
 And you'll thank me for what i've told you. So get this game. Even if you dont have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zqr123
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I would not recomend buying this game to anyone. It is a very short game (only took me 7 hours 
 to complete) with action heavy sequences in witch multiple times you will find yourself repeating 
 the same ones over and over again. The story is very dull and can barely keep your attention with 
 the basic consensus of (warning maybe some spoilers*) find a map lose the girl find the girl lose 
 the girl get the treasure hook up with the girl. Oh and also there is a bad guy mixed in there 
 somewhere. Bottom Line: Rent First, Buy Later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burock76
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  The first time I've played this game I immediately fell in love with the graphics (especially water) . 
 The game begins after you fing the tomb of your supposedly ancestor Francis Drake, only to find 
 a journal within the tomb. Then the action never stops. 
  The controls are easy to get used to, the cover-and-shoot style can get frustrating sometimes but 
 you always have the choice of run-and-gun though I would not reccomend it since the AI is not all 
 that stupid. 
  Now for the characters in game. Nathan Drake is the down to earth, sometimes clumsy, funny, ordinary 
 guy with no superpowers of any kind. This makes you love him even more. Some of the best and funniest 
 dialogues and cutscenes make this game a very entertaining journey. 
  Now that the trophy support is out people have returned to play it again and again. I have played 
 it 3 times before the trophy support and now playing it for the fourth time and I can't say that 
 I'm bored. 
  I strongly recommend you to play rhis game. A newborn classic in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasano5
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  the game is about a man (Nathan Drake) who goes to find the secret treasure of el dorado but the 
 treasure is not the only thing he have to find but he also have to find a way to save his life 
 from pirates led by a nathan's rival (Eddie raja) , two men (Gabriel Roman and Atoq Navarro) who 
 both want to get the treasure by any cost and flesh eating creatures that prevents him from getting 
 the treasure. He is assisted by his friends ( Victor Sullivan and Elena fisher) to get the treasure
 
  
  the characters are just great nathan is like an everything man, sully is like a man who needs help 
 more then helping, elena is a major person who changes nathan's life, roman is a wicked old man 
 who only thinks about himself, navaroo wants the whole treasure just for himself and Eddie wants 
 to kill nathan by any cost even the death of all his men
  
  the graphics are very good and they feel very realistic 
  the music is thrilling and makes the 
 game even more better
  there are a many weapons to chose from
  there are 61 treasures to find and many medals to get 
  there are 4 difficulties to to through 
 
  
  my score is a full 10 
  and i recommend you to get the game as it has many things to do and trophies that you can get will 
 make you feel proud of yourself 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0m4cruz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  [ Uncharted: Drakes fortune ]
  you start at a boat with a female journalist, u just digged your GrandGrandGrand father ( or more 
 Grands further :P ) and you open the chest showing a little chest and some rocks you open the little 
 chest and you see a diary showing about a great treasure, then you got attacked by some pirates 
 and you get safed by a friend in his plane.
  you play Nathan Drake, a cool guy...
  
  PROS
  i really love the design and graphics of this game theyre better then GTA IV and Call of 
 duty 4
  the voice acting is terrefic and the story is great !
  i love the gameplay, there are many check points, The game supports 47 (!) trophies and if you 
 finished the game the question is do you have all trophies and treasures ( there are 60 tresures 
 ) and theres a lot of humor in this game ( and violent words :P ) lots of weapons and there are 
 creatures ( i wont tell u more )
  later in the game u should play the german bunker when its dark its not scary but creepy :P
  
 
  
  Cons
  platform jumping can be hard, desert eagles enemys and grenade launcher enemys can be hard, when 
 ur ammo runs out.
  
  my score 9.5
  if you want to buy the game do it!
  ( i diddnt even finish the game just playin 2 days maybe 10 hours total but its rainy im no low-lifer 
 :P )
  
  Have FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themm
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I have totally beaten this game today. I collected all medals and trophies, beat it on all difficulties 
 and am here to tell you what to look out for. 
  
  First off, play the game on normal and just get through the story before you go treasure hunting 
 or medal winning. Some medals will be rewarded just through normal game play. The story's a nice 
 one too. Kind of old world mixed with the modern. The main character makes occasional jokes about 
 situations, but none really annoying. 
  
  Secondly, take breaks as this game can be considered short by most. I didn't even realize how far 
 I got when I was first playing it. I ended up doing about 11 chapters and I played it for about 
 3 hours or so. But it has great replay value for medals and trophies.
  
  Lastly, be prepared to get mad. Gamespot's right gunfights in this. There are too many enemies 
 sometimes. Shotgunners rush towards you, as well as others. You'll run out of ammo quickly, but 
 aim for the head, cuz thats the quickest way to handle them. But on my Crushing playthrough, I 
 found myself trying certain parts over and over again, some at least 15 times, just because they 
 had to be stupid with how they setup fights. 
  
  Overall, I'd say get this game as its good for plenty playthroughs and trophies of course. I picked 
 it up for trophies and just cuz I had nothing to play. I found it to be a hell of an experience 
 and I'm glad I bought it, you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  When Uncharted: Drake's Fortune was first revealed, I did not care too much for it. It looked like 
 a male led 'Tomb Raider' type game. It didn't help that the first trailer that I saw made the game 
 look some-what cheesy. With that, I had no intention on playing the game until I started to see 
 and hear more of it. I tried the demo, liked what I saw and I decided to pick it up. Nathan Drake's 
 adventure might a short one, but it was certainly a thrill ride from start to finish.
  
  In Uncharted, you play as Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter of sorts who is hired by Elena Fisher 
 to help her film a television documentary on Sir Francis Drake's tomb, which was rumoured to be 
 somewhere in the waters. Upon finding the tomb, which Nathan already believed, discovers clues 
 to the whereabouts of El Dorado, the fabled City of Gold and the true location of Sir Francis Drake's 
 body. They along with Nate's friend Sullivan set off to find this and along the way many different 
 things happen to them. 
  
  Uncharted plays a lot like both Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider. It is similar to Prince of Persia 
 thanks to the large amounts of climbing and jumping you will have to do throughout the game; while 
 the action and adventure is similar to that of Tomb Raider and even Gears of War. When you're not 
 climbing walls, trees or buildings you will be solving puzzles and shoot wave upon wave of bad 
 guys. The pacing is done right, but throughout the game you might be surprised at how difficult 
 it is for you to get to a certain location, only to find that the enemy is already there waiting 
 for you. It might seem weird, but taking its cue from Hollywood Movies, you just go with the flow.
 
  
  The game is extremely cinematic. You'll encounter many cut-scenes throughout the game which help 
 lead the story on. For the most part, while this is strictly fiction, there are only a few points 
 late in the game that the realistic nature of the game loses its credibility. Again, this is trying 
 to be an Indiana Jones type game (as were the Tomb Raider games) , so the discovery late the game 
 was expected.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely incredible. Considering this game came out in late 2007, 
 Naughty Dog Studios has made what I would say is still one of the best looking games to date. Metal 
 Gear Solid might want to fight for that title, but the games graphics, water, character models 
 and every possible environment both outdoor and indoor are extremely detailed and a sight to see. 
 You will often just want to peer around with L2 just to look at and absorb the scenery. 
  
  The sound is also well done. All the voice actors work well and I didn't have a problem with any 
 of them, including the stereotypical British Villain. It's sometimes often that a game that looks 
 great will suffer from characters that sound like they don't belong, but that is not the case here. 
 The outdoor environments sound great. Considering you are in the jungle, the sound of birds, animals 
 and the rustling of trees and leaves help set the environment. The in-game music is also another 
 positive aspect helping to add tension to hectic battles and incredible discoveries.
  
  There is very little that hurts Uncharted. Outside of the length of the game, which should only 
 take you about 8-12 hours to complete, there isn't much to complain about the game. Yes, there 
 are some frustrating moments here and there, but that is expected with this type of game. You will 
 encounter some points where Nathan fails to make an easy jump, either by under-jumping or going 
 over; you will die from head-shots, but thankfully there are plenty of check-points that your frustration 
 will only occur at a few key points. The last battle is a bit difficult but well done and the ending 
 of the game is satisfying. 
  
  Thankfully, with the recent inclusion of trophies and unlockables already included in the game, 
 there is some incentive to play through the game on multiple occasions. The bonus content is your 
 standard fare of character art and in-game additions, so you may want to play the game a second 
 or third time just for that content.
  
  I loved Uncharted. For me the length was great with at no point feeling like the game was leading 
 me on. If you were on the fence in the beginning, I strongly suggest you try it out and I am certain 
 you will enjoy yourself. I was too, but once I started playing, I couldn't stop playing and you 
 won't realize how quickly time flies. This is definitely the beginning of a great franchise with 
 Nathan Drake; hopefully Sony will not over-do it, but I am eager to see what is next for him. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: verbtex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a must have for PS3 gamers. Warning you right now to stop reading 
 this article if you don't want any spoilers. I will try to keep them pretty general, but hey, I 
 warned you.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's fortune is a phenomenal game about Nathan Drake, a self-proclaimed descendant 
 of Sir Francis Drake. Progressing through the game a little more, you figure out that Elena is 
 a friend who is shooting a show following the adventures of Nathan as he finds Sir Francis Drake's 
 coffin and retrieves a diary. After retrieving the diary, he heads to a local island where he finds 
 a map to an uncharted island. The rest from there is pretty self explanatory.
  
  My only complaints about this game are somewhat minimal. The First level is tricky for those who 
 aren't used to shooter games. It should have naturally eased it in, but it seems like it jumped 
 the gun, even on easy. The boss fight was disappointing. The enemies were tricky at times, making 
 you start an area over again. Some of the areas are too dark to see during the day.
  
  There are some great things about this game as well. Its a graphically stunning game, and is quite 
 possibly the best looking game out there on consoles. The comments that Nathan makes through out 
 the game are comical and realistic. He jumps, attacks, shoots, and walks realistically. The game 
 even registers when you get wet from walking in the water. The adventuring part is fun especially 
 jumping around in the jungle settings. 
  
  I'm not a huge fan of shooter games to begin with, but this game made shooting a little more appealing 
 to me and has led me on to wanting more. 
  
  Lets hope they make a second one. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartik24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  i wasn't sure about purchasing this game so i had borrowed it from one of my friends
  the story of the game got me gripped in the beginning so the game so i didn't put down the controller... i 
 managed to finish it in a day but that's possible only if your a vigorous player.
  its got a twisted unpredictable story that will keep you gripped and excited
  its got fabulous 
 environments and has very little frame rate problems. to keep it interactive there are a lot of 
 puzzles and there is a perfect balance between the action and adventure.
  i wouldn't call this a negative but the way the enemies are made is a bit funny their movements 
 and actions aren't polished.. but you'll get used to it it wouldn't matter later on.
  well one more thing is that just when you think that there isn't much to the story anymore is when 
 the next story beginnings so it gets you kicking back into the action.
  
  its a fabulous experience altogether
  its got a good element of humor. 
  no need to buy u can 
 rent it
  it has no online
  but if your a big time action adventure lover better buy it (i played it 4 times already!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerman91
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good. I liked all of the challenges for the trophies. They took a little time 
 to achieve but for achieving all of them which were relatively easy you receive a platinum trophy. 
 I would recommend playing it on hard right off the bat though. Because although its easy, it gets 
 kinda repetitive the more you play it. I was very glad once i got the platinum cause that meant 
 that i didn't have to play the story over again.
  
  The story for the background is interesting and keeps you entertained. The graphics were also pretty 
 good but sometimes they did take a little time to load. Plus the hunt for the treasures was interesting 
 cause that's what made up a large portion of the trophies. But after a while it got kinda annoying 
 looking for treasures in every corner. My advice for this part would be to use a guide so you know 
 where there at before you get there.
  
  So my final opinion on the game, its worth playing and is a game you should not go without! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonePwn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an awesome game! the gameplay is amazing... i love how you can jump everywhere you 
 want! the graphics are just awesome... there are so much detail in this game that will make your 
 eyes want to cry!
  
  the story is really cool... Nathan is looking for a famous piece of treasure in El Dorado that is 
 cursed and makes Nazis turn into zombie monster things...
  
  There are only a few things i did not like about this game.
  
  1. The loading (it takes for 
 ever to load...)
  
  2. How the game freezes in every mission.
  
  3. The ending sucked!!!!
  
  But overall its nice graphics and gameplay will make you want to 
 play this game over and over again!
  
  This game dissevers a 9.0!... oh wait... i forgot to mention... this game is super super short!!!! 
 you can beat it in 6 hours if you want to!!!!!!!!!
  but still.... its very nice.....
  
  Another thing i like about this game is the twists and turns! things you will never expect will 
 happen... and thats a good thing for me!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  So, I know that I'm a little late to the party with this title, given it's 2007 release, but I 
 thought I would review it now that it has been updated to include support for Sony's new Trophies 
 and many reinforcement junkies out there are wondering if the game is worth picking up now or playing 
 back through again. 
  
  Let's just assume that you have not played through it first. For all of those fans of the Tomb 
 Raider series, you will need to check this one out. There has not been an action/adventure title 
 released for a few years that sucked me in as this one did. With great production values and a 
 real sense of detail and fun, adventure gamers can't go wrong here. 
  
  Graphically, its great. Colors are rich and vibrant. The art design is top notch, and Naughty Dog 
 really took some consideration with it's locals and characters. The jungles, tombs, deserted colonies, 
 and other sets you explore are very compelling and add a natural drive to see what is next. There 
 is some texture tear and pop in occasionally, but performance is typically spot on. I appreciated 
 the character design, giving us a cool but fairly "every day joe" type in Drake, the player's character. 
 He's amazing in his ability to climb and jump like a monkey and handle weapons like he's in the 
 special forces, but his personality comes through in his movement (which is smooth and exciting 
 during platforming sequences) , and the lead female foil is great in that she is headstrong and 
 capable, yet still likable. Also, she's designed to look like a real young woman, without a huge 
 chest or other female enhancements gaming is so typically full of. 
  
  Sound design is a big plus for this game. The music is perfect, just like a respectable adventure 
 movie. It sets the tone but is unobtrusive. Gun fire, ambient noises, sound effects, and dialog 
 are delivered with impressive effects, with the characters only occasionally coming off too heavy 
 or silly. This only enhances an already decent story of exploration and discovery, one that Indiana 
 Jones would be proud of (until his latest movie, that is...)
  
  Control is rarely anything but spot on, and the game does a good job of showing you where you can 
 and should go without babysitting or showing you glowing arrows, or something equally annoying. 
 Jumping, shimmying, swinging, hanging, and shooting (often at the same time) feels and looks impressively 
 natural. Naughty Dog should be commended in making the game a good successor to action platformers 
 of yesteryear (I detect hints of Flashback and Another World here, along with Tomb Raider) including 
 some nods to their own franchises like Crash with the couple of forward running sequences. 
  
  All of these elements add up to a satisfying and surprisingly mature (that's mature as in sophisticated 
 , not boobies) game that should be played on the PS3, especially since the system is woefully light 
 on good exclusive games. 
  
  As promised earlier, I will address if you should go back and play back through for the trophies. 
 If you like collecting these things and boosting your Level on PSN, you have few alternatives anyway. 
 The update applied to the game also increases the difficulty of the game a little (not in a good 
 way unfortunately.) Enemies cause about 20-30% more damage in my estimation. This makes the already 
 frustrating firefights at the end of the game more apparent. There's nothing wrong with a challenging 
 game, but even on normal, the game makes you replay segments over and over until you get past the 
 next set of goons with guns, which can make playing through a second time more of a chore that 
 I'd like. Also, the few segments with poor choices for checkpoints is further highlighted. There's 
 more than one moment when I pass a doorway for the fourth time and ask: "why didn't they restart 
 me there?"
  
  But, the trophies are easy to collect if you play well enough, and getting the hidden treasures 
 are easier the second time through (if you don't use a walk through) . All in all, I'm enticed by 
 achievements on the 360, so of coarse I played back through, and didn't regret it. Many people 
 are complaining of Naughty Dog forcing you to play back through instead of giving them to you retroactively, 
 but I can't blame them or Sony, who needs to keep gamers busy during this drought in exclusive 
 content on the shelves. 
  
  So there you have it: a great action/adventure game that holds up rather well some eight months 
 or so after release, and now gives good reason to visit again. I have to say I'm looking forward 
 to what adventure Naughty Dog is taking Drake on next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Uncharted had a lot of hype and for good reason. The first screens of the game had Playstation 
 fans everywhere drooling all over their keyboards. Plus, fans of the developers, Naughty Dog, new 
 they were in for a treat and they were right. 
  
  Uncharted is one of those games, that you don't want to end. The graphics alone are absolutely 
 stunning. At some points (a lot of points) in the game, you will sit there and spin the camera 
 around and just take in the amount of detail, color, and realism that is all around you. The great 
 thing about the graphics is that the environments are so varied. Different parts of the game take 
 place in completely different environments. From bright forests, to dark ruins, even the shade 
 of the Sun streaming through the trees is truly a sight to be seen. 
  
  The story is engaging with great cutscenes and fantastic voice acting. The Naughty Dog team really 
 out did themselves with the over-the-top presentation. The game is very cinematic and very easy 
 to get enthralled in. Even the music is memorable and sounds like it belongs in a movie. 
  
  The gameplay itself stands out on it's own. The gunplay can be very strategic and the cover 
 system is intuitive and easy to use. The AI is good and there are four difficulty levels to keep 
 even the most season players on their toes. There are also driving sequences that bring a little 
 variety to the game and really show off the environments well, but they luckily don't overstay 
 their welcome. The other aspect of this game is the platforming. This part of the game is well 
 implemented and definitely has its difficult sections. It does, however, give you a sense of accomplishment 
 after completing a high climb. All in all, it's hard to get tired of the gameplay.
  
  I am currently on my fourth play-through and I am still in love with this game. Trophies will keep 
 you hooked, and you will still want to play it. If you have a PS3, this needs to be in your collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunlun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  August 16, 2008  Looking for action, adventure, and lost treasure? Look no further than the PlayStation 
 3 exclusive, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. This is a single player game that will take the player 
 through lush jungles, dark catacombs, speeding across the land in a jeep, and roaring through rivers 
 on a speed boat. It is mainly an action game with plenty of gunfights, but also involves some platforming 
 elements and puzzle solving.
  
  When starting a new game there will be three difficulty levels available; the standard Easy, Normal, 
 and Hard. After beating Hard, a new difficulty, Crushing, will be unlocked. The difficulty levels 
 are aptly labeled; starting on Normal is probably the best for newcomers as Easy difficulty seems 
 to be a little too easy.
  
  The character, Nathan Drake is the main protagonist and who the player will be controlling the 
 entire game. Two allies, Victor "Sully" Sullivan and Elena Fisher will help Nathan along the way 
 although they won't be there with him the entire time. Upon finding Sir Francis Drake's lost diary 
 in the ocean, Nathan, Sully, and Elena all go on the hunt for the lost treasure Drake writes about. 
 However, they are not the only ones going after the treasure An extremely large group (literally) 
 of pirates is also on the trail of the missing riches.
  
  The gameplay is outstanding with excellent shooting mechanics, intelligent artificial intelligence 
 (both enemies and allies) , and a good platforming concept. There is a cover system that the player 
 can use and will primarily be utilizing in a gunfight. The computer controlled opponents will try 
 to flank all the time and will throw grenades to get the player to move out of their cover spot. 
 Elena and Sully actually damage enemies as they try to help and occasionally kill them. There's 
 no need to look after them either as neither can die, but they won't go running around killing 
 all enemies in sight as they will stay under cover and try to avoid gunfire and grenades as much 
 as possible. Platforming in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is good for the most part. The game is rather 
 linear so there is usually only one way to get somewhere. Jumping around from one spot to another 
 or flinging Nathan across ledges is very easy and does not have to be exact. Puzzles are easy to 
 solve and the game actually gives hints so the player will never be stuck for long. The result 
 of the smooth platforming and easy puzzles results in fast paced gameplay and it will usually take 
 about nine hours to complete the first play through.
  
  There are unlockable rewards that are based on a medal system that awards points for meeting the 
 requirements for specific achievements such as collecting a certain amount of treasures or killing 
 enemies in specific ways. These rewards can be used in the next play through unless it's on Crushing 
 difficulty for the first time.
  
  The storyline is excellent for a video game. It will keep the player engaged for the entire length 
 of the game and even has a little "twist" at the end.
  
  The downsides to the game depending on who the player is are the absolutely massive amounts of 
 enemies to deal with and the easy to solve puzzles. It can get frustrating fighting off wave after 
 wave of enemies, especially on Crushing difficulty it can get tricky.
  
  The graphics in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune are terrific. The environmental details to the details 
 on the characters are done almost flawlessly. There are sometimes pop ins, but nothing severe. 
 Simply said, the graphics are some of the best ever seen in a video game. The sound in sound in 
 the game is quite good as well. The soundtrack really helps build the atmosphere the game tries 
 to create. Sound effects are pretty spot on and the voice acting is incredibly good.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune packs a ton of action in a stunningly beautiful game which will keep 
 players engaged from the moment the game starts till the very end. The game is a bit short, but 
 playing through a couple more times with the rewards can add some replay value to it. Anyone that 
 likes a good action adventure game will definitely enjoy playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune starts with Drake, a treasure hunter, Elena, a reporter, and Sully, 
 a guy Drake is in cahoots with, trying to find the lost treasure of El Dorado. Sir Francis Drake's 
 old journal that Drake found leads them to an Uncharted island but they get there after Roman and 
 Navarro, the villains also looking for the treasure. The levels are very nicely designed with some 
 of the most realistic graphics and landscapes in any game. The gameplay is fast paced with many 
 gun battles and fights. There is a variety of weapons that can be used to kill enemies including 
 a grenade launcher and a revolver. The controls take almost no time to learn. The dialogue is some 
 of the best I have heard and is very funny. The levels are open allowing for a lot of exploring 
 and finding treasures that are hidden around. The only downside is it gets repetitive killing the 
 same looking bad guys and there is some unrealistic material in the plot. Overall, this is a fantastic 
 fist installment in the Uncharted series and is great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalamplighter
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  I love this game. You play as Nathan Drake, an aspiring treasure hunter, with Chuck Norris-like 
 fighting skills. The graphics are absolutely astounding, where the first levels have you in a beautiful 
 rainforest, which then move to astounding ruins. The gameplay is great, with only about 10 guns, 
 there's not much choice. There are about 2 of each category: shotgun, pistol, assault rifle, high-caliber 
 pistol, and misc., commercial and military grade. There is also melee in this game, with brawling 
 and neck-snapping. The enemies are hard, though, having about as much health as you, which can 
 lead to problems in the later levels, not to give anything away, it turns to survival-horror. It 
 has great replay value, with trophies and rewards. The story is good, with 2 subplots and history 
 thrown in the mix. Sadly, there is no online/multiplayer/co-op. Anyways, if you're thinking of 
 getting this game, buy it. NOW.
  
  Rundown:
  Graphics: 10/10
  Gameplay 7/10
  Story: 8/10
  Replay: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game. It has a amazing story with loveable characters. The length is 8-10 
 hours. It's cool because for the pacing it's perfect. And you can get trophies so you will want 
 to replay the game. I have spent over 20 hours playing and I still want more. The graphics are 
 amazing. The only bumer is that there is no multiplayer. This game seems sooted for it as well. 
 There is screen tearing a texture popins. But you really have to be paying atention to notice these 
 minor flaws. Buy this game. All PS3 owners deserve it. And that really the review but I have to 
 keep typing Because I need at least a 100 words on the page. Carn't wait for Mirrors Edge this 
 Christmas. My next review will be the Darkness. This Review is  
 But I still need more characters boring so boring. long live the PlayStation!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Uncharted : Drake's Fortune is an action adventure that doesn't introduce a lot to the genre, but 
 has plenty of polish and is a joy to play.
  
  Naughty Dog have taken liberty with history, presenting a 'what if?' story. You play Nathan Drake 
 (Nate) , who assumes he is an ancestor of the explorer Sir Francis Drake (who supposedly had no 
 children) . As the game opens, you have been following a lead, and this sets the scene for traversing 
 around beautiful locales as you try to discover the whereabouts of El Dorado, which Nate suspects 
 was hidden away by his ancestor. You are aided by a sleazy but likeable companion, and a female 
 reporter who you leave behind but catches up with you later. Before long, you will encounter others 
 who know about the treasure and wish to retrieve it before you do.
  
  The first thing you will notice about the game is that it looks gorgeous. Environments are bright, 
 vibrant and alive. Foliage moves in the breeze, and leaves get kicked up by the wind. Everything 
 moves and acts in a believable way, including your character. Nate especially looks great in motion. 
 Animations are fluid, and movements and actions flow together seamlessly. Water effects are incredible 
 in the game, including it's effect on your character. Step in and out of water and your clothes 
 up to your shins will look realistically wet; walk in up to your chest, and only the lower half 
 of you is wet. Lighting is also superb, playing off all the trees, bushes, water, and everything 
 else in the environment. There is plenty of fine attention to detail, and it all combines to be 
 very convincing and immersive.
  
  One of the main aspects of the game is traversing through the levels, and the mechanics take their 
 cues from the likes of Tomb Raider and Prince of Persia. Nate jumps on ledges, can shimmy across 
 them, and slides down poles. While holding a suspended chain or rope against a flat surface, he 
 can also swing from side to side to gain momentum before jumping for another overhang. In an open 
 space the jump button does just that, but is contextual based on your surroundings, such as simply 
 climbing up a series of smaller ledges or making a smaller leap to a nearby ledge. The way Nate 
 animates differently based on context and proximity makes everything appear realistic.
  
  There is a close combat system. If you can get up close, you can punch your foes, and with a few 
 different button presses you can end up with a brutal combo. You are unlikely to use this often, 
 but it offers you a way to take down enemies if you find yourself out of ammo. You may be able 
 to use melee attacks against lone enemies by taking cover as you approach, but it is mostly ineffective 
 when facing multiple targets as you will be vulnerable while engaging in fisticuffs. Still, it 
 does look great when you deliver that uppercut or plant both your feet on a pirates sternum.
  
  Gun combat is how you will take down most of your enemies. Nate starts out with a pistol, and 
 is able to hold onto a small weapon (pistols and submachine guns) , a large weapon (assault rifles, 
 shotguns and launchers) , and grenades. None of the weapons feel particularly strong or weak when 
 compared to the others, and you can happily use your starting pistol for the majority of the game, 
 ammo permitting. Some of the weapons seem placed to be used only in the area that they appear. 
 Usually these will be picked up, their limited rounds fired, and then swap back to a weapon with 
 more reliable amounts of ammo. For example, sniper rifles will handily be lying against a wall 
 when a sniper or grenade launching enemy is peppering you with shots from a distance. As such their 
 placement feels artificial in the otherwise believable environments. Effective gun combat requires 
 two buttons; one to raise your weapon and have a reticule appear on the screen, and another to 
 fire. Nate can run and gun by simply hitting the fire button, which is useful in some situations 
 but is a lot less accurate. For the most part aiming feels good, but if an enemy gets up close, 
 it feels a little slow. Aiming a grenade will show you the expected trajectory, which you can adjust 
 with the Sixaxis, though this feels far less accurate than just using the analog stick.
  
  Unless you want to play risky and go gung-ho, the combat is supported by a cover system. This is 
 integrated well into the rest of the movement. If you are a short distance from cover when you 
 press the cover button, Nate will roll towards it. Once in cover, you can also roll towards other 
 cover if it is close enough. Raising your weapon while in cover will have you peek out and become 
 vulnerable. If Nate is dangling from an overhang, he can also pull his chest up over the edge and 
 use small arms, which makes cliffs effective cover. Some cover is destructible, but this does not 
 come into play often.
  
  Enemies will also use cover, and peek out to fire the same as you do. While I wouldn't call the 
 enemies particularly intelligent, they are reasonably effective. If you wait them out, they will 
 often leave their cover and approach, but stick to cover as they do. Lone enemies will rarely be 
 a challenge, as you can just aim towards their cover and wait for them to pop out, but multiple 
 enemies can cause problems if you aren't careful. As Nate takes damage, color starts to drain from 
 the world. When everything is black and white, you are very close to death, but staying out of 
 harms way will restore your health. Staying in cover is not guaranteed to be safe in the more open 
 areas, as enemies can and will flank you. Many are also happy to lob grenades in your direction 
 to flush you out.
  
  There are a few light puzzle elements, which are pretty simple, such as rotating statues based 
 on diagrams in Sir Francis' Drake diary, which you acquire early in the game. The cutscenes portray 
 the characters effectively, and the voice acting is top notch. The sound in general is excellent, 
 from the music that builds and swells during dramatic gameplay moments, to great firing and reloading 
 sounds, to the grunts of Nate as he stumbles after a fall. There are no generic sounds here; if 
 you've played this game for a few hours and you hear any of these sounds, it will be instantly 
 identifiable.
  
  Uncharted looks gorgeous, sounds spectacular, and for the most part plays great, but it isn't without 
 some frustrations. A drawback to how real and natural the environments look is that it can sometimes 
 be hard to determine what is background, and what is a ledge you can jump to. This is mitigated 
 by very frequent checkpoints; if you miss and die during any of the platform segments, you are 
 likely to be less than a minute away from retrying that section. The controls in the jet ski sections 
 also don't feel as good as the rest of the game, and I couldn't wait for them to be over. There 
 are a few quicktime events, but they are so infrequent that you will undoubtedly die when they 
 come up because they were so unexpected.
  
  My biggest complaint against Uncharted is that it is too linear. Traversing the environments and 
 clambering about feels and looks like so much fun; it's a shame there is almost always only one 
 way from point A to point B in any given section. Multiple paths and ways to achieve objectives 
 would have opened the game up a little more. For the most part the combat and platforming are distinctly 
 separate; there are a few sections where they are combined, but I wish these were a little more 
 plentiful. I also think the game could have stood to be a little shorter. The game does throw a 
 couple of curveballs at you later in the game, but you will have seen and experienced most of what 
 Uncharted has to offer in the first half of the game. While the gunplay feels good, there isn't 
 a whole lot of variety, so combat feels a little routine towards the latter part of the game.
 
  
  The game does have a Reward feature which is well implemented. As you unlock medals for completing 
 various tasks (which has been updated to give you trophies) it also unlocks new costumes, the opportunity 
 to spawn weapons, unlocks some making of featurettes, and more. Each item in the rewards menu requires 
 a certain number of points to unlock, and each medal is worth a number of points. It does add to 
 the replay value of the game, as the more lucrative weapon unlocks and features require high numbers 
 of points.
  
  Beautiful lush environments, convincingly real movement and solid gameplay mechanics make Uncharted 
 easy to recommend. It doesn't add much to the genre, but what it does do, it does with a high level 
 of polish.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtickner
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Well I don't really know how to structure this review and can't be bothered attempting any act 
 of literary genius so I'll structure it into sections. Fun and original.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  We all know the visual presentation Naughty Dog granted us with Uncharted is impressive. The graphics 
 and overall presentation in this game seriously kicks arse Famous among PS3 owners for finally 
 giving them their own game to brag about and inFamous (oooh, see what I did there?) among X360 
 owners for giving the PS3 a game that actually looks outstanding. This games graphics really did 
 cause quite a stir among some forum communities but I really don't give a **** about that. It really 
 was awe inspiring to fire up Uncharted for the first time and digest its awesomeness. The jungles 
 looked amazing, the caves and tombs looked amazing and, the water... Yes the water! The water was 
 outstanding, and the fact that Drake isn't blessed with god-like water repellant made the water 
 in this game look and feel even better. The animation shouldn't go unrecognized either. It's superb. 
 Every action flows so smoothly, and looks great. With all that being said, the visuals in this 
 game aren't perfect, but what games graphics are? I've read quite a bit about texture pop-in. Truthfully, 
 I noticed this twice. I'm currently on my third play through of this game so that makes my two 
 texture pop-in experiences even less significant.
  
  My only real problem with the graphics are the explosions. They look odd, or, they look cool, they're 
 just small and, **** I don't know. Play the game, you'll know what I mean.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound, in the few reviews I've written sound is always the weakest part. I honestly don't know 
 what to write.
  
  Explosions sound good
  Guns sound good
  People sound good
  Ambient sound is good
  Music is good
  
  That's basically any sound section on my reviews 
 with a few fancy words thrown in to make me look smart. I'm not lucky enough to have a behemoth 
 7.1 sound system or any fancy audio weaponary beyond my trusty ol' 2.1 Creative I-Trigue 3400s. 
 These are the speakers my PS3 outputs its sound through, and playing through Uncharted everything 
 sounded all sweet 'n' dandy to me.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in Uncharted combines Tomb Raider type puzzle and adventuring with cover and shoot 
 gameplay that is often coupled with Gears of War. This works for me and a lot of other people. 
 Some others say that the game doesn't flow too well. I can see what they mean and I agree to an 
 extent. The gameplay does shift from puzzle to shooting the whole way through and it makes it more 
 obvious than some would like. But, most games with this type of gameplay are like this. I recently 
 played through Tomb Raider Anniversary and while the game is focused more heavily on the puzzle 
 aspects, the enemies do come in waves and the gameplay does make obvious swaps, just not as frequently 
 as Uncharted. This does not break the game or wreck it. Far from it, Uncharted is still a highly 
 enjoyable game with its flaws just like any other.
  
  Naughty Dog made the wise move of including something more addictive than methamphetamine in this 
 game and it has kept me coming back. They included treasures! Yes! Treasure in an adventure game! 
 The thing with this treasure is that the more you collect, the more you unlock and yes, there is 
 a lot to unlock. So get hunting.
  
  They've also included another handful of methamphetamine with X360 type achievments and now, PS3 
 like trophies with little in-game challenges. Reminiscent of those found in Resistance: FoM. Completing 
 these challenges also unlocks stuff. More stuff. With the addition of all this extra stuff to do 
 Naughty Dog have made this games re-play value huge and with Trophies due for this game via a patch 
 in mid August it will bring another fistfull of Uncharted methamphetamine for all us Uncharted 
 fans out there.
  
  TILT?
  
  Tilt... What the **** is tilt? OVERALL
  
  Overall Uncharted kicks arse. If you own a PS3 and don't have this game you are probably allergic 
 to pure awesome on a disc. BUY IT NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ateamorig
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so i know the game has some flaws... on high difficulty i actually had to stop drinking beers 
 to get through it... but who doesn't like escaping to a lush tropical environment to kill some jack 
 a**** and find some treasure. Plus i replayed it a couple of times and still found it entertaining. 
 Overall the game is fun and simple for a casual player. In other words i would equate it to an 
 excellent summer read. I know the tropics have been done before (i. e. far cry) , but i still find 
 them a nice break from some of the futuristic, although great, direction some games have gone in. 
 I think there is potential for a sequal, but some new platforming and game mechanics would be really 
 necessary. 
  
  The only minor gripe i have is that that after 3 or 4 replays i still can't find all the treasures. 
 Oh well i guess rich is rich... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I am going to start, trophies aren't everything but they do make a good game better and they add 
 replay value. Uncharted has 3 major points of game play. Gunfighting, platforming, and Puzzle solving. 
 amount of time spent on each is just about in that order. 3rd person shooter, meaning over the 
 shoulder. the good thing about this game, you can switch sides, helps with corners. controls work 
 well, graphics are pretty good. as far as guns, I think their are only like 12 or 13 different 
 guns. AI is pretty fair matches the level of different. your playing on. the platforming is filled 
 with wall climbing vine swinging cliff diving and more. Indiana Jones. It took me 7hrs and 45 min 
 to complete on hard, granted this was after my run on easy to unlock most of the trophies. All 
 together, if you were to make this game a shooter, platform, or puzzle. this game would not have 
 made it... But all together all aspects of this game made it a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the first game brought to the PS3 by developers Naughty Dog, the 
 company responsible for the Crash Bandicoot series, and what a debut it is!
  The game pits you as Nathan 'Nate' Drake, ancestor of legendary explorer, Sir Francis Drake. Discovering 
 Sir Francis Drake's diary leads Nate to an island where the golden city of El Dorado is supposedly 
 hidden. However, things get complicated when the diary falls into the wrong hands, and Nate has 
 to find El Dorado, while he competes with greedy mercenaries who are after it too.
  Needless to say, this results in firefights, all of which are solid, and the firing mechanic works 
 well. The enemy AI is agressive, but responds well to your actions as Drake. The number of weapons 
 is relatively small, but varied ranging from pistols, to machine guns, to shotguns, to sniper rifles, 
 and all of these weapons work well and feel like they should.
  Also, to find El Dorado, Drake must do a lot of climbing, jumping over ledges, shimmying, swinging 
 from vines etc., and this section of the game is solid. It is the best platforming engine I have 
 seen in a game for a long time. The game even brings the player into the cutscenes. When Drake 
 needs fast reactions to avoid a trap/falling rocks/etc the game will prompt you to press a button, 
 giving you only a few seconds to save Drake from being crushed, and to save you having to start 
 the section all over again.
  Overall, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a well rounded platformer and 3rd person shooter, and manages 
 to blur the line between the two genres with ease. Put simply, if you own a PS3, you really should 
 own Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The other day I drove out to a state park about a half hour from where I live, and did some hiking. 
 It was awesome because you get that sense of discovery that is kind of missing in some of the more 
 well-known places, and Uncharted is amazing because it captures that feeling in a video game. I 
 haven't felt this inspired by a game's scope and setting since the first Prince of Persia (not 
 the second or third) . The people at Naughty Dog knew exactly what they wanted to deliver, and they 
 succeeded: a game that continually blows your mind every time you turn a corner. There are plenty 
 of games that shoot for a similar goal, but they come up short in that the game usually consists 
 of only a couple really cool and interesting areas scattered about against a backdrop of dull gameplay. 
 You know, maybe you'll fight a boss at the summit of some giant mountain, but the next moment you're 
 trudging through an unoriginal cave or temple. There's none of that here. There's some superb level 
 design here.
  
  And the graphics are stunning as well- easily the best I've ever seen, on any console (although 
 I don't play PC games) . The water, lighting effects, sprawling vistas and character animation are 
 all incredible. I don't know how they managed to cram so much detail into one game, but they did, 
 and hearing the recent comments from Naughty Dog stating that they've only utilized 30-40% of the 
 PS3's capability thus far only adds to the amazement. The music is really good too, although I 
 spent too much of my time lost in the game's visuals, so the score seemed pretty subtle. The voice 
 acting is very realistic and well delivered by the actors, meshing perfectly with the well choreographed 
 cutscenes.
  
  I'm a big fan of third-person shooters (1st person, not so much) , so Uncharted was right up my 
 alley. The cover system works effectively and the guns are varied and have a solid feel to them. 
 One complaint is that it takes a lot of bullets to kill these pirates, but it never effected me 
 to the point of disrupting the flow of the action. The enemies are smart, too. On more than one 
 occasion I found myself camped behind cover and taking my time, only to discover that the pirates 
 were flanking me. 
  
  The story is competent- not quite exceptional, but adequate- with some really good character development 
 and nice plot twists to keep me interested. In other words, I'm looking forward to the inevitable 
 sequel (and wondering where it will take place) . But I have to say, the conclusion was satisfying 
 but that final boss battle was pathetic. Obviously thrown together at the last second, but oh well, 
 it doesn't change my opinion of what is one of the best games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumg339
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, honestly, is probably the best action / adventure game i've ever played.
 
  There are twists and turns in the fantastic storyline around every corner.
  Making the game all that much better is the newly added trophy system which is a great addition 
 to the game, gaining tropies involves you having to try new ways to kill your enemies, getting 
 to hidden locations to find pieces of treasure.
  While you're fighting alongside or exploring with the AI's in the game, Sully and Ellena, they 
 don't just soften up the enemies firing one bullet every five minutes or just hint to where to 
 go next, they shoot to death the pirates i miss and they're quick to help you open a gate or find 
 where to go next.
  Uncharted has spectacular graphics which you can see very clearly as the rocks crumble from under 
 you hands as you travel across the side of a cliff against the stunning jungle background.
  Some bad points of the game are that the game is quite short, but other than that i cant think 
 of any bad points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game looks really nice, and because it looks nice you feel immersed into the story and want 
 to keep going until it ends. When it does end, you feel sad, but then you remember how fun it was. 
 Uncharted brings a unique experience, as in it's not like it hasn't been done before, but they 
 took elements from games that HAVE been done before and combined them to make an excellent action, 
 adventure game. In Uncharted there are basically three different gameplay elements: 1. gunplay, 
 this is your main combat element, run and gun, hide and shoot, Gears of War meets Tomb Raider, 
 2. Melee combat, the secondary combat element that is fun to have, but is not used as much as gunplay.... at 
 all, and the 3rd element, traversing the terrain, whether it is an extra large cliff, or just another 
 minor inconvenience, this element has been taken from Tomb Raider and combined quit nicely. Again 
 the graphics make this experience absolutely amazing. The physics in the game are done well so 
 that it makes everything look like it is moving due to your presence. This game is a must have 
 for PS3 owners. My one criticism is that it is a little short, but hey, it's no reason not to get 
 it. If you have a PS3 you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  FROM THE MULTI-MILLION SELLING GAMES STUDIO, NAUGHTY DOG.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is game for the FPS Fans out there who really want to take advantage 
 of the High Definition experience on the exclusive; 
  Playstation 3. 
  
  A 400-year-old clue in Sir Francis Drake's coffin sets YOU, a modern-day fortune hunter, Nathan 
 Drake, on an exploration for the fabled treasure of El Dorado.
  
  But stranded on a forgotten island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, Nathan's search turns deadly. 
 YOU are hunted by Mercenaries, outnumbered and outgunned, YOU and YOUR companions must fight to 
 survive as they begin to unravel the terrible secrets of the mysterious island...
  
  This has said to be a:-
  
  1. A pulse-pounding blend of exploration, action and adventure.
 
  2. To discover a world alive with intrigue and mystery, with a plot to key you guessing at every 
 turn.
  3. And lose yourself in stunning exotic locations, filled with intense shoot-outs, puzzles and 
 high speed chases.
  
  This has to be one of Playstation's BEST!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waferlawrence
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  If you have a PS3, let me just say, add this PS3 exclusive to your collection AsAP! 
  
  Also, I wanted to say, I'm trying out a new format to my reviews, if you've ever read any of them 
 before... which you probably haven't... then you may notice the difference. 
  
  This game pits you as an adventurer following the path laid out by your anscestor who was looking 
 for an old treasure. You pick up the path in present day based off a few clues that have been passed 
 along your family.
  
  You have several competitors, and they're ALWAYS much better equipped than you. But you use skill, 
 knowledge, and pure heart to overcome these adversaries.
  
  I've read some reviews (Gamespot's) that said the platforming may be too forgiving and the storyline 
 is underdeveloped. I have to whole heartedly disagree. It's by no means the best story of all time, 
 but it trumps a good 90% of the games of the past, and probably 95% of current generation games. 
 And with some rather challenging combat, I probably died just as many times with the platforming 
 as I did the combat.
  
  There's some room for improvement, and the ending was a little too... small I guess. But the game 
 i extremeley solid. 
  
  Gameplay - 9.0
  Platforming 99% of the time is solid and fluent. Some puzzles are engrossing, some seem a bit like 
 busy work (do I really need to go through a mini game like system to open a hatch on a U-Boat?) 
 but ovrall, I love the puzzles and platforming.
  
  The combat makes sense, and on the higher difficulties is very hard, but when you think about it, 
 it's some of the most innovative AI I've ever had. The guys with shotguns will try to flank you. 
 the snipers will stay back. The handguns and automatic guys will try to cover the shotgun guys 
 to come get you. They'll chunk grenades at you if you sit there too long. They'll rush you if you're 
 hurt. But sometimes, it is overwhelming. But hey, you're one guy trying to take out 10-15. It's 
 supposed to be hard!
  
  Graphics - 10
  Hard to give tens. But show me a better looking game. If it's better looking, I garuntee you it 
 wasn't made before Uncharted. It fully takes advantage of te great PS3 hardware and makes you happy 
 you picked the system up. Then, as praised the the Gamespot review, the attention to detail makes 
 me want to hange that 10 to an 11. You stuble when the ground is uneven. You wince when a bullet 
 grazes by. You dive in the water, you come out looking like you just got out of the water. 
  
  Sound - 8.5
  It's good for most moodsetting, but they cold be a little more fitting at times. 
 The end could have used a could dose of epic music.
  
  Value - 9.5
  It's a pretty good value. There's a lot of replay. People played the crap out of this game, trophies 
 came out, and they were willing to do it again. Plus, it's not expensive new anymore and it's a 
 bargin used.
  
  Tilt - 9
  This game is PS3 owner's firstshot at a platnium trophy. The reward system makes you wanna earn 
 all that anyway. You unlock enough things, and you can pop a weapon up, or turn the main cahrecter 
 into a pirate. It's amazing. Then why a 9? No online : ( No multiplayer : ( Maybe they didn't do 
 it because it would have taken away from the single player, which if that's the case, I should 
 keep my mouth shut.
  
  Online/Multiplayer - N/A
  
  What would Wafer change?
  This is my newest feature here, new format and what not :-P
  
  Well, for one, I would have 
 probably tried to do somesort of multi player online deal. Not everything has too be combat. Some 
 co op missions, maybe just a coop compaign. It would have to be invovative, so maybe a sequel is 
 working on that aspect. I'd scratch this project in a secondif it maintained the great gameplay.
 
  
  Less Mini timing games for small tasks (like opening a hatch on a U-Boat) . 
  
  A pick up on the music during critical times.
  
  A few more weapons, there's a lot, but some 
 of them are a little too similar. So maybe not more, just more varied.
  
  Try to implement some stealth. If I could have snuck through some of these battles, would have 
 been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korerand5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best on PS3. Beautiful graphics, Beautiful , game-play and Beautiful story. 
 The voice acting is some of the best in a game i've ever played. If there was ever a game crying 
 out to be made into a movie this is it. The game-play is perfect, not too much to be over complicated 
 and just enough to keep us entertained. It's scary how satisfying it is to get past the bit you've 
 been dying at 5 times in a row. The reward aspect is enough to want you to do a second playthrough. 
 There is 60 treasures to find, for every fifth one you find you get a reward, like being able to 
 choose any weapon in the game from the pause menu. other rewards are being able to choose different 
 costume for the main character, you can even choose enemy costumes. Render select where you can 
 play the game in black and white or flipworld where the gameworld is mirrored from right to left. 
 There are lots more rewards to unlock and lots more ways to unlock them, like getting 100 head 
 shots and killing 3 men with 1 grenade.
  The shooting is perfect with very precise aiming, althought free-aim is hard to use it's still 
 effective. The transition between action and puzzle solving is very cleverley done. the puzzle 
 solving is easy enough like pushing the right stones to open doors and shooting barrels to make 
 a path.
  If I had one problem with this game it would be the fact that it is too short. Uncharted would 
 benefit form 3 or 4 more chapters. I doubt it very much, but maybe naughty dog could make some 
 downloadable content for the PSN. 
  
  Overall I'd say don't bother renting this game just go out and buy it. I guarantee you will like 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unhollykilla
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Just joking. This game is everything but bad. This game has everything to make it a classic (even 
 thought it has no online. I mean i know it's hard to make online for a game like this, but they 
 still could of made something.) Uncharted Drake's Fortune, first of all has amazing graphics, mabey 
 even the best so far on the Ps3. The graphics make the game seem very realistic and intense. It 
 seems as thoug the alpha dog worked very hard to make this game outstanding graphic-wise. Now backing 
 up the graphics is the gameplay. The gameplay is just as good. You don't have to stupidly press 
 the same button all the time or anything like that. This is a fun adventue game where you can either 
 hunt down enemies with a gun, or battle them down with sick fighting combos. The storyline is very 
 intense and makes you want to keep playing and playing. 
  I'd say that the only downfall of this game is the ending. I wont give any spoilers. I have to 
 say I both didn't expect the ending and like it. It just didn't seem like the type of game to have 
 that sort of an addition. 
  Overall Uncharted Drake's Fortune is an outstanding game that is a must buy for any action adventure 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game fro the trophy support but i really wish i could have bought this game last 
 year.
  
  Let me start by saying the graphics are beautiful, NOT joking, ive never seen great jungle graphics 
 like this except in Crysis, and the water visuals are more than stunning.
  
  Enemy AI is great specially in harder modes, they are thought to kill and it can be frustrating 
 at times but rewarding. The enemies take cover, trow grandees and try to flank you sometimes all 
 at once. Gamestop is kinda right about the difficulty and how it can be hard at times i mean really 
 hard. But it all shows how though the game is and it expects nothing less than perfect shooting.
 
  
  The story is extremely addictive, from the first cut seen to the last the game keeps you wondering 
 and expecting more more and more. Some of the small things are not clear and yes it leaves some 
 small ends but the story ends how it should and it leaves you wanting a sequel .
  
  Over all the game is great, shows the potential of Naughty Dogs team and the power of the PS3. 
 A must have for all action fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I love naughty dog! They've created a few crash games, and those crashes were my favourites. The 
 JAK series wasn't my favourite, but it was ok. NOW!!! Uncharted is even better, than how crashes 
 was!!! MUCH BETTER!!! It's funny, it's exciting, it's great! And IT'S GODDAMN BEAUTYFUL!! The voice 
 acting is one of the bests of all time, so there's really nothing bad, I can say about this game! 
 Then why it's only 9.0? There are little graphical bugs, and it's even a little too short and easy. 
 That's all!
  
  Graphics: 10/10 OH MY GOD!!
  
  Sounds: 10/10 The musics are great, but the voice acting is more than perfect! :D
  
  Controlls: 
 7/10 The shooting is great. But the camera is sometimes a little hard to control.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 Really exciting gameplay, interesting story, and great characters
  
  The Good: 
 The whole experience
  
  The Bad: Little graphical bugs, here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is simple in every way, but mostly -------- in a good way :) .... 
  
  The Good: Simple but effective tactics make the game very comfortabe especially in combat. 
  
 Holding 2 weapons and grenades at a time is definately something good in my book. The weapon handling 
 and sound combat sound effects are great :) 
  No confusion as to where you need to go and what you'll have to do next.
  Helpful and effective 
 hand to hand combat, perfect for close quarters combat.
  Small pieces of treasure are sparkly and I sometimes find myself wondering what I will collect 
 next lol
  Beautiful environment with colours that sooth the eyes
  The characters are sympathetic and make the cutscenes look more friendly and funny.
  
  The 
 Bad: Most of the time, you get into ambushes and you are highly outnumbered everytime, which makes 
 for frustration.
  Outragiously short which gives you less for what you pay for
  No replay value whatsoever, unless you're interested in Trophies
  Co-op mode could've been easily 
 included, but it wasn't
  
  Well there ya go, this is what I found to be evident in Uncharted, I hope I helped at least 1 person 
 with this :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev8stator_Ic9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  
  Graphics- Uncharted's graphics are absolutly amazing. Great water detail, textures, and enviroments 
 are the best thing about the game. Uncharted played on an HD TV is something else.
  
  Sound- Great voice acting, background sounds, gun sounds, and some nice music are another reason 
 to buy this game.
  
  Gameplay- Uncharted is focused on gun-play and platforming, both of which are done really well. 
 It go can from an intense firefight to climbing around a big cliff. You have many deadly weapons 
 at your disposal from AK47s to grenades. You also have a good cover system as well. Though you 
 often have to face waves of well armed and tough enemies. Dying a lot is frustrating at times at 
 least its challenging.
  
  Value-Uncharted packs a good 8 hour story which twists and turns and is suprisingly good and interesting. 
 It doesnt have much replay value though but you can still find treasures and do challenges to keep 
 you busy.
  
  All in all, Uncharted is a great game that all PS3 owners should get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikR08
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so when I first saw this I figured it would be just another Lara Croft kinda game... and I never 
 really liked those (apart from the second one) . But, after getting it last X-mas and having finished 
 it six times (almost 7 to get the newly added trophies) , I can say it truly is a masterpiece.
 
  
  So first, you have the immediate awesome visuals of the game. They are just purely brilliant. The 
 water is stunning, the lighting unmatched, and just the overall look is outstanding. And apparently, 
 according to recent news, Naughtydog have only used 30-40% of PS3's power to make these visuals 
 ;) Imagine an Uncharted 2!
  
  Next, we have audio. The score is one of my favourites from a video game (Oddworld being my VERY 
 favourite  D) . It suits the game very well. I also love the jungle/adventure themed soundtracks 
 you hear while exploring the dense forests and such. The guns (except the revolver possibly) sound 
 great and the voice acting is 5 star.
  
  The gameplay mechanics work perfectly well, despite what Gamespot says about 'uneven gameplay'. 
 It is a great mix of platforming, exploring and fighting that is tied together by a story good 
 enough for a Hollywood blockbuster. The cover system I personally like alot more than other games 
 such as Gears of War for reasons I can't explain (just play and find out) and it is really easy 
 to use and get used to. The game lets you both 'run n gun', as well as 'stop n pop'.
  
  Now lets talk extras. The game is LITTERED with cool and interesting quirks that are made available 
 as you collect more of the 60 treasures placed throughout the world. As you collect more, better 
 extras such as new costumes and a weapon selection menu open up to you. There are also some neat 
 rendering modes such as a black and white filter that make it just that little bit more awesome. 
 And let's not forget about the recently implemented trophy system.
  
  I also should mention that the cutscenes (using motion capture technology) are very well done too. 
 Those, along with the great voice acting really help the game fell more like an epic movie.
  
  So overall, after considering everything, I think this game deserves a 10. I feel as though 
 there are no major errors at all, and I reckon that it is one of the most enjoyable modern day 
 titles out there.
  
  Thanks for reading ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  uncharted was one of the best 1p games i have ever played, adventure is awesome the platforming 
 and ledge jumping is perfect the shooting is amazing its 3rd person duck and cover game play kind 
 of like gears of war..
  it's just a really fun game and one of my favorites on the PS3
  
  The Graphics are amazing the water looks like real the character models also look very real, the 
 enviroment looks like a lush jungle and everything about the game graphic wise was pushed through 
 the roof because it all looks awesome!
  
  if you into games like tomb raider or prince of persia then you would love this game it takes all 
 the stuff in those games and perfects it i just can't wait for Uncharted 2, but in the meen time 
 go out and buy Uncharted: Drakes Fortune and have fun with it!
  
  and here is some facts about the game form Wikipedia. org 
  
  The game opens with Nathan Drake 
 (Nolan North) recovering the coffin of the explorer and an ancestor of Nathan (as professed by 
 himself) , Sir Francis Drake, from the ocean floor, using coordinates inscribed on a ring in Nathan's 
 possession. The effort is paid for through journalist Elena Fisher (Emily Rose) 's company, who 
 is there to record the events for a potential blockbuster documentary. The coffin is empty with 
 no corpse, only containing a diary written by Sir Francis Drake, but points to the location of 
 El Dorado, the fabled city of gold where Sir Francis went to find the treasure, proving he faked 
 his death like Nathan had originally believed. A band of Indonesian pirates that have been tracking 
 Nathan attack Nate and Elena's boat. With the assistance of Nathan's friend, Victor "Sully" Sullivan 
 (Richard McGonagle) , they fight off the pirates and escape as Nate and Elena's boat blows up and 
 sinks. Nate and Sully fly to the island without Elena and find clues that El Dorado is not actually 
 a city, but a large statue of gold, and that the statue was removed long ago from where it was 
 kept. However, Nathan and Sully discover a long-abandoned U-boat nearby, with the dead crew's pockets 
 full of gold coins and a missing page from the Drake diary that points to a southern tropic island 
 where the statue was likely taken. However, before they can leave the island, Nathan and Sully 
 are accosted by Gabriel Roman (Simon Templeman) , a competitive treasure hunter whom Sully owes 
 money. He has hired the services of mercenaries led Atoq Navarro (Robin Atkin Downes) , an archaeologist 
 with knowledge of the statue. Nate refuses to help Gabriel, who then shoots Sully in the chest. 
 Nate attacks Navarro and at that moment the U-boat explodes from a torpedo Nate accidentally set 
 off. Elena then arrives to rescue Nathan and the two fly off in Sully's plane to where the statue 
 is believed to be held.
  
  As they near the island, their plane is shot down; both parachute to safety but are separated. 
 Nathan works his way through Gabriel's hired forces to an old fort where he spotted Elena's parachute. 
 However, he discovers familiar markings in the fort that are referred to by Drake's diary, and 
 realizes that he's on the right path to find the statue. Nate is soon captured by Eddy Raja (James 
 Sie) , an old rival of his and the leader of the pirates tracking him at the beggining of the game. 
 Eddy demands that Nathan assists him in finding El Dorado, to which Nate refuses. Nathan and Elena 
 are shortly reunited, and flee the fort from Eddy and his pirates. The two work their way through 
 a long-abandoned port city and discover, through a log book in its custom house, that the statue 
 did indeed pass through the port and was moved further inland to a monastery. At the monastery, 
 Nathan again uses the diary to locate hidden passages yet found by Gabriel, and end up reunited 
 with Sully, who survived because the diary blocked the bullet, and shows that he is still loyal 
 to Nathan despite appearing to work with Gabriel's men. With Sully staying in a secure location 
 to help Nathan by radio, Nathan and Elena find a series of maze-like passages below the monastery 
 leading to a large treasure vault. They soon turn up to yet another dead end, but find Sir Francis 
 Drake's body, assuming that he died on the island searching for the treasure. Before they move 
 on, they encounter Eddy running scared for his life, chased by mutated humans possessing incredible 
 speed and strength. Nate and Eddy cooperate for the time being but Eddy eventually falls to their 
 attack, allowing Nathan and Elena to escape, finding themselves in an abandoned German submarine 
 base built into the island. With no other way out but by restoring power to the base, Nathan ventures 
 alone into the base, encountering more of the mutated beings. After restoring power, Nathan discovers 
 an old movie reel, describing how the Germans during World War II had sought for the statue, but 
 too late learned that it carried some curse, changing the soldiers that were exposed to it into 
 the mutated beings. An aged letter written by Francis Drake found near the reel also reveals that 
 Drake did not seek the El Dorado statue as treasure but instead to prevent it from leaving the 
 island due to its effects, The letter also proves Francis Drake was killed by the mutants which 
 were in fact the Spaniard's who found the treasure first, mutated in the same way the German soldiers 
 were. Nathan knows now that he must make sure the statue never gets away from the island to prevent 
 its effects from spreading.
  
  Nate attempts to return to Elena, but finds her captured by Gabriel and Navarro. Nathan makes his 
 way out of the base, through both Gabriel's forces and the mutated beings, and catches up with 
 Sully as they defeat those that are covering Gabriel's escape through the old church in the monastery. 
 They find that Gabriel has indeed found the statue, and as they watch, Navarro urges Gabriel to 
 open up the statue to see what's inside, claiming that the real treasure lies within. Gabriel opens 
 it, revealing the mummy of El Dorado. Dust from the mummy drifts out of the statue and into Gabriel's 
 face, driving him mad and quickly causing him to enter an early stage of mutation, and is quickly 
 shot dead by Navarro. It is strongly implied that Navarro had planned this from the beginning, 
 and sought the statue not for the gold, but for the ability to sell the mutagen as a weapon. Navarro, 
 still holding Elena captive, uses a helicopter to lift out the statue despite Nathan's warnings 
 that the statue had wiped out the entire colony. Nathan is able to jump on to the statue before 
 the helicopter can get away. Navarro quickly discovers Nathan and orders one of his men to shoot 
 him. Elena uses the opportunity to kick the mercenary off the helicopter, resulting in the death 
 of the pilot as the mercenary fires his rifle wildly while falling. In stormy weather, the chopper 
 crashes onto the deck of the ocean tanker used by Gabriel, throwing both Nathan and Navarro some 
 distance away. Nathan then confronts Navarro in a final fight. There he eventually knocks Navarro 
 unconscious and runs to the aid of Elena in the burning wreckage of the helicopter that is hanging 
 dangerously off the edge of the ship. However, Navarro has regained consciousness and climbed to 
 his feet. Noticing that his legs have become tangled in the wire connecting the helicopter to the 
 statue, Nathan pushes the helicopter overboard, dragging both Navarro and the statue to the depths 
 with it.
  
  Moments later, Sully arrives on small speedboat, having escaped the island and taken several boxes 
 of treasure he found in the cave. Once aboard Elena reminds Nathan that because she lost her camera, 
 he still owes her a story. As the boat sails towards the horizon, Nathan assures her he will not 
 break his promise.
  
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has the player controlling Nathan Drake in a mix of 3D platform game 
 and a third-person shooter gameplay elements. The platforming elements are similar to games such 
 as Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time or Tomb Raider: Legend, allowing Nathan to jump, swim, grab 
 and move along ledges, climb and swing from ropes, and other similar acrobatic actions to make 
 his way along the ruins on the various islands that he explores. When facing enemies, the player 
 can use melee and combo attacks at close range to take out foes, or can opt to use weapons. Nathan 
 can only carry one pistol with/without one rifle at a time as well as a limited amount of ammo 
 per gun (each gun has its own max spare ammo) and grenades, but can swap either weapon out with 
 any other weapon of the same type on the ground (i. e., a Moss-12 Shotgun for a AK-47, or a Makarov 
 PM 9mm pistol for a fully-automatic pistol) . The third-person shooter elements are similar to kill. switch 
 where the player can have Nathan take cover behind walls, and use either blind-fire or covered 
 fire to take out foes, and more so to Gears of War, due to the lack of an actual health bar and 
 cover essential to success.
  
  The game also includes sections where Nathan must protect the jeep he and Elena are in using a 
 mounted turret, and where Nathan and Elena use a jet-ski along water-filled routes while avoiding 
 enemy fire and explosive barrels using weapons such as the M79 grenade launcher and the 92FS-9mm.
 
  
  Throughout the levels are 61 treasures that will glint momentarily at times to indicate their presence; 
 these treasures have no direct effect on gameplay, but collecting a number of these will earn "reward 
 points". Reward points can be earned also by completing certain accomplishments, such as achieving 
 a number of kills using a specific weapon, making a number of headshots, or using specific methods 
 of killing enemies. In subsequent playthroughs of the game, the player can spend these rewards 
 points to unlock special options, such as unlimited ammo or one hit kills. These reward points 
 can also be used to unlock Eddy's gun, known as his 'Golden Gun'. Besides weapons and game alterations, 
 the rewards points can unlock several concept art menus, 'making of' videos, and alternate costumes 
 for Nate, including the enemies that he faces.
  
  There are also several references to other Naughty Dog games, especially the Jak and Daxter series, 
 through examples such as the "Ottsel" branding on Drake and Fisher's wetsuits at the beginning 
 of the game and a Precursor Orb (which play a large role as currency during the series) which can 
 be found as a "Hidden" treasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear619
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted drakes fortune i must say really suprised me its a very well made game from the people 
 who brought you crash bandicute... the game is set in modern day world.. you play as nathan drake 
 an indeptenedent adventurer who claims to be the decendent of sir francis drake.... drake goes in 
 search for an ancient relic believed to be the lost city of gold... your supporting cast includes 
 sully drakes friend who seems to atract trouble ,and Ellena a news reporter who spends here time 
 either wineing beside or your damsel in distress... The story moves at a steadly with some exciting 
 twists near the end
  
  
  What can i say about the visuals absolutely stunning with much of the game taking place in a dense 
 jungle or in ancient ruins which is all in near photorealistic detail... the water trickles, plants 
 sway. The character models and movement is do by actors doing the scenes which is then recorded 
 and put into gameplay... the results are increible ,the emotions drake has u can tell just by looking 
 at his face its quiet amazing
  
  
  The gameplay is action packed. There are 2concepts that take up the running time in the game one 
 is leaping and monkeying from ledges, and swinging from vines. this part works well and it flows 
 smoothly from one motion to another...
  
  But the combat can be really difficult in some areas. it consists mostly of gunplay with drake using 
 shotguns, rifles and grenade launchers. Drake a preety frail guy a few shots and the colour stats 
 draining from the screen... but the pirates and mercenarys you face during the game can take some 
 amounts of bullets before dying. This is why headshots are important... i recommencd you use a pistol 
 which is far more accuray then anything other then a sniper... enemys also are very intellegent 
 and if you stay in the same positon for too long they will flank you
  
  
  
  It took me about 9 and a half hours to complete and it was a very entertaining time and the game 
 looks fantastic due to the motion-cap animation. If nothing else, Uncharted is a graphical showcase 
 for the PlayStation 3, and it dazzles the senses at nearly every opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnsey_123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an excellent games with few flaws. The story line is great (although can be a bit 
 less real near the ending) and the characters are very likeable. The only possible bad thing about 
 this game is that it's too short. Visually, the game is brillaint with nice colours and some great 
 scenerys. Cut scenes are good (using motion capture technology) and help make the story very enjoyable.
 
  
  I'd compare this to Tomb Raider but with less depth to it. The platforming aspect is brilliant 
 which makes you feel you are swiftly pulling off some great moves. Many people say the gun fights 
 are repetetive but I find them very fun. Some of the animations you see Drake doing during these 
 add a great touch. Difficulty has been a bit of an issue with this game however. It can seem a 
 bit harder than what you've set it on (medium seems like hard) . This may depend on the person playing 
 the game though. There is a built in reward system which has now been linked to the PS3 trophies 
 which is very good. The rewards you receive are worth while and some encourage more reasons for 
 replays of the game.
  
  For Playstation 3 owners, I'd say that this is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watson_twenty5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  So, you say you are looking for a PS3 exclusive with sharp visuals, genuinely funny comedy, explosive 
 action, and colorful characters? Well, sir, I have something special in store for you. It's so 
 special, in fact, that you may want to rain down heaps of money into my bank account to show your 
 gratitude [unto which I would not object] . The game I'm speaking of? Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. 
 You can surely add this to the hit machine that is Naughty Dog's library. I suspect that this trilogy 
 [that's their plan, anyway] will be another hit factory for them. What with Naughty Dog releasing 
 two highly successful trilogies already [Crash Bandicoot and Jak & Daxter] . Now! Onto the review 
 itself.
  
  CONTROLS:
  As you may suspect, this game controls beautifully. I would hope so as they are one of the few 
 masters of the platforming genre. So, if they mucked this up I would SERIOUSLY question why. The 
 setup is your basic 3rd person scheme. Left stick is all movement while the right stick is relegated 
 to camera movement. It seems that a lot of 3rd person games have problems with the camera either 
 getting in the way or just plain not working successfully. I will say that while you are on the 
 ground the camera rarely gets in the way of what you are trying to accomplish. More often than 
 not it would be due to user error and not the camera getting caught up on something. The only problems 
 I really had was when you get into the platforming elements themselves. For these instances the 
 camera usually pulls back to a more cinematic angle to permit you a better view of your immediate 
 surroundings. Now, 98% of the time this works without a hitch. Every once in a while, though, the 
 camera pulls out to an odd angle and you end up jumping in a direction in which you did not anticipate. 
 This can lead to some short term frustrations. Nothing too serious, though.
  
  GUNPLAY:
  This aspect borrows heavily from the Gears of War school of 3rd person shooters. In fact, it plays 
 just like that. The exception being that Nate isn't sluggish in his movements like Marcus Fenix. 
 You attach yourself to cover with the O button and pop out to shoot with L1. The aiming reticule 
 itself is a little circle in the center of your screen. I almost wish it was simply a dot [akin 
 to Max Payne] as the circle sometimes makes it difficult to properly line up a headshot. Otherwise, 
 the reticule works well and more than suffices in allowing you to hit your intended target. All 
 the weapons feel proper and seem to have some considerable weight to them. Overall, the gunplay 
 was handled in such a way that you'd never have guessed that Naughty Dog hadn't made a 3PS in this 
 style before.
  
  ATMOSPHERE:
  The atmosphere is absolutely awe inspiring. Literally,  
 Seeing as how most games nowadays opt for the "next-gen" shades of gray and brown. It is truly 
 refreshing to see such a vibrant and colorful world brought to life. It really makes you wonder 
 what's so next-gen about brown? A colorful environment with the level of detail that ND has brought 
 to the table is what makes this a real next-gen title. The leaves have that "waxy" look to them. 
 Wet rocks look, well......... wet. Nate's clothes look as hardened and worn as he does. The light 
 and shadows in this game are remarkable. I could go on and on but I think you get the idea. This 
 is a fully fleshed out world. One that makes you think, "this could actually be happening somewhere". 
 It's that good.
  
  SOUND:
  I have my stereo hooked up to my PS3. No 5.1 Surround here. So, I can't speak for that. But the 
 sound coming from the two moderately sized speakers in front of me definitely lets me know I'm 
 in the jungle. From the far away bird squawks, the thump of Nate's feet on different surfaces, 
 the different weapons you fire throughout the game. To the ringing sound you hear when those damn 
 grenade launcher pirates shoot a round too close to you. Everything sounds wonderful. An aural 
 orgasm, if you will. Well, maybe not that extreme, but it's pretty damn good. I'll leave it at 
 that. The voice acting in this work of fiction is superb. Right up there with the Metal Gear Solids 
 and God of Wars. Completely different feel than the previously mentioned, but you know ND expected 
 something worthy of the big screen. Their choice of Nolan North as Nathan Drake is a testament 
 to their craft. I couldn't imagine hearing any other voice coming out of the main character.
  
  SUMMARISATION:
  If you're looking for a title that's a feel good almost buddy actioner, then 
 you've really got no other choice. This game is the movie that the latest Indiana Jones should 
 have been. Treasure hunting, explosions, pirates, commandos, monasteries, tombs, jet skis, fisticuffs, 
 and a really witty dude. If you're a PS3 owner you CANNOT miss this title. At least rent it if 
 you're unsure of a purchase. You'd be doing yourself a great dishonor to miss out on this one. 
 Don't listen to the three naysayers out there in the forums. Listen to me. Listen to pretty much 
 every review out there. But most importantly, listen to yourself. If this sounds like your cup 
 o' tea you won't be disappointed. But seriously, listen to me. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drake's Fortune its awsome game whit Amazing Graphics the graphics in this game make 
 me go crazy :D i never see a game like that before this game beat every 360 exclusice games for 
 shure the environments, water, character detail, gun fire everything its well made this game for 
 beging of PS3 its to much the water in this game its sick like real life even better :D and the 
 story its alos well made not somthing complicated and not stupid i just don't know hove can GS 
 give to this game 8.0 unless 8.5 dam i really dont understend GS its deserve not less then 9.0 
 well anyway all i want to say if ppl onw PS3 or don't own for this game u better get it or don't 
 hove the game yet u really need to buy it its not somthing to miss belive me u will not regret 
 it the game its sick plus it has Trophies now so u can replay as much as u want till u hove all 
 trophies and compare them whit your friends :) but this is for ppl who like trophies me i go crazy 
 for that i will finish this game more then 5 times i already finish the game 3 times 2 times left 
 :D well thats it review about UDF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDnD-Mtm121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is purely and truly amazing, has a great replay value, controls are easy and the storyline 
 is amazing. I won't tell you what happens because that would be a spoiler. The graphics kill any 
 other game ever to be out, maybe with the exception of MGS4, but they are the same in those two 
 games. The voices are amazingly fitted, and the environment looks like you were in a real jungle. 
 Needless to say the whole game and people and all look fantastic, and there is an awesome twist 
 near the end, that's jaw dropping. The camera changes nicely for the monkey junkie part where you 
 have to jump to places. The firefights are easy if you know how to take cover well, because your 
 health is going up whenever you rest. Just like in Call of Duty. The only part where it gets hard 
 is about chapter 17 and up, i had to go through some parts a couple of times, but the game is fun. 
 The day I got the game I couldn't stop playing, till 4am, after hours of game play I fell asleep, 
 not cause I was bored, but cause I was tired. The game hooked me on, I usually can't play video 
 games that long, cause I get bored, but in this game I couldn't stop. Of coarse no game is perfect, 
 so lets get to the bad side, If your not good at thinking logically then you might have some problems 
 with the puzzles that are in the game, but I am just warning the blondes, as my girl tried to play 
 it, and she got stuck around the third level, and I had to tell her, look there is a barrel that 
 has some red on it why not try shooting it and see what happens. You should have no problems with 
 the puzzles as your little book has the answers in it. But some are not obvious enough. Another 
 thing that is not perfect when you get to the part where you meet the weird creatures, don't try 
 to hide and think they will not see you behind cover, its as if they could see through walls, I 
 mean god damn, that's the part that was a little hard, but it was passable, as I am writing this 
 review I just finished the game and I am now starting it again in a different difficulty level, 
 and so that I can get some more medal points so I can get some cool unlocks. Any way the game deserves 
 way better grade than an 8, no game deserves a ten and I will never give a game a ten, unless I 
 really don't find a flaw in it. Another bad thing in the game, no multiplayer, but its not like 
 its needed in the game. Have fun!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog's reputation of making high qualities make a perfect translation into this ambitious 
 platformer. I can't believe this game got only an 8.0?! Were they seriously on crack or do they 
 just really not like the PS3? Anyway, for anyone who owns the system and enjoys a fun game, prepare 
 to put down the dollar bills for this sucker.
  
  GOOD: Gameplay is fun and unique (think platforming slightly better than Tomb Raider, but unlike 
 said franchise, provides equally great gameplay reminiscent of Gears of War) . Storyline is good, 
 but the voice acting and animations is sheer genius. Drake makes a great main character with his 
 adventerous humor (just play the game to see what I'm talking about) . Graphics on this game show 
 off the true potential of what the PS3 can actually do! Having a rewards/achievement system makes 
 replay value fun. Vibration support!!
  
  BAD: Rewards can't be implement into the PS3 point system (yet...) . Online content/gameplay not 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcasanova
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game could easily be a 10.
  
  The artistic quality is beyond awesome. Killing pirates and commandos is a lot of fun. Searching 
 for all treasures is addictive. Unlocking the rewards gives a lot of replay value.
  
  But... (SPOILER BEGINS HERE)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In the last levels, a kind of enemy appears and it's worth an X Files episode. It just feels "off" 
 the game and as a Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay rip-off. I wish it would have 
 just been crazy violent Incans. They act primitive and uncivilized, before finding them I got the 
 idea they were somewhat civilized (the traps and stuff you find) . I just dislike the change, it 
 feels like a different game on those levels.
  
  (SPOILER ENDS HERE)
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Apart from that, the game is EXCELLENT and I'll be waiting for a sequel.
  
  I've read other gamer's reviews and complain about running into infinite waves of enemies. This 
 made me think it was going to be a tedious and monotonous game but I never felt this way.
  
  Killing all that enemies was very enjoyable having the purpose of unlocking different rewards.
 
  
  The game has a great timing that makes it feel more dynamic. You have driving levels and puzzles 
 that give variety to the game making it a richer experience to play.
  
  Anyone trigger-happy with exploration-curiosity will find this game enjoyable if not their favorite. 
 If you like prehispanic cultures you will be amazed by the art in this game.
  
  Go now and play Uncharted!!
  
  (Note: There is a loading time about 30 seconds to 1 minute 
 every time you start the game but that's the only loading time there is!!! It's just amazing the 
 short loading time counting all the different textures you see in the game and the size of each 
 level.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun. It created a plot and characters that I actually cared about. I really 
 ended up wanting to see what happened to them. The scenery was amazing, some of the best environments 
 I've ever seen in a game, and the characters moved very realistically. The gunfighting sometimes 
 seemed a little off though. Some of the weapons seemed much more efficient in the hands of the 
 enemies. They could kill me with one shot, but it took two or three to take them down. Ah well, 
 just a little bit more of a challenge.
  
  There were also the puzzle-solving parts of the game, which were a pleasant way to break up the 
 action and make it feel a little more like a treasure hunt, but some of them followed the same 
 kind of pattern, so there wasn't as much variety in there as there could have been.
  
  The game did seem a little short... I finished it in about 10 hours, but I really would not have 
 minded it lasting a few more. If you were to just play the story through, it would probably only 
 take 7 or 8 hours, so it almost feels like the little treasures you are supposed to find on the 
 way through are just busy work to make the game last longer...
  
  But all in all, this really was a good game, one worth playing through a few more times... because 
 in spite of a few weaknesses, this game was just plain fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is one adventure you can't miss. Uncharted Drake's Fortune is one of the best new games I 
 have seen in a long time. The scenery and the character models look beautiful and the voice acting 
 is great. The story is immersive. In some parts of the story it is very funny. My only negative 
 comment about this game is that it is too short. You can beat it within two days of you play a 
 lot or a week if you play everyday. The combat is great, the fighting is very detailed and you 
 can do many different combos. The variety of guns is a plus as you can choose a mini-uzi, or a 
 shotgun, or even a rocket launcher. Sometimes there may be a lot of enemies but who doesn't like 
 a good challenge, 1 vs. 10. There are also many challenges to complete like collecting all of the 
 treasures or getting this many head shots or combos. I can't wait for a sequel. I will be picking 
 up the second game as this a series that I really like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canana
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  Whatneeds to be said right away is that Uncharted would've made the perfect Tomb Raider or Indiana 
 Jones game. It is undoubtedly fantastic in how in pulls off its sense of examination, by making 
 you traverse over these gigantic constructions, jump from ledge-to-ledge , run for safety as the 
 wooden bridge beneath you begins to collapse with every wake, and of course explore gorgeous backgrounds. If 
 Naughty Dog were to make a Tomb Raider game, I have no doubt in my mind that it'd end up being 
 the best Lara Croft adventure anyone could've imagined. However, Uncharted isn't Tomb Raider, nor 
 is it Indiana Jones, it simply rewards a bit of an admiration to the aforementioned. Naughty Dog's 
 third-person action game is a breath of refreshing air. 
  
  
  Uncharted relates the story of a treasure hunter called Nathan Drake. He believes to be the descendant 
 of a famous explorer Sir Francis Drake. History said that Francis Drake was assassinated and then 
 buried at sea. Nathan goes to look for his casket around where he was supposedly killed; what he 
 finds turns out to be something absolutely unusual. The casket is empty, only containing Drake's 
 long lost diary. Could this diary be the key to discovering the treasures stored in El Dorado? 
 Furthermore, the game begins, as you find yourself encircled by pirates.
  
  
  Uncharted is a combination of platforming and action. Like I said, you'll do a lot of platforming 
 jumping, but you'll also get to pop a cap quite often. Shooting is done parallelly to that of Resident 
 Evil 4, where aiming is done using an over-the-shoulder point of view, with a cross-hair on the 
 screen. You can also toggle which shoulder you'd like to look over, by pressing L3. Enemies are 
 pretty intelligent, as they'll duck and will know when to run away from your fire. But, they also 
 have a mean eye, so don't underrate their capability to mark you. If you do get shot at, the health 
 system in the game uses the new-standard of life regeneration. Damage will tender to the color 
 of the screen. The more damage you take, the darker the colors will become, until everything changes 
 into black and white. Once you're seeing black and white, one shot is good enough to kill you.
 
  
  
  You'll encounter a few weapons to use, such a 9mm handgun, an Uzi, shotgun, M79 grenade launcher, 
 AK-47 assault rifle, Desert Eagle, and more. There is no shortage of firepower for Nathan, as he'll 
 be able to pick up whatever weapons the enemies drop. There is no shortage of firepower for Nathan, 
 as he'll be able to pick up whatever weapons the enemies drop. Additionally, you'll also be able 
 to hold up to four frag grenades. Furthermore, if you're unarmed, you always have your hands and 
 legs to kick some ass. There are a number of combos to perform with Nathan, all of which are deadly 
 and nice to see. There is no defect of firepower for Nathan, as he'll be able to pick up any weapons 
 the adversaries drop. Additionally, you'll also be able to hold up to four frag grenades. Furthermore, 
 if you're vulnerable, you always have your hands and legs to kick some bad guys. There are a number 
 of combos to perform with Nathan, all of which are lethal and delicate to watch.
  
  
  At the moment, Uncharted is very likely one of the best looking games of the current generation. 
 It's a suitable example of what we've expected out of the "next-generation" consoles. The greens 
 are absurdly abundant, and help present one of the prettiest pictures a videogame has ever seen. 
 The settings are luxuriously ornamented with dazzling textures almost everywhere you look. No matter 
 if it's the surface, walls, or way above your head, it's all textured with remarkable clarity and 
 detail. 
  
  
  
  Moreover, you'd be hard pressed to find better looking water in any other game, no matter which 
 console you look at. I've never seen water look that natural, and thankfully you get to see and 
 swim in a lot of it during the game. When going out out of the water, Nathan will come out looking 
 drenched, with his clothes completely soaked, and rendering a wet sheen until they dry off. Shadows, 
 and the lighting in general, are gorgeous. Even the characters are greatly detailed, and the cutscenes 
 do a great work of demonstrating that.
  
  
  Lastly, the audio; yet another excellent aspect of this game. Uncharted does a superb job with 
 every part of its voice acting, be it during the cutscenes or when Nathan is expressing a few in-game 
 quips. No matter the scenario, it's always delivered exemplary, and best of all, much of the dialogue 
 are funny. The quality voice acting certainly helps bring out the cinematic feel of the game. Besides, 
 during tense moments and shoot-outs, the game's soundtrack will come into play. Much like the voice 
 acting, the soundtrack is also exceptionally well done, again, emphasizing a very cinematic score. 
 Explosions, gun fire, and all of that fun essence comes through the speakers with great intensity. 
 
  
  
  Uncharted is, possibly, the best action and platforming game available thus far. It hands over 
 in nearly every section that makes an action/platformer a great game. You'll instantaneously find 
 yourself engaged with the game's remarkable gameplay mechanics, fluid controls, gunplay, and will 
 love its monstrous sense of scale. Uncharted is one of those rare games that truly defines its 
 corresponding genre, becoming the standard for everyone to follow. If you've been dying for a proper 
 Tomb Raider game, and have undeniably been left frustrated, you must pick up Uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claykenobi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game truly proves how important likable characters and an original story really is. Playing 
 as the charming and "only human" Drake sucks you right into the game, making it easy to imagine 
 yourself experiencing the same adventure and with a little luck, coming out successful! The gameplay 
 and graphics are the best of the best. I have played MGS4 and Gears of War and must say I've replayed 
 and enjoyed Uncharted the most. Normally, climbing and jumping through detailed jungles and caves 
 are tedious and annoying (sorry Tomb Raider) . But Naughty Dog designed it masterfully which makes 
 it a fun change up from running & gunning. The story is better than most adventure movies out there 
 (not including Indiana Jones) . And the best part is, you're not just watching it, you're playing 
 it too! This game is a definite classic!! 10 out of 10!!!!! Can't wait until the next installment!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-money4000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a good game, matter of fact its a great game. The story goes Nate Drake (very clever 
 name) Finds his ancestors diary and decides to look for the treasure that he was looking for. The 
 only problem is there are "other people" also looking for the treasure. The graphics are amazing 
 maybe the best land textures on the ps3. The controls are top notch not really anything really 
 wrong in that department although it would have been nice to have an auto lock system. The sound 
 track is extraordinary maybe the best video game music since legend of zelda ocarina of time. 
 
  The story is quite intriguing and impressive. The explosive action will keep you on the edge of 
 your seat throughout the entire game. The only problem is the swarms of enemies are massive and 
 what little cover you can take in the game is exposed when they lob about 50 grenades at you. And 
 are these pirates super pirates i unload 10 rounds one guy sometimes and hes still standing. In 
 video games i usually hate puzzles but in this one i don't mind them one bit they are fun and quite 
 interesting. But for some reason i feel this game could of had some kind of multi player experience 
 to add to the enjoyment. Uncharted Drake's fortune is now a must have game on the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraconigenaDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you combine duck and cover shooting, dare devil stunts, and a treasure seeking 
 adventure? If you said Indiana Jones you're wrong, but you weren't far off. Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune is a PS3 exclusive that doesn't really try to hide the fact it's ripping off several blockbuster 
 movies of times past. What Uncharted attempts to do is emulate this thrilling movie action adventure 
 mold in an interactive video game format, and it does a pretty good job of it. Doing this successfully 
 places Uncharted in relatively uncharted (sorry, I couldn't help myself...) territory, as never 
 before have we had the technology to pull this off seamlessly.
  
  Uncharted also steals several different gameplay elements from recent hit games. Examples of this 
 would include the cover system from Gears of War and button pushing sequences, which have been 
 seen in games such as God of War. What shines is the platforming though, as it has a level of feel 
 and responsiveness I have never before experienced in a video game. The lack of originality in 
 Uncharted results in a very forgettable adventure, but it is still fun while it lasts. Since it 
 is easy to complete this game within a rental period I encourage trying it out. If you are still 
 undecided though, read on.
  
  ***Extensive Review, skip to the Conclusion for an overview of the game***
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Play 9.0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Peripherals (Excellent)
  
     The menus in Uncharted are easy to navigate, the in game camera is easy to manipulate, and it 
 was usually easy to figure out where to go next. You can save whenever you want and there are checkpoints 
 placed periodically in case you forget to do so. I have no complaints here, a job well done.
  
  Combat (Good)
  
     At its core, Uncharted is a FPS that employs a cover system similar 
 to many other prominent titles (most notably Gears of War) that have come out recently. If you 
 don't use cover (such as ruins, a crate, or a truck) you will most likely die a quick and painful 
 death. So as you might expect, most combat is conducted by poking your head out and picking off 
 enemies from behind their cover. This system is executed quite well as you can use, shoot over 
 without exposing yourself (can't really aim well when doing this) , aim out of, jump over, or move 
 to the next cover with simply the push of a button and direction. This is the method you will undoubtedly 
 use to dispatch most of the enemies you encounter, but there are other options.
  
  In certain situations it more effective to dispatch your enemies using close quarters combat or 
 run and gun style. You can choose to run and gun in FPS mode, but it isn't a good idea. In order 
 to enter FPS mode (or "aim") you have to hold a button and it causes you to move much slower. When 
 you aren't aiming you'll be in an overhead third person mode. To shoot an enemy in this mode you 
 just run in the direction of the enemy and press the shoot button (similar to shooting in Devil 
 May Cry) . There is a ridiculously accurate auto aim feature in this game that actually makes doing 
 this pretty effective, especially in close quarters. As mentioned earlier, using this against armed 
 enemies in cover isn't the best idea. But it is much easier to dodge attacks like this and is effective 
 in situations when you find yourself out in the open.
  
  When you physically come in contact with an enemy you can revert to close quarters combat. There 
 are several button pushing combos you can unleash on your enemies, but there really isn't any reason 
 to use any of them besides the standard mash the square button. Using the other combos is hit or 
 miss, meaning if you don't push the buttons correctly you could "fail" giving your enemy a chance 
 to hit you. On top of that, these more complex combos don't even seem to do any more damage. The 
 standard melee combo is plenty to incapacitate most enemies in the game. While this combo melee 
 system was a good idea, poor execution makes it feel just like melee attacks in any other FPS, 
 except more drawn out.
  
  It is always fun to have variety in combat and have the ability to kill enemies in a variety of 
 ways. You'll most likely just be using cover and FPS aiming to dispatch most enemies though and 
 the other methods just feel like unnecessary fluff. Being able to move faster in FPS mode or a 
 standard melee attack could have replaced this "fluff" very easily. Kudos to Uncharted for trying 
 to be different (at least in this manner) , combat is fun throughout. However, most other true FPS 
 games have a smoother feel to the combat.
  
  Other (Great)
  
     The shining star of Uncharted's gameplay is easily the platforming. In between combat, this 
 is usually what you'll be doing and it provides lots of good times. This is because it is the most 
 responsive and has the best feel of any platforming I've ever experienced. You will be climbing 
 ropes, scaling up cliffs, jumping from pillar to pillar, and much more. You have to experience 
 this to really know what I'm talking about, but let's just say I'd take Nathan Drake (the star 
 of this game) over anyone from Ninja Warrior (G4 anyone?) any day.
  
  There are a few puzzles scattered throughout Uncharted which do a good job of adding some variety 
 to the linear gameplay and providing a much needed brake from the frenetic pace of the rest of 
 the game. They were all fun to do as they made you think, but were intuitive enough to figure out 
 without outside help. During the more frequent action sequences, Uncharted features a button pushing 
 reaction mechanic that (as the name suggests) consist of pushing the buttons or directions as they 
 show up on the screen. First seen in many other games such as God of War, this is used to make 
 cut scenes and other action sequences feel more interactive. While it does succeed in its purpose 
 this mechanic is starting to wear out its welcome in games. It is frustrating to die because you 
 accidentally hit the wrong button and it draws your attention away from what is actually happening 
 in whatever said cut scene or action sequence.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics 9.6
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Rendering (Excellent)
  
     Uncharted features some of the most detailed character models I've ever seen. It is hard to 
 see this when the camera is drawn out, but the closer it gets to the characters the better they 
 look. When you think about it, that is quite extraordinary. In past games zooming the camera in 
 only revealed the flaws in character models. In Uncharted, zooming in unveils the level of detail 
 portrayed in the character models. Needless to say, graphics have come a long way and Uncharted 
 is a great example of this. The same level of detail in also present in the environmental rendering 
 and objects.
  
  Artistic (Great)
  
     Uncharted features many exotic locals riddled with droves of beautiful and seemingly ancient 
 ruins and overgrown wildlife. Everything is very colorful captures the appropriate feel for the 
 game. Some of the character models look a little plain (detailed, but plain) , but this is just 
 a small blemish on a beautiful game.
  
  Special Effects (Excellent)
  
     The cut scenes in Uncharted are rendered in the games real-time graphics and not FMVs, but this 
 is fine because the games real-time graphics are amazing. And this is something that is probably 
 going to become more commonplace as graphics continue to improve. It is really cool when the game 
 is able to seamlessly transition from cut scene to gameplay because the graphics are one and the 
 same. There are also a ton of interactive environments in uncharted such as ledges that crumble 
 if you stay on them too long and pillars that shift under your weight. Amazingly you can't tell 
 what object is going to break or move until you make contact with it. This element of surprise 
 creates an increased sense of realism that makes the every part of the game feel more intense.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound 9.3
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music (Good)
  
     Following the Indiana Jones adventurer type mold, you'll be hearing a lot of up beat and intense 
 tunes that attempt enhance the epic feel of situations encountered. Again, while not too original 
 these songs fit and are put together nicely.
  
  Sound Effects (Excellent)
  
     Uncharted has very good overall production values and it is reflected here. All of the sound 
 effects are very good and create the appropriate atmosphere to the setting of the game when things 
 quiet down.
  
  Voice Acting (Excellent)
  
     The flow of conversation in Uncharted seemed very real and is comparable to real actors, and 
 good actors at that. This is due to perfect lip synching, well-animated body language, and excellent 
 timing of the lines. Definitely one of the better voice acting jobs I've ever seen.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story 7.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Plot (Adequate)
  
     In this action adventure game you play the role of Nathan Drake who is, no surprise here, a 
 treasure hunter. And you're searching for the treasure of Nathan's ancestor with the only clue 
 being a hand me down relic Nathan wears around is neck. The game starts off on a boat with Nathan, 
 a female reporter brought along to fund the trip, and your trusty old (yet feisty) sidekick. You 
 are minding your own business when suddenly you get attacked by pirates (shocker) , which kicks 
 off the non stop action adventure that is Uncharted: Drake's Fortune.
  
  There are many twists and turns in Uncharted, but much like the rest of the game none of them are 
 very original. It is enough to keep you guessing though (probably correctly most of the time) and 
 thus hold your interest through the adventure. I found the twist at the ending to be a little lame, 
 but the game does end on the good note that you'd expect from this ironically risk less game.
 
  
  Presentation (Good)
  
     The story is presented in the standard format laid out by most games of this time period, that 
 being through cut scenes between action sequences. They are very well executed though and do not 
 overstay their welcome, striking good balance between gameplay and story. This does a good job 
 of retaining the movie feel and keeping you involved in the nonstop action.
  
  Characters (Decent)
  
     There isn't a whole lot of starring roles in Uncharted, but the primary 
 characters that are present are interesting and fit the mold perfectly. All of the characters in 
 the main cast are similarly reckless thrill seekers whose personalities fit together quite well. 
 Some variety in the cast would have made the story a bit more enthralling, but these characters 
 fit the no holds bar, no looking back action presented in Uncharted. Your antagonists are the typical 
 greedy rich guy and righteous native that you've probably seen before, just in different roles.
 
  
  Script (Great)
  
     As I mentioned earlier, the character interactions in Uncharted felt very real. This was in 
 part due to well-written dialogue for all the characters, especially Nathan. It is witty and fresh, 
 and seems like what actual people in their situations would say. When you encounter enemies on 
 the field they will yell stuff out in what I can only guess is an authentic manner (or racist depending 
 on how you look at it, as most enemies are minorities) . For me, the realistic dialogue was the 
 most memorable part about Uncharted's story.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value 6.7
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Main Story (Decent)
  
     The main story in Uncharted takes approximately 8-12 hours to complete. This is pretty short 
 for a game that only features a linear single player adventure and can easily be finished within 
 a rental period.
  
  Extra Content (Bad)
  
     Along your adventure you will find treasures off the beaten path and earn awards for completing 
 certain tasks. However, the only thing you will receive in return is a good ole pat on the back. 
 This material provides some goals for the completeists out there, but is otherwise insignificant. 
 I personally didn't do much of it at all as there was little motivation to do so.
  
  Replay Value (Poor)
  
     The only reason you would replay Uncharted would be to experience 
 the story again or maybe try a higher difficulty level. In my opinion the story is solid at best 
 and fun to see once, but not good enough to drudge through twice. Uncharted is short though and 
 playing through it twice would not be a huge time commitment if you wanted to attempt it on a higher 
 difficulty setting.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Immersiveness (Good)
  
     Nathan Drake is a pretty easy going, witty, and likable character making it easy to get into 
 the role of playing as him. And the environments are very well built. The ruins, caves, and nature 
 are epic in feel and seem as if they really have been untouched for ages. There are no extended 
 stopping points, cities, or vast areas to explore in Uncharted, which makes sense as you are usually 
 in uninhabited areas and this is just the type of game it is. The linearity of the explorable environments 
 stops one from truly appreciating the world you are in. However, the game constantly throws insurmountable 
 odds at you, which helps retain the feel that you have to push forward in order to survive. It 
 does feel like you are in a non stop action adventure movie.
  
  Fun Factor (Great)
  
     As stated earlier, what makes Uncharted fun to play is the combination of different gameplay 
 elements presented. Each element on its own is pretty unoriginal, but the pacing and balance of 
 the elements makes this a fun experience throughout. The difficulty is also balanced pretty well. 
 Shooting sequences will be tough, but always doable as long as you stay protected. Platforming, 
 as stated, feels great and is very intuitive. And the relatively easy puzzles make you think just 
 enough to give you a brake from the action.
  
  This isn't to say Uncharted isn't without its frustrations. There are some ledges and other objects 
 that look grabable, but really aren't, causing you to plummet to your death. And some of the shooting 
 sequences can be unnecessarily long with what seems like endless streams of enemies. I died a few 
 times just because I got impatient and ran out of cover to rush the enemy, never a good idea. Being 
 able to save at all times does help alleviate these frustrations though as you can always save 
 if things seem to be getting hairy. There is nothing more frustrating than having to restart from 
 a checkpoint and redo a bunch of tasks every time you die.
  
  Feel (Excellent) 
  
     There are many subtle nuances that grant a very realistic feel to the world of Uncharted. This 
 ranges from all the ways the environment interacts with you to the way your cloths are wet after 
 you get out of water. Of course, you can't interact with everything and you dry unusually quick 
 (especially your hair... Nathan must have some awesome gel) , but these are just reminders this is 
 a video game. Compared to other games, Uncharted pays a very high attention to detail.
  
  In terms of technical issues, Uncharted is a near flawless game. Loading times are short, the frame 
 rate is always great, and I can't recall ever running into any bugs within the game. It is always 
 great when a game executes well in this department because it causes you to focus on what matters, 
 the game.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Pros
  
  +Platforming is responsive and feels perfect
  +Top notch voice acting with witty and believable dialogue
  +Great all around production values
 
  +Wonderful blend of gameplay elements keeps things fresh throughout
  +Little to no technical issues
  +Ability to save whenever combined with checkpoints limits frustration
 
  
  Cons
  
  -Few to no original ideas, plays it safe
  -A short and linear game with very few extras
  -Forgettable story that again, takes no risks
 
  
  Gameplay (20%)  9.0
  Graphics (15%)  9.6
  Sound (15%)  9.3
  Story (20%)  7.5
  Value (15%)  6.7
  Tilt (15%)  9.0
  
  Total Score  8.5 
  
     In the end, Uncharted 
 achieves what it set out to do, create a fast paced action game that feels similar to a blockbuster 
 movie. The graphics and sound are amazing, the acting is believable and entertaining, and it is 
 filled with intense moments that will keep you on the edge of your seat throughout. Uncharted takes 
 no risks in terms of originality, but it executes a variety of different gameplay elements very 
 well. This is especially prevalent in the platforming, which allows you to pull off the greatest 
 of feats with the utmost of ease. Despite its thrilling presentation, the story in Uncharted is 
 standard fair and ends quickly. For this reason, Uncharted is a fun game while it lasts but an 
 experience that is unlikely to stick with you.
  
  My recommendation is to rent it; this is one of the best options for the PS3 at the moment and 
 the perfect short-term prescription for boredom.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start off by saying I haven't beat the game yet and I don't own a Playstation 3 yet. 
 I went over to my sisters house to play this game and I didn't want to stop playing it. The graphics 
 ware just so amazing and everything being so realistic drew me in. I got to chapter 3 in just a 
 couple of hours but I was just fooling around. I can honestly say I am freakin' in love with this 
 game though. Song did a heck of a job getting this game to be on of their few exclusives but because 
 of this game I'm going to get a PS3. I really really really hope it comes out for Xbox 360 in the 
 future. I didn't really too many things bad about the game. The only thing I would have fixed is 
 adding multiplayer and co-op. Really people come on every next gen console game should have offline 
 or online co-op. Thats what people want and their was plenty of parts in the game with two people. 
 I'm going to say by far best offline game for PlayStation 3, right  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to uncharted since last e3 the thought of playing in a more action packed 
 tomb raider kind of game sounded awesome. i had high hopes for uncharted and in some ways it exceeds 
 my hopes and in others it doesnt come close. 
  
  lets start with the bad to get it out of the way. the game is 9 hours long. its too short. jumping 
 from ledge to ledge should be easy and fun every time but since drake does most hings on his own 
 his jumping and swining abilities can be unpredictable leading to deaths. blindfiring is worthless. 
 sometimes drakess animations scrifice gameplay or get in the way
  
  now the good! the graphics are amazing arguably the best of this generation. the action is intense 
 and satisfying. the ai is fantastic. the story is great kinda like a summer blockbuster. and the 
 platforming element adds more depth to a great shooter. i recommend uncharted to anyone willing 
 to have a great time in spite of some minor problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This game looks so spectacle to the eye and the game's engine captures every single detail of the 
 whole jungle and of the characters. This and Gran Turismo have captured the whole meaning of blu-ray 
 Hi-def. It is beyond a movie and beyond anything you see in the real world. The gameplay is just 
 outstanding and the people look like real actors. 
  
  Its just amazing and I think the game is more about the graphics than anyhing else in the game. 
 HD pictures have always amazed me, but this has amazed me even more. Not only the graphics, the 
 story is like an oscar winning movie. Drake is an adventurer and his plane crashes and he is in 
 an unknown jungle and he must find his way through the jungle and rescue his partner. 
  
  The game shows the capability of the PS3 and Blu-Ray. I feel we have entered a new generation of 
 HD technology, higher definition than any other. This should be called UD. Ultra Definition, Supporting 
 1280 or 1480. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Foxtrot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  If you like games such as Tomb Raider and you enjoyed the Jak and Daxter series you will love this. 
 Anyone who likes high octane gun fights, puzzles, cool chase sequences will enjoy this.
  
  The gun fights can be quite challenging but are still very entertaining. The graphics are beautiful, 
 the physics are spectacular and the cut scenes look amazing.
  
  The plot is a bit unusual but that won't spoil this gem of a game. From discovering a U-Boat in 
 the Jungle to finding El Dorado you will be hooked.
  
  This game is alot better than some of the other games that are on the shelves at the moment. It 
 will also act as a way to control Lara Croft fans' hunger for a relic finding, artifact hunting 
 adventure game until Tomb Raider Underworld comes out.
  
  This game is brilliant. 
  
  It is a truly memorable gaming experience.
  
  If you just got a PS3 yo have to own this game. 
 BUY THIS !!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review says the gameplay can be summed up as "Tomb Raider meets Gears of War". Thats 
 exactly what I'd say the gameplay is. However I'd add that the Tomb Raider aspects of the gameplay 
 aren't as good as Tomb Raider and the Gears of War aspects of the gameplay aren't quite as good 
 as Gears of War.
  
  Most of the game revolves around shooting sequences similar to Gears of War. You'll be taking cover 
 most of the time behind all kind of things in the environment, such as bits of concrete on the 
 ground. Like Gears, you use one button for taking cover and you can take cover behind just about 
 anything. You use the shoulder buttons to aim and shoot. The controls for combat feel very good. 
 When you get shot the screen starts to turn white and if you keep getting shot for much longer 
 then you will die. Keeping out of gunfire for a few seconds will make the screen return to normal 
 and your health will recover. You can also use a melee attack and if you time your punches right 
 then you will perform a brutal combo that kills the enemy. This is simple to pull off but you have 
 to be very close to an enemy for it to work and most of the time enemies wont allow that to happen. 
 The AI is pretty smart. Unlike Gears, the combat in uncharted can get hard if you stay in cover 
 in the same place for too long. Enemies will attempt to flank you alot more than Gears of War, 
 so the combat is better in uncharted in that regard. 
  
  The game attempts to add variety from the action by adding platforming to the mix. These platforming 
 sections aren't very interesting and are a bit too easy. Definitely not up to the standards of 
 the game its attempting to copy with the platforming, Tomb Raider. These platforming bits are nice 
 but they aren't very interesting in uncharted. The action sequences are much more suited to the 
 game and are much better. 
  
  The graphics are absolutely outstanding. One of the best looking games on the PlayStation 3. The 
 animations are also fantastic and the cutscenes are pretty awesome as well. This game also has 
 a pretty good story, albeit a little cheesy and cliche. 
  
  The main thing that tears the game down is the length. It's about 8 hours long, but its 8 hours 
 of fun. Its a great game but its way too short. It does have lots of extras to unlock and a 360 
 achievement like system to it that adds replay value, but this doesn't excuse the length. 
  
  Uncharted Drakes fortune is a great looking game and a fun action game, but it's platforming 
 sections aren't very good in comparison to games like Tomb Raider and the game doesn't really have 
 anything you haven't seen before. Its length also means I wouldn't recommend paying the full retail 
 price. It its price is quite cheap I'd recommend you buy this brief but fun game or at least rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is absolutely stunning graphically, and has an interesting story along 
 with well developed characters. Sadly, the gun fights can get so much of a nuisance you can't enjoy 
 how good the game is. When you get caught up in these, there are so many enemies it gets frustrating, 
 and even you don't know how you survived. Because of this, you can only really enjoy the game in 
 spurts. If you try to play the whole game in a day or two, you may end up throwing your controller 
 through the TV.
  
  As I said, the game's graphics are stunning, and the forest setting is breath-taking at times. 
 The facial animations you see in the cut scenes and during gameplay, along with the well developed 
 characters really bring you into the game. As a big fan of the Indiana Jones series the influence 
 the movies have on the game are obvious, and make it more enjoyable. An average joe doing amazing 
 stuff on a search for treasure, pretty much same idea for the story, but it's still loads of fun.
 
  
  This game could easily be a 9.0+, but as I mentioned, the gun fights can get so frustrating the 
 game is ruined. It makes the game only really enjoyable in spurts, at least for me. My advice for 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, is rent it first, see if you can survive the gun fights, and if you 
 don't get annoyed, go out and buy what is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of Uncharted when it came out. It literally blew my mind how good it looked. 
 All the games before it didnt even come close to its visual beauty. I bought the game just because 
 of that factor. And I havent regretted it for one second. Throughout the game I was constantly 
 overwhelmed by the visual look. The gunfights were very entertaining as well, but the pure Tomb 
 Raider style adventure was its best part. I am a huge Tomb Raider fan, and this game for me was 
 Tomb Raider in PS3. The plot was way better than in any tomb raider game before and the characters 
 were interesting enough to make me care about their fate. Only downside was the puzzles, which 
 were few and way too easy. So it didnt give me the satisfaction of solving a puzzle without looking 
 from a guide. 
  
  After completing the game once i immediately played it again. And again after that. The visual 
 looks alone made me return again and again. Some people care a lot more about the gameplay than 
 visual looks, but this game has both almost equally - okay, maybe a little more in the visual aspect.
 
  
  All in all, I recommend this game to players who like to delve deep into the game. If you like 
 games such as Tomb Raider (but not only because it has a big breasted girl) , Prince of Persia and/or 
 Deus Ex (best game ever imo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSideGirl17
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Sure there are "some" adventure games like this, but none like Uncharted. First of all, the graphics 
 are wonderful. But not all game are only about graphics so lets continue. 
  
  I love a game with good graphics but I also love a game with a good story and Uncharted had that. 
 It got me so interested about history and kept me wanting to play. I loved the scenery too. Very 
 pretty forests and waterfalls. 
  
  The characters were funny, and developed. Great voice acting too! The character controls were good 
 too although I was scared for my life when we had to jump from brick to brick on the walls. 
  
  If you own a PS3 you MUST own this game. It is fun for all ages even though sometimes there 
 are many guys to fight but that is a good thing for action-paced gamers. BUY this game! Now! You 
 won't regret it! =)
  
  -DarkSideGirl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Uncharted was the reason I bought a PS3 in the first place. I loved the idea from the first preview. 
 I was worried that there would be too Tomb Raider-style platforming, but there's just enough added 
 to the formula to set it apart. The duck-and-cover mechanic was reminiscent of John Woo's Stranglehold 
 and the story felt a bit like an Indiana Jones spin-off, but overall everything came together nicely. 
 All of the environments feel like real-world settings but with just enough fantasy added to compare 
 it to the National Treasure movies. 
  
  The story can be completed in 9-10 hours (on the "hard" difficulty) without the aid of a strategy 
 guide. I did however have hint system turned on in case I was wandering around for too long searching 
 for an obscure ledge or path. There's tons of hidden treasures to find along the way, and only 
 once or twice did I ever feel really overwhelmed by the opposition. There's a great twist towards 
 the end of the story and the final "boss" battle was the perfect way to finish the story. I'm not 
 saying that it's an epic battle to contend with Metal Gear Rex or Sephiroth, but with the flow 
 of the game playing out like a feature film, it fit perfectly. Graphically, it's absolutely beautiful. 
 The repetitive look of the generic henchmen could have been avoided, but their animations were 
 well done.
  
  I did find a couple of hiccups in the game, but nothing that seriously took away from the experience. 
 The jetski portions could have been a bit better, but were a decent change of pace. There were 
 also a few graphical glitches and spots where my character got stuck for a second, but I was able 
 to get past them and complete the game totally satisfied with my purchase. (One programming continuity 
 error to look out for like in real movies, Nathan Drake is shown in a close-up without his necklace 
 on, then he has it, then it's gone again... look for this towards the end of chapter 19 in a cut 
 scene.)
  
  If you aren't into adventure/action movies like Romancing The Stone and Indiana Jones, you probably 
 don't need to purchase it... just rent it and give it a try. For everyone else, this is a must have 
 for your PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ineor
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  You don't really expect a lot from Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. I thought it would be another Indiana 
 Jones but watered-down. I'm not saying it's not like Indiana Jones, but it's certainly a solid 
 piece of game.
  
  First, the graphics are absolutely stunning. Considering it came out reasonably soon after PS3 
 release, it is something to behold. There's the occasional thing that catches your eye, like when 
 Drake would bump into a small ledge and fuddle around to get up. But that's forgivable once you 
 witness everything else.
  
  Second, story is pretty damn good. It was fun to be part of and experience all the twists and action. 
 Characters are all well done with nice voice-acting and animation running smoothly. Magnificent 
 twist near the end. I was sitting there waiting for more bad guys and BAM, I'm both laughing and 
 shouting after running out of ammo and sprinting from those grey buggers. If you've played the 
 game, you'll know what I mean. If not, you'll find out what I mean.
  
  One big problem with the game. Oh look, an open area. Enemies. Oh wow, a room inside a cave. Enemies. 
 Oh we're safe. Think again. There's no resting time within this game. Lots and lots and lots of 
 enemies. All the same till near the end really. Becomes repetitive after a while where you just 
 want to hand the controller over to a mate and ask him to play until a good bit comes along.
  
  Overall, a great achievement of a game. If you own a PS3, get this when you can because it's 
 worth every penny. Do it now and experience it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is just unbelievably cinematic. The graphics and visuals are picture perfect 
 with sound and effects that will not leave you disappointed. This was a title, showcased exclusively 
 for the Playstation 3 , but disappeared amongst the long list of titles released during the same 
 time period. 
  
  One of the first things that you will notice playing the game, is that the combat quickly becomes 
 repetitive. You will be facing enemy after enemy, in very similar situations. You are usually trapped 
 or are ambushed in a small, enclosed location with a pistol, and the occasional ak 47 or shotgun, 
 for your arsenal of weapons. Blood effects are as well very simplistic, because of the Teen rating. 
 With this being said, the settings you are placed can be incredibly lush and beautiful. This can 
 make the whole experience more frustrating because of overall lackluster game-play. These moments 
 are also brought to shame by a mediocre story line and an extremely poor ending. 
  
  Voice acting and character formation is generally good, and controls are quite sharp. But the objectives 
 you are given make most levels anti-climactic. These levels are also generally easy, until (*spoilers*) 
 you are once again forced into an enclosed space to fight enemies, that are this time a whole lot 
 less human.
  
  Enemies: There are probably only four graphical models that you will run into. While great on their 
 own, you can definitely tell that the developer ran out of ideas, or just gave up when it came 
 to differentiating one guy from the next. 
  
  The puzzle solving aspect of this game is not as big as it should have been, and almost always 
 consists of pushing or turning various objects and ruins in order to open a secret passage way 
 to get yourself from point A to point B. These can be exceptionally frustrating, but also add an 
 interesting aspect to the game. 
  
  Game-play = 4.5
  Graphics/Effects = 10
  Voice Acting = 9
  Controls = 10
  Overall Experience = 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  ever seen. Well from the makers of the crash bandicoot seris comes a perfectly formed game. Equiped 
 with action. Style. Betrayler and zombie like beings. This is the perfectly formuala for fun.
  The gameplay well its quite fluent considering how concentrated the graphics are the gameplay isnt 
 that bad,. The guns are responsive. The baddies are plenty and challenge you which gives this game 
 a beautiful feel to it .The feel of knowing a game that knows what its doing and is proud of it. The 
 puzzles are quite puzzling as well, Which is a good thing i guess and the plot and gameplay are 
 so fluent i have to pause for a second to see wether its the game or the movie playing. A superb 
 game and as i can not see any weaknesses acept repititive baddies, repititive baddies, repititive 
 baddies i think it througly deserves a...9/10 **** well done Naughty dog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  i was never hyped about this game it looked great but i didnt think i was going to enjoy the game 
 as much i did.
  
  The environments in the game are great specially the water effects. At certain parts of the game 
 you may just want to stand there and look how great the jungle looks.
  
  As for the game play it wasnt hard for me to pick an play. The game play had more of a realism 
 to me then some other games that fits into the same genre. It also became challenge at certain 
 parts of the game. Specially when a wave of enemies are coming at you from all sides an your low 
 on bullets an have a few grenades left i think its great.
  
  The game certain has some replay value if you want to unlock everything but more should come up 
 soon since the PS3 just started the whole trophy system. So i suggest anyone to pick this up if 
 they have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  The game is fantastic, from it's mobie like cutscenes to the stunning gameplay with exceptional 
 AI the only thing needed is a sprint button.
  
  
  iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
 iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii iiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  stunning 1st impression that for sure.... the envoirment... only sony can show the real power of 
 the ps3 and thats what this game shows... although not as much as mgs 4.. well the gameplay rocks... the 
 cover system for shooting and the shooting mechanism itself is great.,... the sound effects are 
 also staggering ... then why did i give it only a 8.5 because it lacks in something called potpourii.. that 
 is variety...... the same type olf gunfight almost repeats itself everytime.... the only thing that 
 changes is the difficulty..... which won't keep the game intresting for long... the lack of characters 
 is also a problem... well i know it's the jungle u won't find much people... but the developers could 
 have created more characters and a little more twist in the story line in between the game which 
 would have given this game a huge reputation.... which would probably be difficult to live up to 
 again... anywayz overall the game is great... u won't surely find any visual glimpses or anything..... and 
 yea the use of motion sensor is also great..
  
  gameplay 9
  
  story 8
  
  sound 9
  
  graphics 9.9 (sorry can't give it a 10 after mgs 4!)
  
  well if ur looking for a action 
 packed adnveture game and u can adjust with the lack of variety... this is surely the game for u.... but 
 wound advice u to rent it 1st ...
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pythos77
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautiful and fun, The environments are awesome, and the gameplay is very straight 
 foward. The story is (as many others have pointed out) prettymuch a hash of indiana jones/tomb 
 raider/ and a generric zombie movie. but its not bad at all. My only problem with this game is 
 that its too short and even on Hard its still not too much of a chalenge and there arent realy 
 any puzzles. but otherwise this game is perfect. The price is a little steep so I wouldnt recomend 
 buying it, just wait for a long weekend rent it and enjoy. The Music and sound are awesome, except 
 for the guns which sound a little subdued. The characters are cool, Drake is a fun guy, he has 
 a cool sense of humor without being wacky or a smart @ ss. but the whole thing seems like a realy 
 good made for tv movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhalo43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  The first trailer I saw of this game, I thought to myself, can Naughty Dog make a game without a 
 story without aliens searching for something? Well, Naughty Dog did great on this game. The story 
 is good with yet again, another person looking for El Derado. But, they twisted it up a little and 
 said to make El Derado a golden MAN! Ok then. The graphics are great for the ps3, puzzles aren't 
 as hard as other games, which make the puzzles fun and enjoyable to figure out. The gun play is 
 decent, put not the best. The aiming is a little sensitive, but i'll manage. The story is good, one. 
 But when those resident evil monsters come out of nowhere, the whole story was lost at that point. 
 I know Naughty Dog is used to the different alien or some other sci-fi game there used to put out, BUT 
 NOT IN THIS ONE! I hope when they put out a new one, just a rumor I heard, TAKE OUT THE ZOMBIES. 
 Overall, if you're into games that makes you find treasure and puzzles, I recommend it to YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironlightsaber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  The commercial for this game did not do it justice. It makes it look like you are a hapless fool 
 trapped on an island and have to shoot your way out.
  
  The real story and game are so much better. It's like Indiana Jones and Laura Croft had a kid and 
 it was born on the newest generation of consoles. Drake is a fun character and his crew are all 
 pretty interesting.
  
  Shooting? Check.
  Exploration? Check.
  Crazy driving? Check.
  Fast game play? Check.
  Great visuals? Check.
  Solid characters? Check.
  
  It all checked 
 out and starting on the next-gen machines means that it does not have any baggage that it needs 
 to bring along from the past. It feels like a fresh adventure serial. I hope it gets a chance to 
 become a video game series and that the main characters all reappear.
  
  If it does continue it would be nice to see a little longer game and more mystery added to the 
 mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Another great game from Naughty Dog, I have been wanting to play Uncharted since I saw the first 
 images of this game, it was even better than I expected. I had to wait a long while to get my PS3 
 but good old George W. finally came through. Fast paced gameplay, excellent graphics, and the main 
 character reminded me alot of the Nathan Fillion's "Malcolm Reynolds" from Joss Whedon's firefly. 
 So much in fact I had to look it up on Imdb, it was the talented Nolan Noth who has been in quite 
 a few videogames. If that was on purpose, kudos to you, if not it's a pleasing coincidence. All 
 in all the voice acting was stellar right on par with the whole game, you will be laughing, crying, 
 scared out of your wits, puzzle solving, jumping, climbing, frustrated, happy, with death defying 
 leaps around every corner! This game is Prince of persia, Tomb Raider, and Resident Evil all rapped 
 up in one, go buy it! AM I NOT MERCIFUL?!?!?!? tEE hEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_mill44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune could possibly be one of the best games that I have played. I enjoyed 
 everything that this game had to offer from the looks, the animation, the game-play, the story, 
 the sound and the soundtrack that is in the game. 
  
  You start the game of playing as Nathan Drake (in fact you play the hole game as Nathan Drake) 
 who is searching for the fabled treasure of El Dorado. The main charters are Nathan Drake, Elena 
 Fisher and Victor Sullivan. You will also meet some enemies that you will end up loving to hate. 
 All the charters seem very life like in the way that they move, talk and interact with the other 
 charters in the game.
  9.5
  
  Thought out the game you are going to be spending a lot of time running, gunning and jumping and 
 sometimes punching. But even doing this though out the whole game still doesn't get old no matter 
 how many time you do this. However the aiming can sometimes get a bit strange at times and some 
 of the sixaxis movements feel a bit weird.
  9.0
  
  Now this game looks amazing the way everything works. One of the things that you will notice is 
 the drying physics, when ever Nat or one of the other characters gets wet and only get get wet 
 from where the water gets up to. And then when out of the water you will slowly dry off again. 
 You will move between levels almost without noticing the change apart from when the words come 
 up saying something like "Chapter 03: A Surprising Find" or there's a cut-scene that all have used 
 motion capture to make them, making the everything life like.
  
  10.0
  Not only dose Uncharted: Drake's Fortune look amazing but it also sounds amazing. When you are 
 in a gunfight it really dose sound like you are in a gunfight and same with the explosions and 
 waterfalls. The music also dose a very good job of making it fell like that you really are walking 
 though a deep jungle or you are in the middle of a massive cave. I enjoyed the soundtrack so much 
 I even downloaded.
  10.0
  
  This game could last a long time depending how much you are into unlocking everything that the 
 game has to offer. Everything from the 60 treasure items to the many challenges that could someday 
 become trophies when the game get patched to use them. The challengers range from shot 50 guys 
 with the AK-47 to find all the 60 treasures and finish the game on the hardest setting.
  9.5
  
  In all Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a testament to what the PS3 can do and can do and 
 what it could end up doing better later in it's life. With Uncharted: Drake's Fortune stunning 
 graphics, sound and game-play it is very well deserving of its score.
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This contains spoilers people, don't read if you haven't beat
  
  Naughty Dog seriously knows how to make games. I'm a gigantic fan of the Jak and Daxter games, 
 well besides Jak Racing... or whatever that was called. But the platforming/action trilogy of Jak 
 and Daxter are fantastic games. You probably already know that Naughty Dog is also responsible 
 for the mega-hit Crash Bandicoot. Unfortunately I was addicted to Mortal Kombat at the time so 
 I never played any of the Crash games. Well, just like their brethren in Insomniac games, Naughty 
 Dog can also make other games, besides the platforming stuff. Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is an all-out 
 blast to play, and easily one of the best games on the PS3 and the video game market as a whole.
 
  
  Drakes Fortune revolves around the story of Nathan Drake, possibly a surviving member of the famous 
 explorer Sir Francis Drake. Well, he certainly takes after Sir Drake in the love for adventure 
 department, that's for sh! t sure. Well, this quest Drake is currently on is to find the priceless 
 treasure of El Dorado. Unfortunately, Drake isn't the only one going after the treasure, and too 
 bad for him, the other guys going after the treasure are bad guys. Shame for Drake they just weren't 
 other friendly adventure seekers. But that's fantastic news for us, we get to kill all those bad 
 guys! Throw in a couple side-stories of rescue, and an unpredictable, fantastic story revolving 
 around Sir Francis and El Dorado and you have class A story-telling.
  
  The game itself has some of the highest production values you'll ever come across. I recently finished 
 playing the new Ratchet and Clank, and I thought to myself it won't be for a while until a game 
 this good looking will come out. Boy was I wrong. This game is absolutely stunning. From the water 
 effects, the swaying trees and even the rocks. When you can make rock look good-looking, you know 
 you've got a pretty game on your hands. Add in unbelievable, Oscar-worthy music and incredibly 
 realistic environment sounds, great voice work, and you have yourself one of the best sounding 
 and looking games ever to come out for any system.
  
  But the most important part of the story is the gameplay. And just like the story and production 
 values, it's kickass. Puzzles, platforming (leaping, hanging, swinging etc) , shoot-outs, a duck 
 and cover system.... the game has wicked good gameplay. And another great aspect to the gameplay, 
 is the fantastic pace of the game. There are zero boring spots in the game. They don't overload 
 you with certain areas, meaning if you just had a huge fire-fight, the next area will be a big 
 change in gameplay, either it being some sort of puzzle, jet-skiing, platforming etc. Naughty Dog 
 has tons of experience when it comes down to gameplay options, and it seriously shows.
  
  The game isn't perfect, but it's damn close. I sometimes had issues with the amount of guys showing 
 up to a shoot-out. You think you have a shoot-out cleared, and then another six guys drop down 
 the cliff and start blasting. I sometimes had problems duckin and covering. I'd be at a weird angle, 
 and I'd try to hurry and duck around something, but since Im at that weird angle, the duck and 
 cover system wont work and I'd end up eating a ton of bullets. But in all seriousness, that's mostly 
 my problem for rushing out into a unsafe area. Obviously you can think of things that bug you in 
 any game, but that's just it, they are just minor nuisances that take barely nothing away from 
 the overall experience.
  
  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune instantly became one of my favorite games. It has a unique feel to it, 
 that is very difficult to describe. It's has a vibrant quality that you just don't feel enough 
 in games. I've finished the game on Normal and am halfway through Hard, which by the way IS Hard. 
 And once Im done with that, yup, I'm on to Crushing, the highest difficulty. Why? Because the game 
 has amazing replay and has awesome bonuses. There's also treasure hunting, and medal earning. You 
 shoot 100 dudes in the head, bingo that's a medal. Drakes Fortune is a blast to play, and any fan 
 of action/adventure games should definitely give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: podk43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an amazing game with amazing graphincs that could show what Playstation 
 3 was capable to do. The gameplay is good, making the player feel like he/she was really in the 
 game.
  But not every game is perfect. n the other hand Uncharted: Drake's Fortune's story is nice but 
 is not much informative, for example: an enemy appears out from the blank and the rest of the story 
 doesn't make it very clear.
  The game can be compared with Tomb Raider because it has a lot of thrilling moments during the 
 game and puzles to solve but Tomb Raider is better in my opinion.
  There is another problem, if you run out of bullets in the middle of the game you have the option 
 of punching your enemies and try to deal with a difficult situation but you will probably die because 
 he game or the AI of the enemies wont let you survive without a gun.
  The game is short giving you less than 10 hours of gameplay and the story is not verry well developed
 
  This is a game that is worh playing but not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorlaxmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted proves everything that it came to prove. Its storytelling is unmatched by any other NA 
 developer, and the characters are sprinkled with just the right amount of personality to rise above 
 the cookie-cutter heroes of other games. But there's more to the game then just the story and the 
 characters. The game also succeeds in the shooting the platforming genres, and offers a seamless 
 transition between the two. The platforming (the only game-play aspect that i wasn't sure about 
 before I bought the game) proved to be a worth next-generation evolution of the genre. Also, I 
 just can't say enough about the graphics in the game, the whole world feels alive, and the character 
 animations are second to none. Sure there are the few problems that plague every game (texture 
 pop-in, slight screen tearing) but overall it is a very complete and well polished experience that 
 you'll be coming back to for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiswaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is really enthralling. The storyline keeps me hooked for hours. 
  The orchestal musix fits the game perfectly, the graphics isjust awe inspiring. So what about the 
 most important bit, the gameplay? Well most of the time is spent exploring the environment, climbing 
 and swinging platform style, shooting the nasty pirate dudes, swimming, that you think maybe it's 
 a bit repetitive? Not so, the biggest thing is the story drives the game on that you end up so 
 emersed in it without realising it. There's enough variety here to keep you hooked for hours. I've 
 only played the game half way and can't wait to get to the next chapter!
  
  If you want a great action/adventure game, this has to be a MUST BUY!
  
  The only real issue 
 I have is occasional glitches with the graphics (i. e you can walk through solid objects) , but that 
 really doesn't happen often enough to detract from the enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  i rented Uncharted: Drake's Fortune for the playstation 3 yesterday. alot of people said it was 
 something like tomb raider. they were kinda right. it's something like tomb raider. but this game 
 had a few puzzles. and they really wasnt that hard. they just made the game more fun. the story 
 was pretty good. it had a good start and a good ending. the gameplay was fun, the controls were 
 fine. you use a duck and cover system. and works just perfect here. the environment were just amazing. 
 this game looked damn fine on the playstation 3. the grahpics are just amazing, good color and 
 everything. one of the best looking games i played so far for the playstation 3. the story mode 
 was nothing more then 10 hours. that was the only thing that i didnt like. it got pretty hard during 
 the end of the game. lol and it also gets a litte spooky. i'm talking about zombies folks. and 
 man there quick. another cool think is that you can let the zombies and your enemies go after eachother. 
 save yourself some ammo. i loved this game. and im very glad that i rented this. this game isnt 
 very long. so i wouldnt pay 60 bucks when you can just pay 8$. because a week is enough time for 
 you. either way. you should get this game. kicks major ass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Pros: The gunplay and cover system is fluid and intuitive and has very little control 
 error. When an action adventure game that focuses on both action packed shootouts as well as prince 
 of persia style platforming, and does both well, its certainly a welcome change of pace compared 
 to most games out today. The platforming isnt so hard that it becomes frustrating, rarely will 
 you have to do it over and over, some complain that it takes little skill but i believe it is fun 
 enough while still being somewhat of a challenge but not enough to slow the gamer down and keep 
 them from getting too frustrated at the game itself. The game has good pacing transitioning from 
 platforming to shootouts on a regular basis so you are never stuck doing one thing. The hand to 
 hand combat works very well and is also very fun to watch. The enemies are very intelligent and 
 aggressive always keeping you on your toes in a firefight, youll need to have cat like reflexes 
 and nerves of steel to make your way through every firefight. The creepy close up sections later 
 in the game are also very interesting getting a little inspiration from STALKER and the original 
 pc Far Cry no doubt, and they further change up the gameplay. The gamespot reviewers found the 
 shootouts to be too challenging and the platforming to be too forgiving, but honestly, the firefights 
 are where they should be providing a nice challenge for hardcore gamers and the platforming never 
 slows the games pace down because who really wants to have to do a section over and over? If you 
 keep your head on during firefights youll always come out victorious.
  
  Gameplay Cons: Some of the weapon balancing was a bit perplexing and how they are handled in general. 
 When the basic pistol you get in the very beginning of the game is more combat effective than an 
 ak47 or an m4, there's something wrong here. Still, its not a big enough problem to really hurt 
 the game, but its worth mentioning. Also, i think the devs should have given the option of being 
 able to switch out whatever guns you want, not necessarily so you could have like an ak47 and a 
 shotgun, but for example if you are out of ak bullets but you have a pistol and a micro uzi, it 
 would be nice to be able to switch between the micro uzi and the ak that way you have a full pistol 
 and a full micro uzi, kind of a minor thing but still it would have helped. The lack of ammo can 
 sometimes add to the intensity and desperation of the game though. The game is rarely unfair although 
 it has its moments, the game is far from easy even on the easy setting, so if you are into that 
 sort of thing than its probably the game for you.
  
  Graphics Pros: This is by far one of the best looking games on consoles, it surpasses gears of 
 war just because of the fluid animation and vibrant colors and is only rivaled by i believe mgs4, 
 but i think it has even that beat. The animations are so life like they really add to the games 
 realism and work really well to add to the "oh snap" factor in firefights and platforming.
  
  Graphics Cons: None, occasional texture pop in, but extremely rare
  
  Sound: The game has 
 very good voice acting (corny or cliche dialogue warning though) and great sound effects.
  
  Story: The story often walks this fine line of summer pop corn action flick to cliche b movie. 
 But it gets the job done, and the characters are cool for the most part.
  
  Value: the game took me about 9 hours to complete on easy mode, and i started up a new game right 
 after i beat it. Its a must play for the enthusiast who likes to kill themselves with punishing 
 difficulty and definitely a must play for someone who has a ps3 and is looking for a great action 
 adventure game.
  
  Final Thoughts: Normally im not the type for conspiracies or accusing professional reviewers of 
 bias or fanboyism, but i truly believe had this been mutliplatform or an xbox exclusive, it would 
 have gotten a 9 or an 8.5 at best here on gamespot. But o well, its an excellent game that naughty 
 dag has crafted perfectly for the ps3. Go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I'm giving this a 9.3.
  
  I bought my PS3 a week ago so that I could play MGS4. Uncharted was on my list of games to check 
 out as I had played the demo at my friend's house before I bought my PS3 and had a good bit of 
 fun. I finally finished MGS, and decided to pick up Drake's Fortune thinking it would be enjoyable, 
 but not nearly this good. I have to say it's one of the best purchases I've made in a long time, 
 and if I had known what it was like I would have bought my PS3 when it came out.
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed mostly every moment playing (a hell of a lot more than MGS, ironically) . Everything 
 comes together so seamlessly and smoothly that I could pay attention to what was really the focus 
 of the game.... that being the story of Drake and his companions searching for a long lost treasure. 
 One of the main reasons that I found it so engrossing was in the manner that it was presented. 
 Many times you play with an A. I. companion, which helps drives the story through it's conversations 
 with the main character (ala Prince of Persia) . Even when Drake is alone, he expresses how he feels 
 about his current situation, which adds to the tension and humor. It was so nice and refreshing 
 to be able to play while learning what was developing story wise as well as how the characters 
 felt. I constantly wanted to know what was coming up next; no game has done that to me for a while.
 
  
  There's basically two aspects to Uncharted: Drake's Fortune: shooting and exploration. First off, 
 the combat and shootouts are so well done that it doesn't feel like a chore as in so many other 
 games and is actually a lot of fun. They are tense and dynamic, mostly due to the fact that the 
 enemy A. I. is INCREDIBLE. I've not seen A. I. done so well in a game for a long while. Enemies will 
 flush you out with grenades, flank you, rarely come out of cover except to fire, and unpredictably 
 pop out from different sides of cover so you can't just rest your aiming reticule and wait for 
 a head shot. And when you do land a hit it is very satisfying due to the physics, so every kill 
 feels different and yields different results. There are a few instances of suicidal moronic acts 
 (not jumping away from grenades after you throw them right at their feet mostly) , but besides that 
 there's nothing major. It's a good thing the combat is so enjoyable too, because you'll be doing 
 LOTS and LOTS of it. I hear this often as a criticism, but personally I found myself looking forward 
 to firefights. There's a cover system that works very well that's a direct rip off from Gears of 
 War.... but hey, if you're going to steal, steal from the best, right? There's melee combat as well, 
 which is *gasp* USEFUL and easy to do, and it also feels very impactful and it's cool to watch 
 to boot. 
  
  Then there's the exploration. I'll just say this: imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. 
 All of the exploration requires jumping from ledge to ledge pretty much, and it's a blatant rip 
 off from the Prince of Persia series...... painfully blatant. It works great, but I wouldn't be 
 suprised in the least to learn if they licensed out the engine from Ubisoft. It gets the job done 
 and leads to little frustration besides a few spots here and there, but it would have been nice 
 to see some innovation added. There are puzzles but they are pathetic in difficulty and barely 
 worth mentioning, which sucks considering the nature of the game and the atmosphere it presents. 
 I think they missed some really cool opportunities.... ah well, maybe in the sequel.
  
  Ok, onto the few negatives that bothered me a bit. 
  
  ***SPOILER BELOW*** 
  
  
  There's 
 a certain part of the game where it is necessary to jet-ski up a flowing river while being shot 
 at with explosive barrels floating at you which kill you in one hit. Many of the enemies lining 
 the shore have grenade launchers that also do the same. Not only that, but you'll have to aim while 
 drifting backwards with a tiny reticule that blends into the background sometimes. Let's just say 
 it was not fun to do. I almost broke my controller it was so frustating, and it makes me wonder 
 how it got past Q & A. 
  
  
  ***END SPOILER***
  
  
  There are also some save spots that are questionable that can quickly lead to frustration. And 
 while the environments were beautiful, many of them were the same.... over and over and over again. 
 Many times they seemed to be there just to suit an environment that would be conducive to a firefight 
 (boxes, fallen pillars, etc) , and not so much exploration. It wasn't bad, but after a while it 
 does become noticable and more variety would have made it all the better.
  
  Anyhow, this game was an absolute blast for me to play. It has beautiful presentation, the story 
 kept my interest, the characters are likeable and interesting, the combat was exhilarating and 
 exploration satisfying, and it combined all of these aspects so well that it turned out to be one 
 of the better games I've played in some time. 
  
  I highly recommend this one. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game along time ago, late to review it. I always review late unfortunately. This game 
 is amazing. A must have for ps3. All ps3 owners should have this game or played it. Or they are 
 missing big on here!. The best epic action adventure may be the best action adventure game on any 
 consoles. You just feel the game that's it. The story is awesome. The graphics are amazing. The 
 characters are unique and memorable. Not that short so value is good too. Everything is amazing 
 about this game. You use lots of kind guns. The character use close combat fighting which is fun. 
 It is very realistic too. You use jeep to boat. Or anything else that i forgot. Me and my girl 
 loved this game. I really hope they make a sequel of this game. After the success of this game 
 they should really make it. If you haven't played this game, don't wait and go get it. You will 
 love it!!!
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Story: 9.5
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Value: 9.5
  
  Tilt: 10
  
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Now I'm not that big on the Play Station 3, in fact I think it's crap. I'm more of a Nintendo and 
 360 guy, but all my friend's have one so I end up playing it ALL THE TIME! Before I played this game 
 I thought the best this system had was the newest 'Ratchet and Clank" and/or "Metal Gear Solid 
 4", but now I know it's really this game. Now at the time of writing this have beaten the game on 
 all three difficulties, so keep that in mind. Now this game is really a mash - up of Doom 3, Tomb 
 Raider, and movies like India Jones. You see later into the game some levels were your walking around 
 dark corriders (with a flashlight) shooting goblin like things, which presents a really good challenge 
 on hard mode, which is very much like Doom 3. And of course you also have about 70% of the game happening 
 outside in the middle of a jungle and thank god for a colorful shooting game. I mean I like games 
 like COD4 and Gears Of Wars, but their so grey! Now back on subject, the game also has these really 
 fun platforming/vine swinging sections that remind a lot of Tomb Raider. As For India Jones... well 
 the whole game just has that kind of feel to it. Now this game is just jump, shoot, jump, shoot, with 
 a few pretty colors in it. This game also has a really wel made and fun melee combat system in it. The 
 only time I recall you having to use is in the final boss fight, but I find myself using for the 
 fun of it all. The game also looks amazing and the story and characters are so well done, along with 
 the music and controls. The only problem is the voices, some could be better.. but most are really 
 good! This is just simply great fun, addicting, and video gaming at it's best. A Must Have For The 
 PS3. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Simply put - Uncharted is one of the best ps3 games ever. It's a good reason to get a ps3, along 
 with MGS4.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The plant life, and water look realistic, and when Drake falls into water 
 he comes out with a soaking wet shirt, in an effect that no other game has managed to pull off.
 
  
  The gameplay is a great mix of puzzles, platform jumps, and shootouts. When I bought the game I 
 figured there wouldn't be that much shooting, but I was pleasantly surprised (I'm a shooter enthusiast.)
 
  
  Stacked up against Drakes fortune, a lot of other games on the ps3 just look downright sad. The 
 climbing is good enough that I might aswell throw out my copy of assassins creed, since that was 
 all that was good about it. 
  
  The shooting is realistic, and there's a surprising amount of weapons. The story is great, and 
 for a relatively normal character, Nate is very appealing, and easy to like. There's excellent 
 voicework, some humor thrown in, and some genuinly jaw-dropping moments. 
  
  Even little things like jumping from the side of a cliff just before the rocks you're holding on 
 to break and fall into the water have a great effect.
  
  There's only one thing wrong with this game, and it can be overlooked most times - When's the last 
 time you shot someone 8 times around the head with an AK-47 and they didn't die. Yep, the enemies 
 are ridiculously tough, but I suppose it's not all bad, since it helps you work on your aim, and 
 motivates you to get a hefty amount of headshots.
  
  If you don't own this game, go trade in assassins creed, heavenly sword, and whatever other paperweight 
 games you have lying around, and pick it up. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OK07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune has great visuals and a very compelling storyline. The first thing that 
 you notice is that visual designs for this game are way above average, especially with an HD TV. 
 You really get all your moneys worth with the great voice acting and stunning gameplay. You get 
 fond of the main character, Nathan Drake. He acts cool and is a great new hero in the gaming universe. 
 This game has a Gears of War type weapon and covering which is great because it puts an outstanding 
 feel to the gameplay. You also have various puzzles to solve, which can be challenging at times. 
 It is an interesting adventure that all gamers should give a try. You won't be disappointed because 
 when you beat the game you still have much extras to play for. The only problem is there is no 
 real boss battle, only a bunch of pirates and other things ganging up on you, but other than that 
 this game is fun to play. 
  
  - I just hope that Naughty Dog Makes a sequel to this great first game.
  
  nicely done!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Think of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune as the Indiana Jones of video games. Players take control of 
 Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter who, with the help of his pal Sully and reporter Elena, is searching 
 for the lost treasure of El Dorado. Along the way, Drake will explore fantastic tropical settings, 
 fight pirates (and, erm... other enemies) , and save the world in the process. Much of the game has 
 a movie-like feel to it, which helps to create a feeling of freshness despite the fact that much 
 of Uncharted's mechanics are borrowed from other games.
  
  The combat plays similarly to Xbox 360 blockbuster Gears of War. Drake can take cover behind objects, 
 and will find himself balancing the use of one sidearm with one more powerful weapon, usually a 
 rifle or shotgun. On occasion, he will stumble upon a stockpile of grenades as well. The weapon 
 variety is very nice, and a premium is placed on getting headshots, so the combat never gets stale. 
 Exploration feels reminiscent of Tomb Raider. But there are certain sections that are unique to 
 Uncharted, such as a great on rails shooting sequence and a few equally fun jet ski battles. With 
 all of the great game play supported in Uncharted, it's a shame that there is no multiplayer mode 
 present. Because the single player game can be beaten in 7-8 hours, the game is kind of begging 
 for online play. The nice weapon selection, the cover system, and the cool environments would have 
 made for some excellent multiplayer frag fests. 
  
  The amount of time and effort that went into Uncharted's presentation are obvious from the get-go. 
 The graphics are the best to be featured in any console game (up until the release of MGS4) despite 
 looking a little like plastic at times. Environments are bright and highly detailed, and the amount 
 of animations that the characters go through is stunning. The facial animations in particular look 
 amazing and bring the game to life. As with many of the best looking video games over this console 
 generation, there is occasional texture pop-in, but it's nothing serious by any means. 
  
  The audio is equally impressive. Voiceovers are expertly performed, and the music will often kick 
 in at the exact right time, with spanish guitars and bongos spicing up the action onscreen. Both 
 the voiceovers and the music add significantly to the feeling that the player is there right beside 
 Drake. The sense of adventure and discovery is often palpable. 
  
  So, should you buy Uncharted? Yes, but it may not be worth $60. The adventure is certainly worth 
 replaying, but at the same time it can be beaten in about three days. A rental or a discounted 
 purchase may be in order.
  
  Graphics: 9.75/10: Texture pop-in and a sometimes plastic esque sheen diminish slightly from one 
 of the most impressive graphical presentations ever.
  Sound: 10/10: Makes the adventrue come alive.
  Gameplay: 8.75/10: Not particularly original, 
 but good.
  Entertainment: 8/10: Single player is fantastic, but it's short. And after that's done, there's 
 nothing else there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I picked up uncharted because a friend told me "man the game its really great", and after watching 
 some trailers I said "ok, i'll buy it" because it really looked good.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Let's see, I think that uncharted its a mix of gears of war shooting and cover system with the 
 platforming elements of latest tomb raider games. The gameplay its simple but its solid enough 
 to make it a good overall experience. You also have a lot of weapons to use in the game. The mix 
 of the 2 systems works pretty cool but there is nothing new about it, but it still deserves a 9.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  I have just a few words to say about the graphics of the game, they are gorgeous, amazing... This 
 is certainly one of the best looking games I have seen in my life.
  10.
  
  Sound:
  
  Nothing special about it, sometimes reminds you of indiana jones movies. It as a good surround 
 sound but every game i played in the ps3 has it.
  8.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  The worst thing about uncharted its certainly its lifetime, you can finish the game in just about 
 6-7 hours, its really short and aside of picking a lot of treasures from the ground along the game 
 theres nothing more to do in it.
  7.
  
  Overall:
  
  The gameplay works perfectly but don't expect nothing you haven't seen before, if it wasn't for 
 its short lifetime uncharted could have a better score (but hey, better short and good than long 
 and bad right?) . Even so its graphics make it an amazing game worth picking.
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Drake's Fortune is the latest release from Sony's Naughty Dog. It's their first new franchise since 
 Jak and Daxter and their first outing on the PS3. Always known for their top notch graphics, the 
 Dog reached a crazy amount of realism with Drake's Fortune. The graphics are more impressive than 
 anything I have ever seen on a console game and the cut scenes are cinematic enough to engross 
 the player fully. Graphically Uncharted hits all the marks. 
  
  However, their are some small control issues that give the game some character, these issues may 
 turn off picky gamers, but can easily be adapted to. Sometimes when Drake is covering you may have 
 trouble changing your position behind the cover, but other than that U: DF plays alot like a Prince 
 of Persia/Tomb Raider game. 
  
  The story is engaging and the characters are genuine, mainly due to the terrific voice acting and 
 the investment you give the story, while trying to stay alive. The peppering of Drake's voice comment's 
 throughout the game don't get old and were very close to the thoughts and words that were coming 
 out of my mouth while I was playing. 
  
  This was my first experience on the PS3 and if Sony plans on following it up with games this good, 
 Microsoft and Nintendo needs to watch out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  ok , so i thought gamespot were biased and stuff against the ps3 , but after reading their review 
 i was am sure now that they are biased , well for starters id like to say that a lot of hardwork 
 has been put to this game , the gamplay itself is amazing , u get the lara croft part of climbing 
 stuff and jumping , and u the hide and shoot stuff , plus a great story thtll keep u wondering 
 whatll happen next till the end , and cuttin edge graphics , seriously they are that awsome , even 
 on my stupid normal sd , they are still revolutionary , so , u got a ps3 ? go get this game , its 
 seriously awsome, and of course this review would never have a minumum of 800 words like that stupid 
 gamespot review page wants so im just writing anything to fill space , and ur not obliged to read 
 anything that follows , bla bla bla blab la , marry marry hairy is barry , rorororor , totototoot 
 , this is testing , testing , 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgaughan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I was getting to a point where at age 30 I was worried I was loosing my interests in games. I'm 
 still routinely buying a game every few weeks for PS3, 360, & PC but rarely finishing any of them 
 and thinking a lot of them are overhyped, that is until I came across Uncharted. It was then that 
 I finally realized I just needed to find that special game that could spark my inner gamer. I can't 
 really put my finger on why I liked it so much, but from start to finish it was on my mind and 
 I was enjoying playing. While I know the game has been criticized for being a copy of popular adventure 
 movies it still comes across as fresh for a video game. The pacing is good, the lead character 
 is great with enjoyable dialogue, and the ensemble cast is like all the good character representations 
 pulled from those great movies and put in this game. Story aside the graphics are amazing with 
 the in game animations seeming incredibly fluid. I've only been so amazed previously with the movement 
 of a character in Flashback and Prince of Persia. You can see it throughout the game and especially 
 with the platforming sections as Drake hangs from a ledge with one hand or runs across a wall while 
 swinging from a vine. The majority of the game has lush bright environments that are a welcome 
 departure from the dark grittiness seen in most current first and third person shooters. In fact, 
 if I had any criticism it would be that the game does make detours through several dark caverns 
 and introduces some survival horror type gameplay later on that I think is used too much in today's 
 First Person Shooters. That aside the game was fun to play. The shooing portions never got old 
 despite being fairly identical in nature (cover and shoot 5 or 6 kinds of enemies) . I often found 
 myself wondering if I wouldn't have enjoyed GTA IV more if it had even more closely matched this 
 style of gameplay. All in all it was a great game and may be one of the only next gen games that 
 I considered playing through for a second time and could not wait for a sequal. Hope this review 
 was helpful and if you decide to play you find the same connections with it that I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rragnaar
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  "There must be a beginning of any great matter, but the continuing unto the end until it be thoroughly 
 finished yields the true glory"
  
  - Sir Francis Drake
  
  
  Those are the words that the game opens with before setting you out on the wild rollercoaster ride 
 that is Uncharted. This game is nearly flawless, and it truly delivers on all fronts with great 
 gameplay, graphics, production values, charming characters, and a fantastic story that would make 
 hollywood envious.
  
  
  Graphics and Performance-
  
  
  Aside from one graphical hitch that I saw at the beginning of Chapter 2 where the textures didn't 
 load up right away, this game is gorgeous. Not only are the environments beautiful to behold, they 
 are also quite varried. The game has lush jungles, abandoned U-Boats, underground ruins, abandoned 
 cities and much more. 
  
  
  The lighting is phenomenal, everything casts a real time shadow in the game, and every object reacts 
 to multiple lighting sources, the underground sections of this game showcase just how superb the 
 game's lighting is.
  
  
  These are easily the finest graphics I've seen on a home console, nothing even comes close, the 
 amazing thing is that Naughty Dog pulls this off without framerate hitches, and without the long 
 load times that we've become accustomed to in 'next gen' gaming.
  
  
  Gameplay-
  
  
  Uncharted keeps you on the move from the get go. They really trimmed all the fat from the game, 
 every section of the game is a joy to play thanks to the brisk pacing of the game. 
  
  
  I would say that the vast majority of the game centers around combat, and it would fall apart if 
 the combat wasn't as perfect as it is. The enemy AI is top notch, they communicate with eachother, 
 throwing grenades to flush you out, as they try and flank you. You can carry two guns at a time, 
 in addition to grenades. You are often running low on ammo and forced to make critical decisions 
 as to whether to keep your weak pistol that you have lots of ammo for, or to drop it in favor of 
 a more powerful gun. This helps add to the already tense combat situations, especially towards 
 the end of the game.
  
  
  While most of the game is combat centric, there are also platforming elements to break up the action. 
 The focus of the platforming in this game isn't on puzzling level design, but rather the platforming 
 is used to get you from point A to point B. While I might have wished for more platforming to be 
 in the game, the platforming that is in the game is always fun to play, with little to no trial 
 and error 'cheap death' inducing gameplay.
  
  
  In addition to the platforming elements there are some great vehicle segments in the game, including 
 one of the best car chases that I've seen in a game, and some gorgeous jet ski action through a 
 flooded city.
  
  
  During much of the game you will be accompanied be Elena or Sullivan as you fend of all manner 
 of pirates and other assorted dirtbags. Thankfully the game doesn't bog you down with trying to 
 keep your companions alive. Elena and Sullivan can fend for themselves, often lending a hand in 
 gunning down your enemies. This is a big bonus in my book, as there is nothing worse than having 
 an unwanted tagalong dying every time you start to make some progress.
  
  
  Presentation and Sound-
  
  
  The musical score in this game is simply top notch, not only 
 is it great music, but it seemlessly blends from one piece of music to another. If you skip a cutscene, (You 
 won't want to, but try it) the score doesn't skip a beat.
  The quieter moments of the game have ambient tribal instruments to accent the atmosphere of the 
 game.
  
  
  This game has some of the highest production values I've ever seen. The voice work, writing, and 
 the cutscenes are unrivaledn in the gaming world. Uncharted's cutscenes and dialog have more in 
 common with Hollywood than they do with most games.
  
  
  Story-
  
  
  What is the point of having great cutscenes and voicework if you don't have a great story to back 
 it up? As much as I enjoy every aspect of this game, the story is really the strong point. Naughty 
 Dog set out to make a modern day Indianna Jones with this game, and they achieve it. I won't go 
 into details, but the game is a wild ride, with an unnexpected turn or two for good measure.
  
  
  Not only is the story excellent, but the characters are too. Nathan Drake is an average 
 Joe thrown into an extraordinary adventure. His character is a lot of fun, and he ads a lot of 
 comedic value to the grave story at hand.
  
  
  The most impressive thing about the game's story, and what I think is the most groundbreaking part 
 of this game is Elena, your trusty sidekick in this adventure. Elena isn't a big chested bimbo, 
 or a damsel in distress. She is the closest I've seen a game come to portraying a real woman. That 
 is quite an accomplishment when you compare the game to the DOA Extreme Volleyball's of the world.
 
  
  
  Lasting Appeal-
  
  The game is only 8-10 hours long depending on the difficulty level you are playing, but it is an 
 action packed 8-10 hours with no filler segments. The game has an achievment system simiilar to 
 most any game that you would find on the Xbox 360, where it differs however is that when you unlock 
 a medal for accomplishing a certain task in the game, the game awards you points that you can use 
 to unlock various features in the game, whether that be new playable characters, graphical effects 
 such as a black and white mode, and a 'next gen' filter that amplifies the lighting effects and 
 ups the bloom to mimmick some other next gen games. In addition to that there are four difficulty 
 modes, one of which you have to beat the game to unlock, and as soon as you beat any of the game's 
 22 chapters you can go back and replay them.
  
  
  Overall-
  
  
  This game is special. Not many games manage to marry a good story and great characters to such 
 engaging gameplay. Uncharted is one of the most complete packages I've ever played in a game, and 
 I am eagerly waiting to see more of Nathan and Elena's adventures. The only bad part is that it 
 ends too soon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scianix-Black
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok, bottom line: fun game.
  
  The visuals are beautiful. The trees and shrubbery move with the breeze and Drake's clothes even 
 get darker when he gets wet, then they dry off as he moves around.
  
  Subtle, yet amazing details that add to the depth of this game. 
  
  The characters are easy 
 to get into as they all have great personalities with top notch script to go along with it. Facial 
 animations and well-done voice overs help bring each character to life.
  
  The story is very good, if not cliche'd. I honestly didn't see that twist coming, with those z-... well, 
 you'll see when you play the game.
  
  Gameplay is solid as well. It utilizes a cover system that is reminiscent of Gears of War, but 
 it does it well. The puzzles are never too hard or too easy, and you're always progressing. If 
 you get stuck in a spot, you should find yourself out in a jiffy with a bit of logic and good luck.
 
  
  There's also lots of unlockable stuff to get through while you play the game, which gives it a 
 little bit of replay value, but not much.
  
  Basically, if you're the kind of person who just plays the game for story and you won't be going 
 back to unlock every bit to get 100%, then this is definitely a rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM_00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog is generally known for the brilliance of the Crash series and the Jak series, but Uncharted 
 could possibly be the one that tops them both. The company has gradually been shifting towards 
 a more adult audience since the dramatic change from the first Jak game and the second, so if you 
 are looking for a return to the good ol' jumping on boxes days (which were also wonderful) , then 
 sorry to disappoint you. However, if you are looking for a truly cinematic experience with plenty 
 of shooting and some adventure sprinkled in, then this game is perfect for you. The Jak games showed 
 that Naughty Dog can create a pretty kick-ass plot for a game, but they truly decided to kick it 
 into overdrive with Uncharted. The game focuses on a man named Drake who finds the diary of his 
 ancestor, Francis Drake. He then ventures on a quest to find this treasure with a TV show host 
 and one of his old-time friends. There are numerous twists and turns to the story and it is well 
 worth paying attention to the cutscenes. The cinematics are wonderfully crafted and the voice-acting 
 is superb. Although, you don't buy a game to watch it, do you? This is where the game could lose 
 a few points. The gunplay mechanics work well, and there are enough guns that any adventurer would 
 need. The enemies are also challenging enough to give any gamer a legitimate challenge, but there 
 are also four settings of difficulty to even things out (which is why I was bewildered when Gamespot 
 lowered their score of this game due to the difficulty of the enemies which are certainly defeatable, 
 even on the hardest setting) . The adventure sections of the game, are significantly easier though, 
 and they provide virtually no frustration. It would be nice if Naughty Dog had amped up the level 
 of difficulty considering how difficult the action was from some of their previous games. These 
 ratio between the gunplay and the adventure is also a little bit one sided in favor of the gunplay, 
 especially towards the end. At times it seems firefights are endless which can be annoying to those 
 seeking more adventure. Also, the adventure and shooting aspects of the game can almost be divided 
 into sections. There is very little blending of both of these two themes which is dissappointing 
 as it could have made the game much more enjoyable and more unexpected. The vehicles used in the 
 game are enjoyable examples of this, and are some of the funner moments in Uncharted. Despite the 
 shortcomings, the gameplay is still enjoyable, and the story will drive you to keep playing. This 
 may be a double-edged sword because the game is also a little on the short side. It will be a thrilling 
 experience the first time you play it, but it makes you hungry for more when there are only scraps 
 left for consuming. In total it will probably take about anywhere from 8-16 hours for the game 
 depending on difficulty, skill level, and whether or not you skip the cutscenes. There is a little 
 bit of replay value with some exploration extras, unlockable cheats, and skill points. You can 
 also try your hand at a second playthrough on the hardest difficulty which is a significant enough 
 challenge in itself. These are all nice additions, but it does not recreate the excitement of the 
 first playthrough. If you can get past the unevenness of the action and adventure, and enjoy the 
 experience for the time it lasts, then you will find yourself with a memorable experience. However, 
 if you don't buy this game, you might miss out on the next in the series which I believe will greatly 
 improve upon this game. Definitely worth a buy for a good experience and an investment in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Today I just finished my first PS3 game: Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. What Uncharted sets out to 
 do is prove, without a shadow of a doubt, that tomb raiding and world saving isn't something that 
 can only be accomplished by big breasted, boastful British women.
  
  
  Drake's Fortune has a certain cinematic flair that separates it from the majority of games out 
 there. The main thing I noticed is that the characters give the impression that they are very much 
 alive and realistic. Watching the cut scenes is more like watching a movie with good actors than 
 looking in upon lifeless polygons. These characters laugh, fight, joke and are angered all in believable 
 manner. This speaks mountains not only for the design but also the dialogue.
  
  
  The story is sort of like the piecing together of clues in such recent movies as The Davinci code 
 or National Treasure as our hero, Nate, sets off on a task to find the lost treasure of El Dorado. 
 Unfortunately the game tends to hold your hands with the clues and the story goes on a little longer 
 than I would have liked. The hand holding makes certain puzzles simple in how to execute their 
 solution and the duration of the story has more "Oh the treasure isn't here" parts than I care 
 for. The story does have a bunch of interesting and also expected twists as not to be dull so overall 
 the story and pacing is actually likable.
  
  
  The graphics are beautiful and polished throughout the title. The levels, while somewhat narrow, 
 have the illusion of vast expanses that are only inaccessible due to the dangers that may lie beyond 
 their borders and the architecture in the game is both stunning and gorgeously haunting. The character 
 models are all done well and move fluidly whether during actual gameplay or in the cinematics. 
 One thing that I did notice is the cinematics aren't actually real time; what I mean is that they 
 don't use the actual weapon that the character is holding before the scene kicks in. This is such 
 a minor detail but is readily noticeable when all of a sudden my character is wielding a pistol 
 when four seconds ago he had an SMG with an AK 47 strapped to his back.
  
  
  Gameplay is what you would expect from a title that mimics the Tomb Raider franchise. A lot of 
 running and gunning, wall climbing and puzzle solving, only difference is that some of these aspects 
 are given more or less emphasis that Ms. Croft's title.
  
  
  Running and gunning seems to be on the forefront of the gameplay; actually that's a lie because 
 Uncharted features a very well implemented cover system. I say that gunplay is the focus because 
 of the amount of weapons at your disposal, the fact that every level is littered with debris one 
 can seek cover from and the enemy AI is quite impressive for a game like this. Again I must correct 
 myself, when the enemy's numbers are four or more, the AI is impressive on how aggressive and tactile 
 the enemy becomes, numbers less than that and the enemy will often just stay behind cover and eat 
 bullets when they pop their heads up.
  
  
  The wall climbing is self explanatory and is often one of my points of ridicule on games such as 
 these. It's amazing that long lost tombs and cities always have the perfect placement of vines, 
 ledges and explosive barrels so that if you were a hero nimble enough, you would never run into 
 a dead end. One thing that irked me about this game however, was that no matter where you went 
 and how desolate and untouched the place was, there was always a large platoon of mercenaries waiting 
 in ambush. It defeated the purpose of going to this island with a treasure map when dynamite would 
 have been infinitely more practical and time saving.
  
  
  That leaves puzzle solving or the lack thereof. When one immediately enters a room where an intricate 
 puzzle was, immediately Nate mentions the diary and with the press of the button you are pretty 
 much handed the solution to the puzzle. The devs could have been a little more lenient and let 
 me peruse the diary at my leisure, and if trouble arose, refer back to it and see if the answer 
 lies within. Sure this may have raised my frustration level but I would have felt that I achieved 
 more than just gunning through 1,000 random mercs and actually had a robust adventure.
  
  
  Other than that, the voice acting is done very well and there's even a 360-esque point system 
 that doesn't tie into your screen name but uses those points to unlock alternative game modes and 
 videos. The unlockables are a nice added touch that I wish more 360 games would take advantage 
 of.
  
  
  Overall I was very pleased with the first game I purchased for my PS3. While a bit on the short 
 side despite being artificially lengthened with repeating plot points, I walk away from the game 
 content and looking forward to a sequel. This game isn't a genre defining blockbuster but it proves 
 that adventuring isn't just for the well endowed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog could have played it safe. The studio's Jak and Daxter series has been a huge success 
 and a PS3 follow-up as their debut next-gen title would have made perfect sense. So, the fact that 
 they chose to give us the Indiana Jones-like Uncharted: Drake's Fortune should be commended. The 
 fact that it's turned out to be one of the best games released on the console to date is more worthy 
 of celebration though. Dust off your Sixaxis - another great first-party Sony title is in town.
 
  
  Uncharted sees you step into the shoes of treasure hunter and all-round nice guy Nathan Drake, 
 descendent of famed explorer Sir Francis Drake. Nate thinks he's found the body of Drake during 
 a dive off the coast of Panama, but it turns out that he's actually got his hands on Drake's journal 
 - a journal that holds the key to some long-lost treasure. Of course, some Spanish pirates soon 
 turn up and it's a race to get to the treasure and stay alive.
  
  Along for the journey is Nate's long-time friend Sully and likeable Cable TV reporter Elana. After 
 a rather awkward opening that sees you struggling to grasp the rather loose controls as the Spanish 
 pirates board your diving boat, what follows is equal parts adventure game and third-person shooter, 
 combining some of the best bits of Tomb Raider and Gears of War in an eight-hour story that feels 
 just the right length.
  
  As is popular in games these days, pressing L1 on the controller zooms the camera in over Nate's 
 shoulder, slows his movement speed and allows you to aim your weapon. Firing from the open isn't 
 advisable though, as it only takes a few shots before the screen is drained of colour and Nate 
 is on his last legs. Moving from cover to cover is key, with the Circle button making him hug a 
 wall and roll from cover to cover. You can also pop out from cover to fire off a few shots by holding 
 L1 or simply fire blind while still in relative safety.
  
  Aiming certainly feels far too loose in the beginning, and although I got used to it, things never 
 felt as they should. On numerous occasions my character also refused to pop up out of cover or 
 stayed out of cover long after I'd released L1. The AI of the enemies, who are in the most part 
 Spanish pirates, is excellent, forcing you to move from cover to cover as they get closer and closer 
 to you position. You can still rely on them popping their heads up for an easy kill, but things 
 get tricky if you allow them near you position of safety.
  
  Nate's climbing skills are far better than his shooting. It really does feel very much like a modern 
 Tomb Raider title, and rarely are you asked to do anything that seems impossible. The game even 
 gives you clues if you've been wandering around an area for longer than it deems normal. This means 
 the game moves along at a brisk pace, never giving you time to become bored or frustrated - other 
 than the moments where a checkpoint placement forces you to replay frustrating combat sections 
 over and over again.
  
  Puzzles crop up from time to time, and these use Drake's journal to provide the clues. They're 
 never anything too taxing, often requiring you to turn an object in the correct manner or activate 
 switches in the right order, but it all adds to the Indiana Jones feel. The modern setting and 
 likeable characters are actually quite similar to Nicholas Cage movie National Treasure, with the 
 storyline certainly something that could easily have come from a movie. The characters are fairly 
 simple, but the relationships between them evolve as you progress and for once you're unlikely 
 to find anyone getting on your nerves.
  
  When you're not on foot you're either shooting from the back of a jeep or on a jet ski, stopping 
 to shoot while enemies attempt to take you down. The jet ski sections really didn't work for me, 
 with the instant kills by exploding barrels and the stop-start nature of the gameplay feeling out 
 of place. It's also a shame that instant kill snipers crop up fairly frequently towards the end 
 of the game and that the final showdown feels wholly unoriginal compared to what went before it. 
 At least some new enemies are introduced, but there's a definite feeling that Uncharted isn't all 
 it could have been.
  
  Of course, some wonderful visuals and audio help no end. Although Crysis on the PC has wiped the 
 floor with every game available, on the console front Uncharted is right up there with the best. 
 The jungle settings are gorgeous and make use of some stunning lighting, while the indoor settings 
 are detailed and moody. Character animation is also great, although it tends to make Nate climb 
 stairs rather oddly. The musical score by Greg Edmondson is also deserving of praise, fitting the 
 setting perfectly and evoking memories of all the great adventure movies down the years.
  
  Things aren't perfect though. As is common with many next-gen titles, textures load in far too 
 late. What this means is that you'll enter a new area that looks rather plain, before textures 
 load in, giving the game its stunning looks. It's a shame considering the presentation is so impressive, 
 and perhaps is something that a few small loading screens could have fixed. The frame rate is also 
 a little sporadic, but nothing to get too upset about.
  
  Another potential criticism will be the game's length, which clocks in at around the eight hour 
 mark. It certainly doesn't feel short and there are plenty of medals to go for and unlockables 
 to gain, but for those looking to get the most bang for their buck this Christmas, Uncharted might 
 not be the best choice.
  
  Negatives aside, Uncharted: Drake's fortune is an excellent effort by Naughty Dog and hopefully 
 the start of an exciting new series. While multi-format developers still seem to be struggling 
 with Sony's latest console, the platform holder's recent titles have shown what is possible. Uncharted 
 is without doubt another title that absolutely deserves to be in your collection.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Gorgeous visuals.
 
  - Excellent audio.
  - Never a dull moment.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Shooting feels too loose.
  - Really short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The basic idea of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a common theme among action-adventure games and 
 movies. In fact, put this game up on the silver screen and replace Drake with everyone's favorite 
 whip-toting archaeologist and things wouldn't seem out of place. Uncharted promises a Hollywood-style 
 action-adventure game, and that is exactly what you get.
  
  The story of Uncharted is torn straight out of the likes of Indiana Jones, Tomb Raider, or Pitfall. 
 You play as Nathan Drake, who claims to be a descendant of the famous Sir Francis Drake. Nathan 
 uncovers Drake's lost journal and maps that are supposed to lead to Francis Drake's long lost treasure. 
 On your little quest for wealth you are accompanied by a journalist named Elena Fisher and old 
 friend "Sully" Sullivan, all the while being chased by rival treasure-seekers in the form of shady 
 characters and their mercenary underlings. 
  
  The story, while not particularly complex or original, serves its purpose and is charming in a 
 "like Indiana Jones but not" sort of way, remaining interesting enough to give you that "just one 
 more act..." syndrome while playing. This also applies to the characters and their often sarcastic 
 remarks and humorous wisecracks. 
  
  The actual gameplay of Uncharted falls into two main categories: Platforming and firefights. There 
 are also a handful of vehicle segments to break things up. Unfortunately, the vehicle segments 
 where you are on a wave runner are pretty frustrating since it is an awkward vehicle to handle. 
 That isn't to say the controls are bad, per se, just that the handling is pretty wonky.
  
  The platforming sections fare better. The platforming is what you might expect from the game: Jumping 
 gaps between various platforms, scaling cliffs and old fortress walls, swinging on vines, and so 
 on. These are mostly fairly easy beyond a few exceptions, and pretty forgiving. However, expect 
 to die a few times each segment simply because the next ledge you had to jump to looked too much 
 like the background, resulting in a missed jump and painful fall to your death. 
  
  The firefights on the other hand get frustrating. Towards the middle of the game they start to 
 get even worse. Enemies can absorb quite a bit of damage. Headshots make quick work of them, but 
 lining up a good shot can be dangerous, as the enemies have the sort of accuracy that special forces 
 snipers can only dream of. This gets even more frustrating when you meet the jerkwad enemies with 
 laser sights and guns that kill you in one hit from a range of five and a half football fields. 
 In addition, each enemy carries more grenades than a platoon of Marines, and their absurd accuracy 
 carries over to grenade lobbing, as most tossed grenades manage to land right behind your cover. 
 This of course forces you to move to another, safer piece of cover, only to be chewed apart by 
 said special forces snipers. 
  
  As frustrating as the later firefights get, the action is still fast-paced and fun. You have a 
 good variety of weapons that you'll find over the course of the game. You can only carry two at 
 once, a main weapon and a side arm. There is a simple fighting and combo system for unarmed combat, 
 but you'll likely rarely use it since most of the action happens outside of fist range. 
  
  Another minor knock against Uncharted is the use of quick time events during cutscenes. You know, 
 the ones that every game developer thinks they must include ever since RE4 came out? Quick time 
 events are fine in some games, but they are sloppy in Uncharted. It is like they just drew scenes 
 from a hat to randomly decide where to place about three or four cutscenes that require you to 
 press a button to avoid getting squashed by falling debris or miss a jump after the platform you 
 were standing on fell apart. If you insist on using quick time events, don't just throw them in 
 a few times, make them a more frequent part of the game like RE4 did. Otherwise it just looks like 
 your development team said "Hey! Quick time is cool, lets include that a few times in an attempt 
 to cram every popular thing into a single game!" 
  
  Graphically, Uncharted is one of those games that really shows off the PS3's capabilities. The 
 animation, facial detail, effects, environments, etc. are all wonderful. These are the types of 
 graphics that we were promised in this new HD/Blu-Ray generation of gaming. The water is particularly 
 good, among the best water effects you'll see on a console game. Drake's clothes also get realistically 
 wet when you trudge through water. Uncharted has similar results in the sound department. The sound 
 effects all fit nicely and the voice acting is above average as well. 
  
  All in all, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is worth a look if you own a PS3. It is a fun action-adventure 
 game that gives you the feeling that you are playing through a summer blockbuster action film along 
 the lines of Indiana Jones. It has its flaws, but they aren't particularly game breaking, if rather 
 frustrating nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynoz7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I really hope they continue making these games. I found this game to be a beautiful and exciting 
 game to play. I recently bought a PS3 and Uncharted: Drake's Fortune was the first game I bought 
 even though Metal Gear Solid 4 came with the PS3. Anyways, I was drawn to the game because, being 
 a tomb raider fan, I love exploring ancient ruins, searching for answers to ancient mysteries, 
 and being captured in a captivating storyline. Uncharted really gave me what I wanted when it came 
 to these topics.
  
  Gameplay: Well since it was my first game I played on the PS3, it really set my expectations high 
 for other games like it. The areas were great to explore, and the environments added a great touch 
 to the atmosphere of the game. I would compare some of the gameplay to Tomb Raider Legend (somewhat) .
 
  Graphics: The graphics were amazing in my opinion. Of course, I have not had many other PS3 games 
 under my belt to compare it to, but I can't imagine any of them being much better. I do not have 
 a HD tv, but the graphics were still beautiful to look at.
  Controls: The controls, I found, were great to use. It was easy for me to adapt and learn them.
 
  Storyline: I found the storyline to be very entertaining. There were times when I found it hard 
 to stop. The characters seem to be very likeable, and the mystery of El Dorado drives the story 
 even more!
  Replayable?: Even though the game is somewhat short, it has a good replay value. There are three 
 difficulties to choose from, and along your journey, you can pick up hidden treasures that help 
 unlock secret bonuses. I would definitely play it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsAngel2c
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  A 'cinematic experience' is the new 'online multiplayer' and 'epic story' which games developers 
 have been throwing out there. It's a sort of fad of today, like how a game would have a trusty 
 colon in their title two years ago. Unfortunately, some games just fail to achieve that cinematic 
 experience. Uncharted does not.
  
  Uncharted is a great experience and every PS3 owner must play the game. There are so many things 
 Naughty Dog ticks off on the unofficial- official- list- of- what- makes- great- games- list. 
 
  
  Let's start off with the story, the key to this cinematic experience. On paper, it may sound like 
 your ordinary summer blockbuster: A cheeky treasure hunter and his cigar chomping friend head out 
 to get rich accompanied by the feisty damsel who grows on the lead character. Things go pear-shaped 
 for our hero's and the hunt for riches begins. Yep, it's clichd but the voice acting, motion capture 
 and the whole presentation within the cut scenes make the story and characters truly come to life. 
 They even defy normal laws of being the hero by experience a huge range of emotions such as despair, 
 fear, anger, arrogance and (of course) epic badass-ness. Nathan Drake, our hero, also comes to 
 life in the game itself through a number of layered animations. Duck behind cover whilst surrounded 
 by enemies and his eyes will widen with fear; take cover as bullets fly at you and he'll flinch 
 as they whip past him. 
  
  This leads me to mention the superb work on the graphics. The PS3 (and in deed, this generation 
 of consoles) has never seen such a lush, green jungle environment! Leaves sway in a wind and the 
 water reacts realistically as you wade through it. Coming out of a lake, and Nathan's jeans get 
 soaked and gradually dry off. The characters too look fantastic with subtle details like wrinkles 
 in clothing and patterns on jewellery being visible, even in game play. 
  
  Ah, game play. What can I say? I would be lying if I said it was not Gears of War inspired. In 
 fact, it is nearly identical to Gears but that is not at all a bad thing. Don't fix what aint broke 
 after all. What is really impressive though is that even with all the layered animations in running, 
 covering and shooting when you tap a button Nate will react immediately and smoothly. That's not 
 to say there are no problems: the melee system needs a lot of practice and is hard to immediately 
 pick up, meaning most people are likely to stick with guns and grenades. Also, the inability to 
 turn corners whilst covering does get very infuriating, especially when the AI is as amazing as 
 it is with pirates preferring to flank than fire from a distance. 
  
  The soundtrack is, I have to admit, rather uninspired. That's not to say its horrific- it is by 
 no means going to haunt your nightmares, it justfails to capture any attention. Save for the five 
 notes when you begin the game, no other Uncharted tune comes to mind, which is unfortunate. A great 
 Indiana Jones style track could have really spiced up the action sequences.
  
  I could go on and on about the game, but I wont. I'll leave you with my final thought. Naughty 
 Dog has done the PS3 proud, showcasing its potential. Thank you Naughty Dog for not making me waste 
 my money on numerous Blockbuster rentals and giving me a game that outshines many blockbusters!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedermike
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a must by game for any Playstation 3 gamer looking for an adventure. In the game, 
 players assume the role of Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter who alleges to be the descendant of 
 Sir Francis Drake.
  
  The story is film worthy, a brilling script that kept me glued to the screen troughout the course 
 of the game and for me should have been used as the script for the new Indiana Jones game over 
 that stupid alien storyline.
  
  Graphically the visuals are stunning, the jungle lights up the game and really gives the player 
 the feeling they are in the game. The great amount of detail really makes the gamer respect the 
 amount of work naughty dog have put into the game. The lighting is great and really helps to build 
 up tension within the darker stages of the game. The character models look increadibly realistic 
 and they move both smoothly and naturalistic.
  
  The gameplay is generally very simple, gunfight followed by gunfight followed by puzzle, then platforming 
 followed by more gunfight but it works and rarly becomes a chore for the player. It would be nice 
 to see a bit more exploration involved as such lush, dense Jungle enviroment has been created but 
 perhaps not used to its full potential.
  
  The sound gives off a very oriental feel with the unique blend of instruments used helps both build 
 up tension and add the edge to the gunfights.
  
  Theres a bit of extra content you can acquire through achieving certain goals but generally the 
 after you complete the story there isnt much to go back to. Saying this the game was so gripping 
 i completed it three times before putting it down but i'm sure i'll come back to it again soon 
 so for me it's a definate purchase over rent.
  
  Overall Uncharted is a beautiful game and should certainly be considered by any playstation 3 gamer.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: versiononev1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  good all-round game involving action, adventure, mystery, puzzles and really good story-line, this 
 game set a great scene, and indiana jones like game, one that i would actually like to see a movie 
 of aswell, looks like its come straight out of a hollywood blockbuster, set of with a mystery, 
 you are nathan or what he likes to be called nate, drake the great grandson or sir francis drake, 
 and you of to uncover the mystery of the treasure, as usual in these scenarios there always a girl 
 a trouble and that where we meet, well im not going to spoil it for you, with his pal sully he 
 ventures on to an aztec jungle to find treasure using clues and maps to help him, its a great game 
 really test you brainpower, it not too difficult and some might find it easy, great game, the bad 
 point is that it was a bit short for me but once you get into it you will want to keep playing 
 it again and again, with items to collect and a great range of weapons at your disposal this is 
 a must buy for any ps3 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Suvern
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  If you don't have Uncharted: Drakes Fortune.... then get it, seriously!. I love this game, as soon 
 as you play it the stunning graphics will blow you away, you will feel as if your seeing the lush 
 jungle terrain first hand. to be honest i can not think of another game that had suck brilliant 
 special effects, usually i take this factor for granted, but not this time, this time i really 
 appreciate the producers attention to detail, and so will you if you take my advice and buy this 
 game!!. Its not that difficult to play, the gameplay itslelf is very well done. The game consists 
 of a few puzzles and things that i found slightly challenging, but then again, i didn't buy this 
 game to complete it in a day. Your weapons consist of pistols alot of the time, but you will get 
 the chance to use shotguns, machine guns and not to mention the chance to get a little hands on 
 with your enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is really awesome. A must buy for sure. 
  First the game looks amazing, it has outstanding graphics and the characters feels so real. The 
 jungle is awesome and the water feels looks and feels like real water. The temples, caves and all 
 the places really are very well done. You feel like you are in there. 
  For the gameplay, it's perfect. Full of action you want to kill everything that is on your way. 
 No to mention that you will die a lot in your path, but it's alright, that's nothing frustrating 
 although. You don't have any health bar or something that show how is your actual heatlh but it 
 doesn't matter. In fact that's better. The only sign is that the screen will turn white and black 
 until you die. 
  Your weapons consists in pistols and shotguns most of the time. But you can also have the possibility 
 of meele. Meele it's very dangerous but if you can smash the bad guys with your own hands the results 
 are really satisfying.
  Also there it's a lot of puzzles that are not very hard but it will make you think a little bit. 
 I think that is a nice addition to add more variety to the game.
  You can collect treasures along your way. There are 60 of them and some are not that easy to find 
 and this add very replay value once you finish your game the first time. You can always come back 
 and take treasures that you didn't find and you will be rewarded with unlocking some nice movies 
 about the making of the game, pictures and other things.
  All in all this is a superb game. One of the best of the PS3. You can beat the game in about 10+ 
 hours which I consider very good for this kind of game.
  Please, if you have a PS3 please buy this game. You will have a plenty good time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgau
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for my daughter for Christmas last year and only recently sat down to give it 
 a try. The reviews on this game from most gamesites stated that the game is good but not the 'best 
 game eva'. I was truly amazed by the amount of detail in the environments and in the characters 
 (at least the main characters) . The pirates and mercs all look pretty much the same, which was 
 one of the chief complaints that people had about the game. I didn't care so much about that particular 
 issue because I was having way too much fun playing the game. It had such a great story. It was 
 so epic. I loved how good the story and gameplay were in this game. I just couldn't hardly put 
 down the controller because I had to find out what would happen next. I love the little twists 
 in the plot, especially towards the end of the game. I hope that there will be another Drake's 
 Fortune game. To me, this game is a AAA title. It should have gotten all nines and tens from the 
 reviewers. I would recommend the game to anyone who likes Tomb Raider games and Indian Jones' types 
 of adventures. If you are a Tomb Raider fan, you will be amazed at how much better this game is 
 than that franchise. I give this game a ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -TRAUMA-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the best games ive ever played. Not only were the graphics and the gameplay 
 excellent, this game has one of the best stories for the PS3 yet. This feels exactly movie and 
 the characters really do have great personalities! Sully kinda pisses me off as he looks like a 
 rapist from the 80s and the girl is whiny and tries to be strong and everything (*cough*Hillary 
 Clinton*cough*) but that adds to it!
  
  One thing i noticed was that the main character (Nathan Drake) looks exactly like Agent Booth from 
 the show Bones. Weird? i dunno, he just does!
  
  The graphics are nice, the story is great, the characters are awesome, overall this is one killer 
 game!
  
  I hope 360 doesnt snatch this one up because it really has something on it!
  
  All i can say is cant wait for the sequel! (PLEASE DONT GO TO 360) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muff07
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game represents the best exclusive (As of release) that you can possibly put into your ps3's 
 disk-tray. The game has a similar effect on you as that of the origonal Indiana Jones Trilogy , 
 there is simply nothing else quite like it in console gaming (Just look at the similar games section 
 to the left, there nothing like Uncharted) and it blurrs the line bettween Videogame and Feature 
 Film.
  
  Value for money: 8.0
  The game is fairly short and took me only 8 Hours 14 Minutes for me to complete one full playthrough 
 on Normal mode. The is no option for co-op gaming and i'm sure if you play the game the reason 
 for this will become obvious as it simply woul'd not work well with this game and only a medium 
 amount of replay value. Despite this the value for money is quite high simply due to the fact the 
 game is so enjoyable.
  
  Soundtrack: 9.5
  The soundtrack is extremly efficent in potraying Nats emotions. It also gives an accurate representation 
 of the enviroment and hightens the players connection with the game in there awarness of the situation 
 providing a stornger emotional conection with the characters feelings, fears etc.
  
  Story:10
  This one of the main draws of this game the story is so entertaining, you will find 
 yourself just continuing to play to find out the next tiny bit of the story and this cycle just 
 continues untill you realise you've almost finished the game. If this was made into a film it would 
 represent the posibility of the first good game to film translation.
  The Voice acting and animation is simply put the BEST of any game I have ever played by a large 
 margin.
  
  Graphics: 10
  This game is stunning!
  The facial animation on each of the characters is amazing in its detail with body movements changing 
 the facial expresion in ways I have never before seen in this medium.
  The water Is extrodanary it reacts to your every movement withing it , When you shoots at it ripples 
 in such a realistic manner and it flows and falls in waterfalls in an extremly lifelike fashion.
 
  The explosions also occur in a very realistic way being among the best in gaming (I have seen 
 better but on rare occasions)
  The overall enviroment is really extrodanarily good and in detail I never expected. When the graphics 
 of this game was being hyped I didn't really expect it to be as good as it is a true high water 
 mark for the Playstation3.
  
  AI: 9
  The AI is generally very intellgent and will blind-fire and duck for cover when you aproach.
 
  In groups the AI effectivly attemptings flanking manouvers that will on ocassion catch you of 
 guard and result in heavy damage and death.
  Even the later lets say weaker gunless enemies (Dont want to spoil the story) are effective attacking 
 in groups instead of as individuals.
  The only quam I have with the AI is that they will not shoot explosovie barrels your located beside.
 
  
  Other:
  -The load times are medium to long and can be rather annoying, athlough they only occur beetween 
 levels/acts 
  -The gernades are tied to the sixaxis which as a control system I do not like or am used to did 
 not enjoy.
  -The final boss is mediocore and I must say it was one of the poorer bosses NaughtyDog has produced.
 
  -The platforming sections can be forgiving.
  
  I would give this game a 91% score.
  But Gamespot dictates I have to give a score on a 0.5 scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Ok. Uncharted Drakes fortune had a lot of hype, but for no good reason. It basically takes a few 
 plot line elements from other treasure hunting games and movies and roles them into one. But allow 
 me to start with the positive aspects.
  
  The graphics are fairly decent, especially since when your character decides to go swimming he 
 actually gets wet. The gameplay is fast and exciting when you enter shootouts against the bad guys 
 and the controls are simple and easy to use. Sound was fairly decent; gunfire sounds like guns 
 and voice acting isn't too bad.
  
  Ok now onto the bad. Although the action is fun to play, it does get pretty boring after the first 
 5 levels since that's pretty much all you do in the game. You simply move from one area to another 
 either jumping from platform to platform or ducking behind a wall or a crate shooting at pirates 
 that are trying to kill you, with the odd vehicle level in between. Eventually after the first 
 15 levels of this you realise how bored you are and just end up playing just to see what happens 
 in the mildly decent plot line.
  
  I have to say the storyline is alright but i've seen it before in other games and movies which 
 in the end makes it a little predictable. I ended up hoping that there was going to be a huge twist 
 at the end which left you at a cliff hanger which would give you some idea on whether there would 
 be a sequel but they rounded it off nicely with a they all lived happily ever after ending which 
 left it open to a sequel if they felt like it but after about 24ish longish levels of duck, bang, 
 jumping action I'm not really looking forward to one.
  
  Throughout the game you can earn special awards for killing a certain amount of enemies with a 
 certain weapon in a certain place blah blah blah, and you can also find hidden treasures. Doing 
 these things will of course help you unlock special things like the wonderful artwork and picture 
 designs, that everyone loves to be rewarded with in all of their favorite games, but that's not 
 all (thank god) , since you can also unlock exclusive behind the scenes footage and weapons that 
 can be equipped at any time! (once you have actually go through the game for the first time) . These 
 elements provide a minor amount of replay value, which sadly I didn't find enough to make me want 
 to spend another 14-18 hours doing. 
  
  To be fair the only bad point about this game is the repetitiveness of its gameplay. The graphics 
 are decent, the sound is decent, the gameplay is decent, and the storyline is decent. It does lack 
 a multiplayer but there isn't really any need for one in a game like this since there isn't really 
 much you can do other than multiplayer shootouts and multiplayer vehicle races and online co-op 
 etc, but other than that who would really want a multiplayer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Now even though Uncharted is beautiful, it seems to come at a cost. Gamers may notice that there 
 is some slight screen tearing but due to what is presented on screen, it's forgivable. Plus, Naughty 
 Dog seems to have added a motion blur to Nathan's peripheral vision when turning quickly side to 
 side, making the screen tear less noticeable. Yet, when you think that Naughty Dog is only using 
 30% of the SPE's in the PS3's Cell Processor to push AI, animations, physics, texture streaming, 
 and holding it at a steady 30fps, it makes you wonder what will happen once developers are able 
 to harness all of the power. 
  
  Overall Naughty Dog has put the pieces together to make for one solid AAA title. Everything from 
 the art direction and technically advanced character animations to the soundtrack, voice acting, 
 and environmental ambience, Uncharted Drakes Fortune has got to be one of the greatest single player 
 adventures yet released on the PS3. Let's just hope that the treasure hunts will continue and that 
 Naughty Dog will return to the franchise soon.
  Pros
  + Some of the most beautiful environments and colorful characters yet on the PS3
  + High quality 
 voice acting and facial animations
  Cons
  - Slight amount of screen tearing
  - Gun battles could have been more diverse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksman2200
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Good story, amazing graphics, great voice acting, very funny
  
  Cons: fire fights are repetitive, partner A. I. never helps.
  
  Uncharted is one of those games 
 that makes you feel like your watching a movie, but your the director. Uncharted is Naughty Dog's 
 first entrance into the next gen market, and they did well.
  
  The game starts you out with a good tutorial scene, letting you go through basic combat skills 
 such as shooting, cover, and melee attacks. Then the story gets good. You play as Nathan Drake, 
 a treasure hunter who just happens to get into trouble... a lot. Nathan is supposedly the descendent 
 of famed explorer, Sir Francis Drake, and you learn right of the bat that leads into the story 
 of the game that Drake, is not in the coffin he was buried in. But instead, Nate finds his journal. 
 The journal is what sends Drake, his friend Sully and Elena Fisher, a reporter, on the hunt for 
 the famed El Dorado. The game continues on, with the story getting better and better, and even 
 introduces a good twist. There is a lot of humour in this game that adds a good shine on its already 
 good story. Nate is the source of most of the humour in the game with it coming from him saying 
 or just doing something stupid. An example of this would be "Strangers trying to kill me; leaving 
 my map on a burning plane, Elena's missing; most likely dead. That's great. Great start, Nate." 
 That was from just after Nate crash landed on the mysterious island.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game has its ups and downs. The fire fights you have throughout the game become 
 very repetitive and tedious. Most of the time it's cover, shoot, cover, shoot, move to another 
 cover, shoot... etc. As the game continues, there are sections where it's simply run and gun. Speaking 
 of which, one thing that I liked about running and gunning in this game, is that Drake will shoot 
 behind himself at enemies while running, which becomes quite useful near the end of the game. The 
 cliffhanging sequences have their moments where you might say "that was easy" while other times, 
 it might be "man, this is hard". But relatively saying, the climbing scenes get pretty basic as 
 the game progresses. As for weapons, I like the system. It's a 2 weapon system, with a pistol and 
 1 other weapon, plus grenades. The weapons are also quite balanced, with 4 pistols total, 2 regular 
 pistols while the other 2 are high calibre pistols like the Desert Eagle. You also have 2 rifles, 
 and 2 shotguns, with a sniper rifle and a grenade launcher to round it off, with the rifle and 
 grenade launchers being scarce are shown for use when needed. There are few sections of the game 
 which require you to drive a sea doo while Elena shoots the enemies with a grenade launcher or 
 pistol. You control both Elena and Drake at these times making, forcing you to stop to aim and 
 shoot at your enemies. Another scene has Drake on a MG turret while Elena drives, but you only 
 focus on shooting. 
  
  One issue that I did not like in matters of gameplay is that the partner A. I. is never a help to 
 you. You can be fighting for dear life during a firefight and your partner will just stand there, 
 might take a shot or 2 but usually just takes cover. The only time where this is not the case is 
 when your fighting with Eddy Raja, a fellow treasure hunter. But, most times, you should be able 
 to handle the fight by yourself, or you will learn to handle it.
  
  Since this is a game where you play as a treasure hunter it's most appropriate that you can find 
 treasures throughout the game. There are 60 in total. Along with the treasures is a reward system. 
 The reward system is almost like achievements on the 360 but for this game only. You get it for 
 collecting treasures, or doing something while in combat such as score 5 headshot kills in a row, 
 or get 50 kills with a certain weapon. You can simply pause the game and enter bonuses to see the 
 rewards. Rewards range from concept art to videos, to unlockables for use in another play through 
 of the game.
  
  One thing that really stands out in this game is the graphics. Now I'm not one usually for graphics, 
 but the graphics in this game are just beautiful. All the backgrounds and level design of the game 
 are so well done. One thing that tells you about the graphics of this game is that when Nate goes 
 in water, his clothes will really be wet and will shine in light. The destructible items found 
 in the settings such as jars, jumbled together rocks used for cover and boxes are well done and 
 are appropriate.
  
  In conclusion, my final rating for this game is a 9.0, with the repetitive fire fights and bad 
 partner A. I. as its faults. So if you have a chance, you should get yourself lost in Uncharted.
 
  
  Written by: Marksman2200
  Date: June 10/2008
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smpy4MrVengance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is to date the best PlayStation 3 game out there and quite possibly 
 the best next-gen game right now. Everything about this game is simply amazing. To start off, the 
 graphics are mind-blowing. Aside from MGS4 these are the best graphics on any game on any console. 
 Every blade of grass and every indention on the stone walls are all perfectly crafted by the naughty 
 dog team. Besides the lush landscape, the character models and the facial expressions/animations 
 are all some of the best you can find in the gaming industry.
  Aside from the gorgeous eye-candy, the score is also some of the best song writing i've heard for 
 a game since God Of War 2. It gives the game the feel of a summer blockbuster movie on such an 
 epic scale. This would be because the score was crafted by Lucasarts Ltd. but not all the audio 
 credit can be given to them because the voice acting is on a Hollywood scale and that is where 
 the game really shows it's stuff. With such interesting characters such as Drake, Sully, and Elena 
 (Babe) who all feel like you could take them straight out of the game and onto the set of a movie 
 this game is hard not to love.
  Now for the most important part, game play. Uncharted is a mix of Gears of War (The cover and shooting 
 system) , Tomb Raider (The Puzzles) , and Prince Of Persia (The climbing and jumping/scaling) all 
 of which IMO are all pulled off spectacularly and better then all of the previously stated games 
 (in those aspects) . The shooting/cover system really is very easy to pick up but hard to master, 
 as for the climbing and scaling system, all I can say is that you have to play it yourself to really 
 appreciate how amazing it is executed. Let's just put it this way, when your jumping from ledge 
 to ledge, it feels completely natural and exciting.
  As a whole everything about Uncharted is great: The graphics, music, voice overs, animations, game 
 play, and story all come together to create something truly special. As for the difficulty, it's 
 on the easy side and you can beat it in around 8 hours but the rewards system to unlock different 
 special features and cheats is worth playing the game multiple times. It comes down to this, if 
 you own a PS3 you need to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cinemadoak
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I love a game that has great voice acting. I hate the games that have cut scenes that looks like 
 they're made from the people who did Power Rangers or something like that. But this game has cut 
 scenes that feel like you're watching a movie. It is absolutely amazing. You'll be playing, climbing 
 up a cliff to jump on top of a U-Boat, and then there a cut scene that feels like it's out of a 
 Indiana Jones / Tomb Raider movie. 
  
  Probably one of the funnest things about this game are the puzzles. I remember playing the Da Vinci 
 Code when it came out. I mean, that was just cool cause it's the only game I've played where I 
 can make Tom Hanks kick some a$$! But that's besides the point. The thing about that game was the 
 puzzles. I mean with that game, you had to have a pad and paper handy so you can write down Ephesians 
 12:10 in Latin so you can go to a wall of symbols and press the right ones to complete to sentence 
 (Not in the real game, and any similarities in game and description are purely coincidental) . 
 
  
  But Drake's Fortune is mostly like a Tomb Raider game where you follow a series of clues and it 
 feels like the last Crusade with the journal book he has. I guarantee they based this game on both 
 of these fictional characters.
  I wish they'd make more games like this one. I mean, Call of Duty 4 is awesome, and Halo 3, but 
 I get dulled out on the games that are just based on point-m-shoot. (And no, it's not just cause 
 I suck at them) . I like to use my brain (If I knew where it was) and figure things out during a 
 game, where as just shoot a guy and get through the door. I enjoyed that kind of game play during 
 the Metal Gear days. That's why I can't wait for Guns of the patriots!
  
  The difficulty in this game is balanced. I think the hardest part so far for me is finding out 
 where the bad guys are, which is also cool, because it makes it more challenging. (There is no 
 radar you can turn on) And some of the puzzles can be pretty challenging.
  
  All in all, the game has it all: great animation, great voice acting, great gameplay, challenging, 
 awesome storyline and superb cut scenes. Definitely one of the funnest games I have played in a 
 long time. At lest until Metal Gear Solid IV: Guns of the Patriot comes out anyways;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteWarrior93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Ok where to begin with this review of : Uncharted Drakes Fortune
  
  The characterisation in this game is absolutely incredible with meeting the 2 out of 3 main characters 
 
  
  Nathan Drake - A distant descendant of Sir Francis Drake 
  Elena Fisher - A experienced news reporter 
  
  The game begins on a boat searching for the 
 coffin of Sir Francis Drake to help find a ton of buried treasure the coffin is found with the 
 notebook used by the coffins user the treasure is named El Dorado - The city of gold 
  Then the excitment begins! ! ! Pirates attack the boat luckily prepared you have two 9mm pistols 
 this games is based on hiding behind cover and popping out to fire off a few heads shots before 
 the same thing happens to you and the screen turns grey then you die but if you use cover you can 
 easily gain back your health. 
  
  (Here comes the funny part of my review) 
  The pirates hate getting shot but they dont mind shooting you thought 
  They suck up bullets 
 like a thirsty sponge when your're aiming at any body part other than their heads it can take around 
 seven shots before they finally give up on life and do the decent thing and die 
  
  The graphics on this game are so life like you feel you are in the game or watching a movie you 
 control, The forests and jungles look absolutely lush and vibrant you just want do try to touch 
 the leaves or the trees with alot of help with the next GEN graphics 
  
  Also this game is one of a kind because now this sounds mean but one of the best things about this 
 game is that it actually has a ending!! No sneaky setups for a sequel just a actual conclusion 
 thats fills you with a warm glow that......... sorry i cannot give away that information because 
 it would give away the ending 
  
  I would say if you are in to action and adventurer games with sloving puzzles and clues and you 
 like Lara croft and Indiana Jones Get this games If you got a PS3 your very luckily because you 
 can get this game
  
  The verdict 
  It's a rip roaring adventure that you really will enjoy. It constantly pulls you on through the 
 game and makes you really want to see things untill the end .
  
  Thanks for reading ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bill2510
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I was coming home from work and i stopped at zellers to buy something for myself. obviously my 
 first destination was the games depo. and i saw it and I heard some good things so i bought it. 
 i put it in and started playing it. next thing i knew it was 2 A. M.! I Was hooked! its Simply the 
 best game on the ps3 its a must have for anyone who like shooters, adventure games, puzzle games, 
 run and gun, duck and cover, wall climbing if thats any of your bag BUY IT! I know i speak for 
 most of us when i say i hope theres a sequel :)
  
  Graffix and visuals: 10 everything looks great!
  
  Story: 10 Theres twist and turns around 
 every corner!
  
  Controls: 10 The dual shock comes to life on this game!
  
  Music: 10 great sounding orchestrated music
  
  Overall: 10 Great game, I Strongly recommend 
 it to the shooter and adventure lover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilTaru
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  A great combination of gunplay, platforming and the occasional puzzle, Uncharted takes the cover-based 
 gunplay of Gears of War and evolved it with a more flexible cover system and incorporates height-based 
 covers like ledges and high walls. Gunplay is enhanced through the implementation of smart AI that 
 constantlyl pins and flanks the player, incredibly easy and intuitive controls makes it a breeze 
 to vault, jump, climb over any environmental obstacles, and combines that with genuinely lovable 
 characters in a great story. Graphically it's by far the best-looking current-generation game, 
 hands down, everything from lighting/shadowing to the lush color palette is a departure from the 
 nowaday norm of gritty realism that every other developer is copying. A genuine classic that is 
 all about execution, and a model of how games should be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are main stream, nothing too spectacular. The storyline though not unique, is interesting 
 in the way it progresses through each level.
  The game play gets a little frustrating at times. Sometimes it is hard to hide behind certain obstacles 
 without getting shot many times and have to run to recover your health. The attacking players weirdly 
 and the targeting system is a lot to be desired but you can master it with patience.
  By the the way - this is sort of a knockoff of Tomb Raider. I had to say that because:
  1. Its 
 true
  2. Ms Croft made me write it. (LOL)
  This game can get addicting, and once you get a hold of the game play, well lets just say, play 
 on the weekend (Friday, Saturday) therefore you should be ale to get ample rest for school/work 
 on Monday. Trust me you don't wanna lose your job or miss finals because of this one. I played 
 this at my friends house and we were up until about 4:00am Saturday morning, still playing and 
 looking for munchies.
  Rent first, then buy or buy and sell back, if you don't want it in your Master Library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfan83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  I love dark themed games and sports games and fps's. I hated tomb raider and I dont usually like 
 platformers or bight colored adventure style games. 
  
  Uncharted is the most beautiful game I have seen probably ever. Drake is a likable character, the 
 story is very entertaining and the different modes of gameplay, action and explosions put it up 
 among the top action games of all time. I beat this game 2 months ago and I will play it again. 
 This is what the ps3 is all about. You battle pirates on foot, in a jeep, and on a jetski. The 
 combat is between rsv and gow and it takes a little getting used to but it is top notch.
  
  I cant go into too much detail about it, just buy it and play it. If you love great graphics, great 
 action and a great story with a main character as likeable as john mclaine or sgt riggs than this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune" is the second game I've played for my newly purchased PS3 (I'm really 
 got it for MGS 4, of course) . But in my book, the game feels just like a "Tomb Raider" game with 
 some "Prince of Persia" gameplay mechanics. 
  
  As Nathan (Nate) Drake, you raid tombs and climb rocks just like Lara Croft and the Prince do in 
 their respective games. Like Lara, you can carry a limited number of guns and ammo and just like 
 the Prince, you can jump from rock to rock or even swing on ropes to perform even bigger jumps. 
 The game's story is in the tradition of "Indiana Jones", (a German boat holds the key to El Dorado) , 
 but the language is a little saltier than you might expect and the game's opening is right out 
 of "Far Cry".
  
  So far, I've played through the first five chapters of the game and the formula is simple: platforming/puzzle 
 segments are followed by lengthy shootouts. The targeting mechanic is straight out of "Gears of 
 War". You pin yourself under some kind of cover and pop out for a shot or shots. The controls are 
 smooth, but if you haven't played that 360 masterpiece, than you might have to adjust to the controls.
 
  
  In the end, this game is about as good as "Tomb Raider Anniversary", it's not a great game, but 
 it is a good one. For those seeking an adventure game along the lines of Lara Croft, than "Uncharted" 
 is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightshade869
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because a friend of mine told me it was very fun and had great gameplay mechanics. 
 I was skeptical at first because I really wanted to get Assassin's Creed instead, but I trusted 
 my friend and I have never been happier. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this game. The 
 graphics, sound, gameplay, characters, voice acting, story line, etc. is all fantastic and amazing. 
 They could very well make a movie off of this game and make millions. You will not be disappointed 
 with this game at all, I guarantee it.
  
  It is about an 8 hour story with tons of replay value. I have played through it three times now 
 and can't wait to do so again after MGS4. This game is amazing and truly shows some of the brilliant 
 colors the PS3 can fly.
  
  The game also have multiple difficulties which add a whole new level of gameplay. When they say 
 hard, they mean hard. Each new difficulty requires new strategy and tactics when playing the game.
 
  
  Even if you rent this game it is well worth it. Just play it, it is a thrill ride you won't ever 
 forget!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a fortune that the PS3 definately needed. When looking at the first previews of this game 
 I thought that it looked pretty basic and nothing great. But it turned out to be the main reason 
 why I am a proud owner of a PS3 (aside from Ratchet & Clank naturally) . 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are simply breathtaking. There is no better looking game on the market aside from 
 Gears of War. After seeing this game I can truly see the PS3's power at work. Its truly a marvel 
 to see, and you must see it to believe it. From the lush landscapes to the lifelike character models, 
 it all looks genuine. And this game could possibly have the best facial animation ever seen in 
 a game aside from Heavenly Sword. The screenshots don't do it any justice. 
  
  THE STORY is movie quality. As in a movie that is a blockbuster and showed around theatres around 
 the globe. It sports a fantastic adventrue treasure hunting storyline, that supports a charming, 
 and very likeable cast that are all extremely lifelike. It gots twists, and has that "Indiana Jones" 
 feel to it. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY here is well done. The gunplay draws in from the Gears of War/Kill. Switch line, and 
 it makes them proud. It may not work as well as Gears, but it still works extremely well. Gears 
 perfected this formula, and Naughty Dog was smart and formulated their own formula. You'll constantly 
 pop in and out of cover, and leap from one block of cement to another. It works out great, and 
 all the weapons feel and work great. This game also focuses on Tomb Raider inspired platforming. 
 And not only does this game get that formula as well, but it also surpasses Tomb Raider by a long 
 shot, and completely perfects it. I have never seen this type of platforming done so well. Nate 
 will literally scale walls and leap from one ledge to another with ease. Now, these are all pros 
 for sure, but there is always cons. And one of my main cons lies in with three things. First, theres 
 not much variety with the enemies. The majority of them all look alike, aside from the ones you'll 
 fight near the end (you'll know which enemies I'm referring to once you see them) . Second, the 
 jetski. The jetski segments got me pumped, yet once I hopped on board I quickly couldn't wait to 
 dismount. Its quite clumsy. From the driving to the stop and shoot style, it doesn't feel fluid. 
 Luckily, the car scene feels great. Third and last, where the hell are all these fools coming from? 
 Seriously, did these dudes enlist the whole country of Guatemala to fight for them? At times, i 
 got almost irritated due to the fact that I was fighting an army of dudes that wouldn't stop respawning. 
 But, these are not major issues, and these do not faulter the game that much, considering how much 
 this game has going for it.
  
  THE SOUND is extremely well done as well. It sports a great soundtrack that melds perfectly with 
 the game. Add in the top of the line voice acting and you got yourself a quality piece of work.
 
  
  OVERALL Uncharted is definately one of the main games to make you a proud owner of a PS3. It sport 
 a fantastic story, unbelieveable graphics, breathtaking platforming and gunplay, and movie quality 
 animation and voice acting. If you own a PS3 and do not own this game, something is wrong with 
 you. Uncharted: PS3's Fortune indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is maybe the best PS3 exclusive so far. It tells the story of one Nathan 
 Drake a treasure hunter and, it is even sugested that he is a descedend of Sir Francis Drake a a 
 Vice Admiral of the English Navy in the 16th century. Basically Nate searches his ancestor's treasure 
 with help from a good friend of his and a TV jurnalist. The game will look a little bit familiar 
 for those who have played Tomb Raider or such games before. The graphics in this game are unbelievable. They 
 are by far the best I have ever seen in a video game before. The graphics are great the textures 
 are great the animations are grezt. Everything visually about this game is brilliant. The sound also 
 sound perfect and the actors look very real also because of the tons of motion captures done in 
 the game. THe gamepaly is good. It doesn't bring much inovation. You will have to duck and take cover 
 throughout the whole game behind certain objects or walls to hide from your enemies. The game runs 
 very smooth and the loading times are usually very short and won't take you away from the whole 
 experience. This is just one of those games that you want and like to play and won't forget to soon 
 but even so it has a few problems. For example the explosion are very bad and I mean very bad. They 
 just don't look good enough in comparison to other visual aspects of the game. Another bad thing 
 about this game is it's lenght. If you are lucky you will get about 9 hours from the game. But because 
 of many unlockables it will make you come back to it. THe game features no muliplayer and this good 
 have made it the best game of the year. In th end I would say this game is worth checking out because 
 of it's beautiful story, incredible visual design and the good action it offers. This is a must have 
 for all PS3 owners.
  
  My Score 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritOf
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune for the PS3 might be what some would call "derivative" of other games 
 in the action genre, and in its way it is, but to brush it under the rug as derivative would be 
 short sighted because you would be passing up one of the prettiest, most fun, engrossing, and addictive 
 games ever created. Naughty Dog has polished this game to a sparkle and it's my current favorite 
 game for the PS3 platform.
  
  You play the game as Nathan Drake, a fortune hunter and descendant of Sir Francis Drake. At the 
 beginning of the game Nathan uncovers a lost journal that belonged to Sir Francis, a journal that 
 might help point the way to Francis' lost treasure, the gold of El Dorado. This is the "Raiders 
 of the Lost Ark" portion of the game. Nathan has a very "Indiana Jones", tongue in cheek vibe to 
 his character. He's serious when he needs to be, but is quick with a snarky remark, infinitely 
 likable, and expertly voiced by Nolan North. Before it's all over he will meet several bad guys 
 along with a his debt riddled partner Sully, a crack journalist named Elena, and it's all wrapped 
 under high adventure, tropical locations, dusty ruins, and a back stab or two along the way.
  
  Gameplay consists of about 40% third person shooting, 40% climbing puzzle solving, with 20% 
 being a grab bag of driving, jet skiing, hand to hand combat, and quick time events. This is the 
 "Gears of War", "Prince of Persia", "Tomb Raider" portions of the game. Gunplay is pretty reminiscent 
 of Gears of War because Nathan is really dependent upon cover if he's going to stay alive. Enemies 
 also use cover, attempt to flank, and flush you out with grenades, so the gunplay does have a very 
 dynamic "never the same way twice" feel to it. The climbing and puzzle solving is very much like 
 those in the Tomb Raiders series, but the actual climbing feels a whole lot more like the Prince 
 of Persia franchise. Again, you would think it would have a very derivative feel to it, but somehow 
 (and I'm not quite sure how) it feels fresh and fun.
  
  I think that the biggest thing this game has going for is its super fluid gameplay and overall 
 five star presentation. On paper the game looks like something you've probably played before, but 
 the game looks incredible and plays even better. Everything runs super smooth and the environments 
 are really eye popping. The gunplay is easy to get used to, and I actually thought that Uncharted 
 handled the cover system just a bit better than the one in Gears. I never once ended up sticking 
 to a wall or object that I didn't intended to, and that's not something I can say never happened 
 in Gears. The climbing is also super smooth and it's almost beautiful to watch Nathan scale a wall. 
 At times the climbing seems a bit too forgiving, and at times I made jumps where I was sure I was 
 going to miss the grab, only to have Nathan make a Batman caliber grab at the last possible second. 
 It helps to give the player a good sense of vertigo, but at the same time it's near impossible 
 to plummet to your death in this game.
  
  Uncharted also gets really high marks for graphics and sound. The cinemas are real time and they 
 just look awesome. Very expressive facial animation, spot on voice work, and a musical score that 
 could almost make John Williams hang his head. Once I finished the game I even caught myself humming 
 the theme and wondering if Sony put out an Uncharted soundtrack. The actual story plays it safe 
 for the most part, with a rather odd twist during the last third of the game, but it is engaging 
 and keeps you pushing on. It's also open ended enough that they could take the story of Nathan 
 Drake in any of a billion different direction... naturally.
  
  If you take all of the elements above and separate them, Uncharted appears to be one of the biggest 
 "me too" games to come out in a long time, but when you smash it all together and put a nice coat 
 of Naughty Dog paint on the outside, you end up with one of the best action-adventure puzzlers 
 that I have personally ever played. Throw in some cool unlockable videos and Uncharted's own version 
 of an achievement points system, and you end up with one highly addictive game. It's the video 
 game equivalent of a really good book. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune for the PS3 is one very hard 
 game to put down and a must-buy in my opinion.
  
  +Great graphic and audio presentation
  +Smooth all around gameplay
  +Great voice acting
  +Great new character in Nathan Drake
  +Great 
 unlockable extras
  +Hard to put down
  
  -Doesn't bring anything completely original to the plate
  -Slightly short
  -Just a little too 
 forgiving in the challenge department 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  In Uncharted you play as a character named 'Nathan Drake', but you can call him Nate, if you want. 
 Uncharted takes the popular platforming style from Tomb Raider, and binds it together with Gears 
 of War's gun play. Awesome. They even add some comedy to the game that Naughty Dog is known for. 
 Nate is looking for the lost treasure of El Dorado, whom Sir Francis Drake (Whom Nate believes 
 is his ancestor) also tried to get. The game starts you off on a boat looking for Sir Francis Drake's 
 journal that will lead you to the lost treasure. When suddenly, you are attacked by modern day 
 pirates. Once you escape, you'll head deep in the jungle in search of the lost treasure. You are 
 also accompanied by two other characters.
  
  1. Elena Fisher, a camera girl that helps you when you're in combat, and is also you're in damsel 
 distress for the evening. LIKE PRINCESS PEACH.
  
  2. Victor Sullivan, he is helping Nate find the lost treasure of El Dorado, but dies at the beginning 
 of the game. Sorry that I spoiled the beginning for you.
  
  The levels are very top notched. The water look and act like real water. The plants look and act 
 like real plants, and the rocks look and act like real rocks... 
  
  Yeah, its not that hard to make a rock look good, but every level in Uncharted looks so real, you 
 might actually think you're on an island in the Pacific Ocean.
  
  Although Uncharted has amazing graphics, animations, physics, voice acting and story. However, 
 the difficulty is so hard it will even make pro gamers want to throw their controller at the wall. 
 Unless you set the difficulty level to easy. Like I did! 
  
  Anyway, if Naughty Dog makes a sequel for Uncharted that lowers the difficulty level next time, 
 you might see Game-spot giving it an editor's choice award.
  
  Final score: 4 thumbs out of 5
  
  P. S. I would have used stars, but they were already taken. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, developed by our friends at Naughty Dog, is a rousing action adventure 
 that every PS3 owner should own.
  
  The first thing you will notice when you start up this game is its production values. Quite simply, 
 they are breathtaking. The quality of the graphics, and the cut-scenes, rival anything that you 
 will see in this current generation of videogames.
  
  The most noticeable strength this game has is its graphics. Every detail, every nook and cranny, 
 looks superb in high definition. From the glimmering sun peaking behind the clouds reflecting off 
 every leaf, to the wonderfully fluid rivers in the underground catacombs, the graphics in this 
 game are almost flawless. The amount of sheer detail and the fact that textures are never noticeably 
 repeated makes one want to stop and enjoy the beautiful lush, tropical scenery. The game is filled 
 with overgrown ruins, every imperfection in every stone, and every vine on every wall, is perfectly 
 realized. The photo realistic textures look stunning in 1080p, and the motion blur doing fast action 
 adds to the cinematic flare to this game excels at. Although, like many games, this game has a 
 generally linear path with many invisible walls, the almost flawless graphics never make it feel 
 that way. The way one is led through the environment seems entirely natural. The game also has 
 some breathtaking vistas with a huge amount of draw distance, seldom pulled off in console games.
 
  
  The animation is also superb. Thanks to motion capture of every cutscene, the character animation 
 is the most realistic you will find. After viewing the cutsceens in "Uncharted," it's more than 
 apparent that the days of pre-rendering are over. The sound is also very detailed, and the voice 
 acting never makes one question the acting abilities of the voice talent. "Uncharted" raises the 
 standard for what can be on a console graphically and aurally.
  
  If I had to compare the gameplay of "Uncharted" with any other game, I would have to say it has 
 the combat of "Gears of War" mixed with the platforming of "Prince of Persia." Although this sounds 
 like a great thing on the surface, "Uncharted" doesn't do quite as good as both of those games 
 in the mentioned categories. The gameplay, although very fluid at times, is very predictable. The 
 combat for instance, is very repetitive, and it's always easy to know when you are about to be 
 "ambushed" by enemy fire. You'll be walking through what seems to be an abandoned ruin, and look! 
 A randomly placed AK-47 on a crate! Shortly after picking it up, you hear gunfire in the distance. 
 The game repeats this pattern often. You'll soon wonder why military personal might be waiting 
 at the bottom of a cavern for you, or why a weapons crate is behind a wall that has been sealed 
 for centuries inside an ancient Incan temple. Firefights are similar to Gears, in which you will 
 be covering, waiting, and firing. Rinse and repeat. In easy mode, cover isn't even necessary. The 
 enemies are also repeated greatly. There is a different enemy for each weapon they carry, very 
 dubious. A predictable twist near the end of the game adds one new kind of enemy. Gee, thanks. 
 It's also painfully obvious that every single enemy in this game follows the exact same AI pattern, 
 just with different (and not many) , character models.
  
  The platforming aspect of this game is similar to "Prince of Persia" like I mentioned. You will 
 hang off walls, use vines and ropes, and unlock doors. The difficulty of this never ramps up, and 
 it never really takes any chances or sets any standards. It's also very forgiving, which is either 
 a good thing or a bad thing, depending on your playstyle.
  
  Like so many games before it, "Uncharted" has a girl sidekick that will follow you around for most 
 of the game. The clich is dead and tired. Fortunately, in "Uncharted" the sidekick is not nearly 
 as annoying, and you don't have to worry about keeping her alive in the main gameplay. 
  
  Because of this, you'll spend more time fighting, exploring, and less time babysitting. There is 
 also some nice chemistry between her and Drake. Although this could have been cheesy and poorly 
 written, "Uncharted" pulls it off very well if you're into that whole guy/girl sort of thing.
 
  
  This game has a fair amount of replay value. When going through the game, you will find hidden 
 relics, which will earn you points. You will also earn points by defeating enemies in certain ways, 
 using certain weapons, and performing other optional feats. There are a total of 1,000 points. 
 The more points you earn, the more you can unlock, including some very nice behind the scenes featurettes, 
 cheats, and other goodies. It mirrors the 360's achievement system, although unfortunately you 
 can't share them. They are more for self gratification than anything else, and are completely optional.
 
  
  Although the gameplay is repetitive and uneven at times, "Uncharted" is a beautiful action packed 
 adventure, that every PS3 owner should own. It's a heroic adventure that plays out like I classic 
 adventure film. You'll have "wow" moments all the way through. Although you may be disappointed 
 at times by the combat, the good far outweighs the bad. If you have a PS3, get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that hit me with this title was the visuals. This being an exclusive meant that 
 naughty dog could create astonishing graphics with the playstations capabilities. There are extremely 
 good set peices you stumble upon and make the game worth while. It feels amazing to be wondering 
 around a jungle jumping cliffs and swimming through inviting waters. You really feel like you can 
 relate to the character Nathan Drake hes just an overage guy out looking for treasure when the 
 big boys come along and try and mustle in on the action. A sexy young girl accompanies him in his 
 quest to fing fortune. The cutscenes are action packed and shoot outs can also be quite fun when 
 it gets down to it.
  There is one problem.
  You always seem to be fighting the same person over and over.
  You get to experience climing 
 up ravines on a jet ski and dodge a car whilst trying not to fall deep into a waterfall behind 
 you.
  This is an extremely good game and I reccomend you buy it if not. Just rent it and Im sure you 
 will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucid1314
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I have beaten Drake's Fortune oh say about 3 times now and every run through is like watching a 
 movie! The graphics are very great looking, not the best on the best looking of some of the PS3's 
 games but very close I'd say.
  
  The sound on for the most part was great, and the little bits of mysterious music when you're traveling 
 the jungle or the other I think 4 or 5 areas of the game just make it feel like a classic explorer's 
 movie only set in modern time. The music for when you're in the middle of the shoot out is also 
 very great, it's intense and makes the shootout's even more fun than they already are. As for gun's 
 sounds... well the Grenade Launcher sounds... a little cartoony, and the pistol and the Machine 
 guns don't sound as powerful as you think they would, the d. egeal, the magnum, and the shotgun 
 all sound powerful like they should and make taking headshots all the more satisfying.
  
  There's a fair amount of replay value to the game as finding the hidden treasure in the game can 
 sometimes be a challenge and fortunately isn't a waste once you got it all as it unlocks... BONUS 
 CONTENT! :D
  
  Gameplay is a mixture of games such as Tomb Raider (climbing and stuff) Gears of War (shooting 
 sequences in which you can take cover and blind fire) , the controls are very responsive except 
 sometimes the meleeing felt kind of random when fighting an enemy. The action in the game is very 
 great, very intense, loads of enemies, and I'd say a good weapon set.
  
  The thing that amazes me the most of the game is Drake... if you go in to the water about.. oh 
 say... mide thy, you're cloths are wet to the point of where you stopped walking into the water, 
 and it doesn't dry instantly it takes a little time and the drying looks great. Oh and lets not 
 forget the facial expressions... it's absolutely amazing looking. If you've read Gamespot's review 
 then you know where I'm going with that.
  
  AI is great, and know what they're doing for the most part, I hardly ever see them just standing 
 there.
  
  The story is very good, every moment of it feels like Indiana Jones and well if you're a fan of 
 the Indiana Jones... then you'll most likely like this games story. The only difference is it's 
 more of fighting spainards in the amazon and some mysterious lost island looking for El Dorado.
 
  
  If you have a PS3, I really recommend you get this game it's for surely not to dissapoint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoiseAddyct
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is my first foray into supporting the Sony paltform, and from what I've seen during the 
 duration of my playtime, I could've done a lot worse. As far as a showpiece of what the system 
 can do, it's a milestone in videogame technology.
  
  Playing as a distant relative of Sir Francis Drake in search of mythical treasure that had previously 
 been stolen by Nazis, the storytelling is strictly Indiana Jones with profanity, and but goofier. 
 But it's somewhat plausible when considering other stories woven into games that have sold just 
 as well. Traversing through the jungle and ancient ruins on your way to find El Dorado, you will 
 encounter a ton of foes along the way.
  
  In regard to the foes, the AI is actually pretty quick in this gem. They will duck for cover when 
 they are shot at, and they will often work together in attempts to flank you as you progress through 
 the thick of them. But the shooting mechanic is actually fairly intuitive and smooth, so you should 
 be ranking up headshots in no time, assuming you're taking cover and firing responsibly. Still, 
 they flesh out a relatively formidable enemy in the grand scheme of the game.
  
  There is a ton of platforming to be had here, as well, fairly resulting in a game that critics 
 have dubbed "Tomb Raider meets Gears of War". The environment is the real star of the game, though, 
 with an insane amount of detail on the screen at once, and playing at the supported 720p resolution 
 brings all the aspects of your surroundings to life. As much as it's been touted, the real graphical 
 star here is the water. It is immensely realistic, and will reflect on Drake's character model 
 when submerged. His clothes will appear dark and actually drip with glistening water, and the engine 
 is smooth enough to actually reflect this aspect on only the parts of him that you put into the 
 water in the first place.
  
  As I stated earlier, this is my first game for this system, a console that I have been somewhat 
 skeptical of supporting previously, but picked up on sheer impulse. As such, it is an impressive 
 achievement. The gameplay is fluid and easy to adjust to, the pace is quick and fun, the premise 
 is a bit hokey but forgivable, and all in all, it stands as one of the better games I have played 
 through this year. On top of that, it's actually fun enough to warrant replaying, since there are 
 a fair amount of collectibles throughout and the higher difficulties should prove engaging. It 
 isn't Call of Duty 4, but it is an impressive piece of software nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Uncharted has some of the best graphics on the PS3. The water looks amazing and realistic. 
 Explosions are on point and the gunfights are nice. The shading and lighting are top-notch. Stages 
 are also very big and will have you looking at how gorgeous everything is. Character models look 
 incredibly realistic which helps the game look like a movie. Naughty Dog spent a lot of time on 
 the graphics in this game trust me you will not be disappointed. There are also no pesky health 
 bars and stuff to clutter the screen, so you are further immersed in the movie feel of the game. 
 When you are taking a lot of damage the screen will start to fade and lose color letting you know 
 that you are about to die. That is when you need to find cover to lay low so you can recover health. 
 NO MORE MAGICAL HEALTH KITS LAYING AROUND NICE!!!!!!
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is epic and gives off the feeling of a Hollywood movie. Voice acting is great 
 with the characters sounding believable and not forced. Gunfights can get pretty hectic so it is 
 a good thing that the sound effects are on par with the action. How you temporarily lose your hearing 
 when a grenade explodes to close to you is nice. 
  
  Controls: Without solid controls a game like this would fall apart. Well luckily the controls are 
 not only solid, but they are the best for any platforming/action game period. The cover system 
 alone makes this game incredible and will probably be bit on by many games in the future. Blind 
 fire is a nice addition and helpful for keeping enemy's from flanking you. Being able to switch 
 your target reticule from shoulder to shoulder is one of my favorite things in Uncharted when it 
 comes to shooting, something I wish more games had. Basically everything that a action game needs 
 Uncharted has and then some.
  
  Overall: This game is amazing and worth $60, even if it is short. If you are good you could beat 
 this game in a day and a half. The length of the story however does not hurt the game because it 
 is meant to be a fast paced action game with plot twists and daring jumps over gaps. Once you get 
 used to the controls to where you can pretty much control the course of a gunfight, the game flips 
 you on your head and you have to learn all new strategies in order to stay alive. I'm not going 
 to spoil anything , but if you saw I'AM LEGEND then you will know exactly what I'm talking about. 
 This is a must own game for anybody with a PS3 that wants an action-packed adventure that is exactly 
 like a movie!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is easily one of the better games for the PS3. It is fun and has an interesting narrative, 
 gorgeously-rendered settings, appealing characters, and plenty of gunplay and platforming goodness. 
 In fact, this is one of the few games that includes platforming that doesn't completely ruin the 
 game. Thus it joins the ranks of Ico and Shodow of the Colossus as one of only a handful of recent 
 platformers that I think don't completely suck because of they're being platformers. I really do 
 not like platforming. So that is really saying something!
  
  I like the character design a lot. Everybody is well rendered and animated, they are all very expressive, 
 the voice acting is well done, and dialog is generally well-written. Although personally, I thought 
 the female character looked better as a brunette in the screenshots I saw when the game was early 
 in development. But they went with blonde. Go figure. Whatever.
  
  The main character, Nathan Drake, reminds me of Malcom Reynolds in Firefly and Serenity. His face, 
 his expressions, his mannerisms, his voide, his wit. They say the character was supposed to be 
 like a more modern-day Indiana Jones, but he's just Captain Mal in the jungle.
  The game's only real problem is that it sometimes is just way too dependent on its gunplay. there 
 are so many segments of the game that are full of just an overwhelming amount of bad-guys that 
 just keep coming and coming. Personally, I would have liked to see a little more Indiana Jones-like 
 sneaking around, instead of having to go into every room guns a blazing against several dozen baddies. 
 Movement is sometimes a bit clunky, especially when trying to get to better cover, and overall, 
 the gun fighting was just a little too much for me. The gunplay itself isn't really all that bad. 
 Targeting is well done mostly, enemy AI is fairly well done and not completely inept. They will 
 often try to flank you or flush you out with a grenade, so you will often have to act fast to avoid 
 being surrounded. And despite a bit of clunkiness, the cover system generally works well. The problem 
 is that there are just always too many bad guys! Where thehell do they all come from? your on a 
 little unknown island in the middle of the ocean for Bob's sake! And you end up fighting a group 
 of "pirates" that outnumbers most country's entire populations. Its obsene and excessive, and really 
 drags down the gameplay. Going into an area and finding more than 3 or 5 enemies even seems like 
 too much in my opinion - let alone the 3 or 5 WAVES of enemies that the game insists on throwing 
 at you every other corner you turn. Even if this were a WWII shooter game, this would be a lot 
 of badguys to throw at a gamer. In addition to making the game irritatingly difficult, it really 
 pulls you out of the otherwise immersive experience, as EVERY gun battle becomes an exercise in 
 trial and error as you manage to kill a couple more bad guys every time you replay a fight. I don't 
 know what the heck the people at Naughty Dog were thinking when they decided to put 2 million enemy 
 grunts in the game, but whoever's decision that was really should be fired.
  
  Other than that, its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game defines adventure. It may seem like another tomb raider or another Indiania Jones rip 
 off but its not. Naughty Dog took it to the next level. Overview the game is amazing and has an 
 exciting start to it. The graphics are just so good and the setting of the jungle, the style of 
 the jungle and the high land view of the sunset rocks. The characters are unique and very realistic, 
 the have emotions and the voice acting is one of the best i ever seen. The game play is so fun 
 you just dont want it to end whether you are shooting or beating the crap out of someone. The story 
 is not your average wannabe lame stories but an exciting one you will adore. The levels are nice 
 and so as the puzzles ( take the game hints off first to make it more interesting) . This game is 
 a must buy. One problem though is the game is not short but average like 10 hours without bothering 
 to collect the extra treasure items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamers-Gear
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  If you are a long-time Playstation owner, and I mean back then the PSX was just called PlayStation 
 and was the latest thing ever, then you probably remember the game series Crash Bandicoot, later 
 then the PS2 came, so did the Jack and Dexter series, now then the PS3 is here, Naughty Dog has 
 a new game to show us, and this time we have "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune". 
  
  In Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, you play as Nathan Drake, searching for his ancestor, Sir Francis 
 Drake's stoved away treasure, El Dorado.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has a bit of a loading time of around a half a minute or less, it might 
 feel like a longer time as I was eager to play it the first time, but as I explored later into 
 the game I noticed something, there was no loading times after that, while this may not be that 
 new in out new generation of gaming, it was for me, I didn't had to wait to see what would happen 
 later in the game, and that was a great + for me.
  
  At the first sight of the Intro movie I was blown away of the Hollywood-ish cutscene this game 
 deliverd, everything was almost perfect. Then it was over and I was given my first control over 
 the gameplay, I kinda expected that the game would give me a lower amount of graphics and details, 
 but no, they practically delivered the same high amount of graphics it just gave me in the intro 
 movie!
  
  The controls felt a bit rough, but after some minutes of gameplay, it growed nicely on me, The 
 combat is really awesome, as it approuches a more realistic fell to it by having cover system, 
 simular to Gears of War, and using the PS3's Sixaxis system gave it an intresting way for aiming 
 on the landing point of the grenades, but it was not a faster way of trowing them.
  
  The game has a nice amount of weapons, the weapon names is just similar to the real life ones, 
 probably due to legal reasons, but that dosen't stop me from naming them: 
  
  9mm pistol (this is the only one I could not identify) , 
  Ak-47, 
  Mossberg 500A Compact Cruiser, 
 
  Micro Uzi, 
  M79 grenade launcher, 
  Colt Python, 
  Beretta 92, 
  Desert Eagle,
  M4A1 Carbine, 
  SPAS-12, 
  Dragunov SVD, 
  frag grenades, most likely M67.
  
  
  + Incredible 
 graphics and details.
  + Rewards, treasures, skins, gives the game some replay value.
  + Awesome combat whit a realistic feel to it.
  + Big number of weapons.
  + Breathtaking Hollywood-ish 
 cutscenes.
  
  - The enemy AI dosen't respond that well after seeing a grenade flying toward them.
  - The story 
 felt a bit short, probably because I wanted more.
  - Hard to see if Nate is going to make the jump you just made, or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  You play as the character Nathan Drake in Uncharted, an intresting character too. I don't think 
 I've played a game with a more realistic main character as Nathan, judging this from the fact the 
 game makes him have his own personality in many different forms. For example his voice acting is 
 superb, the characters movements and actions are also very realistic but what makes Nathan for 
 so real is his cocky mutters in battle and the way he'll react to different things happening, for 
 example is an explotion goes off he'll stop to cover his face etc.
  
  Uncharted is backed up by a very intresting story with some very supprising twists you won't see 
 coming even tho the ending is very hollywood. The story is Nathan is the ancestor of Sir Francis 
 Drake the famous explorer and uncovers Francis long lost diary in hope it will lead them to hidden 
 treasure, of course once they find out the treasure it points too has been taken long ago they 
 head out on a long quest to find whats happened too it, you play through the story alongside Elena 
 (a news presenter) and Sully (Nathans exploring friend) these are two intresting characters who 
 you'll jel too as the game goes on.
  
  As for the gameplay, although its backed up by brilliant graphics (some of the best on the ps3 
 so far I may add) it does get alittle repeatative with gunfights, you face alot of gunfights in 
 game with alot of the same routines during them i. e. take cover, shoot, move forward. But however 
 if you have a good shot and a good tatical sence this won't be a problem, besides some of these 
 gunfights are pretty enjoyable.
  
  In all its a fantastic adventure game for the ps3 and one that I hope will spawn alot of sequals, 
 the achievement system will makes for good replay value and the difficulty noticably inceases when 
 put up, A must have for ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aluparatha
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  uncharted drakes fortune where to start well 1st thing i would say is that it has i think the most 
 amazing looking cutscenes in a video game to date. simply stunning the character models, the environment. 
 absoulutely gorgeus. so what is uncharted, uncharted puts you in the shoes of nathan drake, a treasure 
 hunter claiming to be sir frances drake the great treasure hunter to be his ancestor and is looking 
 for a treasure deep deep in an island that his ancestor stored away . the stories great with likeable 
 charcters from the get go. you feel as if this game is a movie only that your in control. uncharted 
 plays like a 3rd person shooter, best way to describe this would be it borrows gears of wars cover 
 system and borrows its platforming jumping techniques from tomb raider. uncharteds gameplay feels 
 great. gunplay feels good and platforming feels right. the minor flaw i didnt like was the games 
 melee which is really hard to take down a guy up close but apart from that uncharteds gameplay 
 is tight and works very very well. the graphics as said before are simply amazing and are good 
 to look at. you lle have a blast with uncharted the major flaw i had with the game was that it 
 only has one boss fight. which i felt abit disapointed in, still uncharted is great and ps3 owners 
 should be happy that they finally have somthing to brag about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haku_Ryushi
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  One word: amazing. This game marks the beginning of the PS3's real power. The graphics are the 
 best I've ever seen in any game period. The story goes in so many twists you wouldn't expect what 
 will come next. Its like watching a summer movie flick. Even playing it makes it feel like your 
 watching an intense action movie. The director, voice actors, story writer, and development team 
 has some serious uncanny talent. When ever I hear the soundtrack on the main menu it feels like 
 im about to go on an adventurous journey. It took me roughly 9 to 10 hours to beat the game. But 
 hold on, after you beat the game, you will definitely want to play it again. You will want to revisit 
 the characters, the adventure, and the great story. The value is great, there are tons of unlockables 
 and secrets. This game gives the true feeling of suspense like you feel in thriller movies. I won't 
 spoil anything, you just have to try it out for yourself. Buy this game. It really is worth $60, 
 you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  now, I own both the xbox 360, and ps3, but I must say, this game is just all around better then 
 gears of war, the story is you play as Nathen Drake, he beleives he is the Great great great grandson 
 of sir Francis Drake even though history says he hasnt had any children, Nathen is trying to find 
 the lost treasure of Drake for untold riches.
  
  The gameplay is a mix of gears of war and tomb raider, the gears of war parts are great, but the 
 enimeys can get frusterating do to there hardness, the tomb raider segments are perfectly done 
 do to the sespence between each jump.
  
  the graphics look absalutly amazing, the animations on Drake are so life like and perfect, but 
 the only flaw is that there is texture pop ups at some points.
  
  you defenatly should get this game, it is better then gears of war and tomb raider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conflict_rules
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  uncharted is a great game and really is the best ps3 exclusive to date . uncharted feutures some 
 tomb raider legend style jumping, some puzzle solving, some vehicle levels and some gears of war 
 like fire battles and all of that togetter is pretty awesome .
  
  the story is cool its some typical romancing the stone adventure story and all the characters are 
 great . the difficulty is perfect it got some easy parts but it also got some challanging one especially 
 in the end and you'll also find your self fighting creepy monsters or demons or whatever and thats 
 actually a really awesome part .
  
  the graphics are the best one I've ever seen there just really awesome , the soundeffects are also 
 good and the music is kinda good too but not as great as naughty dog's previous soundtracks .
 
  
  if you know naughty dog you know that there games rock and this one fits perfectly whit the other 
 ones and its the start of a probably awesome franchise.
  
  if you like action/adventure games and have a ps3 this is a must have . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  This is a great matine adventure that actually could be a good movie. You have the hero with the 
 right humor and one liners. You have the old treasure, the beautiful girl and the evil villain. 
 In short it has it all for a matine.
  
  You play Nathan Drake, the descendant of sir Francis Drake. You have come by his old diary with 
 clues how to find El Dorado. Of coarse you team up with, even if not voluntarily, the beautiful 
 reporter and set of to get the treasure. The treasure hunt places you on an distant island full 
 of surprises.
  
  The control and gameplay is good and the hide and shoot system (like GoW) is good. The enemy AI 
 is also good and if you get stuck in a place you'll notice that the enemy come at you somewhat 
 different. They try to get around you to take you out from the back so you have to be alert. The 
 shootings run smoothly and is fun. You can also unlock bonus materials by completing different 
 challenges. This is an incitement for you to use different weapons or even your hands to dispose 
 of your enemies. There are also 60 treasures hidden throughout the game that you'll have to find 
 to complete the game at 100%. When the game is finished you can choose whatever chapter you want 
 to replay to find that elusive treasure you missed the first time around. In all a good combination 
 of action and puzzle moments.
  
  The sounds and graphics are great. The jungle environment the old ruins, even the.. oops almost 
 a spoiler. Details like the fact that your clothes are wet when you come out of the water add up 
 to a good gaming experience. I found myself watching the view from the old ruins for quite a while 
 before moving on.
  
  The only bad thing is the length. It took me less then 10 hours to complete the game and I would 
 think you can play through the story on 6-8 hours. The fact that there are challenges and treasures 
 is good because it gives you a reason to replay the game or at least a part of the game. There 
 is no multiplayer mode available so single player is all you get.
  
  Uncharted is still a great game even though lack of length. I still recommend you to play it. If 
 you like adventures, treasure hunts and heroes with a sense of humor you'll like Uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune was my first PS3 game and indeed a major difference from the PS2. Naughty 
 Dog had a major leap. But unlike the very recent games Naughty Dog didn't quite have the chance 
 to work all the kinks of the by-then recently released PS3. They just did what they had.
  
  *VISUALS*
  
  The visuals are sort of a pizza. You will enjoy it almost thoroughly but you might 
 find a couple of raw or overcooked parts that might not very well adhere to your senses. 
  
  At times it looks beyond tremendous. But at times, textures are blemished and no very clear. 
 
  
  One major thing that stood out here are the character emotions and voice-acting. They really suck 
 you in with all their strengths and weaknesses. All characters without doubt are exceptionally 
 realistic in every aspect.
  
  *SOUND*
  
  Certainly it didn't disappoint here in the least. Great gunfire sounds and terrific voice-acting 
 all make for an action-oriented game that will certainly keep you hooked to your couch with a controller 
 in your addicted hands.
  
  *GAMEPLAY*
  
  All flash no substance. It looks good and all but seriously at times I can't really "feel" the 
 game. It just doesn't feel OK and doesn't feel stable. A couple of technical and mechanical glitches 
 disappoint.
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  
  Great if you like movies and earning trophies but not a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes fortune is a great action adventure? platformer which is the best game nuaghty 
 dog has released since the early crah bandicoot games. It was also the first PS3 game that changed 
 my playstation from a dust collector to a well oiled machine
  
  The Good: Obviously the first thing you notice about this game is the graphics everything looks 
 perfect such as the plants, water and drake himself. The physics of this game is fantastic ranging 
 from drake loosing his balance when he gets to close to a ledge or the way he jumps. The script 
 writers have come up with a totally original script which has been helped by great voice overs 
 from the actors. There is a wide variety of weapons ranging from the pistol to a rocket luancher 
 but the one problem with the guns is that you'll have to shoot the AL quite alot to bring them 
 down. The cover works well and you definetly need to use it as drake dies pretty easily unlike 
 the Al 
  
  The Bad: Like I said before the AL can just take to much damage. It sought of feels like your going 
 through ambush after ambush. The game quickly goes from a action adventure to a horror game for 
 some reason. I don't think they could've made it much longer but it's pretty short but it does 
 warrant more time after you've finished to collect all the hidden treasures. The platforming of 
 the game is way to forgiving and easy and the puzzles are so easy a two year old could figure them 
 out. 
  
  As you can see there's a lot of good and bad and I can't say it's worth $120 so I'd say go and 
 rent and if you love it go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenghisKahn26
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  How often does your character tense up when a grenade is nearby and yell "Holy S***!"? Not to freakin' 
 often. Unless you're playing Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. If you are looking for a third person 
 shooter, get gears of war. if you are looking for an great adventure game, get this game!
  It's pretty much perfect. Only thing I have a problem with was the annoying tendency to get "stuck" 
 on a corner.
  The voice acting was nearly movie quality, and the cut scenes had graphics almost worthy of one. 
 Any player of adventure games will instantly recognize how much better this is than the last generation.
 
  The weapons were impressive, with a variety ranging from the iconic bad guy AK-47 to a gernade 
 launcher to the Colt six-shooter. 
  Ahh, yes, the six-shooter. We have had good times, us two. Shotgun is good, but nothing feels quite 
 as good as blowing somebody off a balcony with a single shot. The guns are realistic and although 
 the shooting system is not 3rd person quality quite, it works well and you feel the action.
  AI: depends. rather, I opened this review with an example. Drake has fantastic AI, he flinches, 
 curses under his breath at the appropriate moment and responds to controls very well, a problem 
 with other games of the same type. The best way to explain it is, the higher "level" (basically, 
 bosses) have better AI while common foot soldiers will follow their comrades into your withering 
 hail of fire.
  My last comments: hmm, good game, no flaws, addictive.
  And it's on the Playstation 3!?
  Darn you Sony! Darn you! Darn you! Darn you to Heck!
  
  
 (sorry, they threatened to censor me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brunele
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  In Uncharted, you play as Nathan Drake, who is searching for the lost treasure of Francis Drake. 
 Of course, he doesn't do this alone. He does it with a journalist, named Elena and his old friend 
 Sullivan. Let's start with the graphics. The jungle is looking really great, almost everything 
 has a shadow and the ruins look very life like. Also when Drake goes in the water, he actually 
 gets wet. Drake also moves very realistic. So the graphics are more than ok. Now the gameplay. 
 Most of the time, you are in these awesome shootouts against pirates, grave robbers and at the 
 end, something really great. There are also puzzles in this game and that is the only thing that 
 is a little bad. The puzzles are to easy and when you don't find anything, the game will give you 
 some hints. That was a bit of a letdown. But overall, Uncharted is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green940
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Uncharted : Drake's Fortune is definitely a game worth your time but it just isn't that amazing.
 
  
  Firstly the graphics, sound, level design and voice acting are all superb and couldn't have been 
 better. The game has great environments and visuals which will want you to keep on playing and 
 a pretty cool story line.
  
  When you first play the game, you will love the gameplay and how everything is just set out with 
 the guns, grenades and etc.. however when you progress further on in the game you will get bored 
 and fustrated because of the bad third person shooting interference. I agree with gamespot and 
 say that it is a major problem and will start to annoy. The enemies are also pretty weird and have 
 unrealistic movements which make it a hassle to shoot at.
  
  Having stated the negatives i must say that the game is great and is worthwhile but just not that 
 'outstanding' or 'excellent' as you may think it is. If you're looking for a 3rd person shooter 
 which isn't very violent. 
  
  This is surely a game to consider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devourment423
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Personally I think its about time a game is released solely for single player on the PS3. I don't 
 mind a superb online game (CoD 4) but it seems that's all people care about these days. I am mainly 
 a single player guy myself so this game is perfect for those looking for a great single player 
 game.
  
  Story:
  I can't and won't say much in this section, except you are searching for treasure. ^_^ I know I 
 stated the obvious, but you will have to play the game and figure out the rest. There are some 
 unexpected twists though, and the character development is great. You can see the relationships 
 among the characters develop throughout the game. It makes you actually care about the characters 
 rather than just having random people doing random tasks that you couldn't care less about. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound on this game is phenominal. At times the music made me feel like I was 
 on a tropical vacation somewhere. At certain darker sections of the audio switches to suit the 
 situation. The gun sounds are a little weak, but nothing to take away from the overall experience. 
 The voice acting in this game is top notch. Sometimes Drake will blurt out a couple cheesy one 
 liners that get annoying, but nothing over the top.
  
  Graphics:
  If you are playing on an HDTV you are really in for a treat. These are the best graphics I have 
 seen on a console yet. What is even more mind boggling is the developers said this game only uses 
 30% of the PS3s overall power. I'm no fanboy and I wish death to fanboys, but that is pretty remarkable. 
 Everything from the water to the jungles to the ruins are pure eye candy. The character models 
 are very detailed. When Drake comes out from the water his shirt even stays soaked in water. The 
 ruins are also very detailed. The walls and rocks. Just everything. I love it. The only thing wrong 
 here is a little bit of screen tearing. Nothing really too huge to take away from the overall experience.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Most of the game will consist of shooting. So after all my praising on this game, if you don't 
 like shooting people you better stay away from this game. There are a couple vehicle sections and 
 some extremely easy puzzles and platforming, but the bulk will have you shooting. Most people will 
 say this isn't a shooter, which technically it isn't, but that is most of the gameplay. Take cover 
 behind the environment and pop up when necessary to shoot the pirates. I personally think it is 
 done very well as I am a big shooter fan and anyone who likes shooters will be in for a real treat. 
 The controls are very easy to get used to. One button to stay behind cover, and just aim and shoot. 
 The platforming is basically done for you in this game. Just aim in the generally direction of 
 the platform and jump. The rest is done for you. The checkpoint system is great in this game. Very 
 rarely will you have to play the same section over and over. Actually unless you play on Crushing 
 it most likely won't happen at all. Even the last boss has a checkpoint in the middle. They are 
 everywhere and makes this game extremely fun and keeps the action going. I haven't been frustrated 
 once in this game.
  
  Replay Value:
  For those of you spoiled kids who need online for replay, go somewhere else. Rent this. For those 
 of you who like to play games through again and again while never getting old this is the game 
 for you. I have played through 4 times and I know I am going to do a lot more. There are medals 
 which are like achievements. This adds incredible replay as well. A certain amount of medals will 
 unlock cheats to mess around with which adds even more replay.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you are itching for a great single player experience then this is your game. This gen is seriously 
 lacking in single player centric games, but this game is a step in the right direction. Have fun 
 in tropical paradise my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awakening124
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Uncharted beats the pants off of the recent Tomb Raider entries on pretty much all fronts, so those 
 of you who are a little pissed at Lara right now will be even more happy to get your hands on this 
 game.
  
  
  Story: As big an dazzling as any Indiana Jones movie, the plot rolls along at a decent pace. During 
 the latter part of the game, things start to pick up and build, sucking you into the action and 
 what's happening.
  
  Characters: Nate is a great hero; brave, determined, and his sense of humor and cavalier attitude 
 reminds me of Malcom from Firefly (which isn't a bad thing) . Elena is a worthy co-star and love 
 interest, she has her own fire and bravery to her, even if she does hang back every once in a while. 
 She's not a badass, but then she's not supposed to be. The rest of the cast are interesting enough.
 
  
  Voice Acting: Top notch, save for one or two semi-hokey lines. No worries here.
  
  Gameplay: A mix of third person shooting and platforming, both are executed ALMOST perfectly. The 
 controls are just awkward enough to be noticeable most of the time, sometimes even becoming down 
 right frustrating. It's the ONLY real PROBLEM I have with the game, but no worries... I never considered 
 putting down the controller. Most of what they did works, all it needs is a little tweaking here 
 and there and it'll be freaking incredible.
  
  Level Design: Very creative and engaging, but it doesn't blow the lid off of platforming itself. 
 I'd like to see bigger, crazier puzzles next time, but this time around was very satisfactory.
 
  
  Graphics: This game is pretty.... very pretty. Moments of so-so graphics are rare. Character motions 
 are silky smooth 9 times out of 10 (whenever mo-cap is used, which is pretty often, thank god) . 
 The environments are lush and realistic, with fantastic lighting and crazy-detailed textures. Character's 
 faces are well animated and expressive, but not overly so.
  
  Music and Sound: A movie-quality soudntrack will keep you fully engaged during the action and during 
 the cutscenes, but there are also wonderful moments where there's no music, and all you can here 
 are the sounds of the forest around you. Very impressive.
  
  
  Since this game is a little on the short side, I'd recommend RENTING this. You'll have a great 
 time, and you won't have to blow $60 on about 15 hours or less of gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBullASWO
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  My wife and I just got a PS3 (we've had a XBOX 360 for almost 2 years) , and we picked up this game 
 along with Rainbow Six: Vegas 2.
  
  I've only got a little ways into this game, but I like the graphics a lot. The jungle scenes are 
 much better than Tomb Raider. I've only got to the point where Drake has to navigate a series of 
 wobbly platforms, which I have problems with because the camera pans to viewing Drake from the 
 front and it just feels akward moving him. However, if/when Drake dies, the game instantly restarts 
 at the beginning of the sequence!
  
  That is what I hate about a lot of games, again Tomb Raider (as well as RSV2) come to mind - when 
 you die there's an annoying reload. I don't get that (I'm a software developer by trade) - the 
 map's already loaded, as well as achievements, etc. Why does there need to be such an annoying 
 reload when you fail at something? This game does it right! 
  
  Yeah, I'm not that good of a player and mainly because I didn't grow up with games. But, I also 
 loose my interest in trying something over and over until I get it right when I have to wait through 
 a long reload (Project Gotham is another game that comes to mind as having annoying loading issues) .
 
  
  This game makes me want to keep trying. With this game I just get frustrated at my own inabilities, 
 not with the way the game is designed. I have already done more retries and played it longer at 
 one stretch than most other games.
  
  I've complained before that games are too hard for someone like me to enjoy much. I don't have 
 hours each day to devote to them (I'm an adult) . When I do take time to play a game I'd like to 
 make some progress. I don't care if (at least in the XBOX realm) my achievements count less, etc. 
 I just want to eventually be able to experience the games, even at a easy level. I'll let the younger 
 folk brag all they want, and I'll gladly acknowledge they're better players. I just want to play 
 the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a must-play for all PS3 guys. The plot was so detailed and complex it was just like National 
 Treasure and a mix with Indiana Jones. The graphics (cutscenes and gameplay) were just like a movie. 
 The game was also hilarious. The main character is so funny he's one of my favorite game people. 
 The shooting details are awesome. The story goes when Nathan Drake uncovers the coffin of Sir Francis 
 Drake, which has his diary inside. The diary gives the location and clues leading to the greatest 
 treasure ever, El Dorado. Together with his friend Sully and a news reporter named Elina, he goes 
 out to find this treasure. Little does he know every scumbag in the world is also out to get it. 
 Along the way, Drake uncovers dark secrets. This is one of my favorite games and is definitely 
 in the top ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethandJeremy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is the bomb. The game is like your playing a pg-13 movie. You play as Nathan Drake in 
 this game and its like what if Sir Francis Drake didn't die but tried to stop the spanish from 
 a terrible thing. Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome because your in a gun fight then your doing 
 some puzzles and some platforming. There is also some driving in this game. Audio: The audio is superb 
 and the music blends in with the situation. Storyline: The storyline line is a what if which is 
 cool plus they like to swear but they don't over do it. Graphics: The graphics are the best on 
 the ps3 and it all looks real. This game is awesome but it should be a little longer. So if you 
 like platforming with lots of shooting and some puzzles than buy this game and you won't regret 
 it. Wait a second I forgot about the rewards you unlock when your do certain things in things in 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertino007
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as a first on the PS3 and been blown away by the graphics quality and gameplay. 
 This game is everything HD gaming stays for. It should definitely be in every PS3 owner's collection. 
 The only thing keeping this game from being a perfect 10 is the fact that is not an open world 
 game, you have to follow a certain path, if that island would have been open to explore and choose 
 your own way around (alas Just Cause) it would have broken new records it gaming technology. All 
 in all is still a great experience and perfect display of High Definition Gaming. I recommend this 
 game for buying and look forward to a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (UDF) has many good features and offer you about 8 hours of high quality 
 adventure. It's undeniable. But personally I feel that it's a long way for the game to become such 
 a strong trademark like Tomb Raider or Resident Evil. It really lacks something that makes its 
 player to reminisce about immediately whenever they hear the title, something unique for itself. 
 Let's compare the game to some top-class of this genre. UDF has a story that easily reminds us 
 of the classic Indiana Jones or the recent National Treasure, though it can be thrown into shadow 
 besides the adventures in those movies. The main character himself can be described as resourceful 
 and humorous, and no more. But unfortunately these words are too common for Action game character. 
 Take Lara Croft of Tomb Raider, she really has her style: a countess in modern society and an archaeologist, 
 the owner of both high-tech gears and most ancient artifacts..., it's the contrast between modern 
 and classic that makes Lara an unforgettable character, both in game and movie. Nathan Drake really 
 needs something which belongs to himself. Talking about environment in the game, while it succeeds 
 in creating stunning scenes, it's still hard for us to tell if we can ever revisit these scenery 
 in next versions of the game. It's much different from Tomb Raider or Okami. These games manage 
 to create a very distinctive atmosphere right in the first release. And the reason of the drawback 
 is that UDF borrows too much from other successful games and hardly creates anything of its own. 
 But after all, it's only the first of this series (we all look forwards to it's successors) , and 
 I don't want to be unfair. Only time can answer if UDF can become a great title in Action Adventure 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: statechamp1
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great and they really did a great job with facial expressions. One problem is 
 you can't duck or crawl. It is a little on the easy side compared to other games because on hard, 
 most games are very difficult to beat, this game on hard is like any other game on medium. They 
 could have done a better job on the fighting because you only have a few options. You can't really 
 be tactical because you can't duck or crawl. The bad guys are more realistic than in most games 
 because they will go and hide, and when you shoot at them they run and hide. This game will keep 
 you sitting down for hours playing and you will always be wondering when the game will end. Naughty 
 Dog is sort of an unkown game producer, but they did a great job of creating an amazing game and 
 leaving things open at the end of the game for a possible sequel or trilogy. Everybody who has 
 a ps3 should have Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  ... That made me think again and again of getting Ps3 + LCD (Featured with 1080p) instead OF BUYING 
 A NEW Massive gamming PC !!!!! No kidding !
  
  A call to all pc gamers ... "Think Again about ps3 Before getting a NEW PC!!" . This aint overstatment!! 
 ... Shockingly it's a fact. 
  
  So , after spending one of my most beatiful gamming experiance in my life i hardly moved my eyes 
 away from the monitor its filled with this
  pulling-attention 'effect' or lets say a 'genre' , seriously this game somehow created its own 
 gnere for gamming , like in a movie when the beginning of movie's plot really pulls your attention 
 off and make your whole sense wanting to experiance every opportunity in every move or action and 
 events happens in it ... This and PLus (+) ' the Great game play' + 'Unmatchable Graphics' + 'Easy 
 and Handy controls' + 'Great combat moves' +'Superb Speacially effects' + 'Stunning Sounds effects 
 and music' ... in the Game.
  
  ** AboutShort story ... Complaints:
  
  Well , its not short at all in fact its a casual length time game . For those who didnt play the 
 game i say take these compliants as a good Sign for this game because people never had enough time 
 to Satisfies their Joy of this amazing epic Setalling time GAME !! Steallingmaybe isn't really 
 the word for it but whatever ... you got the point i hope.
  
  
  ** Requirement To Enjoy the Game: 
  
  fragFX Mouse Controller + LCD 1080i-720p (over this range 
 the monitor will too expensive) + A nice comfortable couch + Cold Snapples drink strawberry flavour 
 ... And You're Good to go !
  
  
  
  Overall , again and again A MUST HAVE GAME !!! 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog is one of those companies that everyone remembers for making great series', they made 
 a few Crash Bandicoot games and the incredibly addictive Jak and Daxter series, so why start a 
 new series now? Wouldn't it have been easier to just make a new and improved Jak4 or something? 
 Well I'm glad they didn't cause this game is amazing, lets explore shall we?
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. The gameplay in Uncharted can come under mixed reviews here. The 
 game takes its firefights from Gears of War and incorparates some God of War quick time close combat 
 and also adds in a Prince of Persia esc style of puzzle solving and platforming. So the gameplay 
 isn't the most original thing in the world to be honest. There are a few bits here and there of 
 Sixaxis balancing, but that is quite underdeveloped, you use it to change the distance of grenade 
 throwing, which actually makes it a lot easier in my opinion and to balance on the occasional log 
 which you'll only really use about 4 or 5 times, and also to throw off the occasional bad guy. 
 The puzzles and platforming element are probably the easiest part of the game, they are fairly 
 straight forward and involve climbing somewhere pushing something or flipping a switch and then 
 going through the door, the controls are very responsive which helps a lot. Combat is where it 
 can get frustrating. Firefights tend to drag out for quite a while, and the enemies are very hardy 
 and smart, they will flank you nearly all the time and they know when to take cover. The basic 
 enemy does get harder as the game advances, you'll be safest with a head shot, which actually is 
 easier with the pistol, though make sure you have a good primary weapon at all times, especially 
 later on when the pistol becomes a lot less useful. You, unlike your enemies, are very soft, you 
 can't take that much punishment and if your not in cover before the shooting starts you can kiss 
 your butt goodbye. This can be very frustrating and you'll often have to start from the beginning 
 of a firefight if you die half way through. The gameplay is very very good, but some parts of it 
 are just not balanced enough, the gameplay would be perfect if they found a median.
  
  On to graphics now, this is the games strong point, clearly, I mean if you have ever seen a screenshot 
 of this game you'll know only about a 10th of the glory, Naughty Dog spent a lot of time on their 
 graphics engine and have managed to produce the most realistic graphics ever, excluding Crysis 
 of course, if you were to take a photo of this game in action and put it on dysplay at an art gallery 
 it would be accepted. The game spends most of its time in a lush jungle and it is an incredible 
 sight the rendering on the plants is amazing and they react if you move through them. The graphics 
 are so refined that you can make out individual bits of moss on the stones. The water effects are 
 incredible, it really looks amazing especially when you see a waterfall, and for one of the first 
 times ever when you go through water you actually come out wet, if you swim through a pond or something 
 Nate will come out drenched, his face will be wet his cloths will be wet it works so well. The 
 characters are were the real sight is. The motion capture is incredible, the best I've ever seen 
 in a game before and the facial animations are spot on, the characters actually move like real 
 people which is great, Naughty Dog has really set the benchmark for console graphics and they have 
 set the bar at a near unreachable level, you really need to play this game, even if it's just to 
 see the graphics and towards the end you see one of the most spectacualr looking pieces I have 
 ever seen so just play it an you'll see, I could go on forever, but I have to finish the rest of 
 this review.
  
  Now the Story. The story is strong, it is solid and well thought out. It is a bit of a what if 
 story, you play as a Nathan Drak or Nate as he is often called, he is quite the character, he is 
 quite cynical and funny at times, but he is also serious and protective of his friends, he's what 
 would happen if you combined a harvard graduate with Dante for DMC and cut out all the super powers, 
 though he isn't that cocky. The thing is that Nate claims to be a descendant of Sir Francis Drake, 
 a man who plundered many Spanish ships around the New world for the glory of England. Anyway, it 
 follows the story of Nate his mentor Sully, who is an awesome character and Elena who is a very 
 unique kind of women, she is very independant and likeable, she's one of the best femal characters 
 in a game ever, she actually is a former Survivor style game show contestant and now runs a mysteries 
 of the world documentary show and id filming Nate through half of the game. Anyway, Nate finds 
 out that Drake lied about his death and actually set a bunch of clues leading to El Dorado, so 
 naturally Nate and Sully go after it with Elena tagging along. Naturally there are evil doers trying 
 to get it as well, and your really forced into a tight squeeze to get it, with quite a few twists 
 and turns that really fit well into the story, this is what the new Indiana Jones movie should 
 be like. The problem is thatsomeof the better bits of the story are left unexplained, or at least 
 not satisfactorily explained, one can only hope for a sequel.
  
  For change I'm gonna talk about the characters. This game has some of the most likeable and believable 
 characters in a game ever. The cast is incredible, all the actors did a great job. Especially the 
 man who played Nate, he is tough yet soft he is courages yet shows fear, everything about him is 
 just so real, you really feel like your right there with him, thats how real it is. Sully is amazing, 
 he is funny and is completely believable as an in debt mentor for Nate. Elena is amazing as well. 
 She is empowered yet she still doesn't go it solo, she is very likeable, and when she's in danger 
 you really feel for her and want to save her, same with Sully.
  
  This is a great game. It really hasn't gotten enough attention for the kind of game that it is. 
 I hope that Naughty Dog make a sequel so I can enjoy this game again. In short play this game now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandsalami
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  good game fun to play but not a game you can play over and over but still always fun easy to learn 
 the controls but the game was kinda short wish there was more to the game like I said the controls 
 were easy to learn but they were a bit awkawrd at first. It would of been nice if you could do 
 some more exploring the game didn't have much free range invovled in it, it had a good story line 
 as well had some good twists and turns in it I would probably buy the sequel to this if they come 
 out with one but I would recommend renting this one first cause it may not be for everyone well 
 this is the first review I have written and first I submitted it I did not have enough words I 
 finally got enough words and now not enough characters so by putting this little bit of extra on 
 the end of this review hopefully I will get those extra characters I need : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platnumbull
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The game was very different from other games. Superb graphics and the storyline was pretty interesting. 
 The only problem that I had with the game was the numerous amounts of gunplay that seems to be 
 one on top of the other. You leave one room and your in another gun fight. I started to ask myself 
 how many people are on this island. There should have been a few more puzzles and some more added 
 to the storyline. The twist was pretty awesome, but they could have added more to like more how 
 and why rather than a twist without an excuse. The weapons were pretty accessable but it just seemed 
 like in most cases there was never enough bullets around for the good guns. I wanted to use the 
 rocket launcher more but you would have needed two of three more around to satisfy me. Also as 
 you got further into the game there did seem to be to many types of weapons. If you need AK-47 
 ammo there was no around because there was only Mk-14s laying around. the game seemed to want you 
 to be a precise shooter everytime, and one thing I didn't like was there was no time to enjoy the 
 level. My partner seemed to get in the way and not help at all taking out the droves of militia 
 men put there to stop me. The game was good and looks to be a great series once it gets started. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin_65
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  uncharted is one of the finest looking games on the ps3, hands down. this is a game that has an 
 excellent story to boost the great game play. there are a few negatives that are included in the 
 game. one is that you sometimes get frustrated after killing 99% of the guys and then you die, 
 making you start the fight all over again. there are also long loading times but they only happen 
 2 times (i think) every time you start the game.
  
  Now that we have the neagatives out of the way, lets get to the positives.
  the acting and character 
 animations are top notch. i have never been jaw dropping-like amazed by any game's graphics, but 
 this one comes darn close. the campiain, which is nicely balanced between puzzles and gun fights, 
 takes about 10-15 hours to complete, which is a good length for me. there are 4 difficulity modes-easy, normal, hard 
 and unlockable-crushing (they mean it!) . this is denfinite must play game, but whether you want to 
 buy it or rent it, the choice is yours. enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeRc_10
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a fun game with great voice work, well done character animations and detailed graphics. The 
 story is ok at best and ive seen better enemy A. I. Some times though the enemy A. I is pretty bad, 
 an enemy would be in cover and try to throw a grenade. Well that would be fine if he would throw 
 it at me instead of the wall, resulting himself blowing up! 
  The controls are not as solid as say Gears of War but there not bad (example when in cover and u 
 are trying to aim at a guy to the side of u your character will stand up, making it able for the 
 enemies in front to get a easy shot of you) . The in game hint system how ever makes the puzzles 
 much to easy, it basically told u what to do if u stood still for a while. Its not a perfect game 
 i know but its still very fun to play and people who enjoyed playing Prince of Persia or Tomb Raider 
 should enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizmor
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Firstly this is a virtualy floorless game with amazing body movement and storyline.
  
  The game is incredibly realistic, drake's movement of his body is brilliant. Whats more is that 
 everyone else moves well too. The enemies arent stupid and dont just walk into bullets but equaly 
 they arent too hard so it delivers a purely satisfying kill. Also Elena and Sully, arent stupid 
 either. they get a couple of enemies as well so it truely feels like your playing in a partnership 
 whilst your really still doing all the work.
  
  The story line is also brilliant with lots of twists and turns to keep you glued to your ps3 for 
 a while. I wont give away the plot, you'll have too play the game for that!
  
  The only ways I feel there is room for immprovement (there is always room for improvement, you 
 will never find a perfct game) is if there was maybe an online mode and an option for two - players 
 to play the game at once. One as drake and the other as Elena or Sully.
  
  Overall this was a great game and I reccomend it to everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakefan11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  From the first time I set eyes on Uncharted: Drake's Fortune as a demo for the PS3, I knew that 
 I was in for an intense graphical experience. Indeed, that is exactly what followed. In addition 
 to graphics, I noticed the natural (and comical) character interactions that took place in real 
 time, as pioneered by the Half-Life series. These two combined to keep me playing the demo repeatedly, 
 until I finally amassed the funds to purchase the full game. 
  
  In my experience, the game started out as a steady paced, almost investigative romp through the 
 jungle with intermittent firefights. These encounters provided great action, while the sarcastic 
 interactions between Drake and his companion (s) gave me enough comic relief to avoid frustration 
 and keep going.
  
  Soon thereafter, Uncharted transformed into an almost sci-fi-esque thriller which took me underground 
 and into the depths of inner-island catacombs. I guess I was particularly attracted to this part 
 of the game because of my love for Survival-Horror games, as well as my obsession with the TV show 
 Lost.
  
  In the end, the game tied all its loose strings with a great above-surface sequence, and a climactic 
 ending off-shore, on a ship. As I've read before, the difficulty and intrigue of exploring the 
 lush landscape worked in perfect harmony with the difficulty of the enemy AI and firefights (although 
 the latter was often more difficult) . 
  
  In the end, Uncharted was a great gaming experience with memorable characters and a cliche, but 
 fulfilling, storyline. Although the creators added "achievements" of some sort, I still only found 
 the need to play this game once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggy82
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about 1 week ago and I already passed it, in about 10 hrs. 
  
  The graphics are extremely good and the intermittent movies make it even better. In addition, the 
 graphics are very detailed and posses high color intensity. 
  
  Game play is innovative in that it had dedicated buttons to hiding behind objects when under attack 
 and/or when attacking. 
  
  The game is very fast paced and features no real challenges. Sure there are times when you can 
 get stuck for 5, 10 or even 20 mins trying to shoot 10 guys or jump over a series of cliffs. However, 
 you never really get stuck for long either in combat or in puzzle solving. 
  
  There aren't too many places where you could go and there is only one pathway, one which is intuitive 
 and easy to figure out. 
  
  Overall, the game is fun and is enhanced further by terrific graphics, but it is too short and 
 not challenging enough for the money paid. I bought it from another person and I intend to resell 
 it soon. 
  
  Rent it instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. And I've played quite a few. But still I would 
 pick this game if I were to mention my top five games ever.
  
  I really can't understand why Gamespot decided to give this game just an 8.0 rating. This is simply 
 ridiculous when you consider Gamespot rated much worse games with a higher score. This rating really 
 makes me believe that Gamespot favours XBOX360, and since Uncharted is a PS3 exclusive it decided 
 to somehow destroy it. To prove my point, just take a quick look at the ratings this game received 
 from other gaming sites. Gamespot's the lowest one.
  
  Anyway, the game itself is purely a great marvel. The graphics and sounds are top notch. The jungle 
 comes to life with incredible realism and you'll get immersed in the atmosphere very quickly. I 
 especially liked the game's characters, i. e. Nathan and co. Even the bad guys such as Eddie are 
 likable. The game has a great plot with mystery around every corner, but also there's that good 
 sense of humour every now and then that makes everything really tie up greatly. The story too is 
 very good and I would really like to see a movie made out of this game. Again, even here, I can't 
 see why Gamespot complained about the game's storyline. It simply doesn't make sense to criticise 
 something so well done.
  
  Well this was another great game fro Naught Dog. I really wish that they'd give us a sequel to 
 this one, I'm sure it'd really go down well with us PS3 owners.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenDragon123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog's first game for the ps3 may be different from its predecessors, but it's a gem of 
 a game that surpasses anything on the console. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a story of a mysterious 
 treasure on an uncharted island, and the treasure hunters who seek it. First off, Uncharted mixes 
 several gameplay elements such as platforming, shooting, and puzzle solving. What you end up with 
 is a game that will keep you interested and on the edge of your seat from beginning to end. The 
 game's action, platforming, and storytelling are broken up so that you are never doing the same 
 thing for too long, one minute you could be taking cover in an intense gun fight, the next you 
 could be swinging from a ledge or shedding more light on the story. They make it so that there 
 is always a reason to keep continuing the game.
  The game's crisp colorful graphics really push the ps3 to its full potential, you will see lush 
 jungles, creepy ruins, and deep dark caverns in amazing detail. There are a bunch of environments 
 you will discover as you progress trough the game, the only thing that keep the graphics from being 
 perfect is the reused enemy models and some pixel grain due to the shear detail put into the graphics. 
 The sound is also equally stunning with nice ambient music and sounds, as well as the excellent 
 voice acting. Cutscenes seem like they came directly from a Hollywood blockbuster, the plot and 
 characters show signs that they were possibly created based on past films such a Indiana Jones, 
 in fact the story is so well told that it makes you wonder why this wasn't a movie. 
  The combat is perfect in many aspects. It has a near flawless cover system with a nice mix of guns, 
 a nice little melee combo system, and some unexpected run and gun. There are also some vehicle 
 combat and rail shooting sequences to mix it up a bit. The platforming is nicely done, but it is 
 not that challenging and most of the time it is just used for puzzle solving rather then actual 
 platforming. The game should last about 8 to 10 hours. There are 60 hidden pieces of treasure and 
 challenges to complete which unlock a few bonuses, there isn't much reason to go for every last 
 bonus feature, but they are a nice addition. The one thing this game lacks is multiplayer, sure 
 the game has some moderately high replay value, but a multiplayer option would be great for a game 
 like this.
  So overall Uncharted: Drakes Fortune as a fantastic game that any gamer with a ps3 should try out. 
 Sure it lacks multiplayer, and has some liner platforming, but instead it offers a great story, 
 great gameplay and is a technical achievement. Uncharted is a pure treasure of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Based On Demo:
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an amazing game with outstanding visuals. You play as a man named 
 Nathan Drake, who's plane ride goes terribly wrong making him have to take a parachute and jump 
 out. When finally reaching the ground, you become stranded in a forest with only the clothes on 
 your back and a pistol. From start to finish, you will battle tons of enemies using other weapons, 
 such as, the Ak-47 and shotgun. The AI is actually pretty intelligent as they take cover and attack 
 when best. Also, the cover system in the game is very well executed. You will be able to place 
 you back against available areas and then pop out and blast away. Moreover, the graphics are breathtaking 
 in almost every aspect. You can see the trees being blown by the wind and also see flocks of birds 
 fly away as you approach. But what really catch my eye was when you go into water and your clothes 
 become wet and then sooner or later they become dry again. As for the audio, Drake's Fortune is 
 also masterful, especially the character voice overs. Overall, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an 
 outstanding modern action adventure that should not be missed for anyone with a Playstation 3 console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Borrowing from the best aspects of many games and movies, Drake's Fortune is an eye pleasing romp 
 through the jungle of wherever island with two cronies. So let's do this
  Plays like Gears of War, Prince of Persia, Pitfall, Tomb Raider, and Indiana Jones all thrown into 
 a pot and blended into one PS3 title. Ummm YUMMY!!!
  Cons-
  Character animations were simply silly in some areas especially when he had to run over several 
 objects, he looked funny climbing or descending stairs. He was also prone to getting stuck in some 
 places.
  Cutscenes were generally uninspiring and dull, and we have to come know cutscenes as the action 
 packed bonanza for most games.
  Why the hell can't Drake hold more guns, he doesn't walk around with anything else? He should be 
 able to hold a pistol, shotgun and machine gun.
  Enemies that don't die with a headshot. WOW!
  He runs so damn slow!
  The showdown is no showdown 
 actually it's pretty damn dull.
  But enough about the bad lets talk about what makes this game great
  Great voice acting, great 
 characters that are funny and believable (except maybe Elena) . 
  Intelligent enemy AI and difficulty.
  Drake is very agile and would give the prince of Persia 
 a run for his money.
  THE GRAPHICS. BEST ON ANY CONSOLE. The backdrops and environments were gorgeous. Take time out 
 from your gameplay and just look around at the waterfalls etc. the first Uboat scene deserves an 
 award by itself. Made me wish for a free roaming camera to take it all in.
  Sweet selection of guns. 
  Decent story that doesn't try to do too much.
  Overall an excellent 
 game, Nice job Naughty Dog
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammersUK
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Naughty dog, who did the crash bandicoot series for PS1 and the Jak and Daxter series for PS2, 
 have a new series for the PS3 known as Uncharted Drakes Fortune witch has a mixture of Gears of 
 War and Tomb Raider, will this be the exclusive title that ps3 owners have been waiting for?
  
  STORY
  
  You Play as Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter, who finds a 400 year old clue after 
 opening up a coffin of his apparent ancestor, Sir Francis Drake, after reading the diary, Nathan 
 goes out to find the lost treasure of Eldorado. He is also helped by Elana Fisher, a news reporter 
 who wants to get a piece of the action with her (SONY) camera, she hates Nate (drakes nickname) 
 at the start but the two get closer as the game progresses. Then you have Victor Sullivan (also 
 known as Sully) , hes your typical conman with the cigar, hes a friend of Nate's and wants some 
 of that treasure to pay off his debts.
  
  Though finding the treasure isn't gonna be no cakewalk, like Sully said "every 2 bit scum bag will 
 be after this treasure" and that is the case with Uncharted, another guy is after it too called 
 gabriel, he will get his crew out to kill you. Throughout the story Nate is gonna uncover many 
 secrets about the lost treasure, theres also a cool and fairly surprising twist in the story too 
 witch will also change the way you play a bit too but i gonna let you find that out.
  
  Uncharted story is great, its fun, entertaining with some humor, likable characters and thanks 
 to this your just gonna want to play through the whole game to see what happens. GRAPHICS AND PRESENTATION
 
  
  The visuals in Uncharted are quite simply amazing, theres every bit of detail in the game, like 
 bits and grass moving as you walk threw them, Nate actually gets wet like if his feet are only 
 in the water, then his feet are wet but if you just jump right into then Nate will be totally drenched. 
 Also the games lighting effects are great, facial expressions are great too even when actually 
 playing, like when a grenade is thrown near Nate, he will say "OH **** and you can see the fear 
 in his face witch is really cool. Not everything is perfect, you will have texture pop ups when 
 the level loads up and takes a few seconds to texture all the objects, the game has a fair amount 
 of screen tearing too. These issues aside witch shouldn't hurt the fact that this game looks amazing! 
 The best looking console game on the market.
  
  The cut scenes are great, it feels like your watching a movie and really just grabs you in, this 
 is helped by a good story and characters and some terrific voice acting. GAMEPLAY
  
  Uncharted has a mixture of Gears of War and Tomb raider, you will have that same cover system that 
 was perfected in Gears 1 year ago, while in combat you can press circle behind something and take 
 cover, you press L1 to pop up and R1 to shoot, while you pop out of cover, your bound to take some 
 hits, when thats the case just get away from the action and back in to cover and you can heal just 
 like in Gears, you do have to think while shooting, like find the right place to cover otherwise 
 you will end up getting flanked and probably killed, as for weapons, you have a pistol, shotgun, 
 assault rifles, snipers, grenade launchers and grenades. Nate can only carry grenades and two other 
 weapons at a time, you should really stick with the pistol as its after a while easy to pull off 
 head shots even at a fair distance, and carry a shotgun for close range. I do have one minor moan, 
 when using grenades they sometimes can barely kill anyone, the impact of them are small but then 
 again the game would easier if you could just kill everyone with grenades all the time.
  
  As for enemy AI, its good, they will come in huge numbers, some will flank you with shotguns while 
 others stay back with there rifles or grenade launchers, they love their grenades too and will 
 throw plenty at you and they will take cover and try to dodge bullets.
  
  Uncharted also borrows some stuff from the Tomb Raider series, you will be doing a lot of climbing 
 and jumping, though unlike Tomb Raider, its easier and no where near as frustrating, its more about 
 finding where to jump in uncharted and you will be doing many leaps of faith in the game,, there 
 are also puzzles in the game but there too easy. The game is pretty generous as far as checkpoints 
 in the are concerned, you could die at a certain bit and could end up being back nearly where you 
 died.
  
  There are other parts in the game where you will be shooting from a back of a Jeep or riding a 
 jet boat, the ally AI is good too, Sully and Elana actually help when killing the enemies.
  
  Uncharted isn't the longest game, it will take you 7-9 hours the first time round depending 
 what difficulty you play through it, however those 7-9 hours is an absolute blast and very well 
 paced, this is one of those games you will want to play again and again, more replay value is also 
 added thanks to the 60 hidden treasures scattered throughout the levels plus getting rewards witch 
 are like the xbox achievements will get you some unlockables.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is a non stop action rollercoster ride from start to finish, every PS3 
 owner should really check this out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Some_One_Plays
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Plot
  
  Two guys Nathan Drake and Victor Sullivan / Sully out to search a long lost treasure of Sir Francis 
 Drake and use a TV show host, Elena Fisher, to fund an expedition so she can make a video documentary. 
 The coordinates to Sir Francis Drake's coffin is on Drake's ring; even though there is no record 
 of Sir Francis having relatives Drake still believes he is his ancestor that drives him to his 
 answers. 
  
  The story will get you hooked and if I were to relate this to a movie it would be "The Road to 
 El Dorado" distributed by DreamWorks and "The Descent" distributed by Pathe Distrubution / Lions 
 Gate Films. If you've seen any of those movies this game would be it, if they were to ever combined 
 themes.
  
  Campaign
  
  The game's length is decent I would say it was finished around ten hours roughly with a lot of 
 action to keep me interested. The length of the game is roughly the same amount of time it would 
 take to finish a Gears of War campaign. The Campaign expands to 22 different chapters / levels 
 that spawn from tropic environments, to rivers, to ancient buildings, to caves on a single island. 
 The level designs are based on linear paths and with very little to explore around. With that said 
 the level designs are amazing it would be safe to say this game is streaming throughout the entire 
 time. There will be no loading screens what so ever very similar to what you'll see in a Grand 
 Theft Auto game but the very first loading screen isn't as long.
  
  The enemies come in groups and work together to flank you and your friends. The one on one battles 
 can be easy it's only when your enemies have back up where it will be challenging. This keeps you 
 from blowing through the enemies with no tactics / skill and can change the way you play. You can 
 run up shooting your gun from the waist, punch a few guys, pop back in cover, and shoot a destructible 
 object to take care of the rest. You'll die a few times which means you got to up your game for 
 the more challenging enemies. As you go farther enemies will get harder when they come in bigger 
 groups and better weapons.
  
  As you go to each chapter / cut-scene there will be a seamless transition from cut-scene to each 
 chapter that sometimes you don't even realize you can move. That brings me to the cut-scenes in 
 the game that very much reminds you of a movie. The character Nathan Drake swears in a comedic 
 way and with smart witted remarks to characters around him. Even though the story moves like a 
 movie the game itself will feel like a long first episode of a new series.
  
  Value
  
  Treasures / Medal Points
  
  As you go through the levels you're able to collect treasures and 
 medals that will allow you to open up new stuff to mess around or look at. The medal points that 
 you can earn can be as easy as finding 15 treasures to earn you "Enthusiast Fortune Hunter," to 
 combat medals when killing five enemies with a single punch, after softening them up with gunfire 
 "Steel Fist," or killing 10 enemies with grenades by aiming while hanging from a ledge "Grenade 
 Hangman." With each medal earned it gives you points and the max number of points earned can be 
 1000 medal points. The treasures that you'll be able to find will be "Strange Relic" that looks 
 like a golden egg with accent writings around the width, a "Silver Spanish Chalice" of course is 
 silver shaped similar to a wine glass with distinctive patterns, to a "Decorated Gold Ring" which 
 is self explanatory. The total number of treasures that you can find is 60 and can examine every 
 finding by rotating the object with your right analog stick.
  
  Gallery
  
  Other bonus materials consist of a gallery with two kinds of content to look at movies and artwork. 
 The movies will be story cut-scenes from the campaign and featurettes about the game. The featurettes 
 will consist of The Making of Uncharted  Part 1 / 2, Tech Dive  Facial Animation, to Making a 
 Cutscene  The Bridge. The artwork will mostly have concept art of how everything you see became 
 to be and pictures of them (developers) fooling around or working on the game. There are even pictures 
 of glitches of that was in the game with eye balls popping out of eye sockets, heads going into 
 bodies, or teeth falling down the character's neck.
  
  Rewards
  
  Rewards consist of everything you've gotten like medal points, galleries, and treasures. This part 
 of the game is where you can change settings within the game from costume selections based on heroes 
 / villains, weapon selection, to one shot kills. With the customs you can make Drake wear a Naughty 
 Dog Drake shirt, have a cartoon Drake, or even have Victor Sullivan / Elena Fisher costumes. A 
 large portion of these sections is unlocked by earning medal points through the campaign. You can 
 even change the rendering to Sepia Tint (an orangey brown look) , to a Next Gen Filter (everything 
 is brighter with an orange tint) , or have Slow Motion on. 
  
  Game Play
  
  Duck and Cover
  
  The game-play is very similar to Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Summit, Tom Clancy's 
 Rainbow Six Vegas, or Gears of War. This is because the way how you're able to handle the gun when 
 receiving enemy fire you're able to hind behind objects. Depending on where you hide objects will 
 be destructible making you vulnerable to an attack. Going into cover is done by pressing the circle 
 button and once latched onto cover you're able to blind fire or pop out to shoot. You can also 
 jump from cover to cover by holding the left analog in the direction you want to go. What I like 
 about this game that most games don't have is character reactions. When Nathan is being fired at 
 he'll react to their actions by using his hands to cover his head. You can also jump over any cover 
 to get to the next one or to sneak up on your enemies.
  
  Hand-to-Hand Combat
  
  The hand-to-hand combat is very simple and will depend on how you approach your enemy will determine 
 what animation is triggered. To enter into combat mode you must press the square button then from 
 there you can do combo moves. You can do a fast combo square 4x or square, triangle, square to 
 pull off some moves. Everything has to be timed and if timed perfectly you can make your enemy 
 drop twice is much ammo on the floor when dead. You can even do a gunslinger combo by pressing 
 square (to enter into combat) , R1, Square. Stealth combat is performed by sneaking up on your opponent 
 and pressing square (to enter into combat) if not seen. The hand-to-hand combat does expand a little 
 beyond what they show you so there are other combos besides the two they tell you to do. 
  
  Weapons
  
  The weapons in the game don't vary as much but picking which weapon you want 
 will be using the D (Directional) -Pad. You're only able to carry two weapons at a time and aim 
 with the R1 button to fire at your enemies. You can switch sides on where you want the over the 
 soldier camera to be on when aiming your weapon by pressing the L3 (left analog stick) . The SIXAXIS 
 is used for the grenades by pulling back on the controller to determine the arch / distance. 
 
  
  Other
  
  The health system is determined by how black and white the screen will get as well as his heart 
 beat this eliminates the hub. The hub itself virtually has nothing on the screen so the focus is 
 more on your actions instead of stats. When going to obstacles you are able to balance using the 
 SIXAXIS and it will appear as a special action icon. Everything works fine the controls aren't 
 broken everything does as it's suppose to. For those that are wondering you don't have to use the 
 SIXAXIS if you don't want to if it isn't your thing.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game would have to be one of the best I've seen for a 2007 game and still 
 holds up today. The amount of detail with this game is amazing when Drake goes into the water his 
 clothes gets wet, the water effects in my opinion better than Bio Shocks or on par, and plants 
 sway in the wind it's amazing. Going into the caves shows you have well the lighting is in this 
 game and going to a dark to a heavily lighted environment is impressive. This game is beautiful 
 even the characters themselves are heavily detailed. Nathan Drake's hair you can see each and every 
 individual strain of hair when he's in the light. 
  
  Audio
  
  The audio in this game is great the voiceovers, on par with great acting from big budget movies 
 you can see today. The surround sound works so if something is on one side of the screen those 
 particular speakers will adjust to the game's environment. In simple terms everything sounds as 
 it should be and it's like watching a James Bond movie with surround sound.
  
  Conclusion
  
  This is an amazing start for a new franchise for Naughty Dog that no one should 
 be missing this generation. The game is set up that it's more like an episode anything can happen 
 that is non-relating to this story. I can't wait for what is next for the franchise. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronobst
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the kind of game that would be an amazing action packed film, rather 
 than film-to-game (the graphics alone easily make it confusable with a film!) simply because it 
 just rocks 
  
  The mixture of top notch platforming mixed with superb shooting action, gives the game an immersive 
 essence that you really want to dive into and engross yourself with the games terrific story and 
 overall fun factor
  
  Graphics-wise this is honestly the best looking game I've seen in my life rivaling Crysis. 
  
 The characters (especially in the non-prerendered cutscenes) were so good looking to the point 
 were using adjectives just don't do it justice trying to describe the realness of the characters,
 
  The water in this game looked so real to the point where I almost got wet playing it,
  Drake remains wet after you exit water (unlike some games where you emerge from water drier than 
 a bag of crisps) showing the beauty of the gleaming sun on his shirt
  The realistically breath taking organic life of the vegetation and forestation,
  The smoke plumes 
 circulating in the air after an explosion,
  The splatter of blood when you shoot a goon right in the face.
  
  I could go on, and on, and 
 on.. regarding the games beauty.
  
  The sound was very solid and when combined with the amazing voice acting and surround sound really 
 creates something special supplementing the awe of the graphics.
  
  This game can be extremely difficult at times even on the standard difficulty level, making for 
 a very formidable challenge for those who love a great opponent, which brings me to the A. I. these 
 guys are really smart. When you're out of ammo they will advance on you and if they see you emerge 
 from behind cover they'll dive to the nearest cover spot and prepare to lay suppressive fire upon 
 you leaving their buddies to advance further on you also. 
  
  The melee fighting system is also a stunner with you doing awesome combos it'll kick into slow 
 mo once you lay the final hit which is extremely satisfying once executed also causing the enemy 
 to drop more ammo than usual had you taken him out normally
  
  
  The games' OST score is second to none aswell making the game all the more atmospheric adding to 
 the already amazing atmosphere this game creates Greg Edmonson nailed this soundtrack
  In addition to all this Uncharted possesses a great amount of humor thrown in for great measure
 
  
  Summing it up Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an absolute thrill ride of action and Hollywood style 
 filmlike essence to it with a beyond-amazing story and anyone who owns a PS3 would be doing themselves 
 a HUGE favor buying this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  My complete review will be on my blog in the next few days, but here are my initial thoughts on 
 Drake's Fortune:
  
  This is definitely a game where story is nice but not necessary. In Halo, for instance, it's interesting 
 to find out what's going on but it doesn't really matter that you can't remember it later on. Same 
 is true here.
  
  This game starts off rather slowly. The first hour or so is good but not great. Once you get past 
 the German U-Boat, though, the action ratchets up considerly and all elements are much more intense 
 and satisfying.
  
  Combat is excellent. You never really tire of taking out enemies, and they are so numerous you'd 
 think you were fighting an entire army! Movement, the cover system, aiming, and changing weapons 
 are all seamless and simple to do.
  
  While puzzles are dead simple, especially with the rather pathetic hint system turned on, climbing, 
 jumping, and swinging is fun and can sometimes be challenging. While most of the time you can easily 
 figure out where to go next and how, some times you will be stuck, walking around looking for clues, 
 or frustrated that you can't perform a particular jump.
  
  Suspension of disbelief is entirely impossible here. There are plenty of places where the developers 
 have ruined the whole concept, but that doesn't really matter at all. Regardless of its problem, 
 Drake's Fortune is fun.
  
  The developer has really nailed the sort of quirky, geeky characters that would be in an Indiana 
 Jones movie. And although they are sort of flat they are still likeable. Kudos to Naughty Dog for 
 a female character that is strong AND attractive!
  
  One last note: Diffulty is hard but not impossbile. Even playing on the easiest difficulty will 
 have to dying frequently. Auto-saves are generous, though, and restarting after death is almost 
 instantaneous. This means you can experiment and not worry about it.
  
  Gary
  
  -- If you want to read my opinions on games, music, religion, and more, check out my blog. It's 
 called Jesus Died For Somebody's Sins But Not Mine: Check my Gamespot page for more info.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Heyz. This game is a MUST HAVE becuase its characters are awesome and the cutscenes are great. 
 The characters are very funny. The story line of the game is very good and pulls you in and i cant 
 tell you just how good it is but you really need to play it and finish it. The graphics are really 
 good and the gameplay is awesome. It has the Gears of War feature so you'll back up against a wall 
 and can shoot round the cornor. The guns you use are good. The enemys always seem to try and flank 
 you and back up against alot of stuff and can cause you alot of trouble at times but if you know 
 how to pull a headshot off you should finish them off quickly. The melee attacks are basic and 
 effective. Its very replayable becuase when you complete challanges you can unlock new characters 
 and make your own story lines up like i do. It IS a very short game but incredibly awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warbmxjohn
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a true hit in the essence of providing a truly captivating experience. 
 From start to finish, cutscenes or gameplay the visuals are top notch. Having all the beautifully 
 detailed jungle plant life naturally swaying in the wind was almost surreal. It was often that 
 I would stop and look around to to take in the pure beauty of the landscape. Not to mention the 
 character models and their excellent natural motion.
  
  The gameplay is mostly compromised of gunplay and platforming. The combat in Uncharted is challenging 
 to say the least. The cover mechanic works well and makes the seemingly unstoppable foes slightly 
 more reasonable to deal with. Head shots and good use of cover are the only way to avoid death. 
 The platforming is a nice break from surviving gunfights. Although subtle, the platforming is usually 
 noticeable but not too obvious.. 
  
  The story is what ties the amazing graphics and mediocre gameplay together to make the experience 
 whole. This story although cliche is very well designed and delivered. The plot is full of twists, 
 suspense, drama, comedy, anticipation and is all still believable to boot. A nice moral to the 
 story on this one. Not much replay value but this game is great addition to any gamers collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballinxcivic
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Before I explain my opinion of this game, I have to address GameSpots review. Based on their review, 
 they thought the downside was: "Tough and plentiful enemies can make firefights frustrating Platforming 
 elements can be too forgiving Certain story elements are underdeveloped. Ohhh pah-leeessee. Can 
 someone smell that BS? Or is it me? Of course everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and I 
 can understand that SOME people may not give this game higher than a 9.0... but based on GameSpots 
 scoring system, giving it an 8.0 is saying this game is BARELY any good, like it just made it past 
 7.9. If anything, with all the compliants you WANT to find, this game cannot be lower than 8.7, 
 SERIOUSLY. Just look at all the average scores of all the critics AND user reviews. Never have 
 critic and user reviews been so similar, and then put it side by side with gamespot... WOW I think 
 I see some politics going on here. Something is real fishy with Gamespot's score, and I can't stay 
 quiet about it any longer.
  
  With all the work put into this game, the amazing and superb graphics, the movie-like cut scenes 
 which were acted out by hired professional actors, the dramatic storyline, and fun action gameplay, 
 this game cannot be seen as an 8.0! I'm giving it a 10 because this game truly was a next generation 
 title. With the ability of the blu-ray disc's, naughty dog development team worked hard and did 
 an excellent job to showcase a brillant exclusive ps3 game. I don't want to over hype the game, 
 but basically if you own a PS3, try to download the demo, or watch GameTrailers. com review of it 
 because they show you the gameplay and cut scenes and have a good and specific review. Gamespots 
 compliants don't match their score.. so I'm still baffled by what they were smoking when they scored 
 it. Anyways, the game scores 10 for me because the graphics were the best I have ever seen (the 
 forest and the water effects were insane) , the music and sound was great (if this was a movie, 
 it would earn an emmy for music and best sound for a motion picture) , the cut scenes can be real 
 dramatic and get you into the game, the bonus features shows you TONS of awesome bonus content 
 that makes you appreciate the game even more, and the game play is non-stop fun action. 
  
  If you feel the same way about Gamespot with the "too many enemies can be frustrating", then start 
 the game off on easy, learn how to duck and shoot, and you'll be fine. Do they want this game to 
 have only 3 bad guys per level or whay? It's fun and challenging.. I'm not even a hardcore gamer 
 but I know enough to say that this game will please the hardcore gamers as well as newbies. PS3 
 OWNERS OWE IT TO THEMSELVES TO BUY THIS GAME AS A COLLECTION. If you don't believe me, rent it, 
 but you'll waste money renting because you'll end up buying it.. its a great game to replay. I'm 
 surprised this game doesn't get as much attention as CALL OF DUTY 4 because Uncharted is a masterpiece 
 for the PS3 and action 3rd person shooting adventures. Again, shame on you GameSpot.. I hate to 
 see such unfairness and yet to understand you guys... 8.0 score for a masterpiece game is crazy. 
 Many people rely on you guys before they buy games, and you may have cost Playstation some potiental 
 buyers.. congrats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune was revealed way back in E3 2006. It showed a guy looking for treasure 
 while shooting up hundreds of goons. But this is a game the PS3 needed, here, s why. Firstly the 
 graphics are amazing and really show off the PS3s power. Secondly this game has some great characters 
 and a really engaging story to keep you wondering. Lastly it really satisfies you when you pull 
 off a headshot or come out of a fight with 20 guys. But the major problem with this game is you 
 always feel that you have done all this before. It borrows a lot of gameplay elements from other 
 games. The cover system from gears of war, the climbing from Tomb Raider. Also the enemies are 
 a bit hard to kill. It takes about 6 bullets in the leg or chest to go down. Uncharted may not 
 be without its flaws but if your a fan of adventure games and have a PS3 then be sure to give this 
 one a shot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druchrist
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune Review
  
  Let's face it, PS3 owners haven't had much to be happy about lately. The price of the system and 
 the fact that there is a thin list of solid exclusive titles are at odds. We've seen some lackluster 
 titles as of late and if you had to choose between the PS3 and 360 versions of many games, the 
 360 version would win out more than not. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is here to solve that exact 
 problem. It could easily be said that this is the best game for PS3, period. It could also be said 
 that this is best game of the year. Simply, the game is outstanding. 
  
  Uncharted doesn't bring anything particular new to the table besides it graphics. But what it does 
 do is execute, very cleanly, rock solid game play that has a good balance of gun fighting and unique 
 platforming. It is in this way that the game is God of War-esque; the button sequences as well 
 as the fact that the game play is just so darn fun. This is all told through a cinematic epic-sized 
 scope, which makes these games similar again. God of War also wasn't by any means a breakthrough 
 either. It built on its excellent combat and platforming, in the same way Uncharted does. To put 
 it plainly, Uncharted is one of the most underrated games of the year and you will find it a very 
 rewarding experience. I had not had this much fun playing a video game this year, and thinking 
 back it had been a wile since I was this much engrossed in a game. Uncharted will leave you saying, 
 "wow" and wanting to play through it again.
  
  Before I get into the graphics, which are incredible, to say the least, something needs to be said 
 about the story, particularly, the writing of Uncharted. Typically, in video games, when you talk 
 about how good a game is written, it's like talking about the skinniest kid at fat camp. By that 
 I mean, video games are a young medium which still lack in solid, truly artistic and creative writing. 
 Let's face if you're going to be a writer and take yourself seriously today, you're not going to 
 write video games. And if you are into writing scripts, you'd be more inclined to do screenwriting. 
 This is not the case in Uncharted. Amy Henning has taken a new direction, away from her vampire 
 games (Legacy of Kain series) , and has helmed an incredible story that is not only exiting, genuinely 
 funny, but very real in emotion. At its best Uncharted is like the Indiana Jones of video games, 
 which is very positive comparison. Playing as Nathan Drake, a descendant of explorer Sir Francis 
 Drake, the story blends history with Indonesian, German, Spanish, and South American cultures. 
 Finding El Dorado is the main driving force of Drake, but he soon realizes what a difficult and 
 dangerous task that is when Gabriel Roman, a rival treasure hunter gets a hold of the same map. 
 Elena Fisher, a strong secondary character (and positive female figure, which is rare to see in 
 games) armed with her camera, is trying to get the inside scoop and story the whole time while 
 keeping up with Drake. The story takes off with itself and has fun. Even in act four, when the 
 twist and turns come a bit out of left field, it feels ok and still flows. The subtle set up that 
 you catch on the second play through will make up for it. Part mystery, part suspense, part adventure, 
 part romance, this is everything you'd want in a game.
  
  Continuing on this slight tangent, it is important to note that many times in video games the story 
 is just there to fill the space of the game play and the dialogue is didactic, just talking heads. 
 Character arcs are more like character slight bends (see example Master Chief and Kratos) . Rather 
 than creating the ultimate badass as a central character, which most games do, Nathan Drake is 
 an everyman. This is the concept that Alfred Hitchcock uses with characters such as Cary Grant's 
 portrayal of George Kaplan in North by Northwest. That is, he creates a person that you could imagine 
 being. He's humanistic, flawed. Drake is no James Bond, which is refreshing for a video game. Drake's 
 arch is noticeable and real, albeit subtle. It shows that main characters in video games can compete 
 with main characters in films or fiction. Hopefully more games will step up to the plate like this 
 when it comes to the story and characters so that video games can get the artistic credit that 
 they deserve but rarely, if ever, get. 
  
  As far as the meat and potatoes of the game play goes, you will not be disappointed. The mix between 
 gun fighting and platforming is done fairly well, although the gun fighting is much harder than 
 platforming. I mentioned God of War before, and sometimes the gun fights remind me of that game 
 when going from one group of enemies to the next. When playing on crushing especially, which is 
 the hardest difficulty, you have to restart the fight many times in certain spots because you can't 
 even see who's shooting you. The overall AI is good, and even when the game gets repetitive, it 
 is still rewarding to beat. Armed with an array of pistols and heavier, automatic guns, Drake can 
 take out enemies in a few ways. He also can engage in hand to hand combat (which is a little bit 
 of button mashing and unbalanced) or use grenades. Some of the fun in the game is trying out all 
 the different weapons and finding your favorite combination of pistol and automatic gun. What makes 
 Uncharted's game play smooth is the cover system. Although not as easy to use as Gears of War's 
 or as hard as Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter's it works well. And it works because it feels real. 
 When getting shot at, unlike Marcus Fenix or Master Chief, we die. This is why when Drake has to 
 hide and cringe while bullets are whizzing over his head, it doesn't feel all that repetitive or 
 tedious. Also, with smart AI that flanks you and tosses grenades in your direction, it keeps Drake 
 moving. A small thing that is worth noting is the rewards system. Basically the same as 360 achievements, 
 there are in-game rewards you can unlock by doing certain tasks such as killing ten enemies in 
 a row with headshots. This adds to the replay value of the game and gives you some fun stuff to 
 play with such as changing filters and alternate costumes. 
  
  Moving onto graphics, Uncharted makes it clear that it is a next-generation game. I feel confident 
 saying that it is the best looking game on the PS3 which puts it very high in the running for best 
 looking game on the market today. The absolutely spectacular environments and character designs 
 show us the raw power of the PS3. Lush jungles, beautiful architectures, and incredibly realistic 
 water are just some of the background features that stand out. The facial animations on the characters 
 are another way the graphics shine through. In fact, all of Drake's movements are very fluid and 
 natural looking. From the way he walks and jumps to the way he platforms, Drake looks almost clumsy 
 at times, showing his human frailty. Also, watching his mouth move and facial expressions show 
 just how detailed these characters are. Naughty Dog really stepped it up in the animation department. 
 Beautiful looking (and obviously well written) cut scenes, wonderful lighting, and a solid frame 
 rate make this game extremely smooth. There is a bit of a hassle with load times though, particularly 
 loading a save file from the main menu. But other than that, the game renders well throughout.
 
  
  Matching the visuals is the audio. Greg Edmonson composed the game's score which is up there as 
 being one of the year's best. With the excellent musical direction of Chuck Doud (God of War) , 
 the music gives the game an epic feel. Edmonson's various tracks capture different elements of 
 the game, and does so in a very cinematic and refreshing way. Good music adds so much to any game 
 or film, and Edmonson has delivered that here incredibly well. Whether it's the exciting chase 
 scenes, the mysterious clue finding, the moments between Elena and Drake, or the main theme, Edmonson's 
 music is top-notch. Even the subtle drums and exotic, jungle-like sounds add volumes of depth. 
 Kudos should be given to the entire sound department. The background noises are excellent as well. 
 From the animals, to the water, to the various fighting sounds, everything is natural and placed 
 well in the environments of the game. One final note in the audio is the superb voice acting. I 
 stand by the statement that this game is by far and away the best voice acting ever done in a video 
 game. There are few that compare. This goes back to the excellently written dialogue which flows 
 off the tongues of Nolan North (Drake) and Emily Rose (Elena) very well. Rounding out the cast 
 is Richard McGonagle as Victor Sullivan and Simon Templeman as Gabriel Roman. Both of these secondary 
 characters come alive through terrific voice work. Special attention should be given to Gordon 
 Hunt who directed the motion capture and voice over work. He did a great job bringing out some 
 extremely strong performances.
  
  Overall the presentation of Uncharted is some of the best in recent memory. The game play and story 
 back it up strongly as well. Visuals are wonderful, and killer production values make this game 
 a "gotta have it" for PS3 owners. Not as tough and lonely as Tomb Raider, and not as unrealistic 
 as most modern shooters, Uncharted walks a fine line. It delivers in almost every element, some 
 stronger than others. And even though the game is on the shorter side, it is filled with so much 
 good stuff that it doesn't feel that way. If you have a PS3, this game should either be in it, 
 or next to it. When it comes to PS3 exclusivesscratch that, when it comes to video games of 2007, 
 Uncharted is near the top.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inresurrection
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one of the reasons I purchased a PS3. I knew it would be absolutely 
 fantastic and I knew it would be incredibly fun. The only thing that held me back from a purcahse 
 was the length. Uncharted is quite short, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't rent it. Regardless 
 of how you get your hands on this game, do it.
  
  You play as Nathan Drake, a decendent of Sir Francis Drake. Your job is to look for a forgotten 
 treasure called "El Dorado." Elena and Sully are your friends that help you out along the way. 
 You'll fall in love with the main characters immediately and they grow on you from then. Elena 
 and Sully are absolutely fantastic supporting characters. The story, along with the relationship 
 between Elena and Nathan, will keep you drawn in throughout the entirety of the game.
  
  The visuals are honestly the best I've ever seen on a console. Everything you see in the game is 
 simply breathtaking. Playing Uncharted on an HDTV is a dream. The ambience is absolutely brilliant. 
 The colours are vivid, the textures are detailed, and the world is so very believable.
  
  The combat is fun in every sense of the word. There's a couple of points in the game that I got 
 really, really frustrated, though, due to uneven difficulty throughout, but it's nothing major. 
 Headshots are satisfying, grenades pack a punch... everything works like it should. The melee is 
 hit-or-miss (pun intended,) as it's a bit rough and clunky, but you won't be doing too much of 
 it. Guns are where it's at.
  
  The soundtrack is just as good as the rest of the game. Ambient music and sounds of the jungle 
 mixed with truly epic scores really bring the world to life in ways you've never seen before. The 
 voice acting is also done incredibly well by absolutely everyone.
  
  Like I stated above, the game is quite short. You could probably complete the game in under 12 
 hours, which doesn't justify a buy, in my opinion. I rented the game, but it was the best darn 
 rental I've ever... rented. 
  
  If you're looking for a game with tons of action, fantastic platforming, beautiful visuals, and 
 an intriguing story, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is for you. You don't want to miss this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhoeiuwhdousah
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay this games worth playing but its not perfect.
  
  Locations are hit and miss some parts feel rushed and underdeveloped and some are truly Awesome. 
 8/10
  
  Graphics are mainly good although i noticed some slow loading textures. Also the grass doesnt look 
 that good. Some very nice backdrops. Could have been better. 8/10
  
  Enemies are average, mainly you fight humans who are strong shooters but not very clever as they 
 will stand around grenades till they explode. Platforming bits are very fun jumping around locations 
 is awesome. 8/10
  
  Characters and story are really spot on. 10/10
  
  The game is short but sweet worth playing although it has blatantly been rushed (like my review) 
 out for Christmas 2007.
  
  Yeh worth playing for some stunning locales good action and adventure platforming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Llama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I'm admittedly a PlayStation fan boy, even at 28... but I've played enough games to tell 
 what's good and what's not... Uncharted is NOT... it's absolutely amazing! I believe that this 
 is Naughty Dog's finest work so far. The first thing I noticed is wen you boot up the game, you 
 are welcomed with the highest quality music. It's orchestra music hat really sets the mood for 
 the game. The menu system is simple, but does the job. The graphics in the game may not be as detailed 
 as others such as Call Of Duty 4, at least not all the time, but it doesn't need to be... The jungles 
 are a lush green, the trees sway in the wind, the environment really FEELS alive. The character 
 models perhaps have even more detail, as they are used for the cut scenes as well. Naughty Dog 
 even developed a new layering technology that allows them to add wrinkles to the character's faces. 
 It may be subtle, but it works. Graphics are only one part of what makes a game, and as I said 
 before, the audio is fantastic! The music score, the voice acting, everything is top notch! In 
 the words of a Mr. John Hammond from Jurassic Park ... I believe they "Spared No Expense". The 
 controls are familiar enough to get used to easily, but also adds SOME six-axis control, such as 
 having to tilt the controller back to change the distance and angle of a grenade that's waiting 
 to be thrown. The Puzzle elements were not so much puzzles, but they just made you "explore" a 
 little further into the game. It made you stop your running around, look around, and figure out 
 your next path. When I first started playing the game, I was dazzled with spectacular scenery, 
 wowed with amazing audio, and even captivated by the cinematography. In fact, the cinematography 
 is so beautiful, that my wife, and friends would even just sit down for a while and watch me play... 
 it's quite a breathtaking adventure... and I was happy with that. An adventure, that was basically 
 what I expected... your standard search for the treasure, while shooting the enemy who also wants 
 the treasure... but about maybe 80% into the game, the story took a serious twist... something 
 that could have been straight out of a modern day Indiana Jones movie... but isn't... in fact, 
 it actually made me think of another movie altogether. Of course I won't tell you what it is, because 
 then it ruins the surprise! Simply put, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is, so far, THE best single 
 player action game for PS3. Hands down. Do not hesitate to buy this game. I don't usually play 
 games after I've beaten them, but this time... I think I'll make an exception :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessian823
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game, aside from being visually stunning, is a total piece of garbage. The game play, particularly 
 the camera angles make a crappy game even worse. The aiming function is absolute rubbish. And could 
 someone tell me how many times you have to shoot someone in the head before they die? I hate this 
 game, I hate everything about it. If i was younger and stupider I might use a vulgarity to express 
 my displeasure. In addition to all of that, the storyline is absolutely ludicrous. I would recommend 
 letting Naughty Dog know what they can do with this piece of excrement. I cannot say enough bad 
 things about this game. Play it at your own risk. You may be out of a controller that quickly. 
 This game will have you so frustrated that you will be willing to kick your dog just so that someone 
 in the room can feel as sucker punched as you will for purchasing this crap log (don't really EVER 
 hit your dog or anyone else for that matter) . Whatever, I'm over it. Suck it Naughty Dog! This 
 game plain, old sucks, save your money and your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Jak and Daxter was revolutionary. It was easy to play and pick up, had a great storyline, interesting 
 game tactics, and was just challenging enough. Then they brought in guns, for Jak II. This was 
 a new concept, and might not have worked, but it did, and Jak II was highly celebrated. Then Jak 
 3 came along, and they included lots of vehicles this time round. Although Jak 3 isn't the most 
 popular of the three, it was still extremely good in my opinion.
  
  Uncharted, as you may expect, is a brave step forward. It's use of third person shooting, puzzles 
 and platforming works well.
  
  Never before have I played a platformer that is meant to be realistic. They are always cartoon. 
 It's a gaming law. But Naughty Dog, as usual, broke the rule. And surprisingly, it works.
  
  It isn't easy, however seems fairly natural.
  
  The puzzles are easy enough, yet will still 
 have you failing at them. But the game keeps you playing.
  
  It's a detailed and interesting plot, with lots of twists, surprises and exciting, movie-style 
 moments.
  
  So,
  
  Storyline: 9/10
  Very interesting, makes you want to keep playing. Is like a mixture of Tomb Raider and Indiana 
 Jones.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Very good, appearance is exceptional most of the time, however some rare glicthes can sometimes 
 ruin the effect.
  
  Controls: 8/10
  Feel very natural and realistic, and so plays very easily.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Realistic forest 
 sounds mixed with witty remarks from Nate, your character and movie-type music, lead to a great 
 experience.
  
  
  The only problem with the game itself is the shooting parts. They come in huge blocks of shootouts, 
 and they just seem a bit dperessing. They just seem a bit stale towards the middle of the game.
 
  
  Except for that, this game is almost perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guerillaKZ2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  SONY ALWAYS NEEDED A REALLY GOOD ACTION GAME, AND SO HERE COMES UNCHARTED TO FILL THAT VOID. THE 
 STORY IS RATHER QUITE INTERESTING \, YOU'RE A TREASURE HUNTER NAMED NATHAN DRAKE WHO IS SEARCHING 
 FOR THE TREASURE OF EL DERODO BUT FINDS OUT THAT THERE ARE MODERN PIRATES ALSO SEARCHING FOR THE 
 TREASURE. SOON YOU'LL FIND YOURSELF IN THE MIDDLE OF LARGE AND QUITE FRUSTRATING FIREFIGHTS. THE 
 GUNPLAY AND TREASURE HUNTING ELEMENT'S ARE PRETTY WELL BALANCED BUT THE PLAT FORMING ELEMENTS CAN 
 BE TOO FORGIVING. THE GAME IS ALSO MISSING ANY SORT OF ONLINE COMPONENT. THE ENEMIES ARE QUITE 
 SMART BUT THEY ALSO COME IN SOO MANY NUMBERS. THE GAME ACTUALLY TAKES ELEMENTS FROM OTHER GAMES 
 BUT BLENDS THEM ALL TOGETHER REALLY WELL. ALL THE GUNS ARE ENTERTAINING TO USE. THE SOUND EFFECTS 
 ARE REALLY AMAZING AND THE GRAPHICS AND ANIMATIONS ARE JUST OVER THE TOP. STILL THIS IS A REALLY 
 GOOD AND ENTERTAINING GAME!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune for the PS3
  
  The Good- Amazing Graphics, Impressive Voice Overs
  
  The Bad- Not enough different enemies, 
 to many duck and cover battles
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 the gameplay in uncharted is you control Nate an explorer looking for a lost treasure 
 of Drake. The controllers work well and the enemies are quiet intelligent making duck and cover 
 a must, but after 80% of the game being hide and cover it gets repetive and annoying at times. 
 At least the gameplay offers a ton of weapons to choose from to take out your enemies.
  
  Sound- 8/10 Music It suited its purpose and thats it for me, I heard nothing I could remember for 
 longer then an hour. Each area had its own nice touch to it, but nothign there that would make 
 you want to stay and listen to it. Big points for the voice actors who did this game though, as 
 they were completely flawless. 
  
  Graphics- 9/10 Maybe if I had a high def tv this game might of looked better, but whatever the 
 case people raved about this game going far and beyond any game of the ps3 and while the graphics 
 are very impressive as in all ps3 games for me, it is not the best as I found Devil May Cry 4 and 
 Heavenly Sword still better graphics wise. but still its top notch.
  
  Storyline- 6/10 The story for me was weak and going to get treasure and killing pirates was boring 
 for me. If anything the gameplay wil make you want to play this game not the storyline, expect 
 maybe the last part of the game where it gets interesting.
  
  Extra's and Replay Value- 7/10 the game itself lasts 10 hours for me, but offers metals for lots 
 of bonus stuff for fans of this game. So if your a fan you can probably put this score up to a 
 9 but if your just not into the game as I was 7 is preety normal, as most of the cool stuff like 
 playing different characters and such you need lik 700 or more medels which basically require you 
 to play the game again and again under different difficulty to get them all, but is sorta a waste 
 of time.
  
  Overall 8/10 This game was way overrated in being the top ps3 games, but its still an awesome game 
 none the less and its worth trying, as you will either love it or just an 8 like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djb1203
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  From the minute i put this into the ps3 i was hooked, great story, fantastic graphics and the sound 
 effects are spot on. The cut scenes are well acted and they give the feel of watching a proper 
 film. The little one liners nathan says to himself add to the atmosphere... like after a jump and 
 hes barely hanging on to a ledge or when a grenade lands near him or when hes suprised by a bunch 
 of henchmen. Theres plenty of action but also puzzles and various other diversions to break things 
 up. some of the jumping around can get a little frustrating but if it was all too easy then it 
 wouldnt be much fun! i would say im about 75% of the way through, im hoping the remaining 25% is 
 as enjoyable. it will be a shame to finish the game. This should be in the top 5 must-have titles 
 if you own a ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The visuals need no explanation or review here- just look at the pics yourself, and try playing 
 it on HDTV (its a must for this game- the details never end.... dude theres friggin fish in the 
 water!!!)
  the gameplay is totally fun and because of the awesome graphics and super fluid animations, the 
 gameplay looks fantastic too. though, once you play a level or two, you've pretty much seen al 
 the gameplay this game has to offer- its basically tomb raider on steroids. plenty of jumping and 
 cool climbing and navigating and exploring, plenty of shooting and hand to hand combat (which looks 
 totally cool and even by the end of the game you might see your character doing new combos) and 
 plenty of fairly simple puzzle solving.
  the story is, although entertaining and exciting, by no means hollywood rate. its kind of lame 
 in many ways, but once you pay through the game you may get really into it and it makes it all 
 more exciting. the story is well done- they show cut scenes metal gear style, and then throw a 
 bunch of half life style dialogue through out gameplay either when you are joined with a character 
 or simply by yourself since drake has no problems talking out loud to himself. 
  once you beat the game, which has a pretty steep difficulty and the end, you may want to play through 
 it again to collect things and to simply enjoy how cool it all looks and how easy it is to play 
 and have fun, but i rented this, and i must say, its by far the best rental game there is. i played 
 though it ina couple of days and was highly satisfied with the experience. but i know that if i 
 actually bought it, it would end up just collecting dust, as multiplayer is a must and is probably 
 the only thing (unless its metal gear solid or gta or something) that would keep a gamer coming 
 back these days. 
  if you want spectacular graphics, fun challenging action gameplay, and an entertaining storyline, 
 this game is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  I heard good things about Uncharted when I bought my PS3. I figured what the hell, might as well 
 go for it. This game is excellent, combining excellent graphics, sound, gunplay and platforming 
 elements with an excellent story to deliver an awesome package.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is reminiscent of Prince of Persia as far as the puzzles go, and it adds 
 3rd person shooter aspects as well. This combo provides tons of thrills along with an excellent 
 mix between the two.
  
  
  Graphics/Sound- Both awesome. The lush jungle environments are awesome to look at, the water is 
 so realistic, the character models move fluedly and realistically, making it a beautiful looking 
 game. the sound is great aswell. The voice actors do a great job actually acting out the cutscenes, 
 the gun sound effects are great, and so is the music.
  
  Fun/Value-This game is very fun. If you liked the Prince of Persia games, and like 3rd person shooters, 
 then Drake's Fortune is a must have. It isnt the longest game, running at about 8-10 hours, but 
 there is a good amount of replayibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Gears + Lara croft=Uncharted? well, we'll see about that
  
  Story: Story is Awesome! however there's a "twist" its not a awsome or bad twist, but it kinda ruined 
 the realist ism, but it made it abit more "interesting". You play as Nate Drake, a cool guy with a 
 wierd hair, the story is VERY similar to action flicks, typical  
 the world, getting rid of evil and stuff like that .Very typical, but the search of eldaroda or whatever 
 has more to it. 8.9/10
  
  Gameplay: You leap, leap, leap, leap and leap, duck and shoot, duck and  
 Dont get me wrong, its FUN! but, you kinda repeat yourself, getting the gears of war aspect and Lara 
 croft is nice, but puzzles aren't THAT challenging 8.8/10
  
  Graphics: Very nice, it has nice details whenever you shoot something, there are small cracks, which 
 are cool, jungles look alive too 9.5/10
  
  Sound: Awsome, solid voice acting, bit of swears, Extraordinary music 
  
  Closing comments: Recommended 
 for any PS3 owners, Uncharted is awesome game, its presentation is good and worth checking it out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl0009
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  How can platforming, shooting and puzzle solving mix up so damn well? Ask the developers of Uncharted, 
 because they pulled of a game that plays as good as it looks.
  
  Uncharted is a graphical masterpiece, it's almost a privilege to be look at this game, it's extremely 
 hard to describe, it just looks beautiful, so HD TV owners you're in for a treat.
  
  You spend your time either shooting, or wondering of the immense jungle of this game, and it's 
 joyful to say, both things are incredibly satisfying and fun to do. Shooting of your enemy's require 
 a certain level of care, as Nate is a pretty fragile dude, 3-5 shoots can bring him down, so you 
 can't be always shooting off carelessly, you have to use cover or the environment to aid you, or 
 else you're dead before you know it.
  
  When you're not shooting off dudes, you're jumping incredible lengths, clinging from breath taking 
 mountain edges, it's awesome to do and look, because they are animated so damn well.
  
  Sound is also a plus in this game, the sounds of the forest, the gun shots, the voice acting, the 
 music; everything is pleasant and thrilling to hear.
  This game is something you will play again, be it for its extra difficulty level you unlock when 
 you finish the game, bee it for the achievements you have yet to unlock, be it for the treasures 
 you over looked in the first gameplay, meh I know you will play it through again. 
  
  It should be common instinct to grab exclusives, as they are always great games, (well most of 
 them) . Uncharted is not an exception, in fact, it raises the bar for other exclusives in the future, 
 giving an example how should they look and play.
  
  Still reading this? Come on, go grab a copy of this game already, sit down, and enjoy every single 
 aspect of this game.
  
  True score: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigAAce24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  A few weeks ago I went out to movie gallery, and saw that they had it. I read the review on here 
 and my friends have told me it was a great game. So i rented it. I was excited to play it, first 
 thing i did when i got home was popped it in. From the first level i was just like wow. As i watched 
 the first movie i was thinking to myself, the game cannot look this good, but as soon as the movie 
 was done and i got to take control, i was just in aw. The graphics of this game are the best i 
 have ever seen, so crisp and colorful. The sound was awesome too, especially on my surround sound. 
 To me the game was just about perfect, it played so smooth. The only problem i had, was when you 
 were in gun fights, there was just so many people coming at one time. I had to do a few levels 
 a couple of times. But all in all, one of the best platformers on the ps3 and one of the best of 
 all time. If you have a chance, play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likesstuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is possibly one of the best games out of this generation. Being my first 
 game on the PS3 I can't really compare it to other games but I can tell you that you will love 
 this game no matter what.
  
  The game is played as a duck and cover 3rd person shooter. You have a couple of different guns 
 at your disposel which you will get as you go on through the game. There is also lots of platforming 
 which will require good reflexes, timing and aiming. Depending on what difficulty you play the 
 game on ( with the difficulties being easy, medium, hard and crushing) it could be either good for 
 the unskilled and good for the very skilled.
  
  As you play through the game you can unlock different things by getting "medals" by doing different 
 things. These range from cheats, cinematics and concept art.
  
  The music is good though you won't really notice it because you will be focusing on the incredible 
 gameplay so much but if you just take a break from headshoting someone you will find it is quite 
 catchy.
  
  Overall this game is a must get for all PS3 owners no matter how old its may become. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragdollsrock012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted suceeded in what many games attempted to do. Platforming, graphics, fighting, shooting, 
 and basically everything else is done greatly. While there are some flaws such as the crosshairs 
 staying the same color which can make it hard to see if you're aimed at the enemy or not.
  
  So as I've said, Uncharted has stellar graphics. the environment is lush with vegetation and 
 even animals, interactive environments (sorta) and mild destructible environments. The game is 
 fairly easy in the beginning, but as you progress, you'll notice it gets harder. Uncharted almost 
 could've gotten and M rating. You'll know what I mean once you start Chapter 18, I believe (its 
 like reliving Silent Hill!) . 
  
  While Uncharted many Pros, it also has its fair share of cons. Hand to hand combat could do a bit 
 better (too repetitive!) and it seems as if you see the same environments over and over again.
 
  
  Uncharted is a great game, period. If you want, you can download the demo first, but to me, it 
 seems like it would just waste you time. Uncharted is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brioli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Pros-This game was wonderful! The graphics were beautiful, the story line was excellent, and there 
 were a few added twists you would never expect! I personally like a game that is beatable, and 
 this game was beatable yet challenging. (I do realize all games are beatable, but I get frustrated 
 after 75 times of trying to get past one part, and I don't like to cheat by using a walkthrough) . 
 This game was great about starting you back right where you die (which I like as well, because 
 I 'once again" hate replaying the same thing over and over again. And, before you ask, yes I'm 
 the type that plays the game once, and is ready to sell it. I'm NOT the type that plays a game 
 over and over to give myself new challenges boring!) . This truly was a great game!
  
  Cons-I had trouble with the camera angle, but this may be the case on all PS3 games. I'm not sure, 
 because I just got my PS3. On Uncharted you have to control the camera angle manually for the most 
 part, and especially during fighting. This can be a bit aggravating at times but it's not too bad.
 
  
  All in All an Excellent Game! Thumbs Up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgkennedy5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  To start off, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the first exclusive on the Ps3 that can hold it's own 
 against some of the large exclusives on the Xbox 360. It has a great storyline, graphics, musical 
 score and only a few minor flaws. But can it live up to the hype? This is definitely a "must have" 
 game if you own or plan on purchasing a Ps3.
  
  Storyline:
  You start off on a boat in the Middle of the Pacific Ocean, standing over an old coffin. The diary 
 of Sir Francis Drake that you find inside is your key to finding the lost treasure of Eldorado, 
 but it seems that some poachers have a different idea Right from this starting scene, you immediately 
 feel like you just started watching a movie. That is how Uncharted's storyline feels. From the 
 moment you start to the very end you are compelled to keep going. The plot is gripping and offers 
 a lot of thrills. All of the characters, especially Elaine (the reporter trying to get a story 
 about Drake's discovery) ,
  Grow a lot and feel like different people by the end of game. Unlike many games, this one is just 
 like a movie. There are constant twists and turns and you never know what might happen next. In 
 fact the first time through you won't even get to know them as well you like, and will likely want 
 to play this game through at least twice. Sound:
  The sound and music for Drake's Fortune is unparalleled in almost every game that came out in 2007. 
 The original music score composed by Greg Edmonson is just perfect. It offers the right mood and 
 conveys the setting for any situation. The voice acting was also terrific, and had no flaws. Nolan 
 North, voice actor for Drake, and Richard McGonagle, do absolutely sensational jobs of their characters. 
 The music and voices are flawless, but what really sets Uncharted apart from games is the extra 
 little details that you may not even notice. Birds chirping, large trees swaying to the whistle 
 of the wind, even pebbles bouncing down the staircase you are walking on make the world of Uncharted 
 feel so real. The sound of this game really pushed the envelope and set the bar a little higher.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Where to start? The graphics are obviously very good just by looking at the game. It really uses 
 a lot of the Ps3's potential. The animation and art on the characters make them look real, Especially 
 the way they move. The motion captures for Uncharted is so good at every part of the game, and 
 you could look at Drake and think he is a real person. The way you move in every aspect looks absolutely 
 real. There are also very large details that went into the background art of everything in the 
 game. The tiny shadows coming through the smallest gap of leaves in the trees, the bits of rust 
 and worn stone. However, the very large details where the immense backdrops you were sometimes 
 on. Scaling huge walls and cliffs with the ground way below you or maybe a rushing river. The huge 
 temples and the fact that, wherever in the game you are you can see the island. It is not linear 
 at all. Like I said, if it wasn't fictional you would think that you were visiting a real place. 
 The thing that really got my attention was the blurring effect. Whenever you are doing something 
 that the background does not matter as much, such as being in a conflict, you spin around and everything 
 blurs except you and your enemies. This really made the game look cool and put it that step up. 
 However, the main looks of the graphics may seem to be a little sharp at times, and sometimes could 
 be a little less sharper, as it looked a little edgy is some places. But just as with the music, 
 I think Uncharted sets the bar higher, even if just a little higher.
  
  Gameplay:
  What a big issue this is. Drake's Fortune plays so smooth I don't know where to begin. There are 
 no glitches and everything you can do is easy enough to do without being confused, but difficult 
 enough that experienced players don't get bored. The third person shooting and cover system is 
 so much fun and very versatile. The combat was very fun and quite satisfying. The only flaw in 
 it was that sometimes, there would be three or even four waves of enemies, and by the time you 
 were at the last one you were almost out of ammo and were getting a little tired of the same situation. 
 Nonetheless, this is not a huge issue as it only happens a few times throughout the game. The platforming, 
 however, is not always easy. Many of the aspects of the game have puzzles to solve and walls to 
 scale! The puzzles were not difficult and were easy to solve with the help of the diary. This set 
 a nice break in the game from the fast paced action. The platforming is utterly spectacular. If 
 they made the whole game platforming, I would probably buy it. It isn't like Tomb Raider, where 
 you must perfectly time each jump and jump at the exact spot, usually taking many tries to complete 
 it. In Uncharted you just run and jump and Drake handles it like he does it every day. It also 
 brings some combat into it like shooting from walls, vaulting and diving. The only flaw would be 
 that sometimes, the game is so realistic you have to jump on something, or climb up something that 
 doesn't looks like you must climb it, It just looks like a great piece of scenery. The gameplay 
 will offer a challenge whether you are new to platforming or an experienced veteran.
  
  Presentation:
  When you bring together all of the aspects of the game, can Uncharted: Drakes 
 Fortune live up to the hype and the challenge of being one of the best games of 2007? Well yes, 
 it can.
  When you have terrific music, sound, acting, graphics and gameplay, the game really comes together. 
 The game runs like a movie. It is full of emotion and bravado, and really pushes the genre to new 
 heights. This game does not have tremendous replay value, as it has no online and it only takes 
 8 hours to beat. However it has a ton of unlockables and you will want to go through and beat it 
 at least twice. The characters really grow on you and you feel like you know them. I will take 
 the time now to point out the games only flaws. The combat can get a little monotonous when you 
 get to the third or fourth wave of enemies on a single part, luckily this doesn't happen often. 
 The graphics can get a tiny bit edgy sometimes and certain fights are very difficult. The game 
 is also a tiny bit short, but it makes up for it with plenty of unlockable content. I would definitely 
 say that "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune" can live up to the hype and be one of the greatest game of 
 2007.
  
  Presentation: 9.5
  This game feels like a major motion picture, giving it a feel that I haven't ever experienced in 
 a game. But due to a few errors, I can't give it a 10
  
  Graphics: 9.5 Amazing, but can get "too sharp" at times
  
  Sound: 10
  Phenomenal
  
  Story: 
 10
  You won't want to stop playing once you start, that's for sure
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Smooth, and really versatile and fun. The challenging areas actually make you think, which is nice 
 and makes it so the game isn't just another run 'n gun
  
  Overall: 9.6 (not an average)
  
  Closing Comments:
  Uncharted is a game that you simply can't miss. It shows you that Naughty 
 Dog still has many tricks up it's sleeves and that Sony does have some great games that are worth 
 owning. It has thrills, excitement, and even some chills (you will have to play it to find out) . 
 I gave Uncharted: Drake's Fortune a 9.6 because although it wasn't perfect, it is one of the best 
 next-gen games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay = Plays alot like Prince of Persia, as far as climbing and swinging from ledge to ledge, 
 also in its puzzle solving elements.
  
  Graphics = Im kind of 50/50 on because, some of the layouts look great, and the environments in 
 some levels are breath taking. Sometimes youll watch a cut scene and look at the characters like 
 meh.
  
  Controls = Were actually pretty easy to pick up and go, but I never did find myself wanting to 
 get in a fistfight, because the reaction was a little off for my taste. The shooting wasnt bad 
 and making your way around a level was pretty easy.
  
  Time = I myself got through it in around 7-8 hours, But if you were to try and collect all the 
 treasures, and do everything there is to do it would probably run you somewhere around the 12-15 
 hour mark.
  
  Fun factor = Pretty high, it played like a movie and i did want to see the ending when it came, 
 Id say its worth purchasing and playing through on harder levels, so it totally has replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadraisin5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I find Gamespot's score on this game puzzling with only an 8. I thought it one of the best games 
 I've played. I agree with one of the criticisms that the alternating gameplay between platform 
 and action are somewhat out of balance. There are action sequences that are far more difficult 
 than any of the environment challenges. But my teens trained on Halo have no problem with them. 
 The cut scenes are well done and mostly short, well integrated with the game. There are plentiful 
 options to play the game multiple times. And the production value is truly cinematic. Also, the 
 controls are quick to understand and use, not always the case with modern games. For parents, the 
 Teen rating is well deserved. There is some language, a few graphically frightening sections, and 
 the regular violence from the shooting sequences. I will allow my younger kids play a few of the 
 chapters, but keep them from the more intense ones. I look forward to more PS3 titles from Naughty 
 Dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTH_22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  OK first off it's obvious Uncharted borrows alot of it's concepts from previous action/adventure 
 games (Tomb Raider anyone) and movies (Indiana Jones) but it turns those borrowed concepts into 
 a fun and beautifully well produced game that belongs near the top among this gen's games thus 
 far.
  
  First off, graphically Uncharted has few equals (Gears Of War comes to mind) . The animations, lighting, 
 and textures are superb. The cutscenes, while they don't always add much to the story, are beautiful 
 to behold and do add to the feeling of being immersed in a summer blockbuster. The environments 
 are also gorgeous and at times I found myself wandering an area just taking in the scenery (while 
 also keeping an eye open for treasure) . All in all this is easily one of the most visually impressive 
 games this generation and graphics whore's will drool.
  
  Now, ofcourse, graphics aren't everything. The gameplay in this title may not do anything particularly 
 groundbreaking but for the most part the gameplay elements work exceptionally well. One of the 
 few drawbacks for me were the jet ski levels which felt a little tacked on compared to the rest 
 of the game and the jet ski controls didn't feel completely polished. The firefights were challenging 
 but felt about right to me. You are forced to use cover well and move fairly often due to the solid 
 AI and toughness of the enemies. The variety of weapons and rewards for number of kills for each 
 adds to the experience and for some will add to the replay value. Also the treasures hidden thoughout 
 the game reward dilligent exploration.
  
  The game's sound is also stellar with top notch voice work and a great score. The replay value 
 is moderately high given the unlockable "Crushing" mode and the rewards and treasures. 
  
  Finally the game is fairly short (I finished in 11 hrs. 31mins. ) which pulls the score down very 
 slightly for me. That combined with a few minor story and gameplay inconsistencies are all that 
 keeps this game from a 10. Pick it up and prepare for one of the most cinematic and absorbing adventures 
 available on any platform this generation. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog has had alot of amazing game out for it, it first started out with Jak and Daxter, 
 now they kicked it off with Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. The game is good in its own, it has alot 
 of cool, elements, and a very good story. Although it is mixed like Indiana Jones, and Lara Croft, 
 it has amazing graphics that make you feel like you are in a jungle enviroment.
  The story is simple, a REGULAR guy (they say he's a regular guy, but he looks like he does this 
 for a living) , named Nathan Drake, he is believed to be the decendant of Sir Francis Drake, is in 
 search of his treasure, along the way you collect certain hidden treasures, that if you collect 
 enough you will be able to unlock certain costumes, or bonus stuff.
  The game would be easy if it wasn't for the darn shooting ability, that will leave you frustrated 
 during gun battles. The health of your player can also go down really fast which can make this 
 game a little more difficult for this game.
  Its a good game and a must buy for action/adventure fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  i finally got around to playing Uncharted and I was a little disappointed. First the good things. 
 The characters are great. The animations when he platforming or going for cover are great because 
 they show him struggling to stay on a ledge or painfully hitting into cover. The scenery is very 
 colorful and the jungle is the best jungle ever displayed on consoles before. The story is pretty 
 good. The aiming and shooting are easy on the controller.
  
  The bad things in the game concern the weapons and the platforming. The weapons are pretty unbalanced 
 so that the handgun is more useful then an ak-47. There are many gunfights in the game so you would 
 expect the weapons to be balanced. The platforming is frustrating at times. I felt that i was dying 
 because of the camera angle and that always takes you out of the action. 
  
  Overall, i am glad i played the game. It is better then Far Cry and Tomb raider in my humble opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djaisi_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I wonder if the people who write reviews are really in touch with what interests or matters 
 to the people who buy and play games. The Gamespot review of Uncharted is one of the reasons why 
 I think this.
  
  Now while 8 is a good score, and did not put me off buying Uncharted, it is clearly out of sync 
 with some of the mediocre games that score higher. In fact while I was playing the game I kept 
 wondering to myself- Is Ryan Davis on crack? This game is great!
  
  So why do I like Uncharted? It is definitely a case of story complementing action. The story is 
 interesting and the voice acting/mocap is great. It is one of the few games I remember playing 
 where you look forward to the story cut scenes and want to play on to find out what is going to 
 happen next. Lets be honest, most of time when a cut scene pops up we groan to ourselves and just 
 endure the crappyness of it. Story can be a fantastic element in games, and most of my favourite 
 games have also been great stories (for example Ultima 7, Starcraft, Half-life, etc.)
  
  Uncharted is also what I thought Tomb Raider should have been. In Tomb Raider I remember being 
 endlessly frustrated by the controls. Turn, step, jump, fall, die, restart, punch TV... In Uncharted 
 you actually fell like you can get to where you want to go. It is challenging, and you can fall, 
 but it isn't face punchingly difficult to jump around and explore. Some people say its too forgiving- 
 thats fine with me. The last thing I want to do is keep restarting because of the same jump a million 
 times.
  
  The gunplay in Uncharted is very well done. It has an excellent cover mechanic, and if you play 
 on hard is satisfyingly challenging. The weapons are fairly similar, but they do improve gradually. 
 The enemy that opposes you, the pirates, are numerous and aggressive, and satisfying to shoot in 
 the face. I also liked the close combat- it was a nice touch. Uncharted uses a simple combo mechanic 
 that is a nice change from most shoots that have a simple punch/butt attack.
  
  Graphically Uncharted is fantastic. In my opinion the best I have yet seen. Yes, I have not seen 
 Crysis. In fact, my sad old PC would probably explode from overexertion if the Crysis disk was 
 even in that same room as it. Graphics are not all that important to me, but Uncharted's are amazing. The 
 water is great, the trees saw, the grass reacts to the wind, the animation is fluid, and the framerate 
 never dips. Music is not really my thing, but it is atmospheric and unobtrusive.
  
  The most unexpected thing that I found about Uncharted was its wife appeal. Yes, my wife does play 
 games, but they are usually of the puzzle or light strategy variety. She detests shooters and violent 
 games, but the treasure collecting aspect of Uncharted drew her in. Before I knew it she was on 
 the PS3 all day, and giving me tips on how to complete the levels. She found the shooting a bit 
 difficult to get used to at first, but got the hang of it when she inverted both the X and Y axis!?! 
 Apparently its like tilting a video camera on a tripod that way. Perhaps more games should allow 
 X axis inversion? She played through the entire game on easy and normal.
  
  So is Uncharted perfect? No, it has its fair share of minor flaws. The car chase scenes are tacked 
 on and unrealistic. I liked the boat scenes, but my wife found them a bit difficult and frustrating 
 (lots of restarts) . The sheer number of pirates you gun down is a little unrealistic. I think will 
 take thousands of years for the native population of pirates to recover after the hunting spree 
 you go on. Finally there is no online of any kind. I think it would have been cool- Drake V Pirates 
 but whatever.
  
  When its all said and done, Uncharted is terrific value and lots of fun. It is a fairly long game 
 with plenty of replay opportunity; it does not follow the recent trend of ultra-short games (e. g. 
 COD4) . The best game in my PS3 collection thus far by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Uncharted puts you with the main character who with the help of a rich guy are looking for treasures 
 left by clues of your great great great (somewhere in there) grandfather. Which happens to be located 
 on an "uncharted island." Hence the title of the game. You simply plow through the game in a linear 
 fashion through beautiful jungle environments, aztec ruins, wrecked boats etc. With the occasional 
 jeep or jet ski scene, both which look amazing.
  
  For starters, this game is so well polished that is literally hard to find a grip about it. Things 
 that come to mind, could have been a longer game, but this is forgiven by the about of production 
 put into animations are character detail. Honestly, its not that short, if YOU PLAY to play and 
 look for treasures its a bit longer. At the 83% mark in the game, had 14 hours play time. Another 
 complaint is that at some very very few moments their is some screen tear, but you have to be looking 
 for it, that it is so unnoticable. Its not God of War 2 or Lair noticable. A complaint one of my 
 friends had was that when you are aiming, he doesn't move fast enough. Take that with a grain of 
 salt. I thought the speed was fine and realistic.
  
  Graphics, this game is king for consoles. It simply can not be beaten with its allure of colorful 
 high definition textures with wonderful resolution. Shading is simply fun to look at, as the wind 
 engine blows the tree's around letting the shadows move. Near the point of 2/3 of the game is a 
 *spoiler* graveyard scene that looks like it was ment for Resident Evil. I loved it. The water 
 animations are simply wow as well.
  
  Gameplay is a bit hard to describe, its Gears of War/killswitch with its ducking and covering behind 
 rocks and blind firing. Its Tomb Raider with its jumping from ledge to ledge only more forgiving 
 then Tomb Raider, thank goodness. And for me it has a slight touch of Resident Evil 4 with its 
 aiming and camera angles. Only more fluid then RE4's.
  
  The story keeps you enganged through the entire game, with help of great music and cutscene moments.
 
  
  Enemy AI is there, ducking running at you, moving back finding cover. When they are in big groups 
 they are more likely to flank you and run at you.
  
  Final note: worth every bit of $60 dollars compared to most games this gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  It has almost been a magical month for the PS3. First came Eye of Judgment, a title that betrays 
 it nerdy hobby store roots by being much more then the sum of its parts. Then Ratchet and Clank 
 arrived, all polished and colorful, proving that good developers make good game regardless of the 
 system they work on. Uncharted takes these two good steps forward and raises them one step back; 
 it is three quarters of an excellent game, but much like Indigo Prophecy and Far Cry it runs out 
 of things to do, opting for diabolus ex machina, instead of finishing what it started.
  
  There is very little that is original about Uncharted. This is not a failing, however, because 
 everything it steals it takes from the best places. The platforming is right out of Tomb Raider: 
 Legend. Controlling Drake as he makes impossible jumps and scales sheer cliffs is never difficult. 
 The environment does a good job of subtly guiding the player while maintaining a very random, organic 
 (and often times absolutely gorgeous) look. Levels themselves have a definite 'Indiana Jones' feel; 
 old ruins, rotting tombs and creepy skeletons are the norm. It is a pity that Drake doesn't fit 
 this adventure game feel. Uncharted needs a different main character. It is aching for some machismo 
 and instead gets Will Ferrell with a gun and a ridiculous vertical. He just doesn't fit.
  
  Uncharted sports the 'stop and pop' cover system that has become this generations light bloom. 
 Again, this is not a negative, it adapts the Gears of War/Rainbow 6 Vegas technique very well. 
 For the first three quarters of the game the combat is excellent. Ammo is scarce, forcing Drake 
 to constantly advance on his foes to scavenge ammo from corpses. The bad guys will rush in or flank 
 given the opportunity and are pretty good shots so learning when to hide and when to shoot is essential. 
 The number of weapons is a bit low and ranges from the useful and never available sniper rifle 
 to the I would rather throw rocks shotgun, leaving the starting handgun as the best fallback option. 
 Skill and good aim are rewarded with gratuitous headshots and over exaggerated death animations. 
 The whole thing clicks along very nicely for about 10 hours. There are unfortunately 2 hours left.
 
  
  Games take odd left turns for any number of reasons: they run out of money, time or ideas, there 
 are fights between developers, publishers and writers; who knows what happened here. Without spoiling 
 too much, Uncharted changes its combat from cover based to run and gun with the introduction of 
 an un-needed enemy accompanied by a silly plot twist, and it is just as bad as the first part of 
 the game was good. I would have preferred just about anything to more Doom refugees, and instead 
 am faced with pinky demons literally coming out of the walls. It was depressing and frustrating 
 at the same time. There is some occasional interplay between the new monsters and gun toting bad 
 guys, but what could be an interesting new combat tactic is not used enough.
  
  Naughty Dog took a risk with Uncharted. They could have turned out another Jak and it would have 
 come out just fine. New IP is almost always good and Uncharted is very close to being a great game. 
 The inevitable sequel needs to pick a genre and stick to it and not have Drake complaining all 
 the time. As it sits right now this is just another good, all be it great looking, action game 
 when it very well could have been a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingROM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  The game starts really well, straight into the action and it continues on that vain for 22 action 
 packed levels. An excellent array of weaponswith constant low ammo worries continue throughout.
 
  
  A combination of Tomb Raider, CoD and Resident Evil at points make this game really immerse you 
 in the fun gameplay, but better still, the storyline (although linear) is good too.
  
  After owning a 360 (and enjoying it when it worked) I must say this game has the best graphics 
 seen by myself on either console. Some nice added touches too, stand under a waterfall and your 
 clothes get wet, gradually drying over a short time. Nice touch.
  
  On medium difficulty the game is a tad easy with few challenges, so i would recommend a more difficult 
 setting. Better still, once you have acquired enough skill points, you can 'mirror' the levels. 
 Very good for playing the game a second time, to get the remaining skill points.
  
  One disappointment is that now complete, I must wait for the second installment, which has been 
 announced.
  
  You wont make a better choice by playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimtri
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is a very good game to play. It kinda reminds me of god of war because 
 both games have tricks to open the door or to get to places. In the beginning of the game you are 
 a man who wants to find his ancestors fortune. It is a very good game but it also has bad things. 
 Let's start with the good things. The good things are: It is a very good game and it is very fun. 
 It is very realistic. Example when you enter the water and come out your clothes look wet and really 
 realistic. the cut scenes are amazing and they have good graphics. the bad things are: The game 
 is very short. it took me 8 hours and 25 minutes. When you aim to kill someone he doesn't aim straight 
 he aims kinda to the right with a curve to the left. Sometimes if you go to a branch you can go 
 through it. You might say that's what you get in every game but with uncharted it was so amazing 
 that you didn't expect it.
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune has good and bad things in it but overal it is a game worth playing and 
 definitely a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFS-Marc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: A Beautiful Disaster; well maybe that's a bit much, but it's far from perfect. The games 
 does some things right: graphics, story, platforming; it also does some things poorly: shooting, 
 lots of shooting... did I say shooting because it's pretty bad. I'll talk about what the game does 
 well first and leave the not-so-happy ending for last.
  
  Graphically the game is gorgeous; it's a real looker on the PS3. The animations for Drake are smooth 
 and life-like, but the death animations are extremely over the top (I mean really ridiculous) . 
 Also this may just be a personal nit-pick, but the perfect puff of smoke after every explosion 
 drives me crazy. Another thing I would like to know is how all these explosive barrels found their 
 way into this world; it seems quite convenient. The game does look great as a whole and the later 
 environments are really impressive, but as we all know graphics don't make a game; they are just 
 a small part of the whole package. But damn if they don't look good!
  
  The story may not be original, but that doesn't mean it's not good. This is a fantastic story with 
 great and memorable characters. Nathan Drake is an extremely likable character with an "every man" 
 personality. The supporting cast is all great as well. One disappointing thing about the story 
 is that it goes into a very odd direction near the end; it just didn't work for me (no spoilers 
 here) . The sound is great and I never got tired of hearing Drake say, "Oh, **** every time a grenade 
 was thrown at his feet. Honestly if I didn't love the story so much I don't think I'd actually 
 want to play through the game. It's not that the game isn't fun, but the game-play doesn't quite 
 match the story and overall presentation.
  
  Sadly the bits between platforming and the story development aren't so tasty; like the delicious 
 taste of a nice, toasty sausage. The platforming bits are fun; they are not overly complicated 
 and not overly simple. They seemed to be just right, but the shooting in this game is plagued with 
 problems. The game plays like a crappy version of Gears of War. There is way too much shooting 
 for a game about treasure hunting and it just takes me out of the experience every time (and where 
 do all these guys come from; is there are "generic bad guy" factory out there in the jungle?) . 
 The hit detection is slightly off as I find myself missing at times or a shot to the face not registering 
 as a headshot. These issues wouldn't be much of a problem if you weren't thrown into fire-fights 
 all the time.
  
  I really wish that this weren't the case because I really want to love this game; I want to be 
 able to call it a great game. These issues turn what could have been a great game into just a good 
 game. Still I have to say I enjoyed myself overall and I would recommend this game to anyone who 
 has a PS3. It's not a must-buy, but I have to say that it is a must-play.
  
  Final Score: B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Soilder78
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Story- 8/10
  Well, the story is what you come to except in a game of this sort, two treasure hunters on an expedition 
 searching for their big pay out, your main character Nathan Drake, believe that he is related to 
 a treasure hunter Francis Drake, and that he knew the location of a valuable treasure. Although 
 this may start as a routine treasure hunt, the stakes get higher and the game is filled with unexpected 
 twists and turns. It defiantly kept me interested throughout and should be able to hold any gamers 
 attention for as long as it lasts.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  What can I say that my score doesn't, the visuals are stunning, from dingy caverns perfectly shadowed 
 to wide open jungle scenery with no detail left untouched, there is no room to be displeased here. 
 The characters look great down to the last detail, the scenery never stops amazing you and the 
 icing on the cake is the way the water affects you. If you run under a waterfall you react as expected. 
 Your clothes get darker and sag down a little bit, your hair dampens and aside from a pop in texture 
 here or their this is a graphical show piece for the PS3 and for games of this generation in general. 
 
  
  Audio- 10/10
  How does the game follow up unbelievable graphics one might ask? It's simple, with dialogue and 
 voice acting as good as any CGI movie. Every word that a character says seems like it had screen 
 play writers at work, especially Nathans lines. It is not only the quality of voice acting but, 
 much like actors in movies it really felt like the voice actors had their characters down when 
 they were making the game, most notably Nolan North, who plays Drake who is a great character on 
 his own, but this is the first game I have played were I believe the voice actor made the character 
 his own, with great results.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  The gameplay in uncharted is fairly innovative but still simplistic. You are either scaling towers 
 or ruins to solve a puzzle to get to the next area or your in a shoot out, where you are massively 
 out numbered. I have only two negative things to say about this game, as far as gameplay goes and 
 those are that the game is highly unrealistic in terms of the amount of damage you take and enemies 
 you take on and the second one is that the puzzle solving elements felt the same after a while, 
 but that being said they were a nice change of pace.
  The game uses a cover system much like Gears of war and Rainbow Six Vegas, although more similar 
 to Gears. You can role in and out of cover, only popping out to shoot or throw grenades, but a 
 key part of this game is just when that starts getting old, and the hole "duck and cover" thing 
 starts to get tiresome, the game throws a new element at you that completely changes your method 
 of play, so it is far less reliant on its cover system. 
  
  This game gets a 9.0 out of 10 and it boils down to this "If you own a PS3, get Uncharted: Drakes 
 fortune"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I thought I reviewed this game already, but I guess not. Well, I gotta hand it to Naughty Dog because 
 this game was almost like watching a movie. 
  
  It left one of thoses things inside me wishing that this game would never end, but it did. I'm 
 glad they are going to make another one because this game freakin' rocks. 
  
  Graphics: WHOA MA'AM!! I love it hands down, very good textures and water is so real looking.
 
  
  Sound: Everything is good in this department.
  
  Gameplay: Very good, AI is pretty decent.
  
  Overall: Aiming could be off a little, but you'll 
 get used to it. Puzzles are piece of cake. If you like Tomb Raider, then I suggest you pick up 
 this MAN addition of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune because your going to love it.
  
  If you could find one used on ebay, pick it up. It's for sure worth the $59 dollar price tag, but 
 seeing as it's been out for awhile. I'm sure you could pick up a used one at $45 dollars or maybe 
 get it cheaper on ebay or craigslist.
  
  Enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerking131
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Like I said at the beginning, its just got all the goods. The story line is easy to follow, but 
 still in-depth. Its like watching a movie, only controlling it. Uncharted is EXTREMELY immersive. 
 You wont be able to stop playing it till its finished. It starts, and ends like a movie. The story 
 line is just perfect. The game play works well also, working almost like Gears of War. Sometimes 
 the smooth animations get in the way of the game play, but only rarely. What makes Drake so believable 
 is his imperfections. When he drops jumps off a hill, he stumbles for a secc and then starts running 
 again. Drake will be taking cover, a couple of bullets fly by, and you see him cringe his face. 
 His face animations make him look so real, because everything that happens makes his facial expression 
 change. 
  
  The ONLY thing this game is missing is online play. It might seem out of place in this game, but 
 I think it could've worked.
  
  PROS: Great animation, Great voice acting, Excellent (Movie like) storyline, Immersive
  
  CONS: 
 Sometimes the animations get in the way of game play, Long checkpoints, No online play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingqueen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  The game takes you to a Panamanian island located in the Pacific Ocean, where you'll be looking 
 for a lost treasure which is said to clear the path for the golden city of Eldorado.
  
  You control Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter in his 30s who sets on a journey to look for the city 
 of gold with the help of Sir Francis Drake's diary. Along with Nate, you're accompanied by Victor 
 Sullivan; an old time friend and Elena Fisher; an aspiring journalist whose job is to cover the 
 story of the lost treasure.
  
  Uncharted is an enchanting work of art. It depicts all life forms in a forest beautifully with 
 detailed animation, excellent lightning, reflection, water effects and vibrant colors. There are 
 also ancient ruins which are the ground of most battles you'll be having in the game. The game's 
 visuals are breath-taking. You could make a portrait out of every scene. Along with the forest 
 and ruins, the island also has a big river which you'll cross by riding a jet-ski and a mountain 
 path where you'll be driving a car equipped with a fire arm and shoot bad guys who chase you all 
 through the forest.
  
  The game might combine elements but the fact is battles take the lion's share of uncharted game-play. 
 When you're treasure hunting, it's only natural that greedy people will show up and the way to 
 take them down is through battles in shooters style. Uncharted uses two different aiming modes, 
 one is the hit and run mode where Nate automatically aims at the target, the other is over the 
 shoulder mode, where Nate shoots enemies in the same style as Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War. 
 As well as shooting, Nate knows few close -quarter combat moves such as punching and kicking. 
 
  
  The battles are the game's strong point because of the enemies' sharp A. I., and the ability to 
 kill them by various ways such as shooting, using explosives and CQC. You have the option to pick 
 two kinds of guns at once in normal mode. Also, you can carry up to five small bombs and pick up 
 enemies' guns and clips once you knock them off. Crates, barrels and walls can be used as a shield 
 with duck and cover system but you can't stay in some of those for a long time because they can 
 be destroyed by bullets. Also, some of them might be planted with TNT so you're going to get yourself 
 killed incase any of those blows up or if the bad guys started throwing bombs at you. You can use 
 the same barrels and crates to kill the bad guys. You can also use the cannons in cars and buildings 
 to hit the enemies. 
  
  The plat-forming presented in uncharted lacks compared to other games which are known for their 
 hand-sweating plat-forming. The game has you moving from point A to point B from the beginning 
 but it doesn't take you to the next level as you go further in it. As for the puzzles, they are 
 big but unchallenging and don't require thinking. Another negative aspect regarding uncharted is 
 the usage of QTE which is something I'm not a fan of at all as it takes away the enjoyment and 
 thrill of going through all the traps by yourself. A weird thing is that in the beginning of the 
 game, you get to run while a bridge is collapsing without pressing buttons which appear on screen 
 but later, you'll have to press those annoying buttons in order to survive. 
  
  The aforementioned chase sequence is long and tedious for you can't shoot enemies from the front 
 even though your jeep is equipped with a rail-gun and a grenade launcher. The jet-ski sequence 
 is another filler which gets tedious, as well as frustrating because you not only go against a 
 current here, you try to avoid explosive barrels which get in the way and shoot the bad guys on 
 the sideways of the river.
  
  Uncharted presentation and cinematic appeal makes up for its shortcomings. The game has an interesting 
 storyline. The cast of characters it has stands out because they're natural and their reaction 
 to things around them is the closest to human beings'. Nate is not the ridiculously strong hero 
 you play as in most games, Sully is the joking type of guy, and Elena is probably the best woman 
 to be portrayed in a videogame to date for she looks real and natural, unlike those ladies you 
 see in other games with extraordinary assets. The story is told through epic cut-scenes with great 
 voice acting and superb original soundtrack. The accents match the characters' backgrounds and 
 they're neither exaggerated nor fake. The music and sound effects draws you in and makes you feel 
 as if you were wandering in a real jungle. You can hear birds singing, Nate's stomping on floor 
 or on a puddle, Nate slipping, rocks falling and water gushing. The title theme is one of the best 
 I've heard in a videogame. 
  
  Uncharted is best known as the ultimate jungle adventure. The sense of realism built in it is shown 
 through minute details from backgrounds to objects to people and the things you can do in the game. 
 Even though the battles are very satisfying, there are too many of them in the game which makes 
 you miss doing something else for a change such as riddle solving or ledges climbing. As well as 
 balancing out the game-play, the game needs to be longer and more rewarding. Once you finish playing 
 Uncharted, you can go through the game once again on hard mode and enjoy the extras and features 
 you unlocked depending on the number of medals you earned in your first play through. If you're 
 a fan of pure Action Adventure titles, Uncharted will be a great addition to your collection. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x2926014
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, when i first saw this game i thought: Mmh just a crappy Tomb Raider tipe of game i'll pass. But 
 my brother loved it very very much, so he bought it for x-mas and there i was saying:
  -You jackass you spent 70 bucks in a piece of garbage.
  Then until this year's February i didn't 
 touch the game. After coming from ReplayZone (a portugal's game shop) because i wen't preorder grand 
 theft auto IV i thought to myself : 
  -You don't have nothing to do until April the 29th so just play the damn game!!
  OK!! I told how 
 i started playing the game now for the review!!!
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune it's a game from the Naughty dog studio's popular for the series jak 
 and daxter and ratchet and clank, made a completly diferent thing from what they are used to do 
 (cartonish platform/action games) and they did the masterpiece Uncharted is.
  The game begins with a quote from Sir Francis Drake an english pirate that as discovered a acient 
 tresure called "The El Dorado". Nathan with the reporter Elena as found the suposed Francis Drake 
 coffin but he wasn't there, only his diarie with a page torn.
  In this part whe see the magnificent graffic job that naughty dog as done with this game, and we 
 are introduced with the tutorial.
  After whe pass the tutorial whe meet Sullivan another main character.
  Next whe do another kind 
 of tutorial.
  In this part whe can see the awesome job that NaugthyDog as done movement's and the explosions.
 
  It as action filled moment's till the end with an ironic ending.
  Uncharted: Drake's fortune it's an action packed game very recomendable. But if you don't like game's 
 such Tomb Raider i recomend that you try the demo first and then buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashCharge
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The over all score I would give Uncharted: Drake's Fortune would be an 9.0. The story is excellent 
 and keeps you moving along. 
  The Graphics: they are top notch and beautiful to behold. Some scenes have you glazing off in the 
 environment and the colors are vivid and bright. Light effects are also excellent. Overall, a 9.5
 
  The music and sound effects are top of the line. No need to turn the volume off and just read 
 the subtitles. Overall, a 9.5
  Game controls need some work but although frustrating in some scenarios do not take away from the 
 total enjoyment of the game. Climbing and jumping, which you do a lot of, could have had some improvement. 
 It is not an Assassin's Creed experience. Guns and grenades work extremely well and unlike others, 
 you do not run out of ammo quickly. The treasure chests are sometimes very difficult to see or 
 find. This really added a nice touch to the pirate hunt. Hand to Hand combat works well also. Overall, 
 8.0
  if you are looking for a superb game on the PS3 this one is a must to pick up. It will challenge 
 you and keep your interest throughout your experience. After finishing the game in 22 hours it 
 was a satisfying gaming experience. So, my overall rating would be a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AHaliassos
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game will just blow your brains out! It has great, graphics and it looks like Naughty Dog 
 put a lot of effort in the gameplay as well. You can have some cool rides with cars and you can 
 drive a speed boat. The cutscenes in the game are funny and entertaining. 
  
  Unlike some games Uncharted: Drake's Fortune had a good story. When the game ended I was disappointed. 
 I really liked the game. The only problem with this game is that you are going to be lucky if you 
 just get 12 hours out of it. The game is rated Teen, but to tell you the truth, it has quite a 
 bit of language and blood into it. Another cool thing about the game is that it has some good stuff 
 even when you finish the whole game. So it will have all the cutscenes in the whole game, it has 
 some medals that you can get while playing the game, like 100 headshots, 50 kills with a certain 
 type of gun, etc. And 60 treasures that you can collect. I got 12!
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Story: 10
  Value: 10
  Overall: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog, the creators of Crash Bandicoot and Jak and Daxter, now bring us a serious Action-Adventure 
 filled with puzzles and gun battles.
  
  The Story is that you play Nathan Drake, a direct descendent of Explorer Sir Francis Drake, looking 
 for the famed treasure of El Dorado, which turns out to be a golden idol not a city of gold, but 
 Nathan and his friend Sully, are not the only ones after the treasure, a British treasure hunter 
 uses armies of hired mercenaries to steal it, but soon they all find out why El Dorado was hidden.
 
  
  We've all probably waited for a game that beats the XBOX 360's graphics and we finally have it, 
 this game is absolutely gorgeous. The environment are extremely realistic, with plants that sway, 
 real shadows and great lighting. And your character looks wet when he gets out of water and your 
 clothes crease when you move.
  
  Kill. Switch started it, Gears of War perfected it and Uncharted brings it to the PS3, and "it" 
 is a cover system which allows Nathan to use anything as cover such as columns, cars, boxes and 
 tress.
  
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is an interesting PS3 exclusive, with a well crafted story, pretty visuals 
 and gameplay that keeps giving. But the absence of any multiplayer don't make it last but that 
 doesn't mean it will be a PS3 classic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoMinswater
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a fun game that is very pretty to look at. However the game play is nothing new a 
 simple use of the cover system from gears of war and ability to aim or shoot from the hip. Uncharted 
 likes to make the level difficult but not a challenging fun difficult but a throw to many guys 
 at you and have you die until you have memorized where each guy is coming from sort of way. This 
 was the main part of the game that kept me from loving it . Even if the control scheme and game 
 concept are nothing new if they are done to perfection it is still worth noting (and they control 
 scheme is implemented perfectly) . But, having to replay levels over and over, dieing each time, 
 just to learn an area and have a chance of survival gets real old real fast and down right frustrating. 
 Also at the end of the game, what was the deal with the resident evil like mode? (I do not want 
 to say more to ruin a plot twist) This part was really fun and had me really frightened at one 
 point, but still not original. This game just reeked of noting original just redoing what was good 
 from other games in a flawless way. The only thing they took and used horribly was button click 
 events which were seemingly used at random and just killed you each time they popped up. They were 
 used so infrequently you were never expecting them and then you had to replay that part ready for 
 the button click event. Pretty lame. The end was good and the story decent, even if it was predictable. 
 The cut scenes were very nice looking and some of the random chatter your characters have is pretty 
 entertaining. But overall a very lack luster game, enjoyable and fun but nothing original or new 
 here, which is disappointing from the team that made all those great Jak and Daxter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightmareMan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Lets be clear. No one has made a game yet, for any console that is truly revolutionary or ground 
 breaking. If that's what you want, well, good luck. But if you want an engaging, gorgeous, action 
 filled game that incorporates all the things you want and need-this is it. Yeah, the puzzles are 
 fairly simple. Yeah the hand to hand brawling isn't a major core factor. If these are a big deal, 
 well keep looking for the impossible game.
  Me, I'll play this. The graphics are stunning. The tropical locations actually seem to glow green. 
 Leaves move in the breeze and sure thats the norm by now. But when Nate gets wet, his clothes darken, 
 and will dry slowly. That's immersion level on the details. And that's to be expected. But it's 
 all here, exotic locatons to explore, great cast of villains, and good guys you don't just root 
 for, but actually like. A powerhouse display of how you make an action game on a next-gen console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous! This is the game that finally unseats Gears of War as the game by which 
 all other next gen console games will be judged. The environments are more detailed. The terrain 
 is far more varied, and the textures are all spot on.
  
  This games is in a way a guilty pleasure. It is basically a high-action, big budget summer blockbuster 
 movie. A lot of flash, a lot of fun, but not a whole lot of substance. Don't get me wrong, the 
 story line is interesting, the voice acting is very good, and the variety of gameplay is more than 
 one might expect. But in the end, it is nothing revolutionary (aside from its graphical achievement) . 
 
  
  My feeling is that Naughty Dog was just getting their feet wet with the PS3. They wanted to see 
 what was possible and crank out a great game that stuck to the tried and true formula. I expect 
 that their next game will be just as beautiful and will bring some new elements to the genre.
 
  
  Now, on to the game. Uncharted is basically and action-adventure game based around a search for 
 some lost gold. The protagonist, Nathan, has obvious ties to Sir Francis Drake, and is on a mission 
 to complete the discovery that his ancestor could not. Along the way, he runs in to a bunch of 
 pirates with amazing aim and bad intentions.
  
  This is a great game for people like me who like to explore the world that the game makers have 
 created. As mentioned before the terrain is amazing to look at, and is packed with enough secrets 
 to make a second playthrough worthwhile. On top of completing the games 20+ chapters (a total of 
 8-10 hours) , there are lots of rewards to unlock and treasures to collect.
  
  There is also a nice selection of weapons to choose from including several handguns, an M4, a sniper 
 rifle, a shotgun, hand grenades, and a grenade launcher amongst others. Using each weapon effectively 
 will reward you with additional unlockables (points) , and each weapon has its own scenarios in 
 which it makes successfully playing the game a whole lot easier.
  
  There are also a handful of vehicle sections of this game, which unfortunately limit your ability 
 to drive and shoot at the same time (ala the end of Chapter 2 in Gears of War) . They are a nice 
 change of pace from the more traditional platforming, and as with everything else in the game, 
 they are a treat to look at (both the boat sections through various channels, and the jeep sections 
 through the jungle) .
  
  Overall, I would highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys third person shooters, platformers, 
 or adventure games. It does a nice job of blending those three elements into a cohesive game. Although 
 it is not ground breaking, it is a lot of fun, and it is interesting to see where the story's twists 
 and turns lead. I am perhaps being a little too picky about the gameplay not being innovative because 
 this is the first game I am playing after completing Shadow of the Colossus. Not every game is 
 going to be so revolutionary. This game sticks to a proven formula and offers enough visceral treats 
 and fun level design to make it very worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  When it comes to solving history's biggest mysteries or retrieving ancient relics in the video 
 game universe, it's typically the buxom Lara Croft of Tomb Raider fame on the case. But with the 
 introduction of witty and brash treasure hunter Nathan Drake, the famous raider of tombs had better 
 watch her footing in the action-adventure genre.
  
  Unlike Lara Croft's more silent and calculating approach, Nate Drake exudes personality with his 
 quirky one-liners and recklessness as he takes down enemies and climbs everything, sort of like 
 a more realistic Spider-Man. 
  
  Personality traits aside, the most interesting thing about Nate is that he is a descendent of another 
 legend hunter and explorer, Sir Francis Drake.
  
  Following the journal of clues and antique ring passed down through the generations of Drakes, 
 Nate intends to locate the lost fortune of his long dead ancestor.
  
  Like all good stories, Nate isn't without helpful allies and hindering enemies, all of which are 
 just as interesting as the lead character. Along for the ride with Nate is his gruff mentor and 
 partner in exploration Victor "Sully" Sullivan and an inquisitive bright-eyed journalist named 
 Elena Fisher. Together these allies will provide cover-fire, drive vehicles, and become Nate's 
 moral support against the more maniacal rival treasure hunters also searching for Drake's fortune.
 
  
  As fun and interesting as the characters and plot may be, the real joy of Uncharted is actually 
 playing it. Starting with a literal bang in the first few minutes of the game, Uncharted rarely 
 gives players a chance to breath between intense bursts of action and in-depth exploration.
  
  Action wise, Uncharted plays as a very solid third person shooter with over the shoulder gunplay. 
 Using firearms found around the island from smugglers and mercanaries, Nate can hold his own as 
 he pops in and out of cover from any object. He can also move from coverspot to coverspot with 
 the slightest of ease, making him a very hard target as he flanks enemies. Imagine it as a mixture 
 between the both solid games of kill. switch and Gears of War and you'll understand how the gun 
 battles are played.
  
  Exploration wise, the game plays just as its spiritual predecessor Tomb Raider as Nate runs, jumps, 
 rolls, climbs, and swims his way into dark and dangerous caverns. While not as prodominent as Tomb 
 Raider, puzzles elements do occur randomly throughout the game, but not nearly enough as almost 
 too much action can be considered one of Uncharted downfalls.
  
  In a massive list of positive elements, Uncharted rarely makes a misstep. The game is almost the 
 perfect length for gamers to get started, enjoy themselves for a few days, and finish without becoming 
 bored. There are plenty of treasures and secrets to uncover throughout the game, and every treasure 
 leads to points to spend in the extra mode for increased game life. Playing this game 2 or 3 times 
 is certainly not out of the question with the amount of unlockables to unlock here.
  
  While a multiplayer mode would put this game a main contender for 2007 Game of the Year, Uncharted 
 is still a surprise hit for gamers and, with a handful of other games, puts the PlayStation 3 on 
 the map for players looking for a good reason to purchase one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is easily one of the best PS3 titles already making its mark, and its 
 a great showcase of what the PS3 hardware can do. Not just a stunning looking game but I truelly 
 fun experience that is worth every penny!
  
  I'll be honest, although I was a fan of Crash Bandicoot, I lost interest in Jak and Dexter fast. 
 Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying there bad games but I lost interest in the animal fantasy thing 
 with Rachet and Clank. So seeing ND go human was a pleasing surprise, and what a fine job they've 
 done of it aswell. Uncharted offers a truelly Adventurous experience, that at times feels like 
 a playable movie rather then a game. Beautiful Graphics get the most out of the PS3 console, a 
 great storyline routed part in History and great gameplay are a receipt for success.
  
  You play Nathan Drake, or Nate as he is often called. Hes a desecdant of the legendary Explorer 
 and Treasure hunter Sir Francis Drake. The story evolves really well in the game and comes as a 
 surprise from time to time. It's obvious that more Uncharted will be seen as the ended defiantly 
 leaves the Sequel mark. Your also joined by Elaner and Sullivan on your travels, both very likeable 
 characters that have a surpisingly deep character about them. Elaner is a TV Reporter/Presenter 
 and is joining Drake to get that juicey story while Sullivan is a old time Adventurer who is both 
 very likeable and not all that trustworthy. There interaction is great in well developed cutscenes. 
 
  
  The game itself features three forms of gameplay. Adventure/Platform, Action and Puzzle Solving. 
 All three work well together, actually better then I thought they would at times. At times the 
 game can feel like Tomb Raider one minute then Gears of War the next (nasty monster included) . 
 ND have done a superb job at offering a perfectly balanced experience that will please most gamers 
 out there. 
  
  It's easily the best you'll find on the console at this time, of course we will hopefully see more 
 of Mr Drake and his friends (I'd expect a sequel to be in production already) . The games length 
 is perfect aswell, while not being the longest of games it will offer a good amount of time and 
 in my own opinion is was perfectly lengthed. Experience as taught me that its not how long a game 
 last but what it offers in that time.... be it short or long and Uncharted offers an unforgettable 
 experience in the time it offers.
  
  So I highly reconmend it, if your still unsure rent it but I'm almost positive you'll love the 
 experience it offers. 
  
  RATINGS:
  
  SOUND: 9/10 (Great music and Great voice Acting)
  GRAPHICS: 10/10 (Easily the best PS3 as so 
 far)
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5/10 (A few issues but mostly fantastic)
  
  OVERALL: All in all, with Uncharted: Drakes Fortune you'll have a blast and will sit happily in 
 your PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBCstillmatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  This had to be one of the best games I have ever played even though it was a little short (logged 
 in 8 hours and 20 min total and that was messing around searching for treasure) . This game was 
 like a perfect cross between Tomb Raider and Gears of War, there is plenty of action to go around 
 and boy does it look good. This has to be one of the best looking games on any system. The story 
 was phenomenal and kept me hooked, hell even my girlfriend was asking me to play cause even she 
 wanted to know what was gonna happen next. My only complaint was that I was disappointed when I 
 finished. It was over so quickly but I wanted the game to go on forever. I was never bored once 
 and wish there was more replay value. Other than their versions of achievements and hidden treasures 
 there aren't many reasons to play through again for the casual gamer but is a must play for any 
 gamer. I can't wait for a sequel and to see what the developers can do after some more time with 
 the PS3 hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquetobias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  
  When i got this game i also bought Unreal tournament 3, assacins creed and call of duty 4.
  
 
  When i got home i though that assacins creed was going to be the best of all the games but after 
 some gaming time i got bored and change games...
  
  at the beginning of drakes fortune you would think this is an other tomb rider game or other boring 
 adventure game with no juice. 
  after 1 hour playing, the game makes you feel the sensation i cant describe ... its a mixture of 
 happiness and amusement you don't get that often with other games, it has some key events that 
 makes you happy and this game is not about the graphics, the sound or the great marketing of other 
 games , THIS GAME HAS THE IDEAS OF GREAT PEOPLE (with good imagination) THAT REALLY LOVE VIDEO 
 GAMES and that they really care about a game and not only about making a game for the money. 
 
  
  This game makes you feel like a kid again.
  
  Buy it and you will not regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a truly stunning game. You can not pull your eyes away. The gunfights are great fun, the 
 platforming is cool if a little on the easy side. Looks good, sounds good, tells a fantastic story 
 with superb voice acting and cinemas, what more could you ask for? 
  
  Well, an online mode or something to do once you've beaten the story would be nice. The gunfights 
 are such a joy that I think it would've translated to online really well. Maybe the sequel will 
 satisfy that craving or perhaps a download eventually, but I kind of doubt it.
  
  That's really my only complaint. If you own a PS3 you need to play this game. See the countless 
 other reviews that tell you how beautiful it is to behold and how engrossing the story is. You 
 will not regret at least renting it and seeing the action all the way through. I would pay to own 
 it just to support Naughty Dog's future endeavors and with enough support maybe that online I'm 
 hankering for will come around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a beautiful game, not denying that. One could say it would be the new "Tomb Raider". 
 The game delivers on some plentiful exciting moments and some spectacular visuals - the water, 
 the jungle setting, everything in this game is fantastic in the visual department. However, the 
 game does have its fair share of faults. But we'll get into that later. The game feels as though 
 it took a National Treasure trip in which Nathan Drake, the main character in the game, follows 
 clues in which leads to a "great" treasure called El Derado. And throughout the game, you go from 
 place to place, learning each clue and figuring out puzles left for you.
  
  So, the story revolves around three main charcters, Nathan Drake, Sully and Elena. It starts with 
 Nathan openeing, or recovering the coffin of Sir Francis Drake, inside it is his diary in which 
 has the clues which lead to a great treasure. Elena is a journalist who funded his trip to find 
 the coffin, and she is there to record the events for a documentary. Sully is Nathan's buddy to 
 helps them go to the island in which the diary tells them to go to. Sully and Nathan find a Nazi-German 
 U-Boat, and inside lies a map telling them or pointing them to teh southern part of the island. 
 However, before they can leave the island, Sully is captured by Mercenaries led by a treasure hunter 
 by the name of Roman. Nathan and Elana escape, but Sully does not. From there, you will go to many 
 of interesting and beautiful locations which will memerize you and keep you intersted,
  
  The gameplay is similiar to games like Tomb Raider and uses a cover system similiar used in Gears 
 of War. Nathan can jump, climb, swing ang move from ledge to ledge. As the game progresses, you'll 
 have to climb elaborate ways to get to your destination which can sometimes lead to frustration 
 but sometimes it's thrilling and very much exciting to see Nathan swing from a vine to a ledge 
 in which is about to break. When goign up against enemies, one much be careful. The enemies are 
 smart, and... tough. As in, you'll sometimes wonder if they are hyped up on PCP or something. They 
 are extremely resilant, it can get extremely frusterating in a large firefight. Nathan can only 
 carry one pistol and one assualt rifle and/or shotgun. Overall, the gameplay is nothing you haven't 
 seen before. There are some elements which are exciting but the majority of the time you wonder, 
 how the hell did these enemies make it down here? Why are they here in this spot? Sometimes in 
 a close and locked room there will be an enemy and you'll wonder, how'd he get in there?
  
  The graphics are fantastic, and he cut-scenes all look great. Even though what happens during the 
 cutscenes don't seem very much important, they'll somertimes draw you in and you'll get interested 
 on whats going on. The textures are superb and the water, grass, plants all look great. However, 
 sometimes, one might experience some slow loading times in the textures in which the texture will 
 be low-resolution for a few seconds and then go high-resolution. The "popping" as it's called, 
 which is seen mostly in the Unreal Engine. The game does have some interesting graphical glitches 
 and some minor clipping which one can ignore and it's really not that big of a deal. The main character, 
 Nathan looks abslutely amazing, if he goes in water, his clothes will become wet, and the animations 
 are sometimes rather interesting, impossible as one might say, but to say the least, they're good.
 
  
  Like the graphics, the sound is just as superb. Uncharted has some spectacular sound design, the 
 jungle, the water, the vehicles, and the weapons all sound great. Well, scratch the few weapons... 
 sometimes they seem a little "weak" sounding. The AK-47 doesn't have that infamous "popping" sound 
 in which everyone knows it's a AK. But that's a small thing in which anyone can ignore. The music 
 is great, and the voice acting is superb. Nathan, himself, is quite the smartass in the game, with 
 his quirky remarks in which make the game rather amusing at times.
  
  Overall, Uncharted is a great game for the Playstation 3. I would recomment it to anyone who owns 
 a Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylegibbens
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Give the game a shot. Has outstanding production value, highly detailed graphics that never drop 
 frames, some of the best theme music since Halo, and an incredibly immersive story. I rented it 
 and beat it in less than 15 hours but i really wished i had bought it because the game was so solid 
 and the story was so gripping that i would gladly play through the game multiple times. Trust me, 
 if you're on the fence about this game, just go for it. You wont regret it, even if you just rent 
 it. This is the first gamespot score i have ever disagreed with because the game deserves to be 
 around a 9.0. Look at the user ratings, they're right on the money. This game plays like a really 
 good movie and has a twist at the end that was fairly good. Unpredictable twists are hard to accomplish 
 and the game does a great job at achieving the twist. The chemistry between the characters works 
 very well and the story is surprisingly funny at times. The game also has a very good achievement 
 based system to reward the player for finding hidden treasure throughout the game. The rewards 
 unlock bonus videos and artwork and is likely based on the Xbox 360 Achievements system. This adds 
 value to a game which is lacking a multiplayer aspect. If you took the time to read my entire review 
 you're probably on the fence about the game. Just go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reuben4boston
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  overall this game is amazing. I have not had a gaming experience this amazing since i first plugged 
 in chrono trigger. The controls are just right, and really the only problem I had with the game 
 was adjusting to the shooting mechanics. I still look in awe as the water drips off of drake. The 
 graphics in the game are lush and easily the best I have ever seen. Over the course of the first 
 couple of levels the difficulty seemed very high seeing as I had to get used to the controls. Afterwards, 
 I felt myself automatically throwing drake against a wall to gain cover and shoot around the corner. 
 Overall this game is more like a 9.9 with the only problem was the adjustment period. This period 
 only took about the first chapter. However it did bother me at first because I was used to first 
 person shooters and the over the shoulder style camera was distracting a bit. After the first chapter 
 I was used to it and it grew to be very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHomind
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out with a huge gun battle and never lets up it is extremly fun. If your into 
 shooting games, puzzle games, or adventure games you should walk to the store and buy it right 
 now. There is also a lot of platforming parts. There here and there but sometimes there is to much 
 platforming in a section. That still dosen't hold the game back. There is great charcter models 
 and animation. The action is extremly fun too. If you are looking for eye candy or a fun action 
 puzzle or adventure game look no further uncharted drake's fortune is your game. Uncharted will 
 rock your socks your shoes your shirt your face off. If your on the edge about getting it or not 
 getting it over a game like assassian's creed take my word for it you will not be disappontied 
 in the slightest if you get these game. There are unlockable charcter skins secret treasures to 
 unlock and medals you earn by doing stuff like killing one hundred people with headshots. This 
 game will be needed to be played through multiple times to unlock everything so get ready to find 
 El Dorado in Uncharted Drake's Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroHero151
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  great games come every now and then, games that last for years and never seem to dull. this game 
 achieves the first part of that theorom. uncharted is an excellent game that delivers a great punch 
 to the face and the level of detail is substantial. youll probably love the believable voice acting 
 and the gunplay throughout the game is fluid. puzzles will tie you up for a momemnt but most are 
 simple, just time consuming, but still most are well placed enough. story will captivate and satisfy.
 
  
  so after you get through that thrill ride whats left. well you could play through again on a higher 
 difficulty to unlock weopons youve already used. But most of you probably wont salivate at that 
 opportunity. but the core game is fun enough in itself and lasts it due, so i would recommend the 
 game. but it probably wont mantle itself on your game shelf forever.
  
  overall, great one nite stand. really great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logghie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  In uncharted you play with drake who is one of the last of the bloodline of francis drake. Francis 
 drake was a important person in the past who was looking for the gold of el dorado. Drake and the 
 journalist elena are finding out if the legend is real or not. The story begins when drake finds 
 something in the sea on the boot it look to be a sarcophagus but for they can find out what it 
 means they are robbed by a gang of pirates. They escape with the help of sully and there starts 
 the adventure, they go to an island were they dump elena and go to find the treasure of el dorado. 
 In the beginning its the intention to solve al kinds of puzzles. After a half hour (that's my time 
 to do it) there will finally by some action, the pirates have followed you and you have to shoot 
 you way out of it. At the end of the game you will find some very stranger beast (there a little 
 bite like zombies) . the story is that el dorado is cursed.
  Its not a golden city but a golden sarcophagus with in it a body and how ever breaths in the dust 
 turns into a zombie. The bad guys want to sell it as a virus. I won't tell the end there for you 
 must buy it!!!!! its a great game with beautiful graphics. And a tip is if you see something shine 
 pick it up it can be a treasure are a weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hailogon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune can best be described as what we all wish Tomb Raider had turned into. 
 It's a platformer/ shooter from Naughty Dog, the developers behind the Jak and Daxter series on 
 PS2 and follows the adventures of Nathan Drake, a descendant of the famous explorer Sir Francis 
 Drake, out on a mission to find the lost city of gold, El Dorado.
  
  If your thinking that this storyline seems a bit unoriginal, then you'd be exactly right. The game 
 heavily borrows its storyline from any number of movies and games, and also prominently from old 
 TV adventure shows, but this ends up as a good thing in most cases. Relying on these tried and 
 tested clich's allows Uncharted to build a certain amount of tension surrounding its plot, which, 
 whilst extensive - playing out through dozens of cutscenes throughout the game - never manages 
 to break any new ground. 
  
  The gameplay is divided roughly into two main types. There are the platforming sections, where 
 Mr. Drake will find himself jumping across caverns, running along walls, and dangling precariously 
 from ledges and there's also the shooting, which roughly equated to you sticking behind cover, 
 popping out to take shots at enemies intermittently. The platforming sections are perhaps the games 
 strongest point. They require a small amount of thinking before execution which is then an enjoyable 
 and frustration-free experience. The same however, cannot be said for the shooting.
  
  As mentioned before, the shooting relies on a cover mechanic. Pressing the circle button will attach 
 the protagonist to a surface, from which you can then either hold L1 to pop out and aim from, or 
 R1 to blind fire. The mechanic works well, but feels a little over used. Walking into any firefight 
 without using cover is a death sentence in uncharted as you can be killed with a very few number 
 of shots. The enemies however, do not suffer from the problem. Enemies near to the end of the game, 
 can happily absorb huge amounts of damage to the torso before falling, and this is made all the 
 more frustrating when enemies are hugely accurate, having the ability to hit you precisely from 
 around fifty yards away. These two elements can make the gunplay very frustrating, forcing you 
 to replay sections over and over again. Luckily however, checkpoints are generously placed, so 
 you'll never have to replay too big a portion of the game. 
  
  Visually the game is outstanding and it's clear Naughty Dog has set out to make one of if not the 
 best Playstation 3 game out there. The forest environments looks lush and full, with accurate shadows 
 that play of each other as characters walk through them. Even the water is incredible, walking 
 through it will cause your clothes to get wet, but only up to the level the water came up to. The 
 animation is outstanding, moves will blend together seamlessly and even quite complex actions, 
 such as changing stance whilst reloading causes the animation no hassles at all. The one downer 
 on the graphics is slight texture popping in certain locations, but even then it will only occur 
 after a restart, and will disappear very quickly.
  
  I is also clear that a huge amount of effort was put into the sound design. Weapons sound suitably 
 chunky, whilst the voice acting cannot be faltered. All members of the cast put in a great effort 
 to flesh out the game. The operatic music score intensifies firefights to very high levels, and 
 also have the added advantage of letting you know when all enemies have been taken out.
  
  Presentation wise, Uncharted is unparalleled, whilst its gameplay can also be a bit hit and miss. 
 Regardless, and PS3 owner needs to play this game. if only to see what the PS3 is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhonso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Here is a game that is different and unique than many we have played in the past decades. It has 
 a storyline that can be compared to Indiana Jones or Tomb Raiders with gunfights equivalent to 
 Gears of War or Call of Duty. Amongst all that contains the scenery that is so lush and luxuriant 
 throughout the game. The graphical tweaks in the game make the environment look like the reality. 
 This brilliant quality of graphics intertwined with a masterpiece storyline and game play makes 
 this a must-play game. 
  
  This isn't a game where your character is a superhuman or superhero but rather a usual human being 
 who tries his best to adapt to the situation at hand. You play as Nathan Drake, apparently a descendent 
 of Sir Francis Drake, who goes through a treacherous adventure to unravel the treasure that was 
 once discovered by his ancestor. However, upon finding this treasure he realises that the treasure 
 is far from a treasure, but rather a curse upon who opens it. And eventually finding himself in 
 a position to prevent it from leaving the island. With Nathan is his friend Sully, a man with many 
 unsuccessful deals, and his damsel in distress, Elena, who he falls in love with at the end. 
 
  
  Along with guns and rifle (M4 , AK-47, and many more) you have hand-to-hand combat, that comes 
 pretty handy if you are out of ammo, not that you usually are. The loading time is almost instantaneous; 
 between the times you die and continue, although when you start the game it does take a while. 
 
  
  So, this then in a nutshell is a game with futuristic graphic quality (making full use of the power 
 of the Cell Processor of the PS3) and astonishing game play and story. A game that must be played 
 if one owns a PS3; and if one does not then he/she would be missing out on a lot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMadHatter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune
  
  This game is amazing. No other word for it. It has a great storyline, with lots of unexpected twists 
 and turns. Along with having humour, well-detailed backgrounds, entertaining cut-scenes, it also 
 has good gameplay. I like the way on next-gen games you have to get shelter to regain health, rather 
 than find health packs, and this one is no different. I've got to say that the only main flaw I 
 found with this game was that you can only carry 2 weapons at a time, which I found quite annoying, 
 especially when you run out of ammo. Despite this, it's always good to do a few melee combos on 
 enemies, especially if your low on ammo. The one thing I really enjoyed about this game was the 
 climbing. People have been talking about Assassin's Creed having great climbing features, and although 
 I haven't played it myself, I can only imagine that the climbing on Uncharted is just as good. 
 The graphics on this game are simply incredible. Alot of the time I sat there for a few seconds 
 just admiring the views over the sea, especially on the level by the fort. Even the characters 
 have good graphics, and they look so life like it's unbelievable. Anyway, although this game is 
 quite short, it has a high replayability factor, which will help you understand the story better. 
 Also, you can replay the game to get all the bonuses, which consist of things like killing 50 people 
 with each gun, finding the treasures, killing people with melee attacks etc. I am hoping that there 
 will be a sequel, as there was an epic ending (no spoilers) , and it would be easy to expand on 
 this story. This game is madly under-rated, and has got nowhere near as much credit as it deserves. 
 As things stand, this is the best game I've played on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Just complete it, wow... felt a sense of achievement now. This game is totally superb in all aspects. 
 It tells the tale of a man named nathan, whom he thinks he's the decendent of a fortune hunter, 
 drake.
  The story begins when drake started digging out information he had on a ring passed down to him. 
 Together with a female TV show filmer, and his manager, they hunt for the treasures.
  
  Okay, during the game, you're either alone or with elaina most of the time. Ur hunt for the treasures 
 took up some pirates' attention and so, they went after the treasure, on the way trying to stop 
 you from progressing. Elaina, somewhat falls in love with drake in the end, with some romance in 
 between the game. The game's plot is great, graphics is excellent, sound format in DTS surround.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Very great plot and storyline. This game is about taking cover and shooting enemies. Of course 
 ur enemies are smart enough to do the same as well. The game takes place in all sorts of environment, 
 starting with a boat, with the rest being hidden caves or jungle. The controls are excellent, combat 
 is great but does not go to the extend of enjoying button smashing. Along the way, you get to solves 
 many puzzles also, often referring to ur little manual nathan picked up earlier.
  The AI of both ur allies, elaina/manager and the enemies are great. To add a little spoiler, u 
 also fight some undead along the way.
  There's lots of High-Definition contents as well. Including making of Uncharted and some interviews 
 with the makers, all in high-def.
  
  Graphics:
  Very imrpessive and should i say, the best i've yet seen. Of course there're some flaws as well. 
 Often, there's details pop in. Yes, details but not object. Meaning when u reach an area, the scripting 
 on the wall may then start to appear sharper. Not an annoying flaw but certainly noticeable.
  Charactor details is really good here. You'll often see drake in the same uniform, so is elaina. 
 The water effects is excellent, when drake gets wet the effect is just excellent.
  
  Sound:
  Was quite impressed and shocked actually. I actually thought only EA would include DTS. 
 Little do i know DTS is included until i played it. The sound is great, there's often surround 
 sound, like elaina talking to you at ur back. The bass is just right, not too strong like movies 
 nor too weak.
  
  Frankly speaking, i actually was going to missed out on this great one. I had the thinking single 
 player game was just worth renting but this sort of proved me wrong. It's a game in it's league 
 of it's own, probably Ratchet and clank is still comparable. The game is quite long, i believe 
 i clocked in for about 10 hours before my game ended. This game is great in all aspects and not 
 just a showoff for playstation3's capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an action-adventure game at its finest. It has the precise platforming of Tomb Raider, 
 the cover and blindfire system of Gears of War, the revolutionary camera angle and interactive 
 cutscenes of Resident Evil and the superb voice acting and cinematic features of Metal Gear Solid. 
 With this fantastic combination of all the best qualities of some of the top names in gaming Uncharted 
 is already on the path to sucess, however there is a problem about borrowing so much ideas from 
 other games; it leaves it feeling unoriginal. Yet, somehow, this games strikes you as something 
 new and unique because of its fantastic detailed environments and breathtaking graphics. Just how 
 good does Uncharted look? You will wish some of the Jungle scenes were real, thats how good it 
 looks. Maybe there have been games with the elements of Uncharted before, however ; none have looked 
 this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Anyone who says uncharted is crap is either an Xbot, someone who hates games or just simply a non 
 action/adventure type gamer. but if you do like action/adventure then this is your game to get. 
 uncharted boosts not only gameplay but graphics to a new level. Its stunning water effects makes 
 me want a drink lol. And the cutscenes make this feel like a movie like heavenly sword did but 
 more of an indiana jones type film well basically it is indiana Jones but i would way preffer this. 
 The gameplay feels so realistic one you shoot and reload you see Nathan Drake pant out of energy 
 and the close combat feels so exciting and a relief since the guard you kill is usually the guard 
 that has killed you a hundred times and you so knew he deserved that after he goes flying from 
 an upercut.
  final rating is 9.0 Brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charomid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  uncharted is easily the greatest game i have ever played. the levels and the gameplay are incredible. 
 the graphics and visuals are absolutely the best i have ever seen. no other game even comes close 
 to the stunning visuals uncharted presents. for a fairly new title that came out for the ps3 it 
 is simply amazing and nothing more can describe it. once you play the game or should i say lifelike 
 game in HD you feel like you are Nathan Drake. the environments in the game and the treasure statues 
 are so lifelike it is unbelievable. All i can say is that Uncharted is the greatest game i have 
 ever played and for that matter own. its simply the best in its class and to date. it is going 
 to be very hard to top and AAA game by any developer. Naughty Dog is going to have to work very 
 hard at producing a part 2 that lives up to the first. 
  
  
  Naughty Dog you have set an unreachable bar so far in the video game industry!
  
  Thank you 
 very much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  If the graphics don't melt your face off you shouldn't be playing games anyway. i honestly can 
 not understand how anybody could say anything looks better than this game besides crysis, but crysis 
 used the 8800 series so it cheated. let me spell it out for you, NONE OF YOUR 360 GAMES EVEN COME 
 CLOSE TO THIS!
  
  
  also, this game provided a well needed challenge, the cover system is easy to learn, aiming is 
 easy enough, but now lets throw you in the middle of 27 columbians who have infinite ammo and far 
 better weapons than you! yea its pretty sweet, a game should not get docked for being difficult, 
 it was a welcomed challenge in my book, but i didn't find it THAT challenging (i finished ninja 
 gaiden sigma on hard...) some of the fire fights, only 2 come to mind really, are pushing it a 
 LITTLE, but once you get past them you feel good and you're far better at the game than before, 
 so they need to be where they are.
  
  the story would be ordinary if it didn't throw the OMFGWTF moment at you, i can't say anymore, 
 its pretty nuts.
  
  the platforming is the best part of this game though. i agree with the review on this, there simply 
 is not anywhere near enough of it. most of the game is firefight after firefight and sometimes 
 you wish they would ask you to jump over a canyon or something, because its fun and LOOKS cool. 
 the platforming is as ridiculous as if this were a cartoony game, you jump crazy distances, barely 
 hang on, pull yourself up, swing from a rope and let go at the prime moment to barely catch a ledge 
 that you have to shimmy over on, and then aw man, more columbians! its fun to watch the platforming, 
 and its fun to do, especially the 3 or 4 "puzzles" they have in the game that you have to solve.
 
  
  i love classical music and the score was mediocre to me for a sony game, most exclusive sony games 
 always have these magnificent soundtracks that you hum for days, this one was kind of only eh, 
 still good enough to be an exclusive though. im probably just complaining because i also played 
 heavenly sword and lair and their soundtracks were the best in the world.
  
  
  if you have a ps3, you also must have uncharted. lets just say that. it is THE ps3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnnydw1970
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've bought and played so far on the PS3. The cinematic storyline draws you 
 right into the game. this kind of reminds me of playing a movie along the lines of Tomb Raider, 
 National Treasure and Indiana Jones, Which can't be a bad thing!
  
  Pros: 
  Good fighting action.
  Draw dropping graphics.
  Nice puzzles although a little on the easy 
 side.
  Great locations which add to the atmosphere.
  Nice ambient sounds and soundtrack.
  Great re-playability
  
  Cons:
  Some of the climbing and jumping seems a little too forgivable.
 
  That irritating sound effect after you die!!!
  Enemy take too many shots before they decide to die.
  
  Overall:
  Loved the game from start 
 to finish and that's even after playing it several times on all difficulties. Really hoping that 
 they bring out a sequel!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisconsinite54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 has had a rough start, but things are beginning to turn around, some great games have been 
 hitting the system. Yet it seems like the PS3 needs a big exclusive, well this is it, it may not 
 be as hyped as Halo 3, or as beloved as Mario Galaxy, but it is a showcase game for this console 
 and a game all PS3 owners should pick up.
  
  Uncharted tells the story of Nathan Drake, a descendent of Sir Francis Drake, who is on a mission 
 to discover the lost treasure of El Dorado. Nathan is sort of an every man who gets thrown into 
 a massive adventure with tons of action, danger, and romance. If this sounds like Indiana Jones 
 to you then you get it, that is what this game is trying to be and it surprisingly does a great 
 job of pulling it off. The reason being is cause each of the main characters, Drake, Elena (women 
 along to film the expedition) and Sully (con man side kick) feels fleshed out, they are instantly 
 likeable and you root for them. Each character comes alive because of the excellent voice work 
 and motion captured acting, it really is some of the best in gaming. It also includes a state of 
 the art animation system which gives Drake some of the best animation we have seen from a main 
 character. Unlike MGS there are not long drawn out cutscenes, the story is told mostly through 
 the gameplay. This game excels cause the storytelling and gameplay intertwine so well it creates 
 an unforgettable gaming experience.
  
  None of the storytelling aspects would matter if the gameplay weren't up to par, well don't worry, 
 the gameplay is excellent as well. Most of the time you will be invloved in gunfights, which plays 
 out a bit like Gears. The cover system is without a doubt one of the best, with a push of a button 
 you will get behind the nearest piece of cover, which you can move around easily. Press the aim 
 button and you will pop out to take a shot, blind fire is also possible. You can switch cover by 
 pressing the cover button while pushing toward the next desirable location and Drake will dive 
 toward it. The jump button allows you to jump over the cover with ease. You may also use height 
 to your advantage and take cover from a ledge while you hang off, just aim and you will pull up 
 a bit to shoot. Of course sometimes you may get stuck into cover in a spot you did not want to 
 but overall it works as it should and adds a whole layer to the combat.
  
  You will need cover to survive this game cause the enemies are brutal. They will come at you from 
 all sides. They will attempt to flank you or flush you out with grenades. If they hear you are 
 out of bullets they will run at you guns blazing. They are constantly behind cover, they use the 
 cover system as well as you do, you will see them do all sorts of dives and slides to get behind 
 cover. The result of all this is that the gun fights are dynamic and fun. To combat them you have 
 a whole arsenal of guns and melee combat. Most of the standard weapons you find are in this game, 
 strangely though the pistol remains one of the most useful throughout the entire game. Melee combat 
 is an afterthought in many of these style of games but not here. Drake has some simple punch combos 
 he can pull off which work great when you get up close. Some of the best moves are done in context 
 with your surrounding; for example if an enemy is next to a wall you may grab them and smash their 
 head against it. You may also sneak behind an enemy and break their neck for a nice stealth kill. 
 You will have to mix between gun fighting and fisticuffs if you want to survive. The only issue 
 with the melee is that it locks you into the combat; many times you get stuck in animation while 
 enemies get a free shot at you.
  
  The game keeps things fresh by mixing up the locations and style of enemies you meet, its almost 
 RE4 like. One moment you are in a narrow passage that you need to blast your way through, the next 
 section is a large open area with grenade launch carrying enemies or snipers. The game tries its 
 best to keep things moving and fresh, for the most part it works but I started to feel it was getting 
 repetitive around the middle. Luckily the final 2-3 hours are breathtaking so it ends on a very 
 high note. There are also a few vehicle segments, a car chase that will have you floored and a 
 jet ski segment that might not be as good as you would hope.
  
  To balance out the combat there are plenty of platforming sections, how can you have a treasure 
 hunter without life threatening jumps and perils. Platforming is handheld like PoP or SotC, lots 
 of shimming along edges and jumping from ledge to ledge. Most of the platforming you do will be 
 simple point A to point B jumps with practically no obstacles in your path. The game automatically 
 decides how far you should jump, so all you need to do is point in the direction you want to jump 
 and press X, the game does the rest. It comes off as too simple, yeah its fun and a good diversion 
 but it could have maybe had some traps or actual skill based jumping. There are a few puzzles scattered 
 throughout the game but they are of the mindless variety. You have a book which you need to look 
 at that will provide you with the answer to every puzzle, which is usually something like push 
 certain statues in a certain order. There are not many so it never gets in the way, it actually 
 helps add to the whole treasure hunting vibe. If more attention was paid to these two aspects this 
 game could have been an all time masterpiece.
  
  Quite possibly the largest negative for this game is that it is short, about 7-8 hours and you 
 will be done. I do feel it could have been longer but at least there is no down time or backtracking. 
 There are four difficulty modes in total, the crushing mode being the hardest (unlocked after you 
 beat the game once) which will give you a substantial challenge. The game also includes a reward 
 system similar to Achievements. You get points to unlock things such as color filters, flip mode, 
 and videos, for getting a certain amount of headshots or getting a certain amount of kills with 
 a weapon. On top of that there are sixty hidden treasures scattered about the game. Sadly its really 
 just sixty blinking lights, many times you will just stumble upon them, no real side quests to 
 get them. All this means that you will have plenty of reasons to play this game over and over again, 
 so as far as value goes its good enough to own.
  
  Graphically it's a showcase game for the PS3. It's a very colorful game so it stands out. Some 
 of the vistas you encounter in this game will cause you to put the controller down and just stare 
 at the screen in amazement. The sound quality is just as good. The voice acting is some of the 
 best, the gunfights will have your surround speakers working overtime. The score is movie quality 
 orchestrated work.
  
  Uncharted may not be the best game of the year or anything but in a sea of sequels this original 
 game stands out as one of the best newcomers in gaming. It's a clich but it fits, this game is 
 rollercoaster ride from beginning to end. If you have a PS3 it would be a crime to not check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssandven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Quick summary:
  The game is a cross between Pitfall, Tomb Raider and an Indian Jones movie.
  To prove how immersive 
 it is, I stayed up until 2 AM last night playing, when I had to be up at 5:30 AM for work. Wee 
 bit tired, but can't wait to get off to go play some more.
  
  My only complaint is that sometimes the camera angles are a little screwy which can cause you to 
 get shot up and die real fast. But, the story and game play more than make up for it. 
  
  I would recommend buying the game outright if you're into this genre of gaming. Lot's of puzzle 
 solving, climbing/jumping and shoot outs with some pretty decent enemy AI. Not to mention that 
 the graphics, running through HDMI on a high definition TV is SWEET! 
  
  The game sounds are pretty cool as well. Sounds a little like the background music from 'Full Metal 
 Jacket' when they were out on patrol. Loaded with lots of creepy sounds and the music is cool.
 
  
  Awesome game, lots of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsduncan7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  From beginning to end, I was completely amazed by this game. A mix of Tomb Raider and Gears of 
 War with a hero that's a mix between Indiana Jones and Johnny Knoxville. I really do put this game's 
 story mode in league with the first Halo and RE4. I really wish that it had some online multiplayer, 
 though. The story is deep with lots of twists and nice character development. The visuals are the 
 most amazing I've ever seen on a console. Beautiful environments (some jugheads will probably complain 
 about having to go through some areas twice in the game) are there from beginning to end. When 
 they look as good as they do in this game, I will even replay the game several times just to take 
 it all in. I can't wait for more in a sequel. This is definitely the kind of exclusive game that 
 the PS3 needs to become more than a Blu-Ray player. I know a lot of the gameplay elements are borrowed 
 from other games, but that's not what it's about (Look at the original Halo, ie it borrowed a lot 
 from the original Half-Life.) It's about how it's all put together, pulls you along, and compels 
 you to keep playing. Bravo, Naughty Dog! I can really see this turning into a great long franchise 
 for Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImaPirate0202
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is developed by Naughty Dog and is one of their first installments on 
 the Playstation 3. The game stars Nathan Drake, a sort of clich treasure hunter looking for the 
 lost gold of El Dorado. And what's even more clich is that his travels mostly concise of fighting 
 pirates on some island in the pacific. Now usually I would argue pirates   just about everything. 
 But I have to hand it to Nat; he pulls off the protagonist spot quite well. While I have to admit, 
 Uncharted is definitely not Naughty Dogs best work, their still off to a great start.
  
  While I'm at it, I'll start off with the most enjoyable aspect of Uncharted: the combat. To basically 
 sum up the fighting mechanics think Gears of War meets Ghost Recon. It's the standard cover system 
 that has been used in tons of other games. The combat makes it the best part of the game due fast-paced 
 action and good (could have been better) controls. There were quite a numerous times throughout 
 the game where Nat didn't seem to want to do what I was intending. But other than that, I really 
 didn't have any complaints about the overall gameplay.
  
  Now that I've knocked off the gameplay, we'll go to the second best part the game: the graphics. 
 For what seems like for just about every gamer graphics seems to be this amazingly important and 
 unmatched part of any game. Personally that doesn't really fit for me, but if you are a graphics 
 whore, Uncharted will do you just fine. I honestly don't think any other console game matches it 
 in this department. I noticed at a few points the game would have textures pop-in and the dreaded 
 'screen tearing'. But these were so minimal you'll forget them the moment they're over.
  
  If there's anything that'll keep you interested in continuing Uncharted, it would have to be: the 
 audio. The voice acting is damn near perfect and I really couldn't have asked for a better job. 
 Nat, Elena and Sully all pull off a fantastic job. I'm not sure who did the voice-overs, but hats 
 off to them. Aside from Nathan's few cheesy lines, the audio in this game really draws out the 
 character development and keeps you immersed in the game.
  
  Now that I've broken down the good parts of the game, time to hit the bad: length and replayability. 
 One of the worst things about where gaming is going is its development and budget course. Games 
 are beginning take years and years to be developed and therefore cost millions and millions of 
 dollars, thus resulting in cinema-like games that are reducing in length. And it's showed in past 
 games like Heavenly Sword and Gears of War. Make no mistake, it shows up again in Uncharted. Even 
 if you draw out the game, finding every relic, trying to complete all of the 'achievements', the 
 game will still only run at about 10 hours in length. Sure the added bonuses in the game can warrant 
 another play-through, but personally I only ran through the game once and didn't feel the need 
 to do it again.
  
  Overall Uncharted: Drake's Fortune turned out to be simply a great game. The storyline, combat, 
 graphics, and voice acting are all top-notch in this game. It makes a fantastic rent, and I even 
 recommend it as a buy. Sure the game is short on length, suffers in replayability. But if you want 
 that action-packed, cinema-game-like feel, then Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is for you.
  
  Fun-factor: 9.1
  
  Control and Gameplay: 8.8
  
  Graphics: 9.7
  
  Sound: 8.5
  
  
 Replayability: 8
  
  Overall Score: 8.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RunzWthScissorz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game! Great graphics! Good action! TOO DAMN SHORT!!! I finished this game in one day! VERY 
 disappointing! When games COST THIS much ($70) , it should take a LOT longer to complete than one 
 day! (ie. GTA: SA) Waste of money in my opinion! They should GIVE the sequel (or another installment) 
 away for free to purchasers of this game! I would have appreciated reading this kind of feedback 
 prior to purchasing, so I could have made another purchase for now, and saved buying this one when 
 the price came down. TOO SHORT for the money! I feel ripped off! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
 TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO 
 SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! TOO SHORT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lo_Rising
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune was an absolute joy to play. It is the type of game that makes you feel 
 good about why you started playing video games to begin with. The graphics are the best I have 
 seen on any nex-gen console and can rival a high end pc. The firefights are fun and can be challenging 
 in some areas of the game. This game should be played by anyone that owns a Playstation 3 because 
 Naughty Dog has clearly outdone themselves with this one. I personally can't wait to play another 
 game starring Nathan Drake, this was a great game to introduce a new character into the Sony family. 
 This game has it all platforming, shooter elements, puzzle solving and a great story. When you 
 are playing this game it can sometimes make you feel like you are playing a great adventure movie. 
 This game was easy for me to like because I am a huge Indiana Jones fan, and this is like an adventure 
 of Young Indiana Jones. I really think Gamespot dropped the ball on rating this game it is clearly 
 a Triple A title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelsv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is the action adventure game that the ps3 has been waiting for, thrills 
 twists and amazing graphics keep drawing you into the story as you unravel drakes fortune!
  
  You play Drake, a man tracking down a fortune that his discoverer anchestor chased years ago. 
 You are often accompained by TV documentorian that is out for doing this adventure a great project 
 for her show. 
  
  The game is one of the best looking games out on the market at the moment. The climbing system 
 is reminisent of Tomb Raider and Prince of Persia. When you first start playing the game you will 
 relise that it is a slow moving game looking for you to clear each fighting area and progressing. 
 The storyline gradually draws you in making you want to solve the mystery behind the treasure. 
 This game could easily become a hollywood action film. 
  
  The shooting system is great and easy to use, as is the manuvering. The array of guns is impressive, 
 as you progress more guns become available, including laser sight. 
  
  In summary a great addition to the ps3 collection but once finished on the hardest level i suggest 
 a trade in for another game, because once you know the ending it becomes abit empty! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a hard game to like at first. it really wants to be a movie. it has romancing the 
 stone all over it. the tomb raider meets gears gameplay is executed well enough, the problem is 
 that it copies it a little to well. it is a complete rip-off. the gameplay uses very minimal button 
 commands for wall climbing and jumping so it feels effortless but a tab limited. the gunplay is 
 executed almost perfectly but the enemies can take alot of hits to where its a little on the irritating 
 side when you low on ammo.
  the graphics are the best to graze a console to date. the animation and facial expressions are 
 top notch also. the animation maybe the best ive ever seen! the jungle enviroments and textures 
 shame previous console graphical powerhouse games like gears of war and kameo. it really is that 
 good.
  the sound is what you would expect. the jungle noices are immersive and really adds to the gameplay. 
 the voice acting is is only bettered by mass effect. the music is good and mocks movies about as 
 bad as the story and gameplay.
  the game is a fun 8 hours. it just isnt very original. the story isnt either. think national treasuse 
 and you pretty much have it covered. the main gripe with the game is after you beat it there is 
 nothing left to do except look for the secret items you missed. no thanks!
  still this game needs to be played. its simply the best looking game out there. and the story is 
 good enough to keep playing and see it through to the end. and since its less then 10 hours long 
 with no need to play through it again unless its to find treasure. you can probably just rent it. 
 im still giving it a 9 because the short length is the only major flaw. sure it steals from other 
 games but what game doesnt. this is my one break im giving sony. dont believe me..... look at my 
 heavenly sword review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreedomBYgaming
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Take the jungle from Lost and the plot from Indiana Jones then sprinkle the action of Tomb Raider 
 on top and you've got yourselves the PS3 exclusive called Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. The creators 
 of the famous titles Crash Bandicoot and Jak & Daxter are responsible for one of the best action-adventure 
 titles ever.
  
  
  You play as the young explorer Nathan Drake who gets stranded on an uncharted island with a journalist 
 named Elena and Sully, a fellow explorer and friend of Nate. The Three are looking for the lost 
 treachure of El Dorado
  and Nathan is trying to find proof that he is the heir of the English adventurer Francis Drake. 
 Nate and Elena find a chest at the bottom of the ocean containing a diary, wich is the first clue 
 to where the treachure is located. Elena is left behind by the other two as they set off to explore 
 the wreckage of a u-boat in the middle of the jungle but Drake and Sully are soon to discover that 
 they are not the only ones chasing El Dorado.
  
  
  The game contains both intense gunfire and a couple of puzzles to solve and no matter what you 
 might find yourself doing, you will enjoy yourself troughout the entire time your playing this 
 game. The controlls are just like you would want them to be and you get the hang of it quickly.
 
  
  
  The graphics in Uncharted are simply mindblowing, for example, if you jump inte the water and then 
 jump back out again you will notice that drakes clothes are soaked, also, plants will sway as you 
 walk next to them.
  As for the sound of the game, the producers did a stunning job. The music is very well-synced with 
 the lush jungle environments and explosive firefights and there are som pretty cool sound effects 
 as well in terms of the punching sounds when drake is kicking someones ass and the intense ringing 
 sound when a bomb explodes right next to you. Since the cutsceens is motion-capture based and they 
 recorded the voices at the same time as they acted out the characters movements, the cutscenes 
 feel very realistic.
  
  
  There's not much more to say about Uncharted: Drake's Fortune than; If you dont buy it then you 
 are missing out on an incredible gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed765
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  uncharted is like taking every good game ever made and throwing it in a blender ya know add a little 
 of gears of war with some ratchet and clank and a little of tomb raider and national treasure with 
 out nicolas cage and bingo you go uncharted! you play as a guy in search of a treasure with some 
 unexected turns and some funny diologe you got a game that'll quench you ps3 game hunt search this 
 game definattly show off some of the better things that a ps3 can do with out any to no problem 
 at all and in the end this game is a replay after replay good fun 
  i mean its not like it hasnt all been done befor but the great thing about this game is that it 
 takes alot of what is good a plops it into this game i mean yeh that sounds bad but hey its better 
 than a wii i mean when your palying you'll see what i mean this game is one of the hardest challenging 
 games out there and leaves you feeling the difficulty the moment you switch it to a harder one 
 but you'll just have to play it to find out! 
  i give uncharted 9 screaming zombie things in a cave out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuinode
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a fun and exciting game filled with action and wonderful graphics. The game isn't 
 particularly long you can probably beat it in about two days, but if your looking for an exciting 
 and challenging game, this is the one for you!
  
  The graphics are Wonderful and vivid. The plants and trees fill the game with incredible color. 
 The character models look nice and polished, and with some great explosion effects thrown in, this 
 game is incredibly appealing.
  
  The sound effects are solid with great voice acting and wonderful lip synching.
  
  The gameplay 
 is fast and intense with great battles and some memorable shoot outs. The climbing aspect is fun 
 and satisfying with the exception of some off balance and occasionally frustrating parts that are 
 long, where if you fall you have to start back at the begining of the obstacle... Another great 
 addition is the treasure searching where there are hidden treasures you can find and collect which 
 will then unlock rewards, which I will explain in a moment. Also I have to note that I love the 
 ragdoll effects on both you and your enemies, makes for a satisfying death even if it makes you 
 mad.
  
  The story is a fine point of this game with awsome locations. The story starts off as you and a 
 reporter lady are going in search of your ancestors treasure on an island, but before you get there 
 some (modern day) pirates attack your boat. You end up getting a plane that your using to fly over 
 the island when you are shot down and crash, and you can't find the girl anywhere. That is when 
 you go in search of her and the treasure, and thus the game begins... The story is intriguing and 
 well put together with some unexpected twists leading up to a tough but beatable final boss.
  
  The replayability comes from the reward system. You get points by doing things like finding 
 a certain amount of treasures or killing a number of enemies with a certain gun. Whats great is 
 that when you get enough points you unlock rewards such as making of videos and cheats like infinte 
 ammo and slow motion, also you can get new character models for drake such as pirate drake or donut 
 drake (lol) . Anyway you have to go through the game several times in order to unlock all the extra 
 little goodies!
  
  Also saving is no issue with this game as it auto saves like every minute! You won't have to worry 
 about forgeting to save and losing progress. :)
  
  In the end Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a well rounded game with a great story and some killer 
 action, despite the small issues with the jumping and hanging experience. This game is definitely 
 worth checking out if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a fantastic adventure game in its own right, blending platforming and action with 
 strong characters and an interesting storyline. But it's also a refreshing change of pace from 
 the dark brooding sci-fi / pseudo-sci-fi first-person shooters that's dominating the console action 
 market the last few years.
  
  Environments are a blast to explore -- lush, detailed and filled with realistic lighting and water 
 effects. But levels are far from open-ended. You'll never stray far from where you're supposed 
 to go which help keeps the game focused but also serves as a constant reminder you're playing a 
 platformer, not truly exploring the jungle.
  
  Uncharted also does a great job balancing action sequences with platforming and puzzles. It starts 
 with simple ledge jumping and climbing, but gets into more abstract puzzles later in the game as 
 you're negotating how to get through ruined, collapsing buildings and dungeons. Gunplay is decent, 
 but aiming can be a pain with the PS3 controller and the endless stream of pirates can get a little 
 repetitive. Fights can also take a while to complete b/c the AI is pretty decent at using cover 
 and also takes a lot of damage to put down. Getting a burst of submachine gun fire apparently isn't 
 enough to bring down these guys, so you'll be pumping lots of lead into these champs.
  
  Uncharted also deserves props for how well-written the dialogue is. Granted, some might find it 
 too cheesy or similar to stuff you see on TV sitcoms, the fact that the dialogue generally feels 
 like a real TV show or movie automatically puts it leaps and bounds beyond the stilted tripe you 
 typically see in video games.
  
  Uncharted is easily recommendable to anyone with a PS3. While it's not perfect, it's a worthwhile 
 adventure to dive into and one of the few $60 console games where you definitely get your money's 
 worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soren008
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a jungle set game which you play as Drake
  Nathan Drake is your average guy with a quiff who likes to say "nice" everytime you pick up a gun
 
  
  This game is said to destroy the barrier between video game & film, which it does. Only a really 
 awful film. 
  I hope this isnt the direction video games are making, because now games that should be fun now 
 drag or bludgeon themselves with relentlessly awful scripts.
  
  Because it views itself as a film the character development and their relationships are also highlighted 
 as a driving factor in the game.
  Nathan would have been more interesting if he didnt speak at all like that guy in GTA3, every time 
 he opens his mouth it spoils the stunning atmosphere the game has created.
  
  The gameplay is solid and graphics are stunning, but the characters are dull and the plot predictable.
 
  This game would have been far greater if you played as the spanish or english dude, who I sympathize 
 dearly.
  Every second I wanted drake to die, and if that make me evil so be it.
  Worth a rental, it has its moments .............
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  You play as Nathan Drake, a descendant of the famed explorer, as you hunt for the lost Treasure 
 of El Dorado hidden by Sir Francis Drake. Graphically, the game is pure eye candy. Uncharted is 
 one of the best looking games out there for PS3. The graphical style is a colorful take on real 
 life. The textures, lighting and atmospheric effects are added to rich colors. The PS3 really brings 
 the lush jungle scenery to life. Even the characters themselves seem so life-like and all this 
 factors really bring Drake's Fortune to life. The gameplay in Uncharted is a kind of an exploration 
 plus adventure game mixed with third person shooter action. The controls are simple and easy to 
 use, and enemy targeting is also simple with the left trigger. Blind firing is also a feature that 
 came in handy more than once and the shotgun was quite effective. The mix of shooting and exploring 
 works did really keep me on my toes, and I found the 3D gameplay of climbing and shooting a welcome 
 adjustment from the typical old shooters. A sense of depth and spatial awareness also seems to 
 have been accomplished very well, with camera angles used in combination with very realistic lighting 
 and shadows effects.
  Uncharted is one of those games that's definitely greater on the PS3. The platforming, shooting 
 and story aspects of it are something we normally don't get to see in other games. The fusion of 
 all this elements creates an adventure that is unique and gripping. I would recommend this to any 
 PS3 owner as part of their PS3 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  Holy awesome.
  
  Okay. I should preface this review with: I don't care much for single-player linear games without 
 online multiplayer options or gobs of customizing available. But Uncharted gets my vote.
  
  The array of animations for the main character is stunning and just as impressive as the hype said 
 it was. But then there are things about the game that are just too fabulous to not speak about. 
 
  
  How long have you been playing games with water in them? How often have you fallen into a pond 
 stream or lake in them? How often did you emerge looking wet?
  
  Not only do your clothes darken, but it gets all reflective and looks 'stuck' to your body as you 
 move and, eventually, dry off. Light sourcing is amazing... the game just looks like a movie. It 
 plays like a movie. It sounds like a movie.
  
  My only gripe is that, as with most action-adventure games of this nature... once you get used 
 to what kinds of ledges you can grab onto, and what your jump distances are... even during 'travel 
 puzzle' moments, you're going to breeze through them. 
  
  Gunfights can grow hectic very quickly if you jog out into the wrong spot.
  
  There are so 
 many unlockables...
  
  And once you've beaten it and gotten a few rewards, the game lets you just... play with them. Without 
 penalty.
  
  Slo-Mo. Infinite ammo. Different character models... play with 'em all!
  
  Truly enjoyable. 
  
  Again, I'm a big fan of online multiplayer, but as far as single-player 
 offline games go, this is one of the best, I think.
  
  But then... I do Like Devil May Cry 4... But that's a different kind of game.
  
  For the cinematic 
 experience, voice acting, graphics, animation and having a strong supporting female character without 
 DDs, a 2 inch waist, voice like a hooker, and the urge to sit/stand/walk/or otherwise pose like 
 a centerfold every 20 seconds...
  
  I give it a 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts about uncharted at first. I thought it would just be a indiana jones rip off. But 
 the game quickly developes into much more then that and delves into a deep storyline with few plot 
 twists. The gameplay alone is quiet impressive with a good cover mechanic and explosive items to 
 assist in demolishing you opponents. The storyline starts out pretty slow and a bit dull but picks 
 up after about an hour or two of gameplay. Discovering more secrets and hunting for treasure through 
 out the game adds a few more goals for players to achieve. Given the rewards for certain type of 
 kills and a certain amount of kills with certain weapons to unlock fun and sometimes weird prizes. 
 The next gen filter (unlockable) is rather amusing but sometimes makes the game difficult to play. 
 Among many other play modes a slight changes you can add into the game gives it a much higher replay 
 value then some ps3 titles. I would recommend this as a must play or even a must buy for any ps3 
 owner and enjoys being able to count their headshots and see just how good they think they are. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hishkarnib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is just WOW !!
  
  Visuals: 10
  
  stunning. I'm telling you, your watching a movie and playing a game at the same time, this game 
 deserves a HD tv. From clothes to environments, this game has it all. And water, boy oh boy the 
 water in this game looks far better than any other. When you fall in it, you actually get wet.
 
  
  Sound: 10
  
  amazing. From the moment you start up the game, the music is epic and gives you that treasure hunting 
 feel. Words can't describe it, go out and play it yourself. Gunshots sound great too, and Drake 
 slips out cool, humorous comments here and there.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Gameplay is fun and addictive. Gunfights are great, but get a little repetitive and out of hand 
 sometimes, thats why i marked it down to 9. Don't get me wrong, its a blast, just sometimes you 
 wanna see more cut scenes and less action if you know what i mean.
  
  Lasting appeal:
  
  Buy this game. It has it all and its worth your time and money !!
  
  You'll finish normal 
 in about 10 hours, but test crushing if you dare. This game has a lot of replay value and cool 
 unlockables, not to mention hidden treasures that will definitely have you playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikkustrife
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I think this game deserves a 9.7, but since Gamespot's scores only work in intervals of .5, I gave 
 it a 10. It deserves that score, 9.5 would be too low.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an action adventure, that delivers a great experience in all categories. 
 Technically this game is unparalleled on consoles. Take this with a grain of salt, since it is 
 the only game this gen I have played , so my opinion is based on viewing videos or playing demos 
 of other games. The character animations, environment effects, and sound are all top notch. Nathan 
 has many different animations, his body positions itself accordingly for every situation. If he 
 is on a slope, his body will position itself as expected for a real person. He looks wet when he 
 comes out of the water, and his clothes dry off as time goes by. The water and leaf effects are 
 stunning as well, they move realistically when Nathan swims or walks through them. The cutscenes 
 are really well done, the characters look and behave realistically, and Nathan has something to 
 say for the different actions he does, and mutters to himself during gameplay. The voice acting 
 is pretty much perfect, the characters are all believable. The gunshot and grenade sounds are all 
 well done.
  
  The story, while not pushing any boundaries, is really good, and kept me interested until the end. 
 I enjoy that action games seem to be focusing on story and characters now, it enhances the gameplay 
 when I care about the characters. It reminded me of a modern Indiana Jones story. The game is like 
 a good action movie, it's short, but enjoyable the entire time, and worth the money. The story 
 is mostly believable, except for around 3/4 in the game where a new enemy appears, and how 3 people 
 can take down hundreds of pirates. For an action game, I am quite impressed with the characters, 
 they have in-depth personalities, and are all interesting.
  
  Now the gameplay, which is most important, impressed me a lot. I don't like shooters, so I was 
 not sure that I would enjoy this game. I was not disappointed, it was fun the whole way through, 
 and even though I thought the game had too much shooting near the end, and should have had more 
 platforming to divide up the shooting bits, it didn't take away from my enjoyment of the game. 
 Another flaw was that the enemies had repetitive designs, but that didn't affect my enjoyment either. 
 A new enemy was added close to the end of the game that changed how the game played for a few chapters, 
 so it never felt repetitive. I had such a great time playing this game, that I played through it 
 twice, and am now playing through it a third time.
  
  I don't understand why some people compare this game to Tomb Raider, it is better than any Tomb 
 Raider game. Just because a game takes place in the jungle and in ruins, does not make it a Tomb 
 Raider clone. Uncharted does not push the envelope creatively, it takes ideas from other games 
 or movies, and puts them all together in one game, while adding some of Naughty Dog's style. It 
 works really well. The cover system was taking from other games, I heard people say it is similar 
 to Gears of War and Resident Evil 4, but I didn't play those games, the platforming reminds me 
 of Shadow of the Colossus, and the story and setting is like Indiana Jones.
  
  Things I would like to see in the sequel would be the platforming spaced more evenly in the game, 
 to break up the shooting, multi-player co-op, so Elena, Sully, or a new character could be controlled 
 by another player, I'd like more enemy variety. Also more parts like in chapter 3 where the ruins 
 around Nathan were falling apart and Nathan, controlled by the player, had to run to safety, that 
 part was fun. A different setting would be nice too, maybe where there is snow, or underwater, 
 maybe because Nathan and Elena are looking for Atlantis lol.
  
  I'd recommend this game to anybody, it is a great experience ,and does have lots of replay value 
 with plenty of unlockables and hidden treasures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Unchartered Drake's Fortune is truly one the best looking games to date. Im not afraid to say the 
 following which is truly an incredible feat - "This game looks as good as Crysis, if not better." 
 Thats saying something.
  
  The question is, does the game live up to just that? Something ranked in looks to Crysis and is 
 just as good in the gameplay? Well, lets find out.
  
  The game is seriously one of the most cinematic games Ive ever played. Its like watching a very 
 colorful and detailed Indiana Jones flick. The biggest flaw of that is, well, Indiana Jones movies 
 were more thought out. But, other then that, I dont think Ive played a game that has made me laugh 
 so many times with cutscenes.
  
  The characters are played out and acted exactly like a movie with actresses and actors. It's amazing 
 how life like and charismatic they make the people in Uncharted. Each character is amazing played 
 out well, the voice acting superb beyond belief. My biggest surprise of all is that the same people 
 that voiced the characters are the same as the voice actors. Which is says something right there.
 
  
  As for the gameplay though, I cant exactly pin point where I feel with it. It can be incredibly 
 fun but at drop of a hat - it can feel extremely repetitive and boring. Its also slightly racist 
 in a way but lets not go there.
  
  The sound is really good too. True 5.1 surround sound is superb in this game. 7.1 I wouldnt know 
 as I do not have it but Im sure its superb too. Voices come crystal clear in this game including 
 sound effects that feel spot on.
  
  Graphics are the biggest thing going for Unchartered. In my opinion, if a game deals with alot 
 of water - make the water look great if not amazing. Crysis had alot of water being that it deals 
 with a tropical island too but amazing - Unchartered trumps Crysis water effects and looks by MILES. 
 Seriously, when Drake goes into water, his shirt gets soaked. If he partly goes in water, his shirt 
 gets partly soaked. Not to mention when you swim or drive a water ski through the water, it looks 
 so real with all the ripples and splashing. Crysis did not have rippling water or any real splashing.
 
  
  Colors and vegitation is where Uncharted packs a punch in too. The tropical island is so... REAL 
 and SURREAL - its amazing how they managed to pull it off. I cant tell you how awsome it looks, 
 you truly have to play it.
  
  Animation in this game again trumps Crysis as Drake and enemies look extrodinarily life-like. Its 
 as if you are controlling a real person. He isn't perfect - jumps can land fine while others are 
 unballanced, is like an every-day guy but with a hilarious humor, and is always at the wrong place 
 at the wrong time. When you see Drake breathing in and out, it seriously looks like a real person.
 
  
  While every game has it's flaws, Unchartered certainly is flawed in the whole gameplay. With that 
 said, I believe the game should become a full length animated movie because it looks amazing and 
 is a cincematical game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insane00
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Much has been said about Uncharted since its release last winter. After being reviewed by GS ps3 
 owners had a veritable uproar concerning the game and it's 8.0 score. I even decided to voice in 
 with a blog post addressing the review and comparing it to the review for Assassin's Creed. However, 
 I have refrained from giving a full review of the game until I had experienced and appreciated 
 the game in full, which now I have.
  
  Uncharted has been most commonly called 'Dude Raider' due to its similarities with tomb raider 
 and the overall treasure hunting genre of games. People have criticized it for a lack of originality, 
 having an overdone game premise, and seemingly taking so much of its inspiration from other 'Archaeology' 
 or treasure hunting based games. However, as I see it this could not be further from the truth. 
 In the game you take on the role of Nathan Drake, a scruffy, smart aleck treasure hunter of sorts 
 that is chasing down the lost legacy of Capt. Drake, the famed English Buccaneer. However, right 
 from the beginning the game takes on a tone that varies quite remarkably from other games it is 
 accused of 'stealing' from. While Drake is indeed searching for a lost treasure, the search is 
 not simply an attempt to find a thing whose details have been dropped into our protagonist's lap, 
 nor is it an attempt to wrest the treasure from the 'bad guys' a la Indiana Jones. Instead, Nathan, 
 a long lost descendant of the famed pirate is trying to fulfill the dead captain's legacy by completing 
 the quest he started on so many years ago. The adventure takes many twists and turns, involving 
 the likes of Elena, a feisty reporter looking for a big scoop, and Sully, a down and out treasure 
 hunter with a bounty on his head. Along the path Nathan and his friends face off against modern 
 day pirates, a mean spirited bad guy that reminds one of the smooth but brutal Belloq from Raiders 
 of the Lost Ark. What is most important about the plot however, without giving much away, is that 
 this story isn't about how our main character and his friends find the treasure, as is the case 
 with every sing Indiana Jones or Tomb Raider story we have experienced. Instead the story is about 
 Nathan finding himself and how his legacy with his aforementioned ancestor gives meaning to his 
 and his friends' lives' despite the fact that the treasure seems to always be just out of reach.
 
  
  Of course the story is but one of the wonderful parts of Uncharted. Enough has been said about 
 the graphics that much of an explanation here would be superfluous. It is important to note however 
 that the game is absolutely beautiful. The visual technology is perfectly equipped and used with 
 no frame rate issues, screen tearing, or improperly implemented technical gimmicks. For what Naughty 
 Dog wanted this game to look like, it was done with the quality I at least have come to expect 
 from them. And of course as the game is played the visuals are a constant treat. From the water, 
 to the facial expressions, to the creation of shadows and lighting as Nathan shines his flashlight 
 along dark passages, there is always some little detail to make you go, 'cool.'
  
  The voice acting and music are also spot on. The soundtrack adds to the atmosphere that is already 
 beautifully realized with the art design and graphics. The orchestration is well put together, 
 rising and falling with the action occurring in the game. As with so many other games the music's 
 tension increases as the player gets involved in a fire fight, then dies down to provide ambiance 
 once the player returns to his wanderings around the game world. But the voice acting definitely 
 completes the sound. It is very well done with wonderful voice syncing and a dialogue that is not 
 only spectacularly well written, it provides humor and commentary to match the game. While this 
 is nothing unusual in a well developed game, what made the acting stand out for me were the comments 
 and bits of dialogue that Nathan and his supporting cast would throw out as the game is being played. 
 While trekking through a dark underground passage Nathan talks to himself about previous actions 
 of the other characters, even making fun of them, or as he is taking targets out successfully with 
 a sniper rifle, he may comment, 'I love this gun.' wonderfully reflecting the thoughts of the player 
 as he transverses the game world.
  
  The game play is also well done, though I would have preferred the controls to have been a little 
 tighter. I found myself running off ledges while forcefully depressing the jump button, or having 
 Nathan do a wimpy jump that doesn't quite make the gap, though there seems to be not explanation 
 for the failure of performance. Yet the platforming certainly was not what GS described as easy, 
 after I spent 30 minutes just trying to get through one jump, hang, shuffle section of the game. 
 I had a nice balance, for my tastes. The gunplay however was beautifully done with the over the 
 shoulder view, a nice variety of weapons, and smart enough AI to present a challenge (unlike games 
 like UTIII) . I found myself having to alter the way I approached different situations, moving to 
 make sure I wasn't flanked, and using the different weapons to accomplish goals through each section.
 
  
  Overall the game is hands down the best ps3 exclusive so far, IMO. It provides humor, gorgeous 
 graphics, fun gameplay with only minimal failings, and certainly an all around quality experience. 
 The presence of unlockable extras adds some replay value, especially when one can go back and use 
 the guns that seem less common throughout the game and hone their skills in hand to hand combat. 
 While it only takes 10-20 hours to complete depending on your skill, it is well worth experiencing 
 no matter what gaming genres you prefer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randy_Savage
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game that has that "you feel like you're playing a movie" aspect to it. The 
 graphics are gorgeous but we all know great graphics aren't the only thing that make a game.
  
  You play as Nathan Drake who is basically a treasure hunter. Like Lara Croft, he is on the 
 trail of an ancient treasure and has to run, jump, climb and solve some puzzles to get there. There's 
 also an Indiana Jones feel to Drake. He must constantly battle humans in gunfights on land and 
 water and also has some comic relief ala Harrison Ford. 
  
  The story starts out just like you would think but near the end there are some twists that you 
 won't see coming. I won't spoil it but it definitely is pretty cool. The story ends predictably 
 but that's not a bad thing. The whole game feels like a summer blockbuster movie and you leave 
 thinking "that was great!"
  
  That being said, Uncharted is not without a couple of flaws. It is rather short, but don't let 
 that discourage you from buying it. You will want to go through it again and again to collect all 
 the hidden treasures and the story does hold up after going through more than once. The main thing 
 I did not like was that when you fight the bad guys, sometimes they just keep coming and coming 
 and it seems like it will never end. There needs to be a little variety but other than that there's 
 not really too much to not like about the game.
  
  Overall, Uncharted is a great game with top notch grapics and wonderful storytelling. You'll have 
 a blast playing it again and again. It is challenging, but not Ninja Gaiden Sigma frustrating. 
 Fighting the bad guys does get a little redundant but other than that it is more fun than you've 
 had in a long time on a single player game. Definitley deserved better than an 8.0 from GS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleJ823
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drake's Fortune is quite the visual masterpiece for the PS3 console. The stunning graphics 
 and the smooth transitions make it the best I have ever played. The cinematic sequences throughout 
 the game seem like they are coming from an actual movie. This was a great job done by Naughty Dog 
 Studios and I think it was a perfect fit for the capabilities of the PS3. I also think that the 
 storyline was outstanding. I couldn't wait to get to the next juncture of the game to see what 
 happens next to Drake in his quest throughout the game.
  
  The gameplay was top-notch, as well. It was a fast-paced action game that kept me to the edge of 
 my seat for most of the time. I was tense, especially at the end with the mutants, waiting for 
 enemies to jump out and attack me. The puzzles in the game were also, well placed and challenging. 
 There were some parts that actually took me a couple minutes of running around in circles to figure 
 out. Another good aspect of this game although challenging, it was not overly difficult to the 
 point where I was dying every 5 seconds. 
  
  However like all games, there are a few minor changes I would make. For one while playing the game 
 there were a couple moments that it seemed to be a glitch in the game that made it difficult to 
 get by. I remember one exact moment when running back and forth on a vine to make a jump. At this 
 place in the game I died about 10 times doing what was needed in order to complete the jump (I 
 even saw it on X-Play Drake dying at that exact moment too) . Magically after a good number of attempts 
 I just all of a sudden made the jump. I was on the verge of throwing my controller I was so frustrated 
 at that part. Besides that there were no other major problems that I came across at. Another small 
 complaint is that the game does not take long to beat. A little longer 
  
  Overall this game is a must play for PS3. The graphics, gameplay, and story are just too good not 
 to play it. Naughty Dog outdid themselves with this game. And a part of me is hoping for a sequel 
 because of how good it truly was. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomBeast
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog has produced some of the most amazing single player games ever, and continue to do 
 so with Uncharted: Drake's Fortune.
  
  This game is a true technical masterpiece in every respect. The game-play may be slightly repetitive 
 at times, though that can be easily forgiven with the wide range of locales you will explore, the 
 intensity of the action during battle and a storyline that sucks you in and never fails to thrill.
 
  
  To call this game a masterpiece would be an understatement. The graphics are vivid and sharp, creating 
 a new standard for others to follow, complete with the greatest lighting and shadow effects of 
 any PS3 game so far. 
  
  This is easily the greatest PS3 game since Resistance, and is a game that needs to be experienced 
 by every owner of Sony's shiny console. I can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grognard
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is the best PS3 game I have had the pleasure of playing, to date, and one which my wife 
 and 14 year old son enjoy watching me play. While the game has plenty of shooting and modest gore 
 there is nothing you won't see on primetime television. The level design can be faulted for being 
 linear, but I believe this was necessary to allow the rollicking story to be told effectively. 
 The production values are among the best you'll find with gorgeous graphics set in ruins on a tropical 
 island, excellent 5.1 audio (ambient sounds are the most impressive) , solid voice acting (with 
 decent dialogue - a rarity in gaming) and some of the best character animation in the industry.
 
  
  The controls are a cross between Gears of War (without the chainsaws!) , Prince of Persia and Tomb 
 Raider. While primarily focusing on gunplay, this is interspersed with fisticuffs, puzzles (platform 
 style jumping for the most part - nothing too taxing) and "easter egg" style artifact searching. 
 The controls follow the standard conventions set by other games of this style so experienced gamers 
 can jump right in.
  
  The A/I is better than average and will often try to flank you if you stay in one place too much 
 or force you out with grenades eventually, rewarding the use of cover and jumping from one spot 
 to another. I did find the aiming controls a bit "floaty" and the amount of damage opponents could 
 take was ridiculous, but I assume this was done to balance the difficulty of the game.
  
  The game is of average length by today's big budget standards (8-10 hours) , but includes plenty 
 of extra's ("making of" videos, art assets, watching cutscenes again) and you can replay any level 
 you've previously unlocked. I highly recommend this game to any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clominon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Awesome game! before I could finished it I heared they are making a second one...!... loved the 
 whole thing... but... Yes there is a but, there is always a but!... the game was just to short... 
 we'll get to that but for now let me tell you how awesome the game was. 
  Sooo Naughty Dog... how are you today? Feeling good? Doing good? Hope so! I loved the whole Jak 
 & Daxter series! Big round of applause for that!... is there any new one comming? I wasn't really 
 surprised when I played Uncharted because I knew this game would Rock! So I bought the game plus 
 3 other games I will tell you about those later! So I bought the game when I was visiting my aunty 
 in LA. Lovely place by the way. anyways! I bought the game in US for like $59.99... Why am I telling 
 you this? Cause I live in Holland... (little country next to Germany in Europe) And here same game 
 costs 70 something euros! Now if you think that 1 = $1.4635 to be exact!.. That's like 102.44 
 dollars! (Don't worry I used a calculator! I'm not a boy genius) .. So I mean why do we euro guys 
 have to pay so much more for the same exact game?! Whose fault is that? Sony or naughty dog? I 
 have no idea but anyways the game! 
  
  Game start with Drake finding his ancestors coffin and in that coffin you would expect a rotting 
 corps or something but no! (surprise surprise!) there was a treasure map! (really?!) so like any 
 other good treasure hunter our boy drake starts his journey to find the treasure (el dorado by 
 the way) ... and like always when there is treasure there are bad guys who want to steal it from 
 you. And here begins the game/story... Drake has to find this mysterious treasure by solving puzzles 
 and killing bad guys (which they all look alike) but don't worry our hero is not all on his own 
 he has his old sidekick sully and a hot blond reporter (forgot her name) to help him out. On some 
 points in the story/game I thought that the hot blond is so going to double cross me cause it just 
 looked so suspicious. But nope... no weird twist in there!... and there was a point that I thought 
 oke the old sidekick dude is so working for the bad guys! But nope.. No freaky twist there either!... 
 one thing I found weird was.. Every time I solved a puzzle and like came into a whole new/secret/no 
 one suppose to be there place... I see that those bad guys are one step ahead of me. Now come on 
 ... I was the genius treasure hunter dude! they should follow me! so the game should have been 
 called 'Unchared: Drake's Misfortune'
  
  Graphics
  The graphics were AWESOME! Like A. W. E. S. O. M.-O That's like seriously next gen ... could be 
 better there were some stuff that could have been better but come on people stop being so negative! 
 The whole colors and lighting and stuff were really good!... I couldn't have done it any better. 
 or do it at all
  
  Camera 
  Camera work could have been somewhat better. It was good but at some points I was getting shot 
 at and the only thing I could see is my own head (in the game not really my own head) . So I hope 
 they fix that in the next one. 
  
  Weapons 
  There weren't allot of weapons to choose from but oke I can see that.. You're middle of nowhere 
 and weapons are limited... but.. You know... but! 
  
  So a little bit of spoiler if you haven't played the game yet... don't read man! For the love of 
 Game Gods stop reading! 
  did you stop reading? 
  
  so when you get into that under ground/weird/ancient looking place ... your enemies change... well 
 not exactly ... they just multiply... so not only you have to kick some guerilla rebellion looking 
 treasure hunters ass (can I say ass? I don't know the whole cencorship thing works here) ... and 
 now you have to kick some alien looking mutants too! What!!? Alien looking mutants you say? Yes 
 they kind of look like Resistance fall of man (also a great game by the way) aliens... aliens in 
 treasure hunting? What kind of game is this now? Don't worry the story will explain the whole thing. 
 Okay so it turns out that the treasure they were looking for is cursed and not like cursed but 
 like laterally cursed!!!... So there is this cloud looking dust in this thing that if you breathe 
 it you turn into Resistance looking aliens... what? Where did that cloud come from? I don't know... 
 you don't know and probably guys at naughty dog don't know!... the whole cursed dust thing doesn't 
 get explained so we don't know.. Maybe in the sequel! Let's hope in the sequel. Anyways now our 
 hero Drake knows how evil/dangerous this treasure really is and now he decides to stop the guerilla 
 rebellious looking hunters from taking the treasure into the public (our hero is such a brave guy!) . 
 And so he does! The End... 
  if you want to know how he does it just play the game. :D 
  
  Anyways overall a great game and you really wan to play this one. I personally had awesomo 
 time playing this game all 10 hours of it! If you're going to buy this don't buy it in Europe! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoyGar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is not doing something a game has not done before but it packs everything 
 that makes a game awesome. You play as Drake, a guy that is out for a treasure but finds a hard 
 time to deal with guys that is also out for this treasure. You will often run around with some 
 TV chick that is out for doing this adventure a great project for her show. The game is the best 
 looking game on the market. It is even better looking then Call of duty 4 and Gears of war. The 
 game is kind of like a mix of Gears of war, Tomb rider, Prince of persia and Resident evil. The 
 cover system is from Gears of war. The shooting in the game will remind you of an improved Gears 
 of war cover system and a Resident evil type of third person shooter. The climbing is from Tomb 
 rider and Prince of persia. When you first pick up the controller you will find that this game 
 is pretty slow. It is not a non stopping action game, it is a movie like action adventure game. 
 And it will take a while before you will feel the action going on. This game is the closest game 
 to a Hollywood action movie. Sometimes the shooting in the game can be frustrating. Sometimes you 
 will find that all bad guys is coming from all sides. And at the end of the game the bad guys is 
 using lacer weapons that can be very annoying when you have numbers of bad guys to take out. The 
 game is longer that the average ps3 games out there. But it would have been nice if it was some 
 online or multiplayer in the game. Uncharted Drakes Fortune is one of the best games of all time. 
 And it can easily be standing next to games like Gears of war and Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_mgs2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Uncharted drakes fortune is properly the best exclusive PS3 exclusive game yet. You are Nate Drake 
 a modern day treasure hunter and are trying to hunt down the treasure of El Dorado. You start by 
 finding Sir francis drake's coffin and find his diary. You end up on an island and your search 
 starts there....
  
  Uncharted story is great as you progress through the game constant twists in the story keep you 
 wanting for more. Is the treasure all that it seems.... The story is told by colourful cut scenes 
 which work well and have great voice acting. 
  
  Graphics - WOW. This game looks amazing. the jungles you are in look real with real colours, trees, 
 leaves ground, sky there is even one bit where you see a sunset and I have never seen so good graphics 
 on any game. 10/10 for graphics. The people are well textured and all look different from each 
 other. A thing what did amaze me was when Nate goes in water he actually gets wet and you can clearly 
 see it.
  
  Sound is great. Firstly the voice acting is good even if your enjoying it from cut scenes or just 
 when wondering around. Another I loved in this game is the ramdom comments Nate makes during his 
 adventure like 'What more, where do they keep coming from??' and 'Woah' and 'you have got to be 
 kidding me' just things like that add to a game a great deal. You can hear all the usual jungle 
 sounds and footsteps. The guns also sound good but could have been better.
  
  Gameplay. The gameplay is awsome and one of the best I have ever seen. Two main parts of it are 
 puzzling and combat. Firstly puzzling. Way better then anything you have seen in tomb raider or 
 anything like that. You can climb, jump and hand from a lot of objects and you have to find new 
 ways round to reach different areas. secondly combat. The combat in uncharted is very unique. HUD 
 is kept to a minemum with no health bar or rader which i guess is good and bad, however it works 
 well. You can use almost anything as cover and shoot out at all the mercs after you. The AI is 
 actually really good with them throwing grenades and flanking you if you stay in one area for too 
 long.
  
  Uncharted is a game with great reply value. Once you complete it there are a whole bunch of reasons 
 to play through it again. You may want to play it through again on a higher difficultly or to do 
 things you didn't do the first time round. The reason i played it through agian and again is to 
 get/unlock everything. There are 60 treasures to collect and medals and rewards to unlock which 
 will keep you going for a while.
  
  Overall if you have a PS3 get this game, you can show it to your friends who have a 360 and go 
 'HA'. You won't be dissapointed. I think the only bad thing about this game is the gameplay is 
 slightly uneven as it sort of goes: Combat, puzzling, conbat, puzzling, combat ect. and the game 
 itslef could have been longer but other then that great!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8nnwilder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay before i start I have to admit that I only got this game this weekend and i gave it a rating 
 way before i even played it... But the only reason for that is that I couldn't find this game anywhere 
 in my country. It was sold out everywhere and it got sold as soon as the stores received it... 
 So after tracking down available copies and pre-ordering it at about 6 stores in my area I finally 
 got my hands on the game...
  
  So was my rating I made right? No I now rate it even higher. 
  
  From the get go you are impressed 
 with how this game feels... It looks gorgeous and all but for me the game play just felt so real 
 and satisfying. And it really feels like you are playing a movie all the way. The environments 
 and scenery is just something to be seen. And the action is head on.
  
  The AI from what I've seen so far (haven't completed it yet) is pretty damn good. And the even laugh 
 at me when i struggle and they pin me down. They are actually really good and taking you down come 
 to think of it... But throwing a grenade right next to 2 guys and one screams "Oh Sh**..." and 
 then they tried to run away but ended up colliding with each other... The one character pushing 
 the other one away as he tries to get away, just to hear the one pirate say "get out of my way... Oh 
 crap" and then see them both fly through the air just makes this game so much more. 
  
  It's been a while since I felt like I was actually in the game at all times, and all the small 
 little things they got right in the game is what i really appreciate.
  your clothes getting wet in water... the shadows of everything in the game... the smoke of the 
 explosions and the freedom of your character is just great.
  
  people have been calling it a Tomb Raider/ Indiana Jones rip-off... Well it is what Tomb Raider 
 should have been in my opinion... And comparing it to Indiana Jones is a good thing I feel... I 
 loved Indiana Jones as I was growing up and this game brings me closer to the true Indi adventure 
 than I've ever been before in a game. 
  
  Sad how so many people tried and still is trying to shoot this game down and especially to the 
 certain fans willing to say anything about a PS3 exclusive. But let me put it like this... If it 
 was the same game on any other platform I would still rate it this high and I would definitely 
 still want to play it over and over again.
  
  So it has nothing to do with platform here but everything to do with how good it is.
  
  A lot 
 of people might disagree but this is my opinion. And hopefully others will get the same enjoyment 
 out of Uncharted than what I'm getting right now.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Like my deck says this is one of the best games i've played in a long time.
  when i first looked at this i thought it was gonna be another awful lara croft spin off.... Wow 
 was i wrong. The platforming was fun if alittle forgiving at times .
  The third-person shooting is somwhat reminiscent of Gears of War or Black. fast paced difficult 
 at times but always fun. The puzzle elements are entertaining at first. thankfully there spread 
 thin enough not to aggravate you into spewing explicitive curses at your PS3. an amazing cast of 
 characters rounds out the game, With voice acting second to none.
  another thing that impressed me was the AI. The enemies constantly try to out flank you and try 
 to take headshots on you. While your own allies act intellegently without making thing too easy.
 
  Personally I would love to see a sequel from Naughty Dog.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is gorgeous, anyone with eyes can see that it's the best looking game out there for any 
 home console. But how does it play? Well, quite simply, it plays amazingly. The combat is perfectly 
 balanced with amusing puzzles and gamboling through the game's beautiful environments never gets 
 old. Uncharted is a third-person shooter starring the treasure hunter Nate Drake, relative to the 
 deceased Sir Francis Drake. The story is about Nate and his friend Sully who go searching for Sir 
 Francis' lost treasure, which he fakes his death to protect, they are also accompanied by Elena, 
 a journalist who will do anything to get her story. The gameplay is just as cool as everything 
 else about this game, it consists of taking cover behind any objects near you, shooting at enemies 
 and then retreat to cover. It's simple but extremely fun. Killing pirates has never been better. 
 Buy this game. It may not take you very long to complete the game, but if you like fun, then you'll 
 be playing through this one multiple times. Overall Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an awesome experience 
 which showcases the true powerful of Sony's wicked console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  I picked up uncharted hoping for a time killer. What I got was an engrossing game where every detail, 
 no matter how small, is given the utmost care and consideration.
  
  You play as Nathan Drake, supposedly the ancestor of Sir Francis Drake, and you're on a quest to 
 find the lost city of gold El Dorado. It's a pretty good story, and it's told through some of the 
 best voice acting I've ever seen. I'm not just talking about during cut scenes (which are excellent) . 
 When you're in a fire fight and someone lobs a grenade at you, you'll here Drake mutter "Oh great" 
 in a resigned tone of voice, and there's other little tidbits if you're listening.
  
  Visually the game is stunning. From lush jungle environments to underground ruins, everything is 
 clear, sharp, and detailed. Drake's emotions show clearly on his face, ranging from smug self confidence, 
 to wide eyed fear (again at the grenades) . And again, the little details show through. After swimming 
 fully clothed, Drake will emerge from the water wet, and slowly dry off with the passing of time.
 
  
  I was kind of iffy on the sound. The sound effects are excellent, with bullets bouncing off rocks 
 and Drakes grunting when he catches a ledge, but music in the game is mediocre at best. You hear 
 the standard "danger" score when in battle, and there's some "excitement" music during some cut 
 scenes. But there was nothing there that really impressed me.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is a lot of fun. The puzzles can be time consuming, but not too frustrating, 
 and there are a lot of them. The gun fights are challenging, forcing you to rely on cover rather 
 than just go in guns'a'blazing. The enemy AI is really good, also searching for cover, surrounding 
 you and throwing grenades when you hide behind cover for too long. And they are excellent shots, 
 to the point of making some of the heavier battles frustrating. However, with determination, you 
 can get through it. The games "check point" system allows you to take up right where you left off 
 without having to redo too much. 
  
  Every game has faults, and Uncharted is no different. The enemies can take bullets like IronMan 
 on PCP. Some enemies have taken me three headshots to kill. Also, there's this great feature for 
 sneaking up and silently killing enemies.... that you hardly ever use. Their superpowers also carry 
 extraordinary sight and hearing, and you'll find yourself being shot at before you see anybody.
 
  
  Overall, it's a great game, in my opinion one of the best on PS3, and a must have for any PS3 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  With the leap from the Playstation 2 to Playstation 3, Naughty Dog decided to chart a different 
 course by breaking from their Jak & Daxter roots to create a completely different type of game. 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune combines classic platforming, duck-n-cover gameplay, and engaging storytelling 
 to deliver one of the best, most enthralling action/adventure games in recent memory.
  
  Visually, this game is a stunner. There were times in this game that my jaw literally dropped to 
 the floor in awe. Lush jungle settings beautifully decorated by foliage, immense ocean views stretching 
 as far as the eye can see, sun-bathed cliff tops and draping waterfalls -- the environments are truly 
 a sight to behold.
  
  But the game's graphical prowess doesn't stop there. The detailed character models, along with 
 an unparalleled animation system, give the characters an uncanny lifelike quality that is all the 
 more evident during cutscenes. Sound-wise, the game features a great score that really reflects 
 its uniqueness. 
  
  From a gameplay perspective, Uncharted meshes two popular genres: platforming and the duck-n-cover 
 third-person perspective shooter popularized by the Xbox 360 hit Gears of War. It executes both 
 fairly well -- the game is fun to play and well-paced, and consistently so all the way through.
 
  
  But Uncharted's shining quality lies in its storytelling and cinematics. All of the game's cutscenes 
 are motion-captured, and extremely well voice-acted. The characters are lively, down-to-earth, 
 and funny -- and over time, they become endearing. The story and dialogue are extremely well-written, 
 and the tale takes a number of unexpected twists and turns that catch the player off-guard. 
  
  Uncharted's story sequences encapsulate a great mixture of humor, action, drama... and even 
 a little romance. All that is capped off with fantastic real-time cutscene visuals virtually unrivaled 
 in the console arena. Playing through Uncharted -- with its cliff-jumping, pirate-shooting gameplay 
 and its engaging storytelling -- was like playing through Indiana Jones, if Indiana Jones were a 
 game.
  
  Yet the game is not without some serious faults. I often felt like I was fighting the controls 
 during the platforming sequences, but even more so during combat sections. The realistic animation 
 system made platforming imprecise, resulting in some frustrating do-overs. The pop-n-shoot gameplay 
 worked most of the time, but because the direction for "roll" and "dive to cover" are mapped to 
 the same button, I found myself in a lot of situations where I tried to roll, but ended up sticking 
 to a wall instead on the wrong side of the divide. 
  
  And although pacing was relatively well done, the game simply throws too many waves of enemies 
 at you during combat sequences -- so much so that fighting them becomes tedious. Futhermore, the 
 gameplay is pretty predictable toward the end after many iterations of the same alternating pattern 
 between platforming and shooting.
  
  Despite its faults, there are so many amazing aspects about Uncharted that it is difficult to overlook 
 the good and focus on the bad. I believe Uncharted delivers an experience like no other on the 
 market, with its compelling blend of great action, stunning visuals, and engaging storytelling. 
 In all of these aspects, Uncharted pushes the medium forward -- especially in the departments of 
 graphics and story. Anyone with an appetite for playing rather than watching a great pulp action 
 adventure should give Uncharted a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAJW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  
  A fun, addicting, eye-popping, and well-made game, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a definite buy 
 for any PlayStation3 user! This game features a superb story, positively exquisite graphics and 
 scenery, fun and challenging combat, realistic sound effects, believable characters, and excellent 
 replay value.
  
  The story in Uncharted is very well-made. A brief outline of the story is as follows (void of any 
 spoilers) : A 400 year old diary from the coffin of Sir Francis Drake sets you-playing the part 
 of Nathan Drake-on the search for El Dorado, the fabled city of gold. As the story progresses, 
 you find yourself on a cursed island with the main objective of finding the treasure. This is not 
 so easy, as the treasure is well-hidden and there are various other groups vying for control of 
 it. These other groups are deadly, and you must fight your way through troops of pirates, mercenaries, 
 and highly trained soldiers on your way to El Dorado. There are also several puzzles and places 
 where you must perform gravity-defying acrobatics to pass. Sometimes the player must avoid bullets 
 while jumping from ledge to ledge, or hold onto vines and run across walls to reach a minute ledge 
 hanging on the other side. 
  
  The graphics in Uncharted are quite possibly the most beautiful and most realistic ones I have 
 ever seen in a video game. The environment is dazzling. The player travels through dense jungles 
 full of lush, green plants, crumbling temples covered with aging moss, bodies of water which reflect 
 the sunlight similar to the way diamonds do, and more. The ferns and leaves sway in the breeze, 
 the water behaves just as real water would, and Nate's shirt wrinkles as he moves, which is also 
 amazing in its own way. One would have to play the game to understand fully how stunning it is.
 
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune features an admirable combat system in which the player may shoot, throw 
 grenades, or perform melee combos on his enemies. The player may duck behind a wall, then spring 
 up and fire several times before ducking down again to avoid the enemy's gunfire. If the player 
 is particularly skilled at aiming, he can kill an enemy with a head shot, therefore conserving 
 ammo and lessening the time that he (the player) is vulnerable to attack. The player may also run 
 out from the cover and close to an enemy to perform a "Furious Combo", in which Nate frenziedly 
 beats the enemy to death, or a "Brutal Combo", in which Nate pulls off three consecutive attacks 
 that finish off the enemy quickly and efficiently. If he has one, the player may lob a grenade 
 and blow the targeted enemy or enemies into the air. The grenades can also destroy certain cover 
 points. This is a double-sided coin because the enemy, too, may throw grenades. This combat system, 
 proves to be challenging and fun at the same time.
  
  Explosions, gunshots, music, ambiance, voice-acting, and more is all pulled off smoothly and realistically 
 in this game. The music is choice; it's only played at various parts during the game and is by 
 no means intrusive (except perhaps when the player dies) . This music helps to give the game an 
 element of mystery and excitement while not making the player lose his wits due to overuse. The 
 ambiance is perfect; the voice-acting is superb and helps to build the characters.
  
  The characters are believable, showing qualities that would probably be found in real people with 
 similar personalities. Sullivan, or "Sully", is a colorful older man who likes to wear bright Hawaiian 
 shirts. Nathan Drake, the main character, is ordinary and trusting. Elena, Nate's circumstantial 
 companion, is clever but caring. Gabriel Roman, a pivotal villain, is a greedy old man with a sophisticated 
 air about himself. 
  
  I would say that the one flaw in this game is that it ends all too quickly. This is balanced out, 
 however, by the fact that there are many unlockable bonuses and collect-able treasures that give 
 the game excellent replay value. After completing the game once, the player may start it again 
 on a different difficulty and challenge himself with finding all of the sixty treasures, earning 
 all of the medals, and ultimately unlocking all of the myriad bonuses that the game contains. This 
 first-rate replay value will help to keep the gamer playing the game again and again. 
  
  All things considered, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a great, entertaining game and a must-buy 
 for any PS3 owner!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonoranreptile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune flew in under the radar of a lot of Playstation 3 owners, but for those 
 of us who have played through this gem, let me say just one thing: "WOW!!!!". From the opening 
 sequence this game has a summer blockbuster movie feel to it. The hero is the game is sarcastic, 
 goofy, and a little unsure of himself as he tries to figure out what happened to his long lost 
 relative in this action adventure TPS. The graphic and animation is top-notch and the game play 
 is easy to get into even if you're not a fan of shooters. Don't get me wrong, some of the battles 
 can be extremely difficult and frustrating, but that just makes getting through them much more 
 satisfying. This game also has great replay value in that there a lot of achievements to unlock 
 and the harder difficulty settings will test your dexterity as well as your sanity. Any and all 
 PS3 owners out there who have not played this game... SHAME ON YOU!!! Go get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  On many sites (GameSpot) and TV shows (X Play) , Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has been said it is 
 like a "Tomb Raider meets Gears of War,". The game play is nothing new in the most, but the story 
 is frash and exciting from start to finish.
  
  You play as Nathan Drake, an independent adventurer, who is apparently a descendent of Sir Francis 
 Drake. This alone creates a nice new feel to a game. Making something fictional from someone very 
 known, but yet has no real stories behind him (Sir Francis Drake) . Drake is just a normal type 
 guy that is made to perform in extrodinary situations throught the game. While constantly dancing 
 on that thin line of life and death seems to keep his sense humor through out his adventure. He 
 is companied with his good friend Sullivan "Sully" who seems like the trouble seeking uncle of 
 a child that looks up to him. Also is Elena, a confident TV reporter that is sometimes right by 
 your side and other times being taken away for you to save. While hunting for an ancient relic 
 believed to be someplace on a tropical island. There is also your bad guys, A British counterpart 
 to Nathan and a Leader of some modern day Pirates. Though all these people have a very fragile 
 alliance that seems to be in question throughout the game which helps add to the unknowing of what 
 might happen next.
  
  Uncharted is by far one of the best looking most beautiful games to come out. When playing you 
 find yourself marveling over the view of everything and when you are at a cut sceen it can be hard 
 to pay attention to what is happening with looking at just how great the game graphics look. Most 
 of the game takes place in the dense jungle which is so bright and beautiful, something not seen 
 much in games. Though the game does get some dark environments, but they are few and still very 
 good looking in their own right.
  
  With that said the character animations in Uncharted are beyond amazing. I could actually feel 
 the emotion of the characters throughout the game. In game and in cut scenes. While in game you 
 will see nathan flinch when bullets hit near him, when he jumps around you see his body flop around 
 a bit and even in hand fights you can feel the pain of the characters in battle. In cut scenes 
 it only gets better. They are just terrific facial animations that really set the tone for what 
 is going on.
  
  Uncharted is one of the most high-paced action games I have played. It seemed around each corner 
 you had something going on and you just could not put the controller down. The best part is all 
 you do through the game changes. Sometimes you are on foot, others in the back of a jeep in a high 
 speed chace through the jungle. The gameplay keeps you on your toes and helps to keep the game 
 from feeling repetative with jumping all over the place and really not knowing what you will have 
 to do next.
  
  The AI in Uncharted is quite nice too, pretty smart compared to other games of even today. When 
 you stay in one place for awhile they come after you. And not in some premade line like some british 
 red coats. No, they will flank you, dodge around corners and hide. This makes for difficult times 
 when low on life and ammo. Sometimes it can take a number of tries to get past what seems like 
 the easiet areas. This does become frustrating and annoying at some points in the game. Like when 
 you feel you are close to another cut scene. Which leads me to another thing. The cut scenes are 
 perfectly apart in Uncharted. Never too close or too far apart and perfect in time. You are never 
 watching a cut scene for long periods of time and best of all, you can skip them! I know most games 
 you can, but some you can't and I just don't understand that.
  
  Naughty Dog has out done themselves with this new title. The gameplay, the characters, the voice 
 acting, all of it is above and beyond anything else I have yet played. Uncharted is kind of short, 
 but what a time it is playing. This game is perfect and I can't find anything wrong worth mentioning. 
 If you like action/adventure and you like good stories and you like shooters then this game puts 
 it all together in the best way ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedFragg
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a tale of a fellow named Nate Drake.
  
  As the game begins you are just finding the "Coffin" of Sir Francis Drank only finding a book instead 
 of a body, this book leads you on a treasure hunt that'll lead you across an island and into a 
 lot of action.
  
  Firstly you'll be dropped into an action sequence on a boat involving fighting off pirates that 
 have been tracking you, so you take to your gun and defend yourself.
  After which your picked up by a companion named Sullivan you'll find yourself in the lush jungle 
 in search for "El Dorado" and the lost treasure of Sir Francis Drake.
  Thankfully he left a lot of clues in that book from the coffin and you'll be greeted by a few fairly 
 simple puzzles and a lot of fights.
  
  And you'll be fighting a lot (I mean... A LOT) of baddies which comprise of men with various weapons 
 in various locations and these encounters can prove quite challenging in certain situations as 
 the amount of ammo you can carry is rather limited and you can only hold a handgun, a rifle and 
 four grenades.
  After all you play a simple treasure hunter not an elite commando, plus it proves a deeper challenge 
 and thats what makes the game so fun.
  
  As for weapons you'll meet the simple 9mm pistol followed by an AK47 and later in the game you'll 
 be able to grip the M9 pistol, M4 Assault Rifle, grenade launchers, sniper rifles and my favorite... The 
 .44 Magnum (Dirty Harry moments ahoy!) and quite a few more. All these weapons somehow made me 
 feel rather inadequate for this adventure though again due to feeling like I was never carrying 
 enough ammo, at some points I was left with no ammo but a grenade!, however the fist fighting and 
 melee can be very fun.
  
  There is nothing better than charging at an enemy with no ammo and cracking him a few times round 
 the jaw then taking his weapon, and the fist fighting is quite easy as long as you time it right.
 
  It's basically a QTE (Quick Time Event) by pressing buttons as the punch lands to make a combo. 
 These are backed up by some fantastic animations as well making them always fun to watch.
  
  The action sequences are broken up by some light platforming action and cut scenes that grips 
 you into the story, and the story really adds to the gameplay with a few twists that it provides 
 at just the right moments.
  
  Also it has to be said that this is a truly beautiful game to look at, there isn't much to fault 
 over the graphics, the fps never really drops and it always manages to look "Next-Gen" down to 
 the shadows from the trees on Nates shirt or when you get submerged in water your clothes look 
 soaked.
  
  Also the voice acting is perfect, it perfectly reflects each characters feelings at the time along 
 with the facial animations it really does bring the characters alive.
  
  Also the game has an achievements system of sorts.
  The more achievements you complete the more 
 rewards that unlock.
  These rewards vary from weapon unlock cheats, unlocking "The Making Of" movies or even mirroring 
 the game world so left becomes right visa versa which can be like playing a totally different game!
 
  
  There are 1000 reward points to earn by ways of collecting hidden treasures or getting 20 to 50 
 kills with various weapons and the like, and this was a nice feature which adds to replayability.
 
  
  Sadly the AI does leave something to be desired but overall you are looking at a solid game with 
 seven hours of interesting gameplay and with games lacking on the PlayStation 3 at the moment this 
 is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSystemLord1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune by Naughty Dog is a third person shooter/adventure game following Nathan 
 Drake and a reporter named Elena Fisher. There are a few sub-characters who influence the story, 
 but their interactions with Nathan and Elena are limited at best. Sully is the only character who 
 makes a meaningful contribution to the game, but most of the time he is just following Nathan.
 
  
  The game opens with Nathan and Elena searching for what is supposedly the coffin of Sir Francis 
 Drake, famed treasure hunter from the 16th century. Nathan is a direct descendant of Sir Francis, 
 and wears a mysterious necklace around his neck to prove it. The game picks up almost immediately 
 as Nathan and Elena's boat is attacked after finding a diary. After some cut scenes the player 
 is thrust into the story.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay: Uncharted is a shooter played from the third person perspective. There are definitely 
 some references to Gears of War here, but they are done well enough to be considered a tribute 
 rather than a disgrace to that game. The cover system works well. Nathan is capable of staying 
 in cover and blind-firing, popping up and shooting, or just standing and taking the blunt of whatever 
 is coming at him. The trick is deciding which you need to use to survive.
  
  The game's A. I is top notch. Enemies flank you and constantly press your position leading to some 
 intense firefights. The reason I say that you must decide which shooting option to use is because 
 all of them have their benefits, and all are quite useful. Being approached by 6 guerrillas with 
 guns blazing? There's no time to aim, just press the fire button and blind shoot 2-3 of them to 
 death before pop-and-shooting 2 more before you can come out from behind cover safely. Pop up and 
 stay there and you will be dead within seconds. This adds a certain degree of realism to the combat, 
 but definitely makes some sequences amazingly difficult and downright annoying.
  
  Uncharted has been called, "Dude Raider" by many gamers for the platforming elements it holds. 
 This reference is not entirely untrue as you will find yourself swinging back and forth off of 
 ruins quite a bit. What I didn't like about all of this is that sometimes the game doesn't help 
 you make jumps that require extreme precision. I found myself jumping to my death 10-12 times in 
 some places before Nathan finally made the jump successfully. Yet another needlessly annoying difficulty 
 spike, but nothing huge or game breaking. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics: As I said in my title, Uncharted is a technical achievement. The game is beautiful, that's 
 all there is to it. Nathan's clothes even get wet when when he goes into water. 
  
  The environments are solid and varied. For every ruin/cave there is an open jungle/boat. I really 
 liked how varied the game was, the variation kept the game from feeling like it drug on and on, 
 something I feel is far too common these days. 
  
  Elena could have used some work though. She just is not a believable female character model. She 
 looks so fake compared to Nathan and the male characters. 
  
  One thing I want to take a note of, Naughty Dog really went the extra mile in rendering the treasures, 
 they are beautiful and a lot of fun to collect. Some are re-hashed true, but each one of them is 
 mysterious and beautiful. I give the developers 2 thumbs way up for caring enough to make something 
 so trivial a lot of fun to do.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound: The sound in Uncharted is good. Not spectacular by any means, but solid. Some of the guns 
 feel weak because their reports sound muffled. I'm not saying I want a magnum to shake the trees 
 around me, but throw some echoes in there please. Sound is one of the aspects of a game that makes 
 it feel realistic. I didn't feel like Uncharted scored in that area.
  
  The ambient noise is well done though. Hooting animals, rushing water, all of it sounds great. 
 Also, later in the game, certain sounds SERIOUSLY up the immersion level, but I won't spoil anything.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: Uncharted is a great game that I had a lot of fun with. Unfortunately it is also a very 
 short game, I completed the entire thing in roughly 8 hours on normal difficulty. Also, outside 
 of collecting treasures, I really found no reason to go back, making this game a rental unless 
 you want to collect all of the major PS3 exclusives like I do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinjirossd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is an action/adventure game similar to the Tomb Raider series in some regard. It tantalizes 
 your senses with lush colorful environments with a magnificent musical score. Throw in gunplay 
 and narrow escapes straight from the movies and you get a solid experience. 
  
  Graphics: Definitely next-gen visuals mixed with great artistic representation. It doesn't set 
 the bar higher per say but isn't lacking in anyway either. The jungles are lush with plants swaying 
 in the wind and spots on light breaking through the canopy. They did a great job depicting the 
 Inca ruins also. The only slight issue I had was that some surfaces were overly glossy than what 
 would otherwise be realistically dull.
  
  Sound: The musical score was top-notch that added to the adventurous feel. The ambient sounds were 
 solid as well. The voice acting was surprisingly good compared to what most games will budget.
 
  
  Gameplay: Is a mix of prince of Persia aerobatics with gunplay. The puzzle solving was too light 
 in my opinion while the gun fights can be frustrating due to the ability of enemies to withstand 
 an unnatural amount of bullets to the chest. Headshots worked just fine by when it takes 5 shots 
 to the chest to kill a stumbling foe, it can make the fight scenes much longer than they should 
 be. This can be fatal to the good pace the game maintains throughout and is the main deduction 
 in overall score
  
  Longevity: One play through will be enough for most. This isn't an innovative game by any means 
 but is great at what it does do.
  
  
  
  Uncharted is a solid, quality game that has a cinematic movie feel to it. It's definitely a must-play 
 game for anyone with a PS3 and actually broke me away from my 360 for a few days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Nathan Drake might just be my favorite hero of all time, yes i said it. the combination, Average 
 Joe and fantastic hero just do it for me. This story is top notch and i feel that it was put together 
 perfectly.
  Graphics: These are BY FAR the best graphics on any game to date (If you run it full 1080) .
  
 Game play: the mechanic is so good that i cant get enough of it. its put together so well between 
 shooting getting ammo, head shots and weapon selection.
  Story: two words, Hollywood Blockbuster
  The voice acting really is what makes this game though, 
 the character really get to you from the first scene and develop throughout the perfectly tied 
 up story that leaves room for the obvious sequel. The game flows very nicely and is really made 
 like a movie, the only problem i have with the game is that while being cool the jet ski levels 
 are kinda out of place. People say that it is a bad thing that the game play was "copied" from 
 Gears, will first of all you cant "copy a game play style, it wasn't copywrited. and second if 
 it is done well like gears was, who cares. This is a must own for PS3 owners, so if you don't have 
 it, go buy it before its... well it cant be to late, so just buy it. 
  
  Oh, by the way the only reason i said it was hard is cause when you play on hard, which you should 
 do second, well its just DAMN. But play on hard second or you will get freakin' frustrated and 
 it will ruin the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmatthews839
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me say first, that I love this game. I thought it was fun and engaging. The voice acting was 
 perfect, the cut scenes and cinematics were beautiful, story was decent, etc. I actually liked 
 this game MORE than Gears of War, which felt shorter (although Gears of War adding multiplayer 
 at any point in the game is really cool, Uncharted could have done this with Elena and Sully) You 
 have already heard about all the positives so I'll just say what I did NOT like.
  
  I don't like how there is ZERO replay value. Once you finish it, that is it. You COULD go back 
 and look for unfound treasures, but really who cares about that. All you do is look at it once 
 and thats it. Watching the making-of videos was ok, but that isn't considered replay value. They 
 could have at least done what Resident Evil 4 did and have some kind of shooting game. This was 
 my biggest gripe.
  
  Second, I loved the story until they introduced the monsters. I felt like they did this just to 
 try to avoid monotony. It would have been fine, but that part of the story seemed too tacked on, 
 almost like an afterthought. Honestly, I thought all the monster (or diseased Spaniards, whatever) 
 parts of the game were the worst parts. Once they jump on you you're dead, I had to replay the 
 parts involving monsters more than any part of the game, really frustrating.
  
  Lastly, almost all of the "puzzles" were pointless. For some of them, I didn't have any clue what 
 to do (making statues face a certain way, WTF?) They were so SIMPLE that I made them harder on 
 myself because I expected them to be somewhat more challenging then they were. Again, Resident 
 Evil 4 puzzles were just right, they should have them like that.
  
  Despite all these things, this game was still a spectacular achievement. The graphics in the jungle 
 are truly amazing (wind blowing individual pieces of grass!?!) The jeep chase was really fun, they 
 should have had more of that kind of thing to break monotony instead of introducing monsters 4/5 
 of the way through the game. I loved all the traversing the terrain parts and wish they had more 
 of that. I know Uncharted 2 will fix all of my previous disappointments. People wanting multiplayer 
 is stupid. Why does EVERY game HAVE to have multiplayer?! Some game I believe should stay what 
 they are. If you want a multiplayer game, buy Warhawk. There are ways to have replay value without 
 multiplayer.
  
  Although this game is awesome and everyone should play it, I would recommend just renting it because 
 of the lack of replay value. Once you finish it there is nothing you can really do with it. Although, 
 I am itching to play it again, skipping the monster levels of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm no fanboy, but in my opinion, Uncharted is all that's needed to convince anyone of what the 
 PS3 can do.
  
  The graphics are simply gorgeous, gorgeous isn't enough it's simply a spectacle for the eyes. And 
 what's most amazing is that the framerates almost never go down, it's an incredible achievement 
 in gaming and a mighty herald of what's to come in the next years.
  
  Of course preety graphics don't save a bad game, but this isn't the case.
  The gameplay keeps 
 a good balance between third person shooting, platforming, exploration and puzzle solving, making 
 sure that almost never things get repetitive (only once or twice the shooting feels like it drags 
 too long) . A few sequences also throw some new stuff occasionally to mix things up a little.
  
  Audio is also great and above all the voice acting is terrific, all of the cast throws in great 
 performances making sure that we connect to the characters and really live the game experience 
 how we're supposed to.
  
  The story is an interesting Indiana Jones like treasure hunt, but set in the present day and with 
 a carribean setting. It has some flaws, but there it is, it's just like a summer blockbuster.
 
  
  This is probably the best action adventure game I have ever played, not because anything in particular 
 in the gameplay is astonishing but because it's so perfectly balanced to be fun and diverse.
  
  Therefore, it won't get a perfect 10 because it's so good it's too short... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulscraper86
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I need to say only one thing. If you own a PS3 and a HD Display, you MUST get this 
 game. This is the console exclusive game that PS3 owners have been waiting for with baited breath. 
 To sum it all up, this is one of the best games I have played in the past few months. Uncharted 
 is simply not just the best game to grace the Playstation 3 console, this is one of the best games 
 I've played in the past few months on any platform, and those games include Bioshock, Heavenly 
 Sword, Jeanne D'arc and Monster Hunter Freedom 2.
  
  Frankly, if you have a PS3, and you don't own this game, I don't know what in the nine lower and 
 upper hells you spent $700 AUD for. So far, this is the very first PS3 game that commands me to 
 play it through from start through to the end in one sitting (actually, Heavenly Sword made me 
 did just that, but not the oomph this game gave) . The best way to describe the experience is that 
 its like playing a movie, an classic pulp action Indiana Jones-esque kinda movie. This game, along 
 with its nearest shadow, Heavenly Sword disproves the idea that games cannot be written and acted 
 to the same level of television and film. Having said that fanboyish sounding shameless promotion 
 of Uncharted (no really, its one of the most fun game I've ever played and reminds me why I'm such 
 a hardcore gamer in the first play) , on to the review!
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune puts you in the shoes of one modern-day fortune hunter, Nathan Drake 
 (who is supposedly a descendant of Sir Francis Drake) . The hero Nathan Drake, is your everyday-man. 
 He is not your average  guy-macho hero. Nathan 
 is actually leaning on the clumsy side and has a knack for getting himself in all kinds of troubles. 
 Following Nathan Drake (Notice the initials for Nathan Drake and developer Naughty Dog is the same. 
 Coincidence?) is his mentor with a roguish personality, Victor Sullivan. Also on hand to document 
 Drake's adventures is journalist Elena Fisher.
  
  The game opens with Nathan Drake recovering the coffin of Sir Francis Drake himself from the ocean 
 floor, using coordinates inscribed on a ring in Nathan's possession. Upon prying open the coffin, 
 it was found to be empty with no corpse. However, what Drake did find was a diary written by Sir 
 Francis Drake, but points to the location of El Dorado, the fabled city of gold where Sir Francis 
 Drake went to find the treasure, proving he faked his death like Nathan had originally believed. 
 At this very moment, they were attacked by pirates and so begins the great adventure in the same 
 vein of an Indiana Jones movie (and that is not a bad thing either) .
  
  The gameplay for Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a mix of 3D platform game and a third-person shooter 
 elements. The platforming elements are similar to games such as Prince of Persia (the recent ones 
 starting from Sands of Time) or Tomb Raider (which Uncharted is often compared with to the dismay 
 of the developers) . So, Nathan is able to jump, swim, grab and move along ledges, climb and swing 
 from ropes, and other similar acrobatic actions that we're all used to, to make his way along the 
 many ruins that he explores.
  
  When facing enemies, Drake can use either a melee combo attacks at close range or using the traditional 
 weapons such as the pistols and rifles. It is interesting to point out that Drake can only carry 
 one pistol (sidearm) and one rifle (also includes shotguns and machine guns) at any one time as 
 well as limited amount of ammo per gun (each gun has its own max spare ammo) . This makes it realistic 
 as you can see Drake wearing a sidearm on his side and the larger gun swung across his bacl. Drake 
 can also carry grenades in addition to his arsenal. Then comes the core mechanic that keeps Drake 
 alive - Cover. Drake can take cover behind walls with a simple tap of the cover button, and use 
 either blind-fire or covered fire to take out foes. To compensate for a lack of health bar, whenever 
 Drake takes damage, the colour of the screen will gradually fade to black and white and grow a 
 bit hazy. Taking cover and not getting shot will gradually return colour to your screen. This is 
 a very interesting and intuitive mechanics that adds to the immersion factor with minimal HUD.
 
  
  The general format for a battle starts with Drake huddled or cornered in one spot while the enemies 
 attack (he'll cringe and duck as the bullets rain down on his position while muttering and cursing 
 his bad luck) and Drake returning shots when they reload. Similar to most shootout scenes shown 
 in movies. While it may seems repetitive, trust me its not. The enemy AI in Uncharted is one of 
 the best I've seen in games. They will constantly move around to flank you and hurl grenades to 
 flush you out into the open. The AI doesn't seem to be scripted to move in a set position as I've 
 noticed the AI adapting by changing positions and tactics based on what I'm doing. This truly make 
 the fights intense and fast-paced. To keep the action varied, Uncharted includes the usual action 
 movie staple car chase section (this is my favourite scene) and a jetski along Venice like canals 
 while avoiding enemy fire and explosive barrels.
  
  The Tomb Raider-esque platforming is also done right. Scaling crumbling walls, jumping from ledge 
 to pillars and balancing on fragile beams is fun. There are times when trial-and-error platforming 
 is required but each time Drake dies (whether death by bullets or falling into bottomless pits) 
 you will be alive again in no time (read: no loading) . And what any self respecting treasure hunt 
 won't have puzzles to solve? The puzzles aren't hard to solve thanks to both Sir Francis Drake's 
 journal and the "hint" button. Sometimes, Nathan himself will even automatically turn his attention 
 to certain objects or mutter some clue if you take too long solving the puzzle. That is my only 
 gripes with the game. Otherwise, its good.
  
  If that is not enough things to do, there are are 60 treasures that will glint momentarily at times 
 to indicate their presence hidden around the game's levels. Although these treasures have no direct 
 effect on gameplay, collecting a number of these will earn "reward points". Reward points can be 
 earned also by completing certain accomplishments such as making a number of headshots or using 
 specific methods of killing enemies. In subsequent playthroughs of the game (sometimes immediately) , 
 the player can spend these rewards points to unlock special options ranging from unlimited ammo 
 to slow-motion to various filters (i. e. black and white, sepia or next-gen) . The rewards points 
 can also unlock several concept art, 'making of' videos, and alternate costumes for Drake and the 
 enemies that he faces. This is Naughty Dogs way of implementing an achievement system as per the 
 Xbox 360.
  
  When it comes to the visuals, Uncharted is downright gorgeous. The lush, green palette are a well 
 come change to the brown grey-ish palette that seems to be the fad these days. The environments 
 are better than any I've seen in a long time. When you're standing on a ledge thinking where to 
 jump next, and then you realise there are actually exotic birds flying around from time to time, 
 your realised how much effort and dedication the developers put in to this game. It's equally impressive 
 to see that the characters move naturally in the game. Nathan not only rolls and runs realistically, 
 he even climb up or down the stairs! And by that i mean he actually places his feet on each step 
 as he walks or runs up and down the stairs!!! Not only that, whenever any part of Drake's body 
 enters a water, that part will be wet! After playing Uncharted, I noticed I'm starting to pick 
 on games (for example Devil May Cry 4) that seemingly floats up and down the stairs. Also, It really 
 is something when you cannot really distinguish between when a cut scene ends and the in-game action 
 begins because in Uncharted, it's practically seamless.
  
  Uncharted's soundtrack that plays throughout the game deserves kudos as is makes the the game feel 
 like a true Hollywood blockbuster. The game's soundtrack is composed by Greg Edmonson of the Firefly 
 TV series fame. The voice-acting cast is also spot on. The actors did an excellent job of making 
 both Nathan and Elena very endearing and likeable characters.
  
  As I've said at the start of the review, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the reason you should own 
 a PlayStation 3. Few action-adventure games pull you into its world, making you savour its most 
 exciting moments and at the same time appreciate and care for its cast of characters. There are 
 a few issues that keep this from being a perfect game but in the end, the issues are just way to 
 minute and there are just way too many good things going for it.
  
  Note: And for those idiots who are complaining for the lack of multiplayer, please shoot yourself 
 in the head. It is designed to be a single player experience so leave it at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY 8
  RICHNESS, COMPLEXITY AND DETAILS 7
  GRAPHICS / CHARACTERS 9
  NATURAL FLUID CHARACTER MOVEMENTS 7
  FACE DETAILS AND MOVEMENTS 10
  GRAPHICS / AMBIENTATION 
 9
  INTERACTIVITY AND MOVEMENT OF THINGS 8
  GRAPHICS / CINEMATICS 10
  SOUND / GAMEPLAY 10
  SOUND / MUSIC 10
  CAMERA / GAMEPLAY 8
  HD / NEXT-GEN FEELING 10
  BONUS 
 MATERIAL 10
  PRICE AND DISPONIBILITY 7
  BUGS / CINEMATICS 10
  BUGS / SOUND 8
  BUGS / GAMEPLAY 7
  GAMEPLAY CAMERA DIZZY FEELING 6
  
  100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 
 words 100 words - 100 words 
  100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 100 words 
 - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 100 words - 100 words 
 100 words - 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fayttt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  what a game loads of people to kill loads of climbing stuff id never be able to climb in ten years 
 of intense training , some funny dialogue like when he falls of anything the final scream always 
 has comical charm to it .Great and intrigueung story if al little pridictable but who cares its 
 fun. but the small details make this game great like walking in water and being wet up to the level 
 that you should be wet ,nate wincing as bullits fly by and grenades blow up near him. some freaky 
 zombiees everthing you need although they dont really do agood job of explaing the sub in the middle 
 of a jungle at the start like later he found old nazi base and says that explains the u boat in 
 the jungle ,i may have missed something there but it was'nt enough to annoy me or really be bothered 
 about it so i got on with the game the last level was hard do which made it all the better i hate 
 when you breeze though games that are easy feels a waste of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  As I play this game through for the third time, this time my goal being to collect all the treasures 
 I had missed, I realised that I've not played a game that is quite so loveable as Uncharted : Drakes 
 Fortune in a long time. Everything about it screams quality, from the superb character animation, 
 to the exquisite jungle/ruin surroundings, to the enjoyable storyline and characters. Naughty Dog 
 certainly know how to make a well presented game.
  Of course, none of this matters if the actual game is awful, but no worries, Uncharted delivers 
 here too. The main thing you'll be doing in Uncharted is shooting pirates and leaping across ledges. 
 This sounds rather unoriginal, but the game does it in a way that feels fresh and exciting. The 
 shooting part of the game is similar to the cover-based system of Gears of War. You duck behind, 
 say, a broken wall and you jump out from it and shoot off a couple shots before quickly ducking 
 back down with fear of getting shot too many times in the face. It works very well, and is a lot 
 more fun than what a usual 3rd person adventure game would probably have opted for. 
  The platforming part of the game is also great fun, mainly because of the fluid and realistic animation 
 of the main character Drake. As you leap from ledge to ledge 300 feet above rocky waters, you feel 
 like its actually happening because of how it is animated. This doesnt seem like it would seem 
 too important, but it makes such a great impact on how you feel when you're playing. Overall, the 
 platforming is exilirating and never gets old.
  My only gripes toward this fantastic game would be that the twist in the story is very predictable, 
 and that its possibly a little too short for an adventure game. Still, this is a must buy for any 
 PS3 owner. An awesome exclusive game like this should definetely not be missed.
  
  The Good - Lovely, lush graphics - Platforming is superb - Gunplay is great fun - Treasure hunting 
 and skill points to get on with after you've completed it
  
  The Bad - A little bit short - Story is predictable - Some rare and stupid glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I just beat the game on my second go through, and I looked at the total time spent, and it 
 told me that I had only played in for seven hours and forty nine minutes. That utterly amazed me 
 because I have been totally engrossed in this game for the past two weeks. 
  
  The basic premise behind Uncharted is similar to Tomb Raider, but instead of a game that focuses 
 just on doing crazy stuff and making stupid comments while doing it, with a somewhat understandable 
 plot built around the gameplay, Uncharted provides a thrilling story and believable characters 
 and then adds great gameplay to complement them. 
  
  Probably the thing I love the most about Drakes Fortune is the attention to detail. The treasures 
 you are looking for are not huge, obvious, and identical, with the challenge being to get to them, 
 Uncharted has cool looking treasures that are hard to spot, but generally easy to get to. Also, 
 the characters have nice subtle touches of personality that really emphasize the situations. For 
 instance, Drake is always acting tough and cool around Elena, trying to impress her, but you can 
 tell that he is faking it most of the time. 
  
  The plot is also stunning. There is a twist, and although I did not particularly like it, it was 
 not predictable, and really drew the story together nicely. I think that the plot was A+ and that 
 even if you don't normally play platforming games, that the story and characters of this one make 
 it worth it.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game is also excellent. It is similar to Tomb Raider, but instead of 
 being as acrobatic, it replaces most of the moves with brute force moves. He will smash open windows 
 by jumping away from walls while hanging on a vine, and then crashing into them. He hangs from 
 numerous ledges, and jumps around, but it feels much more like a rugged guy, with a lot of practice, 
 than a professional who is going who has had specialized training. This adds to the mood and feel 
 of the game. The gunfights are difficult, but not impossible, and feature of heavy use of cover 
 and over the shoulder aiming. 
  
  Sound and Graphics were amazing. I have an eight year old t. v. and they still blew me away. The 
 soundtrack sets the mood and the graphics show all the small details.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game, and if you own a PS3 then I see no reason not to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up along with my PS3 due to so much hype and everyone loves the game that plays 
 it. I am always interested in a great action/adventure game, especially one that throws you into 
 the wilderness in search of treasures. I grew up loving Indiana Jones movies as well as The Goonies.
 
  
  This game feels a lot like Tomb Raider, which is by far not a bad thing. The only thing that is 
 way different is the shoot-outs. They are much more intense and can take a few tries to perfect. 
 The action is pretty great and a few of the puzzles can be pretty challenging, especially some 
 of the figuring out where the next ledge is that you're supposed to jump to. The game really feels 
 like a great action and great quality movie that you are in control of.
  
  The story is amazing, taking place in modern time and being a treasure hunt is definitely bonus 
 to me. The music is alright, it did not really make me fall in love with it, but definitely some 
 of it fit right in with the feel of the game.
  
  If you are one of the few that, for some reason, just have not gotten to buy this game, something 
 is seriously weird with you. Atleast rent it and fall in love with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jealousy-2k8
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  if a action adventure game is what you crave then this is the game for you and no doubt you will 
 go buy it .where to start. this game is great. its awesom compelling story hooks you in. its awesome 
 graphics are too sweet. its epic gun battles are sweet and satisfying. the sheer fun you get out 
 of it. at first that was all i could say about it but then half way through the game i realised 
 once you have played one gun battle in drakes youve preety much done them all and they did try 
 to make it more interesting by includin the water vehicle. yes it did satisfy me momenterly but 
 then it faded and i was left feeling is this all they can do to liven it up a bit more. that was 
 its only downfall but i kept on playing it untill the end untill i completed it just because of 
 the story. its a great game and i have no regrets but i think that a little more variety could 
 of pushed this game a few levels higher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  I am a huge Naughty Dog fan and this game really pulls through. First I have to give you the negative 
 because it is the most important to know about when buying a game. The controls can be funky at 
 times. You will really like it when you get used to it though. Even when you get used to it, it 
 will still have funky times when you hug the wrong thing. Kind of like Gears of War. Next the difficulty 
 of the game. The gamespot review is a good review BUT they say it can be frustrating when there 
 are lots of guys and you have to get more ammo to finish them off. That is part of the game dude. 
 It is way more fun having to do that that just sit there and shoot. It really gives you a chance 
 to use the controls to sneek around hugging cover and rolling to the next one. Aside from that 
 the game is easy. That is the big problem BUT after you beat it you get to replay it on a higher 
 level which is good. It is tough at times but it makes you try new ways to reach the goal. I also 
 felt there wasn't enough side stuff in it. The treasures were cool but for some reason it did not 
 thrill me. It is cool though. The issue with that is looking around made me dizzy when treasure 
 hunting. The thing about the ps3 is it does not have achievements. That is a huge plus with the 
 360, it really gives you a reason to replay to get max points. It was never a big deal to me but 
 now I love to have that challenge. Back to Drake. It is a great game with out a doubt. The graphics 
 are unreal and the characters are not cheesy as most games. There is a little nerdyness but it 
 is not a bummer. The story is great and is a great deal of fun. The game is really cool with the 
 climbing around but they dont use it enough when it comes to hidden objects. They really need it 
 more in the game. The puzzles are not puzzles which is a let down as well. The game is great. I 
 am happy I bought it but will take it back for credit for CONDEMNED 2. Tons of room for a great 
 sequel. I think it is a good thing. Take a good game and really tighten it up for a improved part 
 2. Looking foward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiingssbb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of the best on the PS3 so far. Great Graphics (they even look good on my standard 
 def TV) . From the faces of the characters to the trees in the background it is a great looking 
 game. But, the game isn't all good looks. The gun fights take luck and strategy which make then 
 very difficult. It is usually you by yourself or with Elena (but she isn't much help) with not 
 much ammo. I always run out of ammo, so I have to run out from cover and beat up a guy for his 
 gun and run back. Also you can't stay in one spot for very long. 2-3 guys come after you and kill 
 you. Most of the fights take a few tries. That is the only bad part of the game. It is a pretty 
 unique game. It is hard to put it in one category. To me it is an adventure, action, puzzle, shooter, 
 strategy, treasure hunting game. The environments are great and takes a few minutes for you to 
 get around where you need to go. The puzzle aspect is good but can be frustrating. But for having 
 some difficult areas in the game it is addicting and comes together well. 
  
  
  *Spoilers*
  One thing that seemed weird to me is from chapter 17 to the end. It turned from an 
 Indiana Jones movie into an I Am Legend. Why add zombie/ vampires into a realistic game? It completely 
 caught me off guard and totally changed the game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwgameverse12
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Its another platformer from Naughty dog but with guns. The gunfights are somewhat realistic and 
 exciting but arent 'super cool'. Graphics are amazing, but i just wish there was some boss fights, 
 more explosions and a small cameo of Jak and daxter somewhere in the game.
  Ive completed the game on 2nd to hardest difficulty, it is hard, im tackling the crushing difficulty 
 at the moment. The pickup's are not that exciting but the rewards can be cool like more costumes 
 for Drake, Slow motion, Fast Motion. There is not as many puzzles as reviews say, some at the beginning, 
 most near the end. The climbing physics are great, close to assassins creed but nowhere near Altair. 
 The physics are mainly used to get out of sticky situations or a dramatic suicide off a cliff. 
 There is quite a few funny moments between Drake and Elena, his 'companian' on his quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z00Mbite
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Intro: I played this game strait. From the beginning to end in one weekend. May I say, it was like 
 watching an 8 hour Blockbuster action movie.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : It's your "Tomb Raider/ Gears Of War/ Indiana Jones" as many game reviewers call 
 it. It's gameplay mechanics require so much action based movement and everything you would see 
 in action movie, it's just inspiring. The controls are easy, and you'll rarely be seen cursing 
 your controller or PS3 in that matter. Actually, you will be praising your PS3 during and after 
 playing this game. With a Third-Person Shooter perspective that works so seamlessly with the game, 
 there is little to complain about. Watch out for a lot of jumping though, but don't worry, it's 
 fun more than frustrating.
  
  Sound (9/10) : Environment sounds are well developed and it captures the action well. Little to 
 complain about in the sound effects category. The dialogue is well-scripted and very witty. Maybe 
 almost too witty. It makes me wonder how many gun fights Drake has participated in before being 
 able to make sarcastic and funny comments during a fire fight. Some phrases can be puns and cliches, 
 but nothing too annoying.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : With a such good usage of HDR and bloom, it makes me wonder how a game that is 
 so underrated as this can be ignored. Everything in this game is beautiful. The environment captures 
 the forest, temples, and deserted structures consistently. The level of detail is above par. Jaw-dropping, 
 but not eye-popping. 
  
  Presentation (9/10) : In a short 8 hours, the game will feel like it has progressed a lot. I haven't 
 experienced this much condensed story since Indigo Prophesy, and I have to say, those two games 
 are completely different. Searching for the lost treasure of El Dorado is fun, but all I have to 
 say is watch out for a "180". It's fantastic.
  
  Final Opinion (9/10) : It's a 9 across the board. I wouldn't expect anything less from Naughty Dog. 
 Everyone should, at least, try to play this game from beginning to end in one sitting. Get some 
 friends over and switch off. I assure that you guys will have a blast. My only regret is that I 
 sold this back to GameStop. Final Word: This is a Keeper, Must Have, Must Own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft take note: Nathan Drake has arrived, and is the new king of the action adventure genre. 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is really an amazing experience, and one that is destined to become 
 a classic.
  
  In Uncharted, You play a likable everyday joe character by the name of Nathan Drake, who is believed 
 to be a direct descendant of famed British explorer, Sir Francis Drake. With the use of a map found 
 in a coffin believed to be Drakes, Nathan sets off to find the legendary treasure of Eldorado on 
 an uncharted island in the South Pacific. He is accompanied by a young woman named Elena Fisher 
 , who hosts an archaeology television show, and is documenting the events by video camera. Also 
 accompanying Drake is an old friend by the name of Sully, who's a bit of a con man and shady character, 
 but nonetheless likable, and he adds tons of charm and humor to make the story so good.
  
  Uncharted definitely shares similarities to the Tomb Raider series, but I would consider it to 
 be a great homage rather than a clone or copy of Lara Croft's games. But unlike Tomb Raider, Uncharted 
 never veers too far off into the realm of fantasy, and it manages to sustain it's charm and appeal 
 through more believable characters and a well told and imaginative storyline. Yes, there are plenty 
 of booby traps, Indiana Jones type action sequences, and the nefarious villains you would expect 
 to find in this type of game. But Nathan Drake has this 'everyday' man kind of appeal, where Lara 
 Croft was always the invincible heroine, brash and arrogant. Note: I promise this is the last Tomb 
 Raider reference!
  
  You play the game in a third person perspective, with Nathan sometimes accompanied by his cohorts. 
 You're able to leap across and onto ledges, vines and crevices to access hard to reach spots. Nate 
 also fires guns, and the combat is quite well done. To reference another game: it is not unlike 
 Epic's masterpiece, Gears of War. Nate can take cover behind most walls, rocks, and crates - popping 
 up to shoot enemies. The health system is almost identical to Gears as well. When hit by enemy 
 fire, the screen will turn a hazy gray and Nathans heart beats louder, indicating he is near death. 
 There is a fairly robust selection of guns and ammo found throughout the game, and all are very 
 fun to shoot, and the shooting mechanics feel solid and tight, without sacrificing realistic movement.
 
  
  And on the subject of realistic movement, this game has hands down some of the best motion capture 
 I've ever seen. All of Nathan's movements and actions are beautiful to watch. There is no stiffness 
 when he walks or runs, and even the implausible jumps he makes when leaping from ledge are made 
 to appear believable. Remain idle for a few minutes and you'll catch Nate gazing around, or kneeling 
 to take a rest.
  
  Now for the visuals: they are absolutely gorgeous. There has never been a game in this genre that 
 has managed to be as breathtaking as this. I often found myself just stopping at times for several 
 minutes just to take in the view. There were many instances, but the most noteworthy was on the 
 wall of an old Spanish fort, at the edge of a cliff overlooking the ocean. Seeing the fantastic 
 water effects of the ocean, the beautiful cumulus clouds, and amazing draw distance of the distant 
 islands will astound you. The character models are all superb as well, and their facial expressions 
 and lip syncing are matched perfectly to the fantastic dialog of the voice actors. The voice casting 
 deserves an A+, and they couldn't have found better actors to play each of the parts. All the other 
 sound effects in the game are A grade as well, and listening to it in surround sound on a great 
 speaker set up is nearly as good as watching an action film. Again, these are the types of things 
 that really separate an average or good game from a truly great one, and on every count Uncharted 
 manages to succeed.
  
  There is no multiplayer in Uncharted, and the adventure will run you anywhere from 8-12 hours, 
 depending on difficulty level, and how much you just like to stop and take in the view. But the 
 length of the game is just right. Anything less and you would have been wanting more. Anything 
 longer, and it would have begun to wear out its welcome. As is, it's perfect. There is some bonus 
 content with developer interviews, concept art, and photos of the Naughty Dog crew. You can also 
 replay the cut sequences. Another cool feature is the use of "trophies" ( Playstation's answer 
 to Xbox Live achievements) which you earn by finding hidden treasures, enemy kills, etc. Sony's 
 HOME is planned to launch this spring, and it's great that Naughty Dog was the first to incorporate 
 achievements in a PS game.
  
  To sum everything up: Playstation 3 owners owe it to themselves to play this fantastic game. Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune does everything so well, combining wonderful cinematics and great gameplay in a 
 seamless fashion, unlike any game before it. If you are a fan of the Tomb Raider series or games 
 of that breed, play this. If you don't have a Ps3, buy one and play this. It's that good. --Chief
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CKFF71up
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  So I wanted to share my thoughts on how this wonderful game was.
  
  Story: To sum up Uncharted: Drakes Fortune... it's pretty much about a man Named Nathan Drake and 
 Elena Fisher who at the start are filming on a boat where Nathan has found a coffin of supposed 
 Sir Francis Drake. Surprisingly instead of finding a body, they find a journal of Francis's Travels... not 
 soon after that Pirates attack them. Eventually Nate decides to Undertake a Adventure believing 
 that Sir Francis's Journal will lead them to the Golden City of Eldorado.
  
  Gameplay: To Specify things right, Uncharted doesn't invent anything new. I hear a lot of people 
 complain that the game play is similar and a copy of Gears of War ( Run, Cover, Fire Gameplay) , 
 but really Gears didn't invent anything new with that either because a PS2 game called Killswitch 
 did that long before Gears ever thought of it. 
  
  Anyways.. Uncharted's gameplay is very fun regardless. Theres 2 things your doing. 1- Your fighting 
 and gunning Pirates and 2- Your exploring and figuring out puzzles. It mixes in great and surprisingly 
 I was one of the few that didn't get tired of the endless waves of Pirates because halfway through 
 the game theres a twist that I can't say that changes all this so theres no worry. Drake also makes 
 a better Tomb Raider... trust me. The combat thing was sort of weak I mean it wasn't all that needed 
 unless you ran out of ammo and sometimes you would get extra ammo, it's not bad and it doesn't 
 need to be taken out just i didn't use it as much as I thought I would have to.
  
  Controls: There very good.. everything responds well I mean I didn't find any trouble with it since 
 your not having to use every button on the controller. The aiming was sort of weird... but I liked 
 how you could switch the angle of where your pointing by clicking the left analog stick in.
  
  Replayability: This game is full of it since theres this artifacts and treasures to find in 
 the game which are placed secretly in each of the levels and then theres medal points which you 
 are awarded for such as getting 50 head shots with a pistol, get 5 combos perfect etc which these 
 point go to unlocking cheats, costumes etc so it adds a lot of going back and doing stuff over.
 
  
  Overall: If your looking for a awesome Adventure game that has a amazing story with some run and 
 cover gameplay and exploring than this is the game for sure... hell it's Playstation 3's best game 
 out so far so don't miss this game for the love of god if u have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: converse
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Having only just become a PS3 owner I have to say I was blown away by Drake's Fortune. I was expecting 
 a lukewarm game from the review I read on Gamespot's webpages. I usually only spend money on a 
 9+ rated game so I very nearly didn't touch this one.... and that would have been a total travesity! 
 This game has it all, guns, explosions, set pieces, great dialogue, frustration, elation, laughs, 
 surprises, you get the picture? Now, I don't know where Gamespot are getting off with an 8! but 
 it has rocked my confidence on their reviewing skills. This is PS3's flagship game and if this 
 is a taste of what the PS3 can do then bring on the golden years of gaming. I have been a multiplatform 
 player for decades now and have played games that have left me as flat as a pancake, trust me if 
 you are unsure on Drake's Fortune, BUY IT! You won't be let down. Now I'm going back in to find 
 all 60 treasures now if you don't mind. Well done naughty dog! It really shows that you want to 
 please the gamers, can't wait for Drake's Fortune 2. Shame on you Gamespot, and while I'm nagging 
 what is your problem with Monster Hunter on the PSP? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeishawt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has the difficult task of being a banner title for the struggling Playstation 
 3 system, and for the most part it delivers. Uncharted follows the adventure of Nate Drake, his 
 older companion Sully, and some annoying girl i didnt care enough to remember the name of as they 
 go on a hunt for the lost treasure of el dorado as described in Sir Francis Drake's secret diary. 
 The story is full of humor, great dialog, an all too obvious plot twist, and a not so obvious rediculous 
 plot twist. 
  
  While Uncharted is a visual marvel with clever level design rivaling that of the most recent Tomb 
 Raider games, Naughty Dog did make some surprisingly bad/awkward design choices for most of the 
 platforming and gunplay sequences. For example, why can i literally blow a hole in a wall, walk 
 through, fire my gun to allow a rope to drop, climb said rope, jump to a ledge, climb over the 
 other side, and as soon as my feet hit the ground 30 baddies run towards me? Did they not hear 
 the excessive noise i so charmingly made entering their uber-secret base? While talking about the 
 bad dudes in uncharted it has to be noted that during the process of playing through the main story 
 mode, you will hear the same 5 lines of dialogue unmercifully every 15 seconds. My personal favorite 
 is while during a massive gunfight you will hear a baddie scream, "There he is!". Here i am, pinned 
 behind a randomly placed crate for the last half hour, killing your baddie friends; and now you 
 see me. Along with the repetition in dialogue, i must admit it is an unnerving experience to kill 
 a baddie only to see the exact same baddie, shirt, weapon and all directly behind him. i believe 
 this is a problem due to the fact that there are apparantly 10,000 baddies on this island which 
 most of the game takes place on. i was half expecting the camera to pan out at the end of the game 
 to reveal the island is in the shape of a skull and is called Isle of the Baddies, where all the 
 baddies are born, live, and subsiquently die by my lone hand. 
  
  At this point in the review it seems that i hated uncharted with a feveriously unsatisfied passion; 
 this is not true. i was able to enjoy uncharted thanks to its main character: Nathan Drake. Nate 
 is a hunky twenty-something that spends all his spare time looking for treasure with a creepy old 
 guy named Sully. Oh, and apparantly doing greuling upper body strength training to be able to have 
 his elite ledge hopping skills. The female character, a documentarian, is your run of the mill 
 sassy woman with the "i can do anything" attitude up until she desides to stay behind in a room 
 for no reason allowing you to perform some daunting task alone while she manages to get herself 
 kidnapped. My personal favorite characters are of course, the baddies, which all have the same 
 terrible philipino accent which annoys you when they taunt you after you die with a simple, "You're 
 not so tough." then run off with their 45 other bad dude friends he needed to kill you. 
  
  As mentioned before, Uncharted is a banner game for the ps3. That is to say, it is a game that 
 will make people say, "Hey! That game is for the Playstation 3! And its good!". The seemingly endless 
 gunplay sequences are tedious, sometimes boring, and more often than not they appear to only be 
 placed there to elongate the gameplay. Uncharted is lucky it came out on the ps3 due to the fact 
 that i was so excited to turn my playstation on, the notion of an entertaining game was just a 
 bonus. I say it was lucky to be on the playstation 3 because i would allow good characters to cover 
 for bad design and other annoying quirks for any other reason than i want my ps3 to be something 
 besides a dust magnet. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune comes from the developer who mastered the platforming genre. Crash Bandicoot 
 is considered one of the greatest franchises of all time and the Jak and Daxter series became an 
 instant classic on the PS2. Consider it a shock when Naughty Dog revealed their latest game, a 
 Tomb-Raider-esque adventure title set in the hunt for lost treasure. The concept itself won't win 
 awards for originality, but the game itself offers up more than a solid offering of action, platforming, 
 and a well-balanced story.
  
  Uncharted tells the story of one Nathan Drake, a cocky, arrogant, egotistical adventure who is 
 off searching for clues to his last ancestor Sir Francis Drake's treasure. Joined by his veteran 
 friend, Sully, and his on-and-off love affair throughout the game, Elena, the no-holds-barred reporter 
 who is funding their little expedition, the trio head to El Dorado, a city of gold where they believe 
 lays the remains of Sir Francis Drake and his long-lost treasure. The three of them make a truly 
 interesting cast and the relationships and dialogues between them throughout the game make a truly 
 exciting and invigorating story.
  
  The concept of Uncharted is to feel underwhelmed, because, naturally you will be. Like all great 
 treasure related adventures, Nathan will not be alone in his quest to find El Dorado. A group of 
 mercenaries hired by a wealthy and selfish English businessman are also after the treasure, and 
 they bring the heat more often than not throughout the game. These mercs are your enemies throughout 
 the course of the game and will often suppress you with constant bombardments of relentless firepower. 
 These enemies are by no means soft-shelled or whimsy, they will try to flank you and take over 
 your position and they will, more often than not, succeed.
  
  In order to defend off these attackers, Nathan has a wide arsenal of skills at his disposal to 
 use. Nathan can crouch behind any solid structure, whether it be stone pillars, fallen rubble, 
 or trees, in which case he can lean around and view his surroundings. Using cover is the key to 
 survival and also an important element to getting the advantage against your foes. Once hidden 
 from fire (for the most part) , you can than move to a better position while still crouched, or 
 lean in any given direction and roll your way around the world trying to get to the hard to reach 
 guys.
  
  The concept derives a lot of ideas from Gears of War in the fact that you will be using cover a 
 lot during battles and you can shoot freely over your head or hold the L1 button to get out of 
 cover but aim your weapon. Using the free shooting is not nearly as effective as aiming your weapon, 
 but you must always know when you want to give up protection for a clear shot. Nathan also can 
 jump over hurdles when covered for a quick dash in any direction. This gives players a fast-paced 
 break from the often monotonous shooting down throughout the levels.
  
  Uncharted also has a fair share of platforming segments destined to keep you entertained. Instead 
 of just simple jumping and running sections, Nathan must climb up towers, swing along walls using 
 ropes, and even slide down falling rubble to the next portion. These segments aren't ever long 
 enough to get bored from doing them over and over again, but from what you get you will no doubt 
 enjoy. 
  
  Your journey will not be restricted on ground during the game, as you will find yourself heading 
 to the waters more often than not. A few sections have you commandeering a Jet Ski racing to the 
 other end of the city while shooting bad guys. All of these segments are packed with adrenaline 
 bursts that keep the action moving at just the right paces while adhering to the adventure aspects 
 of the game. 
  
  There might be some moments in the game that could feel tiring to everyone, like the constant nonstop 
 barrage of enemies and the lack of ammo. These issues are definitely cumbersome in the early portions 
 of the game when you are trying to get the feel of combat, but as time goes on you will learn to 
 consume your ammo and use your surroundings to your advantage. It is true there was a time I got 
 frustrated with a fourth swarm of enemies approaching me after I already shot nearly twenty-five 
 guys in one section, but it was rewarding to defeat them all and only have three bullets left in 
 my gun. That kind of scarcity in ammo leaves you to a more strategic approach to how to overtake 
 enemies and combat in general.
  
  The visuals in Uncharted are some of the best the PS3 can offer. The jungle sites are bristle with 
 delicate beauty, often with the trees and leaves blowing in the wind. Drake's movements also look 
 very photo-realistic with no skips or drops in his movements as other games have. Each level also 
 has its own unique style to it, from an old sunken German WWII boat to a church overrun with ancient 
 mosque stylings and dark, gloomy artifacts. Every area will keep you intrigued to press on to see 
 what else lies around the corner. The voice acting is also very well performed and is up to par 
 with some of the best animated films derived from Hollywood. No person feels out of place with 
 their voices and the sound effects, such as weapons, water, and plane crashes are sound extremely 
 accurate. 
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an excellent example of how well you can borrow ideas from other 
 games while creating your own unique and compelling experience. The game never lets up from the 
 moment you start and you will be left wondering just how much action one game can throw at you. 
 There could have been a more diverse case of enemies, but once you reach that final climatic ending, 
 you will forget about those nonsensical foes and realize the beauty that was Uncharted. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adija
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Putting you in the shoes of Nathan Drake -- a worldly treasure hunter on the trail of something 
 big -- Uncharted tosses players into a third-person  homage 
 to the pulp-action movies of yesteryear. Nate takes on pirates, scales ancient walls, swings from 
 jungle vines and solves puzzles using the most basic of clues on his path to unearthing the secrets 
 of his ancestor Sir Francis Drake alongside his cigar-chomping buddy Sullie and newswoman Elena.
 
  
  Uncharted does what few titles manage -- it completely immerses you in its experience. From the 
 moment the game begins with a sweeping camera move through the waters off Panama, a rich score 
 and the words of Sir Francis Drake etched on screen, Uncharted will have you hooked. It'll maintain 
 that hold with its story, style and gameplay.
  
  If the broad strokes of Drake's treasure hunting story sound hackneyed -- a tough female reporter 
 who hates the hero at first slowly starts to dig him, the older partner's past catches up with 
 him on the hunt of the century, etc. -- rest assured that the possible setback is blown out of 
 the water by the superb dialogue and motion capture from the cast.
  
  I don't like your haircut. A lot of times we as an industry like to wax on and on about how videogames 
 rival movies, but rarely do we have an example as well done as Uncharted. Nate is funny as he laments 
 over yet another wall he needs to scale, Sullie is loveable as he tells the same traveler's tales 
 over and over, and Elena's fire for her story and give-and-take with Nate is endearing. When these 
 characters interact and you watch their relationships grow, you feel like you're part of their 
 circle. You feel like they're your friends.
  
  Hell, Naughty Dog even went the extra step and made Elena and Sullie non-playable characters that 
 actually help you out. 
  
  From the first time Elena and I got into it with a set of pirates, she was alongside our hero shooting 
 the bad guys. Mind you, she wasn't softening them up for Drake and she wasn't hiding, she was shooting 
 to death the guys I missed. When Sullie and I were investigating ancient ruins in the heart of 
 the jungle, my former mentor was quick to pull chain levers to open doors for me as well as provide 
 his lighter to enact certain puzzle pieces on our journey.
  
  Non-playable characters with spot-on AI is something we don't see enough of in games. Of course, 
 you're not just sitting around watching Drake, Sullie and Elena's story unfold before you; you 
 are playing it, and thankfully the mechanics here work just as well as the characterization. As 
 you trudge deeper and deeper into the mythos of Sir Francis's series of clues, you're going to 
 bring down more and more heat from pirates and sniper-rifle packing fools hired by Sullie's debtors. 
 When you battle these foes, you'll need to make use of the cover provided by ceremonial pillars, 
 crates and any other jungle spot you can slam your back against and pop out to shoot from.
  
  The general format for a battle starts with Drake huddled in one spot while the enemies attack 
 -- he'll cringe and duck as the bullets rain down on his position -- and when the bad guys reload, 
 Drake pops out to put a few pistol or shotgun rounds in them. The process repeats until the foes 
 are dead.
  
  It might sound tedious, but Uncharted tries to shake it up by having enemies come at you from different 
 levels and use different tactics. Some will hurl grenades to try and flush you out, others will 
 flank you, and the big shirtless dudes don't mind running straight at you with their shotguns drawn. 
 The constant variety keeps with the game's fast-paced style even when you're pinned down, and keeping 
 that style consistent is one of the crowning achievements in Uncharted. Whereas lots of games try 
 to have an exciting storyline and then get bogged down with making you nail the mundane, Uncharted 
 gives you a breakneck story and doesn't ask you to sweat the small stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I just beat Uncharted and WOW what a game! I had so much fun playing this game! This is one of 
 the most exciting games to play. Beginning to end, it was so action packed and kept you wanting 
 more. One of the best parts of the game is the cut scenes and playing style. It really makes you 
 feel like you are right there in the game with them! The shooter style is really good, along with 
 the hand to hand combat. Easy to aim and shoot at enemies. It was actually really funny! There 
 were some really great scenes that made me laugh, and there were also some really great scenes 
 that kept you on your toes. This game is definitely one of those kinds of games where you just 
 can't put your controller down. You really want to keep playing until you reach your goal. Great 
 graphics, great game style, great cut scenes, and just plain fun!
  ~Scarlett
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chidori455
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought Uncharted: Drake's Fortune yesterday because I was dying for a third-person shooter and 
 this seemed to be the best one for the PS3 at the time. Boy was I not disappointed! The graphics 
 are phenomenal, making the game's tropical rain forest environments feel almost like your playing 
 a movie, with a little help from the amazing music/sound effects and non-stop action. The game 
 uses cover brilliantly , almost as if you are playing Gears of War using Fenix's son, and has some 
 of the best dialogue in a game I've heard in recent days. The platforming elements and vehicle 
 combat provide a great break from the formula, as well as all of the many weapons which are fun 
 to play around with. The game's AI is descent, as if you stay in one spot for too long the enemy 
 pirates will try to flank you. The game's story is its strongest point, and although it is rather 
 short the ride is filled with many great twists and turns which are both exciting and exhilarating. 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has some re-playability due to the trophy system similar to that of 
 the 360, as well as the Super Hard difficulty unlocked after completing the game. This is definitely 
 a must buy for any PS3 owner and is a great addition to anyone's library. An amazing game in deed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  U should play if U got a PS3! And really like the movie: "National treasure". Nice action. Nice 
 graphics. Such as Jungle, waterfall etc. U also get wet when U in the water. All is realistic So, 
 U're playing a movie. If they can put in the boss in each chapter. that must be more fun of it. 
 And bring the climax to each chapter. Now the story is going quite straight. But anyway this is 
 a good game also. Enjoy! 
  
  I feel the passion of the game maker. Waiting for your new game ! 
  
  
  
  Good: 
  1. 
 Excellent realtime graphics. Especially the water effect.
  2. Nice shooting action. Really feel exciting. U can hide & strike back.
  3. Story is OK.
  
 4. More weapons to choice.
  5. No life bar. Use a color to b&w to instead it. Good idea!
  
  Bad:
  1. No boss to fight in each chapter. Can't make the climax in each chapter.
  2. Not 
 enough secret too unlock.
  3. The monster should appear early in the game. And they can do some awesome in the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewnish1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Graphically this game is a work of art. The evironments are stunning and not a single second of 
 the game feels repetitive. The colors are vibrant and it feels almost real. The storyline is also 
 A+ because it lends itself to the typical story that has always excited movie-goers. There are 
 narrow escapes, high action, twists in the plot and character building. The cut-scenes are equally 
 impeccable leaving only playability to discuss. When I buy a game and finish it in a day or two, 
 I realize I have stumbled upon somthing special. 
  
  Uncharted is that game. You are constantly switching between great weapons and trying to find the 
 treasure. A downfall of any game is when it is too difficult. Unlike the gamespot review, I did 
 not find this to be the case. I never felt overwhelmed to the point of quitting. If there was a 
 complaint about gameplay it might be and I stress "might" be the sometimes linear play. Meaning 
 that on occassion you are led in the correct direction (when scaling cliffs) because the wrong 
 direction results in death. The other would be that I felt the game ended to quickly. Perhaps that 
 is because I absolutely loved it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Uncharted : Drakes Fortune is a awesome action adventure game from SCEA and Naughty Dog .Thanks 
 to SONY for making it exclusive , this game shows true next gen power and capability of PS 3 , 
 if u play it in a HDTV .
  
  First thing you will notice in Uncharted :drakes fortune is its graphics / visuals .They are stunningly 
 beautiful .The games atmosphere ( tropical island paradise) , water effects , vegetation colour 
 rocks . Next is the seemingly realistic characters .The character animations , voiceacting , humour 
 simply top grade .AI is brutal above normal difficulty .Cutscenes is very impressive. The games 
 story is highly engrossing .Soundquality , background music rocks .
  
  
  The game starts with Nathan Drake decendant of once legendary adventurer Sir Frances Drake looking 
 for EL DORADO's lost gold .His freinds Victor "sullysullivian and journalist Elena Fisher join 
 natahans quest for hunting the lost gold .But all is not easy as it seems . Nathan and sullys arch 
 enemies Gabriel roman , mercenaries leader atoq navarro and eddie raja found out the about the 
 lost gold too and in hot pursuit for the lost gold too .So Nathans quest for the gold is full of 
 pirates , mercenaries , instant kill missed platforming , puzzles and mutants ( keepers of the 
 treasure ) to deal with .Now you get a highly packed action game besides adventuring .
  
  
  Nathan can take cover and shoot plus melee fight sometimes too .Nathan gets varietys of weapons 
 to protect himself .His mates are unkillable , so nathan has to watch his own back always .Nathan 
 can heal himself from taking cover. In some missions nathan gets to ride Jetski , jeep .The opponents 
 are too much in number and hard to kill in one shot (except headshot) , so watch out before you 
 think of wasting your ammo .You play the game in third person mode .The game has tons of user freindly 
 yet exciting platforming ( come on guys ... u all know Naughty Dogs cool style ) and puzzles to 
 solve .I can't say Tomb Raider is the best now , all i can say is Uncharted : drakes Fortune is 
 no less than a Tomb Raider game .
  
  You get to collect tons of treasures throughtout the game ( as side quest ) to boost up your skill 
 points . You have to defeat enemies in different style or by combos to unlock more skill points 
 . Skill points lets you ultimately unlock skins , cheats , behind the scenes / making of .... videos 
 , concept arts etc under rewards .The game is highly replayable for unlocking more stuffs and the 
 single player adventure is lenghty .
  
  Unfortunately there is no multiplayer in the game , but it dosen't matter .Its single player itself 
 is a rich highly enjoyable experience in its own .
  
  I recommend this game highly to PS 3 owners .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  
  This is a beautiful game taking place in a great location its nice to have a game that sticks to 
 a more real world story it has some science fiction to it but not a lot just a bit to make the 
 story believable. The graphics will make you want to explore the jungles and the ruins from top 
 to bottom and the game lets you do that on certain occasion when you're not in a firefight. You 
 will be encouraged to do some exploring because of the hidden treasures scattered throughout the 
 game you will be rewarded with medals and bonus materials once to manage to find some not very 
 much incentive, but still makes you want to start collecting besides trying to finish the game 
 as fast as you can. 
  The characters are not memorable! Drake has a interesting personality, but his appearance does 
 not get the job done for me. He looks boring, a typical white man that does not look like he is 
 an explorer. The protagonist could have been more developed instead of taking a shortcut and make 
 him look simple.
  The only character remembered is Elena, mainly because she's a fine lookin dime nothing else she's 
 just hot. 
  I didn't think this game would be this good until I played it, the first impressions I got from 
 seeing the ads was an average third person shooter with a cliche story, but you really have to 
 play the game to really know what its all about and I can guarantee you will have fun if you let 
 yourself in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Great game! This review maybe the worst ever because I'm used to say very bad things of the games... 
 this one is an exception...
  thats why i said: "Hard to Describe"
  
  The good things:
  - Great combat mechanic, both gun fights and fist fights!
  - Tropical environment, with lots 
 of water and moth with lots of details like the sunshine;
  - The AI is well developed, your enemies surround you in no time so it is harder to beat them;
 
  - There is also a great thing in this game... you can pause the movie... not very usual in the 
 games;
  - The treasures remember you the previous jak series where you have to catch orbs, and also makes 
 you explore the beautifully and detailed environment of Uncharted!
  - Medals make the game bigger, if you have the patience to get them all that is...
  - Really 
 good voice acting and (because of the ps3) good acting in the motion capture studio
  - Cool story line, specially in the end... it's not very naughtydog style in a way... but in the 
 other... I guess it is... (only persons who have played the game will understand this sentence)
 
  - Almost no bugs/glitches in the game :D
  - Features like changing the skin or choose the weapon are cool and make want to play it again 
 with your fav things;
  - It as a lot of languages and subtitles you can choose, although the original voice is always 
 better;
  - The connection with agent history makes the story interesting (connection with Francis Drake)
 
  - WOW vehicles!;
  - Realistic in almost every way, you get wet and dirty! XD
  - Every character is cool and has his style;
  - Naughtydog's favorite: jumping from platform 
 to another! :D
  - And the best for PS fans... it's an exclusive  D
  - It doesn't use sixaxis very much, which is good, because the players aren't used to it very well.
 
  - DualShock 3 is going to make this game even better :D
  - The camera is perfect... almost perfect.
  - Breakable walls... wow!
  
  
  The bad things
 
  - It's a big world no doubt but for naughtydog it could be bigger;
  - No multiplayer... :' ( it could have, I mean, it wasn't impossible;
  - No online features...;
 
  - you can't shoot the dead bodies... (one of the reasons why it wasn't rated M... which is good 
 for the fans of naughtydog that are mostly younger than 18)
  - Not very long game... just 9 hours...
  - (this one I don't know if it is bad or good...) as 
 in the jak series Nathan Drake doesn't have the chance of kissing... that s*cks... (maybe in the 
 last game of Uncharted...)
  - cool combos but they're not very much...
  - (SPOILLER) :' ( no more camera for Elena
  - So cool weaponds and then you have granades that 
 go red... I mean... wtf?
  
  
  
  poor review...
  your host: NaughtydogMania!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibrita
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune
  
  The game is quite good but not as great as Jak and Crash series. Naughty Dog have tried something 
 new for which I admire them. They have created a game not a masterpiece.
  
  Uncharted for me is just graphics with average gameplay and good story. 
  -The gameplay is nothing 
 much- running, jumping and shooting. There are a lot of moments in the game when you have only 
 to shoot lots of guys which makes it rather boring. All the rest I have already encountered in 
 other games.
  -If it was not the story and the graphics Uncharted was going to be total let down for me. The 
 story just make you keep playing to see what is going to happen and the graphics are really stunning. 
 
  
  As far as I know there is going to be Uncharted 2, hope it will be better. And Naughty please make 
 new Jak.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mendoza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I had been aware of Uncharted. I saw the videos and played the demo but wasn't that hooked by any 
 of them. I got the game as a gift and the last time I had so much play a game, was so amazed by 
 the graphics and didn't want it to end was when I played the first God of War.
  
  For me Uncharted finally delivers on the next-gen gaming experience I have been waiting for since 
 the launch of the PS3. The graphics in HD are nothing short of jaw dropping. So much so that you 
 will laugh at yourself for spending so much time admiring the water. The animation system is every 
 bit as good and dynamic as the city running found in Assasin's Creed but the characters and story 
 are world's better. Think 60% National Treasure, 30% Indiana Jones and 10% Resident Evil. So yea 
 buy this game for your PS# collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This a solid title that is really a must buy for the ps3. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. Great attention to detail. There's also a pretty entertaining plot here, 
 with a lot of twists and changes of pace. 
  
  The gameplay is lively. The halo-esque health regeneration may not make much sense, but it is a 
 great way to have some solid run and gun action. There's lots of great gunfight standoffs that 
 reward creativity. A good mix of environmental kills, hand to hand, and actual gunplay, which itself 
 has a good mix of standard weaponry in pistols, shotguns, grenades, rifles and some others. The 
 game also has different types of standoffs, like riding and shooting from a jetski. Between the 
 games gunfights, there are puzzle and platformer elements that require a keen eye and an open mind. 
 The different diffculties keep things interesting for quite some time.
  
  Overall, the positives of this game lay in its environments. They are realistic in every way. They 
 are stunning to look at. There are many types of settings, from the jungle foliage to ruins to 
 a city . The environments react in a predicable and believable fashion. You'll grab some cover 
 only to have it shot to shreds and you'll be leaping to the next cover. There are a lot of puzzles 
 that require you to look discerningly at your surroundings.
  
  
  The problems in the game add up though. The plot, although entertaining and vibrant, is mired in 
 cliches and generally less than stellar writing. There is absolutely no doubt that this is a game 
 that is trying to be a movie and has many of the conventions of films as a result. The problem 
 is that the game then begs to be compared to movies, and really doesn't compare favorably against 
 that standard (like most games actually) . Old, generic, often confusing. If it weren't trying so 
 hard to be a movie it might not have this problem.
  
  There are also some problems in the gameplay. Grenades are guided with the sixaxis, which is interesting 
 but I never became as quick and intuitive as shooting and hand to hand. There are hidden artifacts 
 to find, but I doubt anyone will care enough to find them. You might pick one up if you see it 
 along the way, but actually looking for them would be tedious. There is also a perplexing change 
 in the gameplay late in the game, which is again a mixed offering. It should have been toned down 
 a bit or at least eased into a lot better in the earlier levels. To be fair it made some of the 
 last levels steeped in a beautiful and intense sense of confusion and chaos just as the game was 
 getting stale. I dont want to offer spoilers here, but there is a late level with 3 sides and no 
 alliances
  
  With everything into account this is no renter. This is the kind of game you should buy. It is 
 fun, which is the most important factor of all
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONbonSMITH
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune:
  
  What's to Like:
  The first thing I noticed that was outstanding in the demo was the visuals, which is probably what 
 naughty dog wanted you to do. Environmental effects such as the water you won't see on anything 
 else, lighting, and background are all very immersive. The water is the best though. To many FPS 
 are out on the market, and that's why I thought this really stood out from any other shooter. I 
 make the action to rent UJF, and I was even more impressed, I wasn't aware of all the extras and 
 rewards you got as you proceeded through the campaign. It gives it an XBL achievement feel, but 
 more rewarding. Some of the things you will unlock include cut scenes from the game, making of 
 the game videos, and artwork, some of which are available on the PSN. You also unlock costumes, 
 you can choose you own weapons without having to pick them up, filters and the flip mode which 
 is cool because it's like going through a whole different world if you replay it.
  There is a nice variety of weapons throughout the game, shotguns, pistols and my favorite the dragon 
 sniper rifle (which didn't see enough playing time for my taste) . The gameplay also works really 
 nice. Some people don't like the style, but it goes with the theme and allows to show off the environment 
 more. The AI is satisfying, there are a few spots where you might find yourself in a pickle, they 
 are retarded in the sense that the poke their heads out at the wrong time, but given the chance 
 and a big enough group, they will surround you. (That's just on normal) It took about 8 hours to 
 finish it on normal; it may not seem like a lot on paper, but it's very satisfying when you play 
 it, once you think you've reached your objective, something snaps and you're on the look out again. 
 It keeps you wanting to play more and it lets you, the perfect middle ground. The story is general 
 is. it rocks, it will seem a little weird at times, but its like clich like most of the older 
 films of the genre.
  Overall Uncharted is an awesome game, very well balanced. Everything from jumping to shooting is 
 fun to watch and do. There is absolutely no part of this game that gets "boring" or annoying, you 
 don't even have to worry about Elena getting turned into Swiss cheese or road pizza, which would 
 have been troublesome otherwise. I still have a bunch of rental time left, but I don't want to 
 waste the time, playing this progressed me to making the decision that I will buy this in the near 
 future no questions asked.
  
  Things to watch out for: 
  The only real problems I had were the minor visual errors that stand out like a sore thumb, and 
 sometimes when you're jumping it seems a little inconsistent, just minor errors. 
  
  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune= Epic Success
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jusdafide
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is seriously one of the coolest games I've played thus far for the ps3. The story seems quite 
 long though I actually beat it in about 9 hours. The graphics are amazing and the game just seems 
 to flow so perfectly. My wife rented it for me because 60 dollars is a lot to pay for a game you're 
 probably going to play through only once.
  
  I don't really see any replay value in the game whatsoever but it is a good game to rent on a weekend 
 to kill time. The actors did their job very well and this can be seen because the story is believable. 
 When the characters talk, their voices match their lips and it just looks so real. I'm really impressed 
 with the ps3 and hope more games can look and play like this in the future. There isn't really 
 room for a Drake's Fortune 2 because the game is summed up and completed after the first time through, 
 leaving little to no room for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a great PS3 game that should not be missed by anyone who has a PlayStation 3!
  
  This game has a great story that starts well, and is with you throughout the game. In my mind next 
 generation games must incorporate a good story and Naughty Dog has done a great job of pulling 
 the player into what is unfolding around Drake. This is an action packed adventure that covers 
 all the bases: Story, Graphics, Sound, GamePlay, and Controls.
  
  
  GamePlay:
  This game has a nice mix of adventuring through jungles filed with ruins and Spanish forts, to 
 your expected gun-play. Every aspect of the game play is polished; in fact everything about this 
 game is polished to an auto show brilliant shine. At first the jungle seems a bit intimidating 
 as far as which way do I / can I go, but that will soon disappear. You will be climbing and swinging 
 to work your way around in no time. Moving around the environment is fresh and fun.
  
  There are a lot of gunfights and if you can get close, the hand to hand combat is done really well 
 too. We PS3ers now have a game with a "cover system" and again Naughty Dog did an excellent job 
 on it. Simply it works; it works well and is a lot of fun! For this aspect alone, this game is 
 worth buying. I'll tell you from now on, I'll want to play games of this type, 3rd person with 
 cover systems. This of course does require good planning on the level design and other factors, 
 which Uncharted pulls off really well.
  
  I think that a "Cover System" will soon, if it hasn't already, become a new standard in these types 
 of games. Much like "Bullet Time" was first done in Max Payne on the PS2. Max Payne got and deserved 
 the credit for being first, and then lots of games incorporated slow motion. OK, Gears of War deserves 
 the credit for "Cover System", thanks for coming up with this 3rd person shooter concept with cover. 
 It works, it's realistic and fun. 
  
  There are some really fun vehicle trips with Elena, actually your friend/reporter Elena also has 
 some good AI. She can hold her own. The AI for the game is overall done very well. I'd have to 
 go back to a game like F. E. A. R to find an AI that would flank you if you camp out in one spot for 
 too long. 
  
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  The only game that is on par with this game is Heavenly Sword. The graphics in Uncharted are amazing. 
 The cut scenes are brilliant works of animation. Little touches all over this game present a stunning 
 graphical achievement. I can't describe how well they did the lighting effects; you must see it 
 for yourself. The Sound is equally well done, little touches of sound here and there to set the 
 environment, pull off a move, convey a reaction all well thought out and pulled off. Enough said.
 
  
  
  Controls:
  The controls are set up very well, and the game feels like it reacts to you with ease. You won't 
 get stuck to any cover, and you will jump where you intend. The controls work and feel very solid.
 
  
  
  Replay Value:
  I don't often play a game a second time through, I usually go on to the next. I played this first 
 time in easy mode, and had so much fun with it that I am going through in normal mode again. Treasures, 
 Medals and Rewards, are plenty. I also started collecting the treasures, and now want to find them 
 all. Treasures are another point about polish, wait until you see one; they are amazing to look 
 at even in themselves. There are also things to unlock as you play through, if that's your thing, 
 there are plenty of things, like a medal for 50 head shots with the PM-9. These Treasures and Medals 
 will generate Rewards that include costumes, movies, concept art, weapon selects and even some 
 cool game rendering modes. This game is packed with extra content.
  
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  This is an awesome game. A must buy for PlayStation 3 owners. It has been highly 
 polished all over many times. Nothing was rushed here. I went in thinking Tomb Raider and something 
 called Gears of War "Cover System", I forgot all about Tomb Raider after thirty seconds and finally 
 learned what a Cover System was and how much fun it was to play. Now, I can hardly wait to see 
 what is next for my buddy Nathan Drake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadrifoglio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted has been one of the flagship titles for the Playstation 3 ever since the game was announced, 
 and it's safe to say that Naughty Dog have definitely outdone themselves this time with Uncharted: 
 Drakes Fortune.
  
  Even though the game might only be 6-8 hours long on the easiest difficulty setting, those six 
 hours are so jam-packed with fun that you owe it to yourself to pick this one up.
  
  Uncharted tells a story of a man named Nathan Drake, who discovers a map from his ancestor Francis 
 Drake, who was an English slave trader in the 16th century, explaining the whereabouts of the mythical 
 treasure of El Dorado. Nathan travels to the island with the help of his friend Sully and a girl 
 named Elana Fisher, whose company is funding Nathans trip in the hopes of filming a blockbuster 
 documentary
  .
  Over the course of the 6-8 hours it will take you to complete the game, you will encounter one 
 of the greatest stories in this generation of consoles; the entire story is full of twists and 
 turns, and you won't be able to put your controller down until you see the credits roll across 
 the screen.
  
  Uncharted: Drakes Fortunes gameplay consists of four elements: platforming, gunplay, hand-to-hand 
 combat, and puzzle-solving.
  
  Even though the game borrows heavily from games such as Gears of War and Tomb Raider, it does it 
 with an unprecedented sense of realism.
  
  The shooting and fighting elements are where Uncharted shines; sneak up on an enemy and snap there 
 necks, or slowly move into cover and pop a guerilla soldier in the head? While the enemies take 
 a good amount of shots to go down (about 2-3 shots in the chest on the Easy difficulty setting) , 
 it is quite satisfying when you manage to kill them all. 
  
  If you're running low on ammunition, you can always resort to the fistfighting. At any given moment, 
 you can run up to an enemy and press a certain combination of buttons to execute them. You can 
 opt to mash the square button a number of times, although it takes longer to kill your enemy, or 
 you can throw in a combination. For example: square, triangle, square. This combo is a fast and 
 efficent method for killing your enemy. You can also unlock new and better combos that will kill 
 your enemies in a more stylish way. The animation provides a big part of the satisfaction of punching 
 your enemies to death. 
  
  Fistfighting should be your last resort though. Nathan will continue to absorb damage if he is 
 being shot at while fighting an enemy.
  
  The enemy AI is also superb: enemies will flank you, move in to cover and just generally try to 
 outsmart you, and it forces you to think on your feet, making the gunplay thrilling and exciting.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the puzzle-solving and platforming elements don't quite match up to the gun-play. 
 That's not to say that they aren't enjoyable  they're just not as good.
  
  The platforming and puzzle-solving sequences are really easy and not very challenging. Most, if 
 not all of the answers to the puzzles can be found in Francis Drakes diary, which you can open 
 by simply pressing the select button. While the platforming sequences are overly straightforward, 
 they are a lot of fun.
  
  Visually, Uncharted is a joy to look at. Especially if you have an HDTV. Everything about the game 
 just has some sort of visual "pop" that will make your mouth water every time you see it. To the 
 impressive lighting engine, to the lush, tropical jungle, Uncharted will continue to amaze you. 
 
  
  The animations are where the game truly shines though. Nathan will run, jump, roll and hop into 
 cover in such a realistic manner, that your jaw will just simply drop to the floor. 
  
  It's especially in the little details such as Nathans clothes getting wet when you swim, to him 
 actually walking over the dead bodies instead of clipping right through them as most games tend 
 to do.
  
  The game also has an excellent soundtrack, full of appropriately jungle-like sounds, which really 
 makes you feel like you are in the jungle. On top of that, the game also has some terrific voice-acting. 
 The voice actors aren't really big name celebrities, but each and every single one of them completely 
 nails their part. 
  
  The voice actor for Nathan really nails the sort of cocky, self-centered, arrogant personality 
 and the voice actor for Elana also nails the sort of smart, reasonable personality that she is 
 portrayed as in the game.
  
  In short, the only way of describing Uncharted: Drakes Fortune would have to be: amazing.
  
 
  From the graphics, to the gameplay, to the story, to the voice acting, Uncharted is simply amazing. 
 
  
  Although the game has its quirks, they are ones that you can easily look past. 
  
  If you own a Playstation 3, you owe it to yourself to pick this one up; you won't be disappointed. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkaTG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is built around a fantastic story, well-developed characters and a graphical showcase 
 beyond my own expectations. 
  
  Graphically, there is not a game available for any console that will have graphics as realistic 
 and artistic as Uncharted for the Playstation 3. The water effects on this game are life-like and 
 are truly a showcase to the immense power of the Playstation 3 and the quality of work developer 
 Naughty Dog put together. 
  
  The story is well-driven, believable and engaging as it drops a player into beautiful and lush 
 jungle environments, dark caves, and vast oceans. You will be riding a jeep and a jet ski in this 
 game, both very well done and easy to control. The controls are on point, the responsiveness and 
 sensitivity in the Sixaxis controller is accurate as well. 
  
  This game features an amazing soundtrack that immerses the player into the experience and allows 
 for a more engaging and exciting play. 
  
  The only draw to this game is that the story mode is rather short, only about 7-8 hours on medium. 
 But, as I have recently discovered, there is no trouble going back and playing through this game 
 on hard. You can collect treasures and accomplish in-game challenges (headshots, combos, etc.) 
 to unlock videos, modes, and bonuses like outfits for the characters and alternate takes on gameplay 
 (flip mode, mirror mode) . 
  
  All in all, this is a must have for all Playstation 3 owners because it has a little something 
 in it for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bognman420
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  first off this is the best game ive played on ps3 so far sure call of duty and those games r great 
 but if u like a good funny exciting and bloddy 3rd person shooter with great story and incredible 
 graphics than this is ur game. I promise u will be addicted early chasing after treasure killing 
 pirates and "zombies" thats rght zombies too i give this game a 10 nothing bad about it best graphics 
 in any game put on ps3 or xbox360 consoles. So go get this game u wont be dissapointed the only 
 con for this game is the shooting takes a lil getting used to but the action and witty comentary 
 from the characters makes it amazing best game so far for ps3. The game will keep u coming back 
 for more ibeat it on easy normal and now am going for hard its an incredible game dont waiste anymore 
 time and go buy this work of art 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Well I have to say this is one of the best looking PS3 games available. The story is great the 
 animations are some of the best I have seen and the characters are nicely done. I thought the gameplay 
 was quite fun. I will admit though after the first few or so chapters the wow facter wears off 
 not to say that is a bad thing. I thought the weapon selection was plentiful. The AI is smart, 
 they won't just stand around and watch you shoot them. They actually try to corner you sometimes. 
 The graphics are top notch and problaby the best the PS3 has to offer. I liked the gameplay alot 
 and would recommend this game to anyone. One thing I didn't like though was the explosions. I thought 
 they looked too cartoony. The game has a decent length but I just don't think there is very much 
 reason to play thru a second time. I would have to agree with the gamespot score on this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Great game that goes far beyond my expectation of naughty dog graphics. It revolutionizes what 
 the ps3 is capable of doing. Uncharted has that feel of tomb raider but better. Having a variety 
 of weapons and impressing combos that makes you want to play the game again once your done. The 
 gameplay can be a little hard since shooting them in the body more than ten times with a pistol 
 doesn't necessarily kill them . What's great about the game is the graphics and storyline. It's 
 about finding Drakes treasure but along the way you face a rival who's also in the pursuit of Drakes 
 fortune. As you progress through the storyline you find more clues about Drakes past and the mysteries 
 behind the island. A little difficult but can be finished in the mattter of about eight hours. 
 Once your done with the game there are cheats that can be unlocked by finding treaures out in the 
 jungle. The cheats allow you unlimited ammo, slow motion, etc. Sadly, there's no online capability 
 but it is a great game. I suggest that you get this game but once you finish it there's nothing 
 to do so your better off just renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I know, I'm sick of the bad reviews but here is another one! Shame.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth, but can get repetitive at times.
  
  Visual: Very great, basicly the only 
 thing that can save this game!
  
  Sound: It was okay about average.
  
  As you can see Uncharted DID have high hopes, but it was really no good! The game lasts about 6-7 
 hours! And has no sence of replay value whats-so-ever! Pretty easy even on the hardest difficulty! 
 No multiplayer and no online. Pretty shalow; you wish you could explore all of the land, but you 
 cant! Most like this game, but I though it was a bomb! Rent maybe, but not a buy! Really wished 
 it could have been better, but thats why you dont rush a game! Hopefully they make a sequel and 
 maybe just maybe some multiplayer or online! But for now try another game, but if you cant I guess 
 give it a try, but just dont buy it! Just trying to help so dont anyone try to get me banned or 
 anything; this is just MY opinion and I have rights! Lets not get into history.......... Anyways 
 dissappointment to some including me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlocChaser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Ok, first of all, lets start by saying that Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one of the best games, 
 if not the best, to come to the PS3 this 2007.
  
  Its been a slow year for PS3 exclusive games but if you had your hopes high for this one you probably 
 won't get dissapointed.
  
  So you are Nathan Drake, pressumably descendant of Sir Francis Drake, and when you find Francis 
 Drake's diarie you are immediatly sent into an adventure crowded with mistery, malicious pirates, 
 lots of platforming, shooting and puzzle solving!.
  
  If you played Gears of War you will find similarities in the cover and shooting system both games 
 use, thou not completely, sure GeoW's works better, and it allows more fast pased movements but 
 in uncharted, if you try to do things fast, you might get yourself killed too early, as the game 
 difficulty might be challenging to some, so you probably will have to die once or twice before 
 you get used to it. The cons of the shooting sistem are that aiming range may get screwed once 
 you get on cover, making difficult to trigger some foes.
  
  The enemy AI is not something you haven't seen before but it works just fine to keep you occupied 
 trying to avoid being flanqued or rushed over by several enemies.
  
  The platforming parts may not be very challenging but they sure are fun to play and are a good 
 break from the shooting, thou, you don't get many of these compared to the times you get runover 
 by enemies... which, may come in waves, you finish the first wave off and some more come from different 
 sides making it a little monotonous but sometimes frustrating when you dont get a checkpoint after 
 these waves.
  
  There's alot to say about the games story, its intriguing and fun to watch, while the story develops 
 you will learn to love the characters and wish they succeed and uncover Sir Francis Drakes secrets. 
 Also there is a little plot twist, which, kind of changes the way you see the game, its not top 
 notch, and the game could have gone without it, but it helps for the final twist on the story to 
 pull off.
  
  So, my go, 9/10, the achievements are fun to get, and guarantee some replay value but dont think 
 it will be alot, as you finish the game really fast and probable get almost every achievement on 
 your first or second run, still nice touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an excellent game. Let me start by saying that Gamespot has once 
 again underrated a PS3 exclusive game (can anyone say Tools of Destruction?) that deserved to be 
 considered excellent.
  
  The storyline is what gets me most. The cinematic presentation of the cutscenes that explain it 
 look fantastic and envelope you into the story and the characters -- making them feel not only 
 real, but realistic. I can't say much without giving the story away so what I'll say is that the 
 story has a few intriguing historical twists along with a few character developments that will 
 not be easy to see coming. Gamespot's complaint was that certain parts of the story were underdeveloped, 
 but I think it is painfully obvious that the story was developed just fine.
  
  Story aside, the game is still great. The visuals of the cutscenes and the actual gameplay look 
 great despite what any naysayers might talk about. The jungle enviornments look lush, the temple/cavern 
 atmospheres are eerie but well rendered so that seeing enemies is not a problem. Overall, the visuals 
 look just great.
  
  The controls are superb. The cover system (hit O to cover, hit O again to stand up or D-Pad + O 
 to move to next cover) is done well and makes firefights fun and engaging. The melee attacks are 
 also done easily and the whole control scheme keeps the fun rolling without making any complicated 
 button combinations.
  
  The sound is tremendous. The voice acting, the gunfire, the jungle noises... everything is absolutely 
 great. Anyone who says otherwise must be very picky about their sound because this game rocked.
 
  
  Replayability is kind of meh... you can search around for all the hidden treasures (which unlocks 
 stuff) but other than that your only reason to replay is to see how hard it is on a higher difficulty. 
 It is fun, however, to go through the story again and enjoy all the movie like story telling.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty awesome. Before I hit all the good, let me tell you the bad. Ammo is a problem 
 in this game... but also a realistic one. You can only carry 12 shotgun shells (or 16 for another 
 kind of shotgun) and only 40-60 pistol shells, 90-105 SMG shells and generally only 5 revolver 
 or Dragonuv sniper shells (1 shot, 1 kill) . So you're constantly switching weapons and picking 
 up ammo from dead bodies because there are a LOT of firefights in this game. I would have liked 
 a little more ammo capacity for the game and maybe being able to dual wield pistols or something. 
 Other than that, this was just a minor inconvenience in the game.
  
  Secondly, there's a LOT of firefights... and a LOT of enemies. On normal difficulty this won't bug 
 you but if you put it on the higher ones you'll begin to get frustrated. Regardless, the firefights 
 are really fun.
  
  Now that is out of the way. The gameplay is friggin' fun. The firefights are great, the exploring 
 is great and so is the climbing. The climbing greatly resembles Assassin's Creed, but not as over 
 the top unrealistic. There's a lot of action in Uncharted while puzzles and whatnot kind of see 
 the back burner, but the game is intense because of this and really fun. The best way to describe 
 this game is Tomb Raider meets Assassin's Creed meets Indiana Jones -- and it makes for a sweet 
 game.
  
  Overall, this game just rocked. I'm not much of an adventure game guy but I think this game is 
 right up there with Super Mario Galaxy and Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction. This game deserves 
 a 8.8-9.2 region score, so I'm giving it a 9.1. Great graphics, controls, story, and gameplay. 
 What else do you need? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  I waited a long while before plunking down the necessary coin for Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. I 
 played through the PSN demo several times a while back, and, while enjoyable and graphically impressive, 
 that experience did not propel Uncharted to the top of my "Must Buy" list. The right price at the 
 right time came along recently, and I just finished up my first playthrough last weekend. 
  
  Uncharted is almost entirely fantastic. Aside from a few fairly minor issues I have with the 
 gameplay, I can say that the high review scores are well-deserved.
  
  If you want a full plot breakdown, there are plenty to be found elsewhere. Suffice it to say, you're 
 explorer Nathan Drake who, with a couple of buddies, is on a search for lost treasure; but there 
 are others out there you'll have to beat to the punch. Throughout the course of the game, you'll 
 find yourself scampering around lush jungles, crumbling ruins, underground caverns, industrial 
 complexes, and more as you battle pirates, soldiers, and the like. All the story elements are motion 
 captured with voice work recorded live on set. The writing oftentimes resembles action-adventure 
 film campiness (in a good way!) , but it is witty and extremely well-delivered from beginning to 
 end. This really adds to the story, and you'll find yourself actually caring about what happens 
 next. These elements all work together to make the seemingly unspectacular plotline much more than 
 just a vehicle to support the action sequences, and I really have trouble imagining a gamer not 
 being immediately drawn into the world of Uncharted.
  
  You'll like these characters a lot largely in part to the superb full body and facial animation 
 that is head and shoulders above most everything else I've ever seen. Uncharted's developer, Naughty 
 Dog, has really raised the bar in this regard. Never before have I laughed out loud at a simple 
 facial expression, and this happened several times. It really has to be seen to be believed, but 
 the "acting" in Uncharted has moved further past "uncanny valley" than anything I've played before. 
 Character movements during actual gameplay are equally as impressive. Drake has about a zillion 
 fluid animations which you'll see morph and blend with each other as he runs from cover to cover, 
 ducking beneath gun fire, and flinching from shrapnel with his back against a low wall. Or as he 
 leaps across a chasm, grabs a vine and maintains momentum by running along the wall before going 
 airborne in another leap of faith, arms and legs flailing. This isn't Lara Croft, able to leap 
 skyscrapers in a single bound; this is Nathan Drake, a Joe Schmoe with an  
 vertical who is just trying to get through the day in one piece. The realistic, layered animations 
 go a long way in bringing this "everyman" to life.
  
  Let me wrap up the graphics discussion by saying that everything looks absolutely stunning. Whether 
 it's the lighting, texture work, second-to-none water effects (my god the ripples the wet clothes) , 
 and environmental design it's all top notch. Uncharted removes you from the drab and mundane landscapes 
 in which most shooters wrap themselves, and instead bathes almost every frame in vibrant colors 
 that are just a joy to inhabit. You'll see the occasional screen tear, texture pop-in, and the 
 like, but this does not effect the game in any real way.
  
  The gameplay consists of two basic elements: shooting and platforming, although you'll oftentimes 
 do both simultaneously. From my experience with the demo, I was concerned that the shooting aspect 
 would be the least polished and weakest aspect of Uncharted, but I was very pleasantly surprised. 
 The gun battles are challenging, and the intelligent enemies many, but the myriad of options, from 
 free-aiming, shooting from the hip, and the ability to blind fire and/or precision aim from cover, 
 made this the arguable high-point of my enjoyment. I actually found myself more disappointed in 
 the platforming/puzzle solving aspect of Uncharted more than anything. The platforming paths are 
 extremely linear and obvious, as are the puzzles. Maybe I am spoiled on the freedom in exploration 
 a game like Assassin's Creed provides, but I had hoped for a little more openness than Uncharted 
 delivered.
  
  Obviously, with a score of 9.0, my complaints did not have a major impact on my enjoyment of Uncharted, 
 since almost everything else was done so well. If you think single-player only games are not worth 
 the investment due to lack of replayability, Naughty Dog has a bone to pick with you. Uncharted 
 features an integrated reward system based on treasure collecting and in-game achievements, such 
 as killing three enemies with one explosion or landing 50 headshots. These rewards range from the 
 cool but superficial (new threads for Drake) to the more substantial (mirror mode, slo-mo/fast 
 motion, etc.) . I can easily see myself logging RPG levels of play time with Uncharted.
  
  Killer exclusives are hard to come by, especially on the PS3 right now, so a fantastic new IP like 
 Uncharted is a rarity. If you haven't had a chance to take it for a spin, don't wait any longer. 
 Every PS3 owner should give this game, inarguably one of the PS3's best, a shot. It's among the 
 finest and most well-rounded experiences to be had on any console.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a game I have anticipated ever since it was titled, "Naughty Dog 
 Project". I couldnt wait for this game, and the wait was worth every second. From the get-go your 
 dropped into an action setting, shooting, ducking and rolling in and out of cover. The action is 
 great, and the control scheme is perfect. The targetting system is slightly flawed, as your aiming 
 cursor sometimes is too small, and doesnt indicate when it is aimed at an enemy. (You know, like 
 how in Gears of War the cursor turns red when it's over an enemy) . That's about the only thing 
 there is to not like about this game.
  
  Obviously, the first thing to love about Uncharted is the graphics. Nathan Drake's shirt turns 
 dark grey and shiny after jumping in a pool of water. His shirt wrinkles as he walks. He flinches 
 behind cover as bullets ricochet around him. It's quite amazing. 
  
  The storyline is also amazing, and the cutscenes play out just like a movie. There is a huge twist 
 at the end, one I never saw coming. Unless you've read spoilers online, you wont see it coming 
 either. 
  
  This game doesnt include a multiplayer mode, which is fine, this game wouldnt work as just a dumbed 
 down online shooter experince. It's more than just a video game, it's a video game with soul. Overall, 
 if you're a PS3 owner, there is no excuse not to buy this game. Buy it. It's another... yes I said 
 it, another killer app for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a game with rich textures and beautiful environments. Mix that with outstanding dialouge 
 and voice acting, great story, and presentation that is not found in todays games and you have 
 one heck of a game. Oh, and did i mention the gameplay? Excellent. Shooting mechanics? Excellent. 
 Climbing and obstacles you ask? Excellent. With so many games focusing on intense graphics and 
 multiplayer, uncharted breaks away from this new norm and gives the player what they've been asking 
 for for so long: A well rounded gaming experience. Uncharted presents itself like a movie and plays 
 like tomb raider on steroids, plus with multiple difficulty levels this one is bound to be in your 
 cd drive for a while. Don't expect 30-40-50 hours out of this. The first go through on easy is 
 about 8 hours but achievments and treasures will bring you back, lasting at least a 20 solid hrs 
 of gameplay. If you own a ps3 do yourself a favor and buy ts game. In my honest opinion this is 
 one of 3 games that are a must own for any ps3 player and video game lover. REVIVAL OF GAMES WITH 
 AN ACTUAL STORY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassinX01
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Aesthetics: 9.8
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Value: 8.5
  Overall: 9.1
  
  Naughty Dog, the developer famous for Crash Bandicoot as well as Jack And Daxter, is notorious 
 for establishing successful AAA franchises. They've certainly found their third one with Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune. 
  To begin with, the visual and audio aspect of the gameplay is stellar. There have been games before 
 where the polygonal count is off the charts, such as with Heavenly Sword or Lair. And games like 
 Gears of War or Unreal Tournament have showcase amazing textures or lighting. But there has not 
 yet been a game to combine the two at such a level as Uncharted does. Squint, and you'll swear 
 you're looking at a Weta Workshop rendering. The stills for this game simply don't do it justice; 
 everything has a vibrancy and texture to it that must be seen in motion. The lighting is gorgeous, 
 and the textures are as good as any other game's. No game comes close to the level of photorealism 
 that Uncharted acheives. Such highlights include the overwhelmingly lush vegitation and water. 
 The water in this game alone deserves a paragraph worth of praise, as it's easily the most accurate 
 rendering of fluids to date. But the aspect that sets Uncharted a notch above the other games in 
 terms of visuals is its animation. Both while playing and in the cutscenes, the animation adds 
 a life-like quality that really has yet to be captured in other games. Nathan Drake moves like 
 a living, breathing human, not a polygonal representation.
  As for the audio, the score is top notch. It includes a few traditional pieces to help satiate 
 the requirement to classify this as an action-adventure based game, but much of the score is filled 
 with unique and regional instruments that add an unforgettable flare to the experience. Voice acting 
 is top-notch, both well acted and well written. It's a good thing, too, since there is quite a 
 bit of story mixed in with the gameplay. Other aspects of the gameplay are excellently done as 
 well. From the gunfire to the ambient enviormental noises, a fantastic variety of sound helps to 
 keep the gameplay fresh and enjoyable.
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune's gameplay alternated between platforming based sequences (the platforming 
 can be absolutely mind-blowing when you stop and consider just what Drake is doing) and stop-and-pop 
 based firefights. If you were to take the style of Laura Croft- albeit better done and more interesting-, 
 pepper it with some God of War style crazy stunts, and improve upon Gears if War's shooting mechanics, 
 you would have the formula for Uncharted. The two aspects of gameplay are kept largely seperate, 
 although there are some instances where they mesh (for example, when you get into firefights will 
 climbing) . The division in style helps keep either portion of the gameplay from getting old, as 
 it's difficult to enjoy non-stop shooting or non-stop platforming. Each half is well developed, 
 though platforming can be a bit generous while the shooting aspect is certainly on the difficult 
 side. The platforming and puzzle solving is quite generous in some of your maneuvers, as is necessary 
 when you logically consider some of the feats you're attempting. A nice addition, if at the expense 
 of removing some difficulty, is that the game will offer to give you hints if you get stuck in 
 an area or can't figure out how to solve a puzzle. As for the shooting aspect, Gears of War really 
 is an accurate description. In all honesty, the shooting was both more precise and fun in Uncharter 
 than in Gears. Additionally, the cover system in Uncharted, which is also Gears-styled, is signifigantly 
 better since the cover is far more fluid and less like velcro. The weapons in this game are nothing 
 special, just your standard real world firearms. That doesn't mean they aren't well crafted, though. 
 Additionally, hand to hand combat makes an appearance, but is really just a suped-up melee attack, 
 which is fine; it's not meant to be a stand alone portion of the gameplay, just a last resort if 
 you're out of ammo. Motion sensing is used in judicious amounts, and for the most part is well 
 incorporated. The sixaxis' uses include balancing while tight rope walking (ala God of War) , shaking 
 it to get enemies off you (as seen in Resistance) , and tilting the controller up or down to determine 
 how far you throw a grenade. 
  Uncharted is a one player game, so there's only so much to get out of it. That said, there is a 
 fairly lengthly campaign playable on four difficulties, hours of unlockable videos, hundreds of 
 photos, and a number of old-school cheats (some attainable by points, other by button entries) . 
 There are acheivements to enrich the gameplay, adding a bit of value to replay. All in all, Uncharted 
 is as good an action game as you'll ever find, and one that should be played by all with even a 
 remote interest in action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an Action adventure game set on an uncharted island. The games main 
 character, Nathan Drake has set off to find out about his ancestor, Sir Francis Drake, and find 
 the treasure that he died trying to find. He is followed by a reporter, Elena Fisher, and his friend, 
 Victor "Sully" Sullivan.
  The crew is faced with many challenges as they search the island, but the story plays out very 
 well, and keeps you in the seat the whole time, along with the puzzles being a perfect difficulty.
 
  The graphics in this game are amazing, the jungles seem life-like, and the sounds are great also.
 
  The AI is pretty good, well, maybe even too good. I beat this game on normal difficulty, and I 
 died plenty of times when there were big gun fights, which seem almost unfair most of the time 
 until you learn where everyone is, and slowly kill them off one by one.
  Uncharted is a MUST HAVE for any PS3 owner. The Indiana Jones style gameplay, the graphics, sound, 
 challenge, will keep you going in this game, and it'll definitely be worth your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdwhitby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Uncharted drakes fortune is a real epic adventure from the beginning. it truely spoils you in the 
 amazing environments and animation. It is a brilliant addition to the PS3 games and a refreshing 
 experience.
  -
  The story is a really big part of the game giving you a real reason to continue through the game. 
 One of the things that make the story so great are the characters, they are realistic and the main 
 character Nathan Drake an average guy in a terrible situation that you can really relate to. Humour 
 is also a big part to building up the characters and "Nate" can be rather funny at times.
  -
  The graphics are another one of the games plus sides. It really looks absolutely stunning 
 that no other game can match. The water is truely the best water i've ever seen in a video game 
 characters also actually get wet when they go into water which all adds to the realism.
  -
  Gameplay isn't the games strongest attribute however it is still solid and fun gameplay. the cover 
 system is great but sometimes you can find yourself against numerous enemies that can take three 
 bullets to the head sometimes die. however this doesnt really take much away from the game
  -
  on a final note this game is a truely great game but with no multiplayer there isnt that much 
 replay value but i would still look into getting the game if you havent already done so and it 
 at least deserves a rental 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chills619
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was a blast for about 5 or 6 hours, and then I realized that the gameplay is extremely 
 repetitive. YOu hide behind stuff, pop out and shoot people, move forward, climb a wall, and do 
 the same thing over and over again for the rest of the game. The game just isn't fun anymore after 
 a while and I had no motivation to finish it. Although it does look amazing, and the story is decent, 
 gameplay is most important. They needed to switch the gameplay up more, maybe giving new enemies 
 or more moves that you can do. The vehicles were pretty cool, but not enough to keep me interested. 
 Also, the game is far too easy. My sister is horrible at video games, and she can play through 
 this game with ease. I need a game thats more innovative and exciting with surprises around every 
 corner, or atleast a gameplay system taht still fun even if it is repetitive. The gameplay in this 
 game unfortunately gets old real fast. This game is extremely decent, nothing special, and worth 
 a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroskater1015
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say this is one of the greatest games i have ever played! i played the demo many many times 
 and could not get enough. when atheist-mas rolled around my amazing father got me this game and 
 i was glued to the couch. The game is basically a movie you are playing which not all games are 
 doing nowadays. The great graphics and sound really get you in the game along with the second to 
 none voice acting. 
  
  
  
  
  The game starts you off as Nathan Drake. You've been hired to find the treasure of your ancestor 
 Sir Francis Drake for a woman who has a TV deal.
  Thats the start which seems to be not so exciting but the story takes off to be so much more. Once 
 it gets started your captivated with plot twists at just the right time along with pulse quickening 
 action and fun platforming. 
  
  Now the game is known for being short but it keeps you going back with all the unlock ables and 
 secrets to find.
  
  This game has very memorable characters, Great action and anything else you could want. Besides 
 the 6-8 hour play time you should really check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  This is probably my favroite ps3 game so far. The graphics are amazing and the lush jungles will 
 make you sit and watch for a long time saying to yourself, WOW. The voice acting in this game is 
 so amazing in this game along with the characters personality. The characters are more than enjoyable. 
 The gameplay is also loads of fun and firefights can become extremely competitive. You can beat 
 this game in about 10-12 hours if you sit and play alot while barely observing the games awesome 
 physics, enviorments, and graphics. Another cool thing this game has in it is that when you walk 
 through plants they actually move realisticly. Not alot of games do that. This is an overall awesome 
 game that you will remember for a long time. It also has a hand to hand combat systm that is alot 
 of fun to use but is difficult to get the combos down. There are also tons of weapoms you can use 
 such as the AK-47, MP44, pistol, sniper rifle, shotgun,12 gauge shotgun, grenade launcher, and theres 
 probably more i cant think of. Overall this is a great game and a must have if you have the ps3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares_hot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: The Graphics!! - The firefights - Good, filmlike story - The vehicle moments are really 
 good, especially the car - Treasures
  
  The Bad: Short, around 6-8 hours - The vehicle moments are too few and too short - Some missing 
 pieces in the story
  
  Uncharted is a game that to 75% is played in the jungle, and what a jungle! The graphics are stunningly 
 beautiful, especially the water, the trees moves beautiful in the wind, the shadows are perfect, 
 the characters look almost real and the explosions smoke and fire are brilliant, you can almost 
 feel the heat. Well , enough of the graphics lets go to the story, you play as Nathan Drake who 
 is looking for the hidden treasure "El Dorado", the city of gold, he tracks up a hot lead and ofcourse 
 must a rich badass guy interfere, he takes the map and shoots Nathans best friend Sully. Drake 
 now teams up with a tv reporter named Elana Fisher. They go the the coordinates they got but the 
 rich badass got there to and now they're pretty much screwed. The story is very filmlike but that 
 is'nt bad in this game, the story takes a twist at the end wich only is good. The main characters 
 aren't the usal good guys with the "Save the world and everyone will be happy" ambitions, they're 
 more usual persons that can handle tight situations. The gameplay is pretty limited, you go along 
 a invisible path trough, mostly the jungle but later in the game you will also play indoors. The 
 main thing you will do is shooting persons or solving puzzles and climb in the enviroments. That 
 maybe sounds boring but it is'nt, the fights are spectaculary beautiful with exposions and stuff. 
 There is some weapons, only real ones like ak-47s, m4s and weapons like that. There are som vehicle 
 parts in the game wich are excellent, you can drive a jetski upstreams and shoot enemies but the 
 best and most filmical one is when you use the machine gun on a car while driving shooting at enemies 
 chasing you, that would'nt be any fun if it were'nt for the grenade launcher mounted on the machine 
 gun, the car part is the most beautiful in the whole game, the explosions, the jungle, brr... it's 
 so nice. I earlier said that Uncharted is a short game, well it is, it took me 6hours and 55minutes 
 to get trough it on medium, but after that there is also all the tresures hidden in the maps wich 
 gives it some replaying value. Well that kinda wraps up Uncharted: Drakes fortune in a good way, 
 that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is many things: part story-driven adventure game, part puzzle game, 
 and part fast-paced action game. And surprisingly, it all works together perfectly. 
  
  You play the role of Nathan Drake; treasure hunter extraordinaire and descendant of the famous 
 Sir Francis Drake. Nathan, upon discovering that Francis Drake left clues in the form of a journal, 
 begins a quest to find El Dorado, the city of gold. The game begins by diving into the story via 
 a series of cut scenes, and then starts the player off with a small tutorial level to familiarize 
 the player with the controls. 
  
  Though somewhat of a scrawny fellow, Nathan is a surprisingly adept acrobat. Much of the game has 
 you leaping from platform to platform and ledge to ledge to explore and advance in the game. Though 
 similar in idea to the Tomb Raider series, Uncharted does a much better job of making jumps fluid 
 and natural as well as being a little forgiving in times of need. 
  
  When Nathan is not leaping around he is trading blows or bullets with the enemies, who are trying 
 to beat you to the treasure. Though the enemies always seem to be one step ahead, the story does 
 a good job of explaining why and keeping things realistic. Fist fighting is well executed letting 
 you string together a combo to take out your nearby foe, though the game's emphasis is on firearms. 
 Guns and ammo are plentiful throughout the games levels and more weapons become available later 
 in the game. Cover is also an important aspect of firefights as the computers accuracy grows significantly 
 through the course of a single fight. 
  
  If there is anything bad to say about Uncharted, it is that puzzles are sometimes inconsistent. 
 Where one puzzle provides sufficient clues, another may leave you confused with where to even begin. 
 The game remedies this however by giving the player optional hints when no progress has been made 
 for a short time. 
  
  Overall, Uncharted is a very well executed title which brings needed life to the Playstation 3. 
 To fans of Indiana Jones or the Tomb Raider series, Uncharted is a must play, maybe only a rent 
 though since the game can be finished in only a few short sittings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splodge200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  enter the world of uncharted! a world full of pretty plants and very very very bright sun... and 
 no bugs? YAY! tho there are htings that wanna kill u... (good intro huh?)
  
  ive played this game through twice now an only jsut now decided to do some reviews!! (yay for me) 
 the good stuff? wel lthe graphics are out of this world i havnt seen anything to date that looks 
 this brilliant in a ps3 game! the water effects also deserve a tip of the hat towards.
  
  the game play took a lil while getting used to tho as i usualy found myself being surounded and 
 running out of ammo quite fast swearing i shot that guy? but ah well its all i ngood fun! sure 
 it gets repetative first u ru naround an d climb, shoot some goons, run around and climb, shoot 
 some goons and so on, but what keeps u hooked the most is the story! and wow its a good story i 
 cant see why it wouldnt be made into a movie? its indiana jones meets tombraider but better! less 
 crap then tombraider and more funnier then indi! sure it gets repetative but its all lost in the 
 story great graphics and gameplay that keeps u goin till then end... not much replay value tho? 
 unless u wanna go on the awesome adventure all over again :D and trust me ull want 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I can't say enough good things about Uncharted. Naughty Dog has done a great job of making one 
 of the most entertaining story lines I've ever seen in a game mix so well with fun gameplay. 
 
  
  Playing just like a 8-9 hour movie Uncharted dives into the world of treasure hunting with characters 
 that you will form attachments to right away, with a story line that's not just your run of the 
 mill Indiana Jones rip off. 
  
  In Uncharted you will spend most of your time in rather lengthy gun fights once the game really 
 gets moving. These battles can be a little frustrating off the start especially if you are not 
 used to shooter games, but putting a little time in will be very rewarding. If you are used to 
 shooters you will find no problem breezing through this game even on higher difficulties. 
  
  Just because there are many lengthy gun battles doesn't mean that is what this game is all 
 about. Throughout the game you will be constantly looking for treasure, and doing some light puzzle 
 solving. (Especially in the beginning of the game.)
  
  The only actual imbalance in the game may be the difference between when Nate is on the ground 
 running around or climbing on rocks to the actual platforming sections. Nate is rather clumsy on 
 solid ground, but get him scaling walls and jumping from hand hold to hand hold he is a regular 
 monkey. It's not a very realistic difference, but at the same time it doesn't take away from the 
 game by any means. I personally wouldn't want to platform with any less grace. The platforming 
 is forgiving, which is nice, because you don't want to keep dying for no reason or keep repeating 
 the same sequence. The only thing that may throw you off are the sometimes bad camera angles you 
 just can't fix. But, I only thought this was an issue maybe 2 times in the whole game. 
  
  In the end Uncharted to me is all about the entertainment value which is excellent. It drives the 
 replay value up just like your favorite movie that you watch over and over again. Two thumbs up 
 for Uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFisty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  There was once a time when Tomb Raider was the king of games. Yes, laughable I know. But forgetting 
 recent entries into the catalogue, Tomb Raider was everything a platformer should be.
  
  Given it's runaway success, it was really a matter of time before someone got rid of Lara's, ahem, 
 "assets" and was replaced with a quintessential "man's man". And that man would be Uncharted's 
 semi-titular protagonist, Nathan Drake.
  
  He's equal parts Indiana Jones, Han Solo and that doctor off Gray's Anatomy all the girls like. 
 He's a smooth talker, he's a self-indulgent profiteer and he's not above doing all the stupid things 
 your average man is known for. And for a character that could have easily  and lazily  been painted 
 as a stone-faced renegade, you quickly discover that Drake is actually a very easy character to 
 like, thanks to some first class scripting.
  
  Now the gameplay borrows heavily from Tomb Raider  you'll climb, jump, grapple and shoot your 
 way through jungles, caves, tombs and the odd boat. The difference though, is in the detail. Uncharted 
 offers some of the most spectacular environments seen in a long, long time. Though the very first 
 level is a little underwhelming, by the time you land in the jungle, you'll want to poke, prod 
 and aimlessly wander just to see how Nathan reacts to shadowing, climbing and the impressive water 
 effects. While the game later moves to darker and more subdued locales such as caves and old ruins, 
 it's the outdoor environments where Uncharted really shines.
  
  Gameplay in Uncharted comes in two flavours: platforming and gun play, however it's the platforming 
 elements that come up weakest. Put simply they're too linear and too easy. Ledges are too easy 
 to spot. Grappling is too forgiving and there just seems to be a real lack of the intricate and 
 complex environmental puzzles games such as Tomb Raider Legend were famous for. 
  
  On the other hand, the relative ease of the platforming is more than compensated for when it comes 
 to gun play. Here you'll see the approach is very much based on Gears of War's third person duck 
 and cover methodology. And that's a good thing  because you won't last long out in the open. Uncharted 
 features a number of set piece gun battles where you'll be pitted against wave after wave of baddies, 
 all of who sport better guns than you do and rarely miss their target. In smaller groups the action 
 is a decent contest, but in the larger battles you'll be completely devastated until you work out 
 the best strategy for the given area.
  
  Uncharted also makes excellent use of mocap technology, casting real actors in the shoes of the 
 main characters and having them interact in real time. The result is natural dialogue and meaningful 
 character relationships and is easily one of the game's best aspects. The story is also well written 
 and largely believable  although late in the game the plot takes a strange turn that, for me at 
 least, just felt out of sync with the rest of the game. Still it by no means detracts from the 
 fun, and that's another area where Uncharted succeeds: keeping you entertained.
  
  In between all the guns and the jumping are some great vehicle missions that have you manning a 
 turret gun as you race through beaten jungle roads and fighting rapids as you jet ski deeper into 
 the enemy stronghold.
  
  But all these lush environments, great acting and varied missions come at a cost: the game is short. 
 It's not drastically short, but it certainly could have been a bit longer. Your first run through 
 will take you between 8 - 10 hours. Finding all the hidden treasures or attempting the "Crushing" 
 difficulty will extend your gameplay, but at the risk of shortening your patience.
  
  All in all, Uncharted is one of the best looking games on the PS3 so far and had it been a bit 
 longer and the difficulty more evenly weighted between the various elements, you'd very nearly 
 have a system seller. Even with it's shortcomings, Uncharted is one trip into the jungle you won't 
 soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtJulien
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? It's one of the best Sony entertainment video game ever made. Its graphics, especially 
 on a HD Tv, are splendid! There are absolutely no downsides in this game when it comes to visual 
 innovation. Smooth and very detailed image with realist and stunting animation truly make this 
 a great game to watch and play. Also the sound and musics are simply great. Especially the music 
 which wasn't made by Mozart or anything but is really over the quality average. But where I was 
 really astonished is in the acting. When I first start the game in French I was really glad since 
 I could get to play in my first tongue in a very good translation, plus I could practise my Spanish 
 as well. Finally the controls is easy to use and understand and you don't get mixed up with the 
 controller. Plus the ingame gameplay really resemble Gears of War when shooting and Prince of Persia 
 when you explore and climb around. The environment is very interesting (big jungles and lots of 
 palm trees) but it's not a big innovation if you played some games like Far Cry or Turok. There 
 is also some side objectives which can make the game really interesting and make you want to play 
 some more, and even replay it again.
  
  Now for the flaws, I often complain about how i find a game to easy or too hard. But this time 
 the hard mode is too easy and the extreme mode is too hard!!! So I couldn't replay the game twice 
 in extreme mode since I wasn't good enough. Isn't it frustrating when you cant get to fully appreciate 
 a game because of its difficulty level!? Well i guess I'm the only on to really care. Whatsoever, 
 I must also complain on another aspect of the game which only disappointed me far in the story. 
 I will not reveal it since it would spoil the storyline but it hurt me deeply. This bad side is 
 also one of my caprice toward video games but when it comes to find bad aspects in a game I can 
 be very severe. 
  
  In conclusion, if you really like solo player shooters you will really enjoy this unique game experience 
 which bring you Uncharted Drake's Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog has brought its patented polish to the PS3 with Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. This platformer/ 
 action adventure title packs a serious punch with its stunning graphics and acting and the cutthroat 
 jumping and shooting. The game has you on the trail of an ancient treasure, bringing you to a lost 
 island filled with traps, pirates, and secrets, but I won't spoil anything for you.
  While the story has a few holes that are never touched on, the characters and believability will 
 more than make up. The characters are simply real, they are funny and they curse! a lot actually. 
 This game may be T, but it has violence, language, and blood! Hooray! Now back the graphics, they 
 are just the best I have seen in a loooong while. In HD, you may find that you cheat on your spouse 
 just by looking at it. OOOOO Baby. It is a relatively short game, but the chapters are available 
 to be individually replayed, and you can watch every cutscene over and over again. Not to mention 
 the TONS of unlockaballs, I did say unlockaballs, such as costumes, guns, and the like. Treasures 
 to find and tasks to perform at to the value. Gamespot is wrong when they say it is too hard. Its 
 not, by the way, the AI is good, but it is fair to you and doesn't have any special powers that 
 **** you off. The platforming is easy, but wow is it fun to look at. The locals are amazing and 
 varied and you won't be seeing the same thing twice. So all in all this game gets a 9.0 sure it's 
 short but damn is it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figo16v
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Who would have thought it?? After all this time PS3 owners finally have a Killer and to be honest, 
 not one game to date has managed to stir up such a sense of acheivment as Uncharted. Unlike the 
 360s big hitters I went into this with no hype and as such no expectations. Uncharted is simply 
 a game that needs to be played. From the offset till the Credits roll the story never lets up and 
 the character animation and dialogue Naughty Dog has achieved aids a gripping story and over all 
 turns the game into a fantastic experience.
  
  The graphics are th games biggest surprise and are easily equal to what a decent PC can through 
 out despite the PS3s GPU being a generation behind the new nVidia 8 Series.
  
  The sound is excellent as is the gameplay
  
  utter essential Purchase... Go on!! you owe it 
 to your Playstation!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steffan52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat Uncharted looks like an amazing game, screen shots & videos truely give it an 
 amazing hype & where others wouldn't live up to that hype this game does. Graphically this game 
 looks amazing, the environments look lush & the water just looks like it should. Even the characters 
 look visually amazing. The animation works a treat, Drake moves how a real person should. When 
 jumping he waves his arms & legs which would naturally happen. Running & diving also look natural. 
 
  
  Now onto the story. Its immersive, really gets you involved & leaves you wanting more. It has its 
 quirky moments which is expected by the Naughty Dog team, at times it trys to much & just isn't 
 that funny but the other times really make you giggle like a little school girl. Theres moments 
 where you can connect with the characters & at others you can just get fed up with them as they 
 can get on your nerves a few times. Gameplay is very good, the cover system works well, it doesn't 
 have you diving for the wrong bit of cover that leaves you open to be shot at. There are plenty 
 of weapons to use which are fun however some of the good ones are never around enough to use while 
 others are just rubbish. Most of the time though you'll be using the same weapons you did from 
 the start. 
  
  Right now on to the bad points, this game can get challanging & its not the platforming elements. 
 The pirates are painfully accurate at shooting & i mean painfully, be out of cover for more then 
 fire seconds in a fire fight & your dead. This isn't the later eniemes either this is from the 
 start & through out the entire game. Yes it gets frustrating when you've been trying to do this 
 1 part for the 5th time now but when you finally get it done you feel so rewarded. Another problem 
 i found was near the end, (i won't ruin it for the people who haven't played it) but for those 
 who have i'm sure you know what i'm on about, i did not like that twist thing what so ever. There 
 was one other problem i found with the physics, & thats Elena's hair, i mean yes its a little thing 
 so doesn't effect the game but really a game looking as good as it does should be able to make 
 a stange of hair that hangs in front of her face move once in awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I just purchased a PS3, and this is my first game for the system. I was not disappointed at all.
 
  
  The game is gorgeous to look at. The environments are very detailed and real, and the character 
 animations are excellent. The characters also have a lot of personality and soul, and many unique 
 animations. Excellent job in this regard.
  
  The game play is very fun, and somewhat challenging. There are many unique locations and battles, 
 the problem however is that enemies take a while to die, and you will end up using the pistol for 
 nearly every part of the game.
  
  The sound is excellent, with a great score and moving tracks. It fits great with the game and the 
 action.
  
  Overall this is a great game to look at and listen to, the characters are extremely well developed 
 in terms of plot, personality, and animation, and the game is fun to play. It suffers a bit from 
 a lack of challenge in the platforming aspects (too many hints, too linear) , and the lack of diversity 
 in gun combat, but those are minor gripes. 
  
  With the addition of all the bonus content, and XBOX 360 like rewards, this is a great game to 
 add to your probably very limited PS3 library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Uncharted , is simply a wonderful game, U cant go wrong with this game, ITs just a game that u cant 
 sayIT SUCKS LIKE HELL"
  
  
  The story in Uncharted is wonderful, u get to play a cool dude exploring beautiful places , and 
 wonderful enviroments, and also it lasts pretty long ( i thnk 16 hrs, is decent) The combat system 
 is ok, but it might be a bit shabby, but it cant ruin the games look .The enviroments ar SO beautiful, Uncharted 
 may be the most beautiful game next to Ratchet and Clank, and Heavenly sword. The gameplay is totaly 
 fantastic , like i wrote before Its becaus of the enviroment.
  
  
  The game last long, The level disagin is well made, Beautiful graphics , There ar so much things 
 u wanna do , that i just cant name them. Uncharted can be always be played, it doesnt have a really 
 good replay value, but still ,This game is truly wonderful and one of the best game out there
  
  Overall it may be the greatest game, yet. But i kinda ov doubt that it deserves 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomberman65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted puts you in the shoes of Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter and supposed heir to Sir Francis 
 Drake. He starts following clues lead by Sir Francis to get to a fortune that the Sir faked his 
 death to protect. It really feels like a movie thanks to a excellent score, voice acting and motion 
 capture. 
  Now this plays very diffrent from Tomb Raider. Exploring is like any 3rd person game but combat 
 is played out like Gears of War. You have to find cover pop out and fire off a few shots with your 
 pistol, shotgun or machine gun or whatever you may have. Its fun and it doesn't have camera problems. 
 What happens is they change the way you play. Youve been playing this game this certain way, take 
 cover pop out and shoot and at the very end they do a 180 on you and change the way you play and 
 its just perfect when it happens. 
  There are a couple of vehicle parts where your either in a turret on the back of a jeep or on a 
 jetski and they really add the the enjoyment of the game.
  
  The game is only 8 hours long, that might scare you off but the thing about Uncharted is it has 
 excellent replay value. You get so invested in these characters that you learn to love them you'll 
 want to go back and play this again what motivating you well theres 60 treasures to find hidden 
 throughout the game and they have points that you get but collecting them or getting 10 headshots 
 and so on. And these points unlock videos, new costumes or unlimited ammo, neat stuff like that, 
 that really makes you keep playing.
  Its not perfect there are some textures that pop in when your looking at your treasures or walking 
 through the jungle. But all the bad things are completely overweighed but how amazing the game 
 is.
  It looks amazing. The trees make shadows that Nate walks through, the jungle looks georgous, and 
 Nate acually looks wet when he get in the water.
  We all say how game can compete with movies and offer a experience on par and alot of games over 
 the years have gotten close but Uncharted is the one that really wraps it head around how a action 
 adventure film should be put into game form.
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a amazing game to have in your PS3 library. It looks excellent and 
 plays even better. Its not that long but you'll find youself going back and back for more. This 
 is the Indiana Jones for the 21st century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  'Uncharted: Drake's Fortune' was one of the reasons a purchased my PS3. As such, my expectations 
 for the game were very high.
  
  While this was a fun game, I can't help but feel a little letdown. The things 'Uncharted' did well, 
 it did very well.
  
  It had excellent production values, impressive graphics, a surprisingly good soundtrack and a rock 
 solid voice cast.
  
  However, the platforming was average at best and the story was pretty unoriginal. 
  
  The combat 
 wasn't particularly great either, but I liked it because I've always been a fan of cover-based 
 shooting. Still, killing wave after wave of identical pirates does get old.
  
  The story was not helped much by the characters. They were largely uninspired. The main character, 
 Nathan Drake, was like a less cool Indiana Jones or a clumsier Lara Croft.
  
  'Uncharted' is ultimately an enjoyable game but it's also one that could have been much better 
 than it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinate
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  Intro: 
  
  When I bought this game, I had imagined it to be a Tomb Raider game with some FPS thrown in for 
 good measure. Instead what I found was a FPS game with a little Tomb Raider style jumping and climbing 
 thrown in. Although not what I was expecting I found it to be a nice game to play with a great 
 story line.
  
  The Good:
  
  Well thought out and easy to follow story line.
  Very nice graphics and sounds.
  Team mates follow well and actually play a role in battles.
 
  Easy to use and learn controls.
  Good combat fundamentals
  
  The Bad:
  
  Even on easy, some battles can last too long and the enemies seam never-ending.
  More climbing 
 and exploring would have made a better mix.
  Only took 7 hours to complete on normal.
  Puzzles were too few and too easy.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  A good game on the whole, more geared 
 towards FPS fans than Tomb Raider fans. But still more than enjoyable to play. The story line will 
 keep you hooked and playing for many hours at a time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeykid7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game made by naughty dog! the game features lots of unsuspected twists and turns 
 in a jungle setting. The game has a great third person veiw and amazing hand to hand combat with 
 spine tickling blows to the gut. Uncharted has a great story line and characters, with a very wide 
 variety of guns. Thumbs up to Naughty Dog with the princeofpersia like climbing, running and jumping. My 
 favourite part of the game is when nate
  turns up in a treasure vault and is attacked by evil crawling zombies. the most amazing thing i 
 thought was the graphics OH MY they leave you thinking is was you in the game. Now it pains me 
 to say that i have to type some disadvantagses of the game. the first thing is that it is pretty 
 short and omg when you die every ten seconds it kind of gets anoyings to have to see the screen 
 turn white and here a gong. And most of the pirates were extremely realistic but those fat guys 
 through me off. One last positive thing was the fact that you could use some mostion scence with 
 the controller.
  Best game 
 
  
  by hockeykid7
  see ya  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berhaneric
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  I got the game a week ago, ive finished the game and am now playing it for the second time. The 
 graphics a just outstanding every action is very detailed and to the exact point. The voice acting 
 is very well done, in the cut scenes everything is so lifelike and dimensioned. The only thing 
 that might be a little frustrating in the game is the amount of people you have to kill in certain 
 gun fights, other then that the game is pretty much perfect and after you finish a fight you feel 
 great about what you just accomplished. I hope naughtydog makes another game like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This is an absolutely amazing game. The graphics really showcases what PS3 can really do. Simply 
 put it in one word this game is exceptionally beautiful. Like for the first hour or so I was just 
 stopping every second and admiring the beauty of the levels. Great looking character models. Realistic 
 shadows and lightening effects and whatever there is its simply beautiful. But the gameplay is 
 the real deal. 
  When I saw the graphics video, I had my doubts that the gameplay won't be fun, but boy was I wrong, 
 the gameplay is as good as its graphics if not better. The enemy AI is good, they will dodge and 
 take cover, plus they will evade when you throw gernades at them. The game storyline is also good, 
 with excellent look ingame cut scenes. The story is immersive plus it gives you a cinematic feel. 
 
  What I did not like about this game was, game was way too short, and linear. Other than that this 
 is a perfect game, that is a must buy for every ps3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc6305
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Over all Uncharted is a fun and compelling game to play with some of the best grafix I've ever 
 seen. But it was way too short for my likeing so I just rented it for 5 days. For $7 I got to play 
 the game and finish it so there is no need to buy this title. I highly sugest renting this game 
 first because once completed the game doesn't have much else to offer. If I felt the urge to play 
 it again I would just rent it. I can't see spending $60 to buy an 8 hour game when it can be rented 
 for a fraction of that price.
  
  Other then it's short comings on play time this is a great game. From the water falls to the sun 
 sets and explosions this game looks incredable. The game play is fun although it can get repetative 
 this game is worth playing through just for the scenery. As for the story it's ok with good voice 
 acting. 
  
  I hope Naughty Dog makes onther one with some new locals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilly94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Great storyline and graphics make this a highly addictive game worthy of the next gen systems. 
 Great use of history along with fantasy. Worth every penny of the price tag, which can be said 
 for few games. Naughty Dog did a great job in development for this game, as you feel totally immersed 
 into the jungle and underground cave scenes. You feel as if you are there. Game mechanics feel 
 fluid and controlling Drake is very easy and fun. Character devlopment was very good and makes 
 for great character likebility. Great cut scenes get you immersed into the story line and keep 
 you wanting more. My PS3 was bought for this game and it makes the purchase worth it and the future 
 games that are coming exclusive to the PS3. A definite must buy for people who like 3rd person/1st 
 person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draebless
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I think this game is the best non sports game i've ever played... Point Blank Period
  
  heres someone elses review... I Co-sign
  
  9.0 
  superb AlanHD
  Uncharted: Drake`s Fortune, 
 a game that shows what developers can achieve when working hard, well done Naughty Dog!
  
  Posted Jan 26, 2008 8:27 am GMT Difficulty: Just Right 
  Time Spent: 40 to 100 Hours 
  "Masterpiece" 
 
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, i can say that this awesome videogame is by far one of the bests i 
 had ever played.
  Storyline is awesome and sucks you in as no other game, awesome cinematic cut scenes that make 
 you believe that you are really going for El Dorado.
  The game is great in every aspect, from physics to gameplay, from graphics to lightning, and one 
 of the most strongest and coolest presentations ever seen.
  Graphics are by far the best i have ever seen, specially when speaking about water, best water 
 everr seen on a videogame, we can see Naughty Dog's effort.
  Soun effects are awesome as well as visual effects, shadows and lightning.
  .Gameplay is amazing 
 and you will have to face lots of puzzles to solve
  Combination of action shooting puzzle and adventure lead to an awesome combination that makes Uncharted 
 the best gaming piece on ps3, and perhaps in history, Feel it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: logan2k_17
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game thinking that it looked pretty but it was from the makers of Jak 
 and Daxter. I assumed it would be fun for a while and soon become boring. So I went out and picked 
 this game up for a more in depth look, and I was WRONG!!!! This is a motion picture video game, 
 meaning it is basically a movie. The voice acting is great, the story is fantastic, and there is 
 so much action you will never want to stop. Then it ends, and you want to play it again... but 
 harder... and in Black and White!!! Probably one of the most addictive and intense games I have 
 ever played.
  
  To sum it all up this game is like watching Indiana Jones and the Treasure of the Aztecs, but funnier, 
 more intense and lets just face it, Indiana is great, but not even he has anything on Nathan Drake!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of the best looking console games around. Everything reflects in the water as 
 it ripples, the lush, jungle environments are hard to ignore, the explosions light up the screen, 
 the character animations look incredibly organic and real, the vistas are great looking, the buildings 
 and caves are brimming with detail, the lighting effects are more than stellar, and it does it 
 all at a silky smooth frame rate. Uncharted is the kind of game to make your mouth water, and make 
 long run on sentences explaining just how great it looks. There is no doubt that Naughty Dog is 
 one of the first developers to really utilize that little thing called the Cell Broadband.
  
  From the opening cut scene under the Pacific Ocean, you can already tell that Uncharted is 
 a pretty game. The game kicks off when Nathan Drake, a tough young fortune hunter, and news reporter 
 Elena Fisher uncover the empty coffin of Sir Francis Drake. They find Drake's diary, which they 
 believe can lead them to the lost treasure of El Dorado. Shortly after, their boat is attacked 
 by multiple pirates who want that diary and the treasure. Here's where the adventure begins, grabs 
 you by the throat and never lets go.
  
  The story in Uncharted is really top notch, supported by superb voice acting, and nice facial animations. 
 Nathan and Sully, are on the trail of El Dorado, and news reporter Elena has tagged along for the 
 story. Unfortunately, things are never easy for the trio, as they are constantly being swarmed 
 and chased by these gun wielding pirates, who are henchmen of an old "friend" of Sully's. Early 
 in the game, the trio get separated, and eventually the story opens up. Everyone on the island 
 has their thoughts that maybe the island is "cursed", there are large trust issues inside the groups, 
 and overall, the story is told at a fast paced, Hollywood style way.
  
  The variety of the gameplay in Uncharted is really nicely sorted out. Mainly, this is a third person 
 shooter, using the same camera mechanics of Kane and Lynch, Gears of War, or Mass Effect for the 
 aiming. Luckily, the aiming is silky smooth, and you should be capping pirates through the forehead 
 in no time. There is a large arsenal of weapons to Nate's disposal at anytime in the game, although 
 he can only hold 2 at a time. There is a variety of pistols, grenade launchers, shotguns, assault 
 rifles, and there is even a magnum. At a few uncommon instances, if you are lucky enough, Drake 
 will be at the helm of a turret, and a seemingly endless swarm of enemies just keep coming for 
 more. Awww yeah... There are a few missions, where you are driving a jet ski upriver, while blasting 
 enemies on the river bank. These are really well choreographed, and are fun at that. The one mission 
 that will have everyone talking is the getaway mission, where Elena is driving a jeep at top speed 
 through the jungle, on a cliff, through waterfalls... and Nathan is on the back, with a machine 
 gun, and a grenade launcher shooting at ATVs chasing you. And trucks will also be chasing you. 
 When these guys blow up, it really looks phenomenal, at a fast pace, and it really makes you feel 
 like you are controlling an action film.
  
  Most of the pirate battles will have you taking cover Gears of War style, and popping out at the 
 precise moment to take down enemies. These guys have unlimited ammo almost, and their AI is pretty 
 good, as they will try to flank you with grenades, and won't just run out into the open begging 
 to get shot. The tough guys with the shotguns might, but they have to prove they are tough. Until 
 they're dead. These battles occur frequently throughout the game, but don't slow down the pacing. 
 These battles are incredible fun, and that's good, because they are what the core gameplay is almost 
 entirely consisted of.
  
  When you aren't capping pirates, you will be platforming through the jungle. There are many cliffs 
 and walls to be scaled, waterfalls and rivers to jump, and even many dark caves to be explored. 
 The animations are great, and make what Nate's doing seem real. There is some variety in this, 
 even, as there are wide open areas to be explored, there are traps to evade, there are cliffs to 
 jump, and there are even a few side scrolling old school parts a la Mario.
  
  The story is really fast paced, and has some signs of horror near the end. The whole game, you've 
 been playing a certain way, and near the end, the theme of the game is completely shifted, as there 
 are 2 big twists that happen almost simultaneously. It's really perfect when it happens, and it 
 will shock anybody who it hasn't already been spoiled for. I know it shocked me.
  
  Uncharted isn't relatively easy. Nathan will die a lot your first time through. That's because 
 the pirate battles are pretty tough, and maybe a little frustrating at a few points in the game. 
 This is what keeps the game from perfection. You won't hate it, but it will definitely keep you 
 on edge. Luckily, the plot twists shake things up to keep you awake. The game takes about 8 hours 
 to beat the first time, but there are 4 difficulties, and there are many unlockables. There are 
 60 treasure spread throughout the game, and finding them gets you points. The most points you have, 
 the more content you unlock. There is the ability to play the game in a mirror world, where everything 
 is sort of backwards, and this is a little trippy at first, but really cool. There are also challenges 
 like killing 50 guys one way, or beating up 10 guys this way, and it is a good motivator to play 
 through the game at least twice. There are a lot of bonus videos and art to get, so you will play 
 Uncharted at least twice through. Adding to that, the game is simply so much fun, and that is worth 
 doing the game at least 3 or 4 times. It is really one of the best Ps3 games, and possibly the 
 best action games ever.
  
  Uncharted is one of the prettiest games to ever grace the gaming world, and it is also a non stop 
 action ride. Unfortunately, it is over a little too soon, but that's not necessarily bad, as there 
 are plenty of unlockables that will keep this game in your Ps3 for a long time. The production 
 values that went into this game are astronomical. The variety in gameplay is welcome, and keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat. Without a doubt, Uncharted is a must buy for ps3 owners, or just 
 plain action adventure fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vdastampede
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Are you tired of playing sequel after sequel after sequel? Is Grand Turismo 4 just 3 too many Grand 
 Turismo games? Not looking forward to Ninja Gaiden 2 after all the rehashes? Are you Mario-ed out? 
 Is Madden making morbid messes with your remorseful amount of money, Mac? Want something original? 
 Own a Playstation 3? Well then we may have a game to end you lust for the original.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a welcoming breath of fresh air after the never ending barrage of 
 sequels and rehashes gamers have been constantly getting. I mean, sure. Resident Evil: 5 looks 
 outstanding and I'm looking forward to Super Smash Brothers: Brawl as much as the next guy when 
 it comes out March 9th. Or April 8th. Or Christmas Day? 2011? I don't really know anymore.
  
  The point is, Uncharted is a very good original action/adventure game. You play as Nathan Drake, 
 an explorer looking for the hidden treasure of Sir Francis Drake using a diary found in his coffin. 
 Accompanying Nate is his partner, Victor "Sully" Sullivan, and a journalist, Elena Fisher. What's 
 great about each of these characters is they all have their own unique personality and charm to 
 them. It's very easy to care for the characters and the story. Unlike a lot of games where you'll 
 probably just want to skip the cut scenes and get on to the killing, people may find themselves 
 looking forward to the next cinema and see where the story is going next. From beginning to end, 
 you feel like you're watching one big action film.
  
  "But I don't care about the watching a video game Mister! I want to know how much fun the game 
 is!" Never fear, my impatient lippy friend. For most of the game, you'll be doing some third-person 
 shooting. The aiming and shooting controls work pretty flawlessly. You'll be doing the usual "stop-and-pop" 
 strategy used in Gears of War. Uncharted doesn't do anything to change up the method, but really, 
 it doesn't need too. It works well and it's easy to use. Combat isn't all shooting guns either. 
 If you are close enough to an enemy, you can use button combos to perform melee attacks. Again, 
 these work very well and can be pulled off effortlessly. Uncharted also contains the element of 
 platforming, which is a small mixture of Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider. It isn't quite as good 
 as either of those games, but it's still pretty fun and looks gorgeous.
  
  Speaking of gorgeous, Naughty Dog really went all out on the graphics in Uncharted. All the textures 
 and environments are outstanding, colorful, and a pleasure to view. In fact, Uncharted easily takes 
 the crown for best looking game on a console ever. It's great to finally have a game that contains 
 the awesome power Sony has been promising with the PS3, and doesn't dumb down on the gameplay or 
 fun. Uncharted might be the first game to have a balance of both.
  
  But sadly, Uncharted is not perfect. Aside from the main quest, there is almost nothing at all 
 to do. That may sound silly, but aside from a few game goals (that can be completed easily) and 
 hidden treasures (that aren't very hidden) , there is no reason to keep the game after you've beaten 
 it unless to try on a higher difficulty. The game is also a bit short, cutting at 8 or 9 hours 
 and 12 tops for complete-ists. Multiplayer also would have been a nice added feature, but sadly 
 it's not an option.
  
  But that's pretty much it. If you had doubts about this "Dude Raider" and own a PS3, picking up 
 Uncharted is an absolute must. The game is an excellent action/adventure title with near perfect 
 controls, story, characters, action, graphics, and fun. Don't stall, get your treasure hunt on 
 right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a great game for the playstation 3. A game that all PS3 owners should 
 own or at the very least rent. This game has great graphics especially water as it looks very realistic 
 and crisp looking. the character models move very nicely so no complaint there.
  
  Uncharted has some fun platforming elements very similar to the original 3 Crash Bandicoot series. 
 The shooting though fun can become a little tedious at times so Naughty Dog could have added a 
 few more platforming elements towards the end of the game but other then that no complaints in 
 the combat other then maybe some more hand-to-hand combat.
  
  Character Development is great in Uncharted, you really feel a conection with all of the characters, 
 weather you play it once or playthrough it multiple times this game is one your garunteed to love, 
 weather your a fan of platforming or shooting games or both as this game blends the two together.
 
  
  Uncharted has 4 difficulties for the game easy, normal, hard and crushing.
  over all if you own a PS3 you must own Uncharted! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougpeck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  well basicly its gears of war with no multiplayer for the ps3. with some platforming elements. 
 shooting some 1 in the head is rewarding all the time. u feel like. as if it is 1 of your life 
 goals to get loads of headshots. the graphics are stuning. water looks real if not better and the 
 lighting is without a doubt the best lighting seen on a game so far. ah yes and the AI is preety 
 dam good. not the best but alot better than normal. 
  
  but what i liked the most is the story. i never was one to follow a story. like assassins creed 
 or mass effect. and really. every game i have played. but this one is very simple and easy to follow 
 as there is only 1 path into the story if u know what i mean. theres only 1 thing u need to remember 
 about the story at the time. and as soon as i wanted to stop playing and play burnout paradise. 
 i found out anouther story part around half way through that kept me playing through the night
 
  
  very good game the only things i dont like about it is that sometimes its overwhelming dealing 
 with a good 20people flanking u are once. but u get used to it.
  
  and that sometimes when he moves and jumps it feels like he isnt doing it naturaly like as if some 
 1 else quickly jumps in. as if hes not human. its mostly the jumps with taht. but still
  
  
  and although it does nothing new it seems to put all the good aspects of games like this into 
 one (except from multiplayer which it has none of)
  u should rent it for a good 4days before buying as once u complete it a few times its unlikly u 
 will again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De_Bears
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I hate wordy-ness so I'll skip to the point. 
  
  Pros:
  Story
  Characters
  Graphics
  Adventure
  Pacing
  Extra Content
  Weapons
  Length
  Big levels
  No loading 
 time (Seamless)
  Puzzles
  
  Cons: 
  No real desire to play through again
  No lock on
  Linear
  Low weapon count
  
  Indifferent: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowellCJ14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of the game came from the demo on the PSN. After playing that, I thought the 
 game was a little difficult, and I didn't much like the shooting mechanics. But please, read on 
 to find the true experience of the game. If you are someone who has chosen NOT to buy the game 
 because you did not like the demo, you ought to continue...
  First off, graphics. This game is stunning. If you want a glimpse of what it looks like, go download 
 the demo. But there are some really spectacular scenes throughout the game. And I don't just mean 
 the cutscenes (which I believe run in real-time) . The quality of visual gameplay is gorgeous, again 
 the best I have seen on PS3 so far. The only thing that rivals it MIGHT be Unreal Tournament 3, 
 but that's talking about a whole different genre of game.
  Characters - voice acting is again, superb. All of the characters of their own personalities, but 
 don't come across as acting too much. Everything seems natural, right down to the body movements 
 of Nate (the main character) . For those of you who don't know, Naughty Dog used motion capture 
 techniques to create as real an environment as possible, and they certainly succeeded.
  Gameplay - one of the funnest titles I own for PS3 (check my collection to gauge for yourself) . 
 There is a great mix of platforming, puzzle solving, and shooting. After a little bit, the gun 
 mechanics felt right, and I began to crave more gun fights. The pacing is done very well; if you 
 start to get tired of solving puzzles, there is some platforming right around the corner. The game 
 extends for a while. With its own achievement system and secret collectibles, you could spend countless 
 hours finding everything. 1 run-through just to the finish the game on normal/hard would probably 
 take 10-15 hours. As part of doing the extra content, though, you unlock extras such as concept 
 art, development movies, costumes, and more.
  All in all, this game is definitely worth picking up right away for any PS3 owner. It's easy to 
 pick up and put down when you want. There are a few titles out there for $60 that could steer you 
 wrong (I won't get into that rant here) , but this is not one of them. If you're looking for a new 
 game to get, it should be this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurflob
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game through and through. There were three things that stood out to me that 
 made it such a great game. Its graphics are amazing, the game is probably one of the funnest games 
 to play ever, and the story makes you want to keep playing to find out what happens next.
  
  The graphics in the game are the best I've ever seen in a game. The characters look almost 
 lifelike, The characters look smooth and real not bumpy and polygon like as in some other games. 
 They also use really high detailed textures to make the characters. Some games when you see the 
 characters up close they look pixelated and blurry, but not this game, they put enough work and 
 effort into everything that even up close the characters are still real looking. Not only do the 
 characters look amazing but the environments make you feel like your actually in a lush green jungle. 
 Unlike other games, they don't put all of their work into the textures for the levels, they model 
 them extremely realistically and then put ultra real textures on. And as I heard in one of the 
 "making of" videos, they don't use photographs for their textures, they actually paint them all. 
 Every frame of this game is a potential screen shot to be used to show the amazing graphics. Every 
 part of the game is just as detailed as the last.
  
  The gameplay is fun and addicting. It takes the best parts from shooter games and combines it with 
 the realistic platforming that they used from their Jak and Daxter games. Something that makes 
 this better than the average shooter game is the system of ducking and hiding. You can press circle 
 to hide behind pretty much everything. Then you use L1 to aim from that spot and shoot at other 
 guys. then once you let go of L1 you return back to hiding. But don't take this wrong. This doesn't 
 make this too easy to play, it's still a great challenge. All the platforming parts in the game 
 are also fun and challenging. All of the animations for them are beautifully animated. Every animation 
 flows perfectly from one to another. Also most of the cut scenes are animated directly into the 
 game so that when it ends it just changes camera angles and you start playing. This creates a super 
 realistic platforming experience.
  
  The story is just as quick, changing, and full of twists and turns as the gameplay. You never know 
 what will happen next. The characters have really believable personalities so you actually feel 
 like you are Nate Drake. The story also has a lot of unexpected surprises that keep you on your 
 toes.
  
  Overall, Uncharted is a great game and i expect it to be a very long time before another game comes 
 closing to being as breathtaking as this one. Take my advice and go out and buy it right now. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco245
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  When I had received Uncharted for Christmas, I knew I was about to play one of the best ps3 titles 
 to date. The setting is there, the characters are in there to, and the story is a case of deja-vu, 
 but interesting, nonetheless. When you first enter the game, you immediately know whats going on. 
 You are introduced to the main protagonists and the basic gameplay techniques. At first with a 
 measley Makarov pistol, the firefights can be very frustrating, even in the Easy difficulty (in 
 easy, headshot kills immediately, and 4 shots on the body kill, too) . The firefights don't seem 
 to be much of a bother until later in the game, when the story begins to unfold.
  
  As you get deeper into the jungle, you dicover just how beautiful this game is. The lighting, the 
 effects, and the neat little feature which shows drake as being "all wet" when he enters water. 
 All this comes together to create a compelling and immersive world, in which to thrive for about 
 5-10 hours. This may seem a little short for some gamers, but you need to follow the story as you 
 go along, and find the hidden treasures along the way too. The area which you cover in this time 
 period is surprisingly vast, but you do feel a little bit of a squeeze in the story.
  
  By far the best thing about this game is the gameplay and animations. They are two seperate things, 
 I know, but they come together in this game. As you're hanging from a clifftop, you can literally 
 see and hear Drake struggle to launch his body from one ledge to another. Focusing on the gameplay, 
 the game features a pretty common (nowadays, anyway) over-the-shoulder, dive-for-cover form of 
 gunplay. The developers made this simple, by using one button for cover, one for jump, and one 
 for shoot, and when you're armed to the teeth, and behind a rock, it's nice to do a Rambo style 
 somersault from one rock to another, as well as sprinting the enemy and giving them some. On the 
 animation side of things, they don't disappoint. Naughty Dog clearly put a lot of effort into the 
 animations, judging by the Dev updates, and you can see this in every aspect of what you do. Shooting, 
 running, jumping etc. When your shooting, as you take cover you can see Drake getting anxious as 
 the enemies shoot at him. Drake runs pretty slow at times, but one someones hoots near him, he 
 begind to pick up the pace, like a real person would do in that situation. Finally, as mentioned 
 before, the jumping from ledge to ledge is realistic.
  
  Over all I thoroughly enjoyed this game. The Gameaplay, animations and graphics are amazing, and 
 they really make this game what it is. But the cutscenes can get agonisingly cheesy at times (partly 
 because of that danmed reporter has to be in almost all of them) and the CQC is way to simple. 
 The only combo is Square, Triangle, Square but It's very effective when done right. I would recommend 
 this to anyone who enjoys adventure games, with an immersive story and setting, magnificent graphics 
 and some good ol' gunplay, then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, i can say that this awesome videogame is by far one of the bests i 
 had ever played.
  Storyline is awesome and sucks you in as no other game, awesome cinematic cut scenes that make 
 you believe that you are really going for El Dorado.
  The game is great in every aspect, from physics to gameplay, from graphics to lightning, and one 
 of the most strongest and coolest presentations ever seen.
  Graphics are by far the best i have ever seen, specially when speaking about water, best water 
 everr seen on a videogame, we can see Naughty Dog's effort.
  Soun effects are awesome as well as visual effects, shadows and lightning.
  .Gameplay is amazing 
 and you will have to face lots of puzzles to solve
  Combination of action shooting puzzle and adventure lead to an awesome combination that makes Uncharted 
 the best gaming piece on ps3, and perhaps in history, Feel it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_light91
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is easily one of the best games I've played in a long time.
  
  The graphics in Uncharted are outstanding  truly next-gen. All of the characters and their facial 
 expressions are extremely lifelike. The game completely immerses you in a beautiful island of lush 
 forests and ancient ruins. The water was especially amazing. I swear I just stared at it for like 
 10 minutes the first time I played the game!
  
  The audio was great as well. The music was very original and really set the mood for the game. 
 I was also impressed with the small touches, like the ringing in your ears when a grenade goes 
 off near you and the slight deafness that follows.
  
  The platforming in this game was pretty easy, but sometimes it could be frustrating when combined 
 with confusing camera angles.
  
  Quite a few people have complained about how easy Drake dies in fights, but I think it helps reinforce 
 the fact that he is an ordinary guy under extraordinary circumstances. There are quite a few fights 
 (especially in crushing mode) where you feel like smashing your controller against the wall. You 
 really have to strategize when fighting instead of firing at anything at anytime like your basic 
 shoot-'em-up game. Still, the fighting is really fun, and you can perform a variety of shooting 
 and fist-fighting combos that make it even more interesting.
  
  The storyline in this game was not very original, but very entertaining and it really did play 
 like a movie. All of the character performances were top-notch, and the witty dialogue just adds 
 to the charm of this game. 
  
  *Spoilers* The only gripe I had about this game was when they brought the mutant-looking Spaniards 
 into the mix. I thought it was kind of lame, but I guess I was able to forgive them once they put 
 the whole "cursed treasure" spin on it. *End of Spoilers*
  
  The game also has a large number of bonus features. Finding hidden treasures in the game and performing 
 certain things will allow you to unlock rewards. This was a really good idea to help give the game 
 some replay value (even though Uncharted has plenty of it already) .
  
  Yes, Uncharted is a tad short, but it doesn't detract from the game at all. Overall, Uncharted 
 is an amazing game and it is a must-have for all PS3 owners. Naughty Dog's attention to detail 
 is amazing and much appreciated. I feel privileged to play such a polished game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a game you cannot afford to miss. In fact, Uncharted is so good, its reason enough 
 to buy a PS3 just to play it. 
  The characters are all memorable, even the villains. Nathan Drake is perhaps the first icon of 
 the PS3. He's charismatic, funny and very cool. You just love being around this guy.
  The character design is absolutely perfect. All characters seem real, flawless in their movements 
 and facial expressions. 
  The graphics are without a doubt some of the best ever displayed in a videogame. The jungle is 
 alive. The colours are vibrant, everything is beautiful and sometimes you find yourself just looking 
 around in wonder. 
  The gameplay involves shooting, a lot of shooting, some platforms and a few easy puzzles. The platforms 
 are challenging without being frustrating. The puzzles are so easy they're hardly worth mentioning. 
 The shooting is about 80% of what you'll do in Uncharted. You'll take cover, aim and take out waves 
 after waves of enemies consisting mostly of pirates. There are also treasures to find and several 
 challenges to complete to get medals, like killing a number of enemies with each gun, or five in 
 a row with a punch for example. Yes, there is also hand to hand combat, which is fun and rewarding. 
 How can you not love watching Drake breaking the last enemy's neck after a huge fire fight? 
  The game is not long unless you try to complete everything. If you do, you will have to play the 
 game at least twice and Crushing Mode, the hardest difficulty level, will take some time, trust 
 me. 
  Uncharted is what games are all about. It's exciting, beautiful, with great characters and a wild 
 treasure hunt. You blow stuff up, kill bad guys and get the girl. It's like the old pulp adventures. 
 
  It's not original or filled with innovation. It's just an almost perfect game, with few flaws that 
 delivers loads of fun while it lasts. 
  The first PS3 classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the one game that shows you can do great things with the PS3, both 
 inside and out. You play as Nathan Drake, a deascendent of Sir Francis Drake, trying to find a 
 treasure. You then have a thought saying "Hey, this is kinda like Indiana Jones. Oh wait, It is 
 EXACTLY like Indiana Jones." You also have a get the story done girl, and your sidekick. There 
 are other charcters, but i won't mention them in the review. Most of the gameplay is gunplay and 
 platforming, but things such as ski-doo rides and a section of the game were you man a turret and 
 gun down dudes in ATV's. The amount of guns is diverse, from handguns, to shotguns and even a MP40. 
 Enemy A. I. is smart and will use cover, but later on in the game they will attach laser pointers 
 to thier guns, making them even more deadley. The enemy types is also diverse, from mercinaries 
 to army mecinaries to even monsters that look like the Lickers from Resident Evil. The gunplay 
 is very smooth, and you will be popping headshots in no time flat. The cover system is also very 
 well done, so you only have to press a single button. The platforming parts are very well done, 
 and instead of trying to execut the perfect leap, Nathan will just jump toward the ledge. Now that 
 is progress! But, with the good comes the bad. The game is just way to short (20 chapters, incredibley 
 short.) , but you can find all the little trinkets and achivements, but if you don't care about 
 that stuff, you will be returning this to the store quickly. Also, puzzles are pretty crappy, but 
 thank god there is only like, three of them. One thing that really sets Uncharted apart from 360 
 games is the graphics. It truely shows the graphical power of the PS3, and it also dosen't let 
 the little things pass by. When Nathan gets out of the water from swimming, he is actully wet. 
 The animation is also very fluid, and some of the best seen on any next-generation console. All 
 in all, Uncharted is one of those games that are short but sweet, but with amazing graphics and 
 terrific story, this one might be the game that sets PS3 ahead of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-ace
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I loved this game, but I couldn't help feeling it was too repetative. Instead 
 of having a steady balance of gunplay - platforming, it had more of a feel of "heres a level where 
 you climb around" then "heres a level of fighting". There were a few levels where the balance did 
 work out, but these were out-weighed by the basic shooters levels, a notable example being "the 
 fortress" where I think the balance was good at the beginning but you started using your weapons 
 more and more until you forgot the amazing scenery and climbing at the start.
  On the subject of scenery I felt very impressed, the visuals were almost life like and the ragdoll 
 animation of enemies deaths seemed to fit in very well. If you take your time to look around every 
 now and again during the game you begin to notice the level of detail naughty dog have crammed 
 into the simple yet effective level designs. Character movement is also very good but could've 
 been better and the AI characters who you get to play alongside with on some levels can get in 
 the way and strangely jump backwards if so much as tap them.
  One of Uncharted's strongest points is its story, its very immersive and keeps you up to date with 
 what is happening. It does go slightly off track during chapters 17-19, but these levels do give 
 a breathe of fresh air to the combat you've gotten used to. It has its moments of humour and the 
 characters seem believable, despite the occasional unecessary cursing.
  The controls are easy to grasp and the first few chapters give a steady learning curve until your 
 first major battle in chapter 4, unfortunatley when you do get to this point you will be seeing 
 alot of it for about an hour or two.
  The gameplay has a very nice feel to it, your lead along a linear path killing off the enemies 
 every now and again. Weapons are another strong point in Uncharted, you start with the basic pistol 
 (which can last you for a long time) and are slowly introduced to new weapons throughout the game.
 
  The game also has great replay value and will take around 8 hours each playthrough without cheating, 
 you will most likely play 2 or 3 games and will not get bored with them, with unlockables such 
 as flip and mirror mode adding even more replay value. You will go through and earn various reward 
 points which vary from simply finishing the game on various difficulties to getting headshots and 
 linking brutal combo kills. You will also collect treasures which add to reward points, every 5 
 treasures found giving an average of 10 reward points. These reward points are then used for the 
 things we have come to expect in games such as infinote ammo and one hit kills.
  Overall Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is great game with plenty of replay value, a brilliant showcase 
 of what the PS3 can do, despite some minor flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  First it was Tomb Raider and now it's Uncharted: Drake's Fortune that's copying the Indianna Jones 
 adventure formula of environmental puzzles, plenty of gunplay, and adrenaline pumping chases.
 
  
  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune looks fantastic. The jungles are lush and green, and there is always 
 movement. Water looks so lifelike that you feel like jumping and taking a swim even if you don't 
 have to. Characters look and react to such a belivable standard that you grow attached to all of 
 the main characters, caring for their future, which is a big draw card in gaming.
  
  In terms of the actual gameplay, it consists of platforming, the odd puzzle or two and lots and 
 LOTS of shooting and hand to hand combat. The shooting is enough fun on it's own. Similar tactics 
 to Gears of War, you dive behind cover and, with your chosen weapon unholsterd, you either blind 
 fire over the cover, hoping that you can hit the target, or you risk exposing yourself and aiming 
 down the enemies.
  
  Story wise, Uncharted has awsome plot twists that seem to have been taken straight from an epic 
 adventure movie. Cutscenes are a joy to watch just to see the character renderings come to life. 
 The voice acting is superb and there are many a moment where you will be chuckling to yourself 
 with the humurous one liners that escape our hero's mouth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  When developer Naughty Dog ended the Jak and Daxter series, they started looking for a new franchise 
 that would revolutionise gaming. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the result, and while not entirely 
 revolutionary, it packs in some of the best action seen in a video game yet, and provides some 
 of the best visuals yet witnessed by the gaming community. 
  
  The game begins with the hero, Nathan Drake, and a female companion, Elena, as they dig up Sir 
 Francis Drake's coffin at the bottom of the sea. They do not find a corpse, but a diary which contains 
 information on the lost treasure of El Dorado. However, the celebrations are abrupt when pirates 
 attack the ship. Discovery after discovery, Nathan, Elena and their pal Sully find more about El 
 Dorado, the uncharted island they're lost on and their enemy. Then, the final twist of all... 
 
  
  The story is perhaps one of Uncharted's strongest point. The plot takes so many twists and turns, 
 and yet never becomes complicated or complex. You know what's going on and hat you need to do, 
 and that's something which is hard to do in a game like this. The motion capture used for the cutscenes 
 make th characters seem alive and down-to-earth. They never seem artificial. Chances are you've 
 met a character with their personality in the real world in the form of a friend or family member. 
 They're that relatable.
  
  The gameplay is similar to any action adventure game, but what's great about Uncharted is that 
 it combines other genres to create a fusion gaming experience. Platforming features heavily in 
 Uncharted, and every level contains three-four big platforming sections. Don't fret, these sections 
 are never overly difficult or challenging, and yet you always feel like you've accomplished something 
 when you've climbed the Fortress walls or the Church infrastructure. However, the core gameplay 
 is shooting, and Naughty Dog does this extraordinarily well.
  
  Basically, cover is your friend. In fact, your best friend. You cannot survive ten seconds without 
 ducking and weaving throughout the thrilling set pieces in Uncharted. It makes so much sense. The 
 normal combat controls are unoriginal, but that doesn't mean they're bad. They just feel familiar 
 and fantastic. From punching a pirate to swinging on a vine, it's all done so easily. You can pick 
 up a variety of weapons, and each works in specific situations. Ammo is never too far away but 
 shooting like crazy isn't going to help you at all.
  
  The mood is consistently like that of an action movie. The larger than life quality of the set 
 pieces brings a thrilling aspect to the gameplay, and each level has some unique pro to it that 
 you want to play it again and again. There are some driving sections in the game, from manning 
 a gun on a jeep to manoeuvring a jet ski through upward streams. It all feels so amazingly tense. 
 
  
  Sound is also top-notch, especially the music. The use of ethnic instruments as well as classical 
 ones provide a brash, bold and interesting soundtrack destined to be repeated. The voice-acting 
 is also above standard, and Nathan Drake is surprisingly realistic. The other characters are also 
 multi-layered, and the story and characters relate to each other so much, Uncharted wouldn't survive 
 without them.
  
  And the graphics. Best. Graphics. Best. Ever! Every level is so amazingly detailed and magnificantly 
 created. From lush jungles, to stone fortresses, to delapidated churches to forgotten ruins, all 
 of the levels are so alive you could touch and interact with them. The realism is through the roof. 
 Definitely the best yet seen on the PS3, if not on any console.
  
  Replay value is also surprising, because there are treasures, medals and rewards to collect. Documentaries 
 on the game, cheats and other difficulty modes are unlocked throughout the game, and they add a 
 layer of fun and achievement to the game. However, completing the game takes only 10 hours, but 
 boy, they the most action-packed and beautiful 10 hours of your life.
  
  Overall, this game is utterly superb. Deep combat, engaging plot, thrilling gameplay, mind-blowing 
 graphics and nice replay value add up to the best PS3 exclusive to date. If you own a PS3, you 
 MUST get this game. Uncharted is one of those gaming gems which really show what video games are 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asyland
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when you enter the world of Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, is that it is 
 hands down one of the best looking games around. The scenery, from lush jungles, crawling with 
 life, to the rusted graveyards of deserted ships, is staggering in its detail. Lighting, shadow, 
 water effects are as slick, and as well done as I've ever seen. There are moments that are simply 
 breath taking. Like seeing the sunset over the Amazon jungle, as birds take flight from the treetops. 
 Having those same trees part in front of you to reveal an ancient Incan temple, staggering in its 
 detail. In my mind, this is the strongest part of the game.
  The characters are rendered with the same skill and care. Animation is fluid, and faces are expressive 
 and alive. Praise also goes the adept voice actors, who bring a distinct personality to the characters, 
 even if the main players are a bit stereotypical (tough, wise-cracking hero, plucky young reporter, 
 and gruff but lovable old sidekick) . The dialogue can sound a bit like a retread of so many adventure 
 games, and movies, but still manages to be engaging, and at times truly funny.
  The story itself is fairly predictable, and seems to be taken right from the Hollywood action/adventure 
 mold. I found it charming and engaging none the less. I was drawn in enough to root for the good 
 guys, and delight in seeing the bad guys get theirs. No great surprises, but a fun tale to carry 
 the action.
  The music is also done on a highly professional level. The title track is absolutely epic, pounding 
 drums and stirring brass and strings hold a promise of the adventure of a lifetime. The soundtrack 
 supports the story, and never seems to intrude, or pull us from the action. It may not be very 
 innovative, it seems to be all too reminiscent of an Indiana Jones film, but it is polished, grand 
 and well executed.
  The action is no surprise in its outstanding accuracy and precision. I would expect no less from 
 the studio that brought us Jak and Daxter. Hit detection, platforming mechanics are right on the 
 money. Unfortunately, the platforming elements could be a bit repetitive, and consisted primarily 
 of leaping for hand holds, scaling walls, platform jumping, and swinging on the occasional vine 
 or chain. In one level, Jake is forced to dodge a few large lanterns, and I found this a nice change 
 from the usual climbing, and would have to see some additional moves on Jakes part. There was too 
 much crank turning for my taste, and although there were some other puzzles, they were fairly easy 
 and usually ended in turning something, if not a crank, than a statue or emblem.
  The vehicle sequences did provide a fun departure from traversing ruins and crank turning. They 
 were brief, but did not feel underdeveloped, as clearly the emphasis is on Jakes acrobatics and 
 combat. 
  The combat was, perhaps the most difficult element in the game. Scores of enemies attack from all 
 directions, whether pirates or monsters. Add to that deadly snipers from above, and you could find 
 yourself repeating some grueling battles. I say they were too tough, however. The hit detection 
 in the game is dead on, so any headshot you made had the right results, dead pirate. One thing 
 I especially appreciated is that if you had an enemy in your sights, you could shoot them. There 
 were no phantom corners to walls, blocking your shots, and causing a ricochet in what looks to 
 be mid air. Nor were there any chain-link fences or holes in a wooden wall that behaved as though 
 they were solid, stopping any bullet you fired. There were a few timed button mashing sequences, 
 but they were brief and were not overdone to the point of making you feel like a lab rat.
  The enemy AI was not bad. Enemies never resorted to a mindless head on charge, instead popping 
 out to fire, and then ducking for cover. Attempts to flank my position were not overly sophisticated, 
 and most times the enemy positions were given away but the insults and threats they were constantly 
 shouting, but what the hell, they were at least making the attempt to catch my blindside.
  If the combat had a downside it would be, as the platforming was, repetitious. For most of the 
 game you're fighting the same pirates. They do get body armor and better weapons later on, but 
 it's still the same guys, shouting the same threats, attacking in much the same manner, pirate 
 after pirate after pirate. Towards the end of the game you run in to a new enemy, but with only 
 one attack, they get old very quickly. I realize the story did not allow for a great variety of 
 foes, but at least one other type of enemy to fight, or some new combat scenarios would have broken 
 up a rather stagnant battle formula.
  In the end, that's my major complaint with Uncharted. While it is a slick, beautiful, and well 
 executed game, it just runs short of ideas. The game finds one or two things that work, and then 
 sticks with those, repeating them over and over again. The graphics, sound, and mechanics are, 
 again, fantastic. I just would have liked to have seen them put to more imaginative use. I don't 
 think that every game must break new ground to be successful or fun, but they should seek to make 
 the most of the world it creates, however beautiful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redzed24
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Instead of reviewing the entire game I will just compare my views with those of the Gamespot reviewer. 
 I agree with most aspects, such as the beautiful graphics and wonderful audio. I agree with his 
 assesment of alot of the gameplay features such as the vehicle chases. I do however have to disagree 
 on a couple points as well. 
  
  The gun play in the game is difficult at times but I think that its more fun replaying a gun fight 
 than it is replaying just jumping around the enviroment. The point I am making is that I enjoy 
 the ease of the platforming and the forgiveness of it. I dont wanna have to make an exact jump 
 to make it from point a to point b. I think it would be more accurate to say that most games make 
 it too hard and Drake makes it just right rather than Drake being too easy. Nothing bothers me 
 more in a game than when you have to try jumping from one rock to another 30 times. I appreicate 
 the ease at which you can do the platforming in Drakes fortune and the difficulty of the gun fights. 
 
  
  The only point in the game I was truely frustrated with the shooting aspects of the game is when 
 the (monsters) in the game come at you like spider monkeys and take half a clip to kill. You run 
 out of ammo shooting at them and then it only takes them a second to kill you. Even with good head 
 shots you can still get tramples by 3 or 4 at a time. It can be done but it is very difficult.
 
  
  The game is absolutely beautiful if played in HD. One of the most stunning games I have played. 
 The enviroments. The characters. The animations. Its all world class. The audio as said in the 
 site review is top notch as well. The lasting appeal of Drakes Fortune may raise a few debates 
 though. Once you have played through it, well, its kinda like a mystery movie that you have already 
 seen.. sure its still good but it doesnt pack the same punch anymore. Its a fun enough game to 
 play again, but sharing Drakes fortune would be the best way to use it once you have played through 
 it because its truely a game that everyone who likes the genre should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog has been pretty quiet since their last big release, Jak 3. They're back with their 
 latest release, Uncharted. And Uncharted proves that Naughty Dog can produce more than just the 
 mascot platform type of games. Not to mention that Uncharted has an action movie feel from the 
 story and gameplay, down to the story and cutscenes. And its a great ride while it lasts, although 
 it doesn't last all that long.
  
  The basic premise for Uncharted feels like a mix of Tomb Raider with a little National Treasure 
 thrown in. The prize in Uncharted is the lost treasure of El Dorado. Nathan Drake, a possible descendent 
 of Sir Francis Drake, is the main character, who is in search of El Dorado. Along for the ride 
 is TV reporter Elena, and Sully, an associate of Nathan's. The search for the treasure takes you 
 around a couple Pacific island locations.
  
  The basic gameplay feels alot like the two recent Tomb Raider titles, with a little more action. 
 You explore the environments, climbing around if necessary, solving the occasional puzzle, and 
 most of all, fighting mercenaries and pirates. That and two incredible Jet Ski sequences. But like 
 I said, the basic gameplay feels alot like the gameplay of Tomb Raider. Uncharted actually feels 
 better thanks to some great animation for Nathan, as he'll climb rocks realistically, stretch to 
 land larger gap jumps, and more. As for the actual combat, you get access to the typical fire arms, 
 pistols, shotguns, assault rifles, etc. What I especially liked is that all your weaponry and ammunition 
 is taken from the enemies you fight, and the occasional spot where ammo is lying around. There 
 are no random boxes or crates with large supplies of ammo. All you get is what you find on the 
 ground. You're also limited to only two guns at a time, a pistol and a heavy arms weapon (shotgun, 
 rifle, etc) . The stronger pistols (like Desert Eagle) and the shotgun felt like the best weapons, 
 in addition to the sniper rifle you get a couple times. The normal pistol and rifle you find just 
 don't seem to do much damage. It's not right to have to fire a full clip just to take out one guy. 
 Still, this doesn't detract any from the gameplay, just sometimes making it tougher, which it doesn't 
 have to as there are a few situations that were tough. Overall the difficulty is not that difficult, 
 but the difficulty does spike at times. These situations are not impossible, though they can get 
 frustrating. Like I said, the game is not that tough, but it can be at times.
  
  Uncharted's graphics are astounding. The island you explore looks incredible, as do the ruins you 
 eventually run into. The environments are very well created, and look very realistic. The ruins 
 of the city on the island also looks great. All the cutscenes are done using the in-game engine 
 and those are also great. I can go keep saying how great they are, but I think you get the idea. 
 The character models, environments, everything looks great. And it also sounds really good too. 
 The music is done very well, as is the voice acting. Like I initially said, Uncharted really does 
 look and feel like big action movie.
  
  About the only real big complaint I have is that, even though Uncharted is told well from beginning 
 to end, it still isn't very long. Around 8 hours will be enough to get through Uncharted, though 
 there are 360-style performance achievements you earn in game, so there is some replay value, but 
 not too much. Otherwise, there isn't much else to Uncharted once you've beaten it.
  
  Overall, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a great action adventure title that shows how potent the 
 PlayStation 3 is. Its a blast to play, while it lasts, but the ride from beginning to end is a 
 lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted was something of a surprise to me. Having owned my PS3 for just over a year, and not 
 really playing all that much on it, I was convinced that 2007 was just not the year for the PS3 
 in terms of games. Uncharted has changed that perspective quite a bit.
  
  It has been said 100 times already that Uncharted is Tomb Raider + Gears of War. This is very true 
 for many reasons. The level of originality in Uncharted is, unfortunately, very low. But it counters 
 that with a high level of polish for what it does do. Think of this game as the highly refined 
 mash-up of all the other games that is borrows from. A lot can be said about a perfected idea.
 
  
  For starters, the game looks absolutely amazing. The graphics are quite simply the best I have 
 seen on a console to date. The backgrounds are buried in top-notch production values. The textures 
 are all very high resolution and add a great deal to the overall look. The water effects are extremely 
 well done, as well as the vegetation animation. This is one of the very few games in history to 
 make a jungle feel "thick" if that makes any sense. The indoor environments suffer a bit from some 
 cranking textures and overly shiny effects. This all works great on plants that are supposed to 
 be wet, but seeing rust that appears to have been polished to a shine is a bit odd.
  
  The character models are also highly detailed. There are only a handful of models for the main 
 "cast", but each one has clearly gone through a lot of hands on time with the modeling and animation 
 teams. It is great to see the same gameplay models used for the in-engine cutscenes (at least they 
 appear to be the same ones) simply because the game keeps you immersed throughout without having 
 the jarring effect of going from a 100 polygon gameplay model to a pre-rendered cutscene. I for 
 one, am very pleased that gaming technology has come this far. Uncharted is just evidence for the 
 positive effect this has had on a gaming experience.
  
  The sound in Uncharted keeps up the quality level that has been achieved with the visuals. All 
 of the usual sound elements are done quite well, from music, to sound effects, and voice acting. 
 To call the voice acting "superb" would be accurate. There seems to be a trend these days wtih 
 games having terrific voice acting (Bioshock, Mass Effect) and Uncharted can easily be considered 
 tops in this regard. The actors hit there comedic, and dramatic, lines with perfection.
  
  In terms of Gameplay, Uncharted successfully hits a great mix between platforming and shooting 
 elements. There is some minor puzzle solving, but to call it a light presence would be accurate. 
 The platforming is similar to the style from Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider. Plenty of jumping, 
 climbing, shuffling, rope swinging and falling to be had. These portions of the game can be a mix 
 between stupid easy, to somewhat more difficult. Meaning, you shouldn't ever really get too frustrated 
 unless you keep making the same mistake over and over, which I did a few times.
  
  The shooting elements are borrowed directly from kill. Switch and draw many comparisons to Gears 
 of War, that other "duck and cover" shooter for the 360. Although the main mechanic is similar, 
 it is actually done a bit smoother in Uncharted. There are fewer instances of accidentally taking 
 cover against an exposed wall here. It happens, but not nearly as often as it did to me in Gears. 
 The gunfire itself is nicely tuned. Each weapon, save for a few pistols, feels unique and has benefits/disadvantages. 
 As the game progresses you start to run across different types of guns that are dropped by enemies. 
 These typically start to pack more of a punch then the early weapons. My personal favorite would 
 easily be the Desert Eagle. (If you don't know what a Desert Eagle is, go rent Lock, Stock and 
 Two Smoking Barrels) This hand-cannon packs an appropriate punch and makes for some seriously fun 
 times during firefights.
  
  The story could have been a lost script for an Indiana Jones movie. It plays to the same tune as 
 most of the "Adventurer in search of treasure" films ever made, and it does it really well. If 
 anything the game feels like something of a homage to these movies, rather then a direct theft 
 of them. The cutscenes that are scattered throughout the game do an excellent job of introducing 
 the nuences of the different characters, and also leave you feeling a connection to them. You can't 
 help but thinking that the good guys are people you would get a kick out of hanging out with.
 
  
  Just like Naughty Dog's previous games in the Jak and Daxter games, Uncharted is really funny. 
 The opening scene alone made me laugh out loud a few times, and this trend continues right up to 
 the very last sequence in the game. I'd trade all of the best "Bad-itude" in the world away for 
 a bit more humor in a game. Uncharted is definitely an answer to that wish. None of the characters 
 come across as trying to hard (without knowing it) and are not afraid to make fun of themselves 
 a bit. I really hope any sequels to this game will stay true to this format.
  
  The length of the game has come into question for many people. I spent roughly 16 hours completing 
 the game. I played the game one difficulty setting above the default, so this may account for some 
 extra time versus those out there that stated it was 8-10 hours. Why experienced gamers insist 
 on playing "normal" when it is the 2nd out of 4 possible settings, then complaining about how easy/short 
 it was is a big mystery that deserves an answer. Well duh it was easy, you have it on "stupid easy" 
 mode. What the heck do you think that means?
  
  For me, this is the sweet spot for game length. For it to have gone on an additional 2-4 hours 
 may have pushed me over the edge and left me hoping for the ending to come soon. With how long 
 it was I definitely felt like I got a great experience that didn't crawl itself to the finish line.
 
  
  The game also contains plenty of extras. Unlocking "tweaks" that let you get different weapons 
 and modifications are done by the ingame "achievement" system similar to what is found on 360 games. 
 There are also all kinds of trinkets to find throughout the game, of which I found 31/60 after 
 not really trying until half way through the game. I didn't spend a whole lot of time with these 
 myself, as playing through it once is enough for me. Many people may find this kind of thing interesting 
 and important for extending replay value.
  
  Uncharted was definitely a surprise to me. I have only a handful of games for my PS3, and this 
 one easily races right up to the top to park itself next to Resistance for being a "must have" 
 for the system. It's got a few quirks that bring it down a tad, but quite simply, if you have a 
 PS3 and do not have Uncharted, you are seriously missing out on one of the best experiences for 
 the system so far. Go get it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spencer626
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game. It is, by far, one of the best games to be released on the Playstation 
 3 yet. It is a new kind of game that really feels like a unique experience.
  
  The story basically involves the hero, Nathan Drake, looking for the lost city of El Dorado and 
 its treasure. While the story doesn't sound very awe-inspiring, it does get pretty deep and the 
 main characters are simply amazing and help move the story nicely (Especially Nathan Drake who 
 is one of my favorite heros to date) . The game will last around 10 hours and is good for at least 
 2 playthroughs.
  
  The story is good but gameplay really stands out. Combat is somewhat Gears of War style where you 
 run to cover, lean out, and shoot. This doesn't sound very fun but it really is (a demo is available 
 on the PSN but doesn't really show how much fun some of the battles are) . Naught Dog varies the 
 levels enough so that it almost never feels repetitive. The only part someone might not like is 
 how hard this game can be. My first playthrough was on the normal difficulty setting and I died..... 
 a lot. I am now almost done with the hard difficulty and I've died a lot more (There is even another 
 setting harder than this that would make most people cry) . But somehow I usually don't get frustrated 
 and don't mind dying.
  The other part of the gameplay is platforming, which in most cases is easy and doesn't take too 
 much thought or skill, but it is usually a nice break from fighting.
  
  The game does offer some reasons to play the game other than just beating it. There are a set of 
 "Medals" that are basically achievements that give you a certain number of points that unlock a 
 huge variety of rewards like costumes, being able to equip weapons, and videos. There are also 
 60 "Treasures" that are found throughout the game and give you more points. But finding every one 
 of these is a near impossible task.
  
  Uncharted is a good game with outstanding gameplay, but some people might have a problem paying 
 for a game where they might only get ten hours of gameplay. For me, there are enough extras to 
 keep me going for at least 30 hours, but I know some people don't like going for the extras (but 
 trust me, there are tons of unlockabales that just dare you to stop playing) . There are very few 
 problems, I never once had a framerate issue, and the graphics rival that of Gears, Resistance, 
 Halo, Ratchet, and whatever other games you would like to insert here.
  
  If Naughty Dog isn't going to make another Jak game, I am glad he is being repalced by a game as 
 great as this and I am hoping for a sequel.
  
  THIS IS A MOST PLAY GAME FOR ALL PS3 OWNERS!!!!!!!!!!!
  (Even if you only rent it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhiberOpttic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is visually stunning. Everything from the lush jungles to the creepy 
 tombs is rendering beautifully. Game play is spot on. The mechanics are very similar to Tomb Raider 
 or Prince of Persia, lots of aerobatics; jumping, swinging, etc. All of which is precise. I dont 
 know why GS gave Uncharted bad marks for the gun battles, I found them to be a lot fun and not 
 difficult or frustrating. There is a good variety of weapons, although certain weapons perform 
 better in certain instances. The targeting and firing are easy to master and the bad guys actually 
 have decent AI; they duck behind cover and dont stand around like stationary targets. My only two 
 complaints is that there arent enough puzzles (the ones that are in the game are pretty straight 
 forward) and the game could have been a little bit longer.
  
  Any fans of Tomb Raider or Prince of Persia should definitely pick up Uncharted. Excellent, excellent 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game, the graphics wonderfull, the gameplay great the fighting wonderfull, 
 my goodness nothing like beating the crap out of the enemy especially when you can't find them, 
 The game is great it sort of has and Indiana Jones feel to it especially when curses start appearing, 
 the array of weapons to use is wonderful of course you have to kinda find the weapons first before 
 you can use them, but still there's still remnance of nauhty dogs classic finds if you get a certain 
 amount of medals or relics you unlock stuff, such as guns, weapons, and some things are easy while 
 others are just insane like shooting 5 people in the head, easy trying to kil 5 people back to 
 back with a brutal combo not so easy, cause they have guns. The story is great at first you think 
 you know who the bad guy is but then you're left feeling like a dumbass all the way. The games 
 difficulty is definetely noticable from normal to hard, a definite difference.
  Overall though the game is great the puzzles aren't so difficult and if stuck you get hints, so 
 thats useful for the first time going through, the use of the sixaxis though felt as if they just 
 needed to stick it somewhere, and what better place than crossing on ravines on a dead tree. But 
 still the game is great and a definite must buy for all playstation if not play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  What is Uncharted: Drakes Fortune? Is it a tombraider clone, no. Part TombRaider, part Gears of 
 War makes Uncharted, it's own game. So what about the Story? You play a Nathan Drake. Drake is 
 trying to find the treasure that Drakes Ansestor, Sir Frances Drake, left behind. Drake find that 
 the treasure is El derado. It's not a city of gold, but a gold Statue? O. K. After Drakes best friend 
 it killed, Drake must find El derado, before
  He gets killed. Drake is your run of the mill explorer. Drake has similar jumping and acrobatics 
 as Lora Croft. You'll do some nice jumping controls with some just as smooth controls all around. 
 Puzzles are needed to be solved, Jumping is needed. But the thing that seperates the 2, is how 
 they jump. In tomb raider, you have to find the right angle to jump and hope you make it, for Uncharted, 
 your just jumping and you make it. Also they way the to handle a gun differently. Gunplay use the 
 duck and cover machanics from Gears of War and other games that use it. The Graphics are tight. 
 This is the best looking game on the marchet. Everything animates good, the lighting helps and 
 is just beautiful, and the effects are impeccable. Thank god, Ratchet and Clank, Gears of War, 
 and Super Mario Galaxy were getting lonely and un-matched. The voice acting is solid all around 
 with some impeccable diolague (ahh $#*!) hey drake, this is a game rated t. Naughty Dog has truly 
 fleshed out these characters with the voice acting. The music is also solid with tones of musical 
 hits that are orcitrated. There are 2 small complaints. What the spaw happened here. Enemies come 
 out of no where and spaw like there's no tomorrow. O. K, maybe that's a little to harsh. You see, 
 enemies aren't that smart, but make up for numbers. Once you think it's over, Another Group come 
 out of no where. This feels a little un-fair and ub-blanced when your trying to get some ammo when 
 1 battle comes. Also, once you bet it, There's not that much replay value. Once you beat it, You 
 may want to go a second or third time, but not that much replay value. But, those are small complaints. 
 Uncharted is one of the best games to get for the PS3 and a must have for PS3 owners. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  As I have already stated, this is, probably, the best game on PS3 so far, in terms of technology 
 that went into making it.
  
  Lush environment, high-resolution textures, excelleng lighting, unbelievable animation of characters, 
 voice acting - all top-notch. The only disappointing thing is sound of guns, which is exactly the 
 same, no matter what kind of a gun you use, and is simply a "pop", nothing more. Other than that 
 - I really enjoyed playing the game. Nate Drake is absolutely loveable character, with a nice sense 
 of humor, and you feel attached to him almost from the first scenes of the game.
  
  Voice acting in the game is probably one of the best of all games, which, coupled with excellent 
 facial animation, makes it really look it is the characters talking, and their facial expression 
 matches completely the voice - anger, witty humor, sarcasm or whatever, it all fits together very 
 nicely.
  
  Another thing that I liked a lot about the game is achievements, similar to XBOX-360: you get a 
 number of headshots - you get an achievement unlocked. You find some treasures, scattered across 
 the world - you get an achievement. In the end you unlock different extra features, like some fancy 
 render modes, or documentaries, or costumes for your character. A very nice touch I have always 
 missed on PS3, after playing XBOX-360.
  
  Combat, though, is a little bit unbalanced: the enemy is plentiful and tought to kill, unless you 
 score headshots all the time, which is rather difficult. Set of weapons is impressive, however 
 I found myself using various kinds of pistols, mostly, as they're the easiest to score headshots 
 with.
  
  The game definitely sets a new standard of games on PS3 platform, and shows what the platform is 
 really capable of. It sets the bar so high - it's hard to see it from where the rest of the PS3 
 games are!. I really hope there are more games coming for PS3 of similar quality.
  
  All in all, the game is great and definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted as of this post is the best game for the ps3. everything about this game make you happy 
 your bought the game or rented it. for buyers their is replay value and for renters is short enough, 
 you will be satisfied with so many games out in the market.
  
  Story  Nathan Drake tricks a reporter to fund an expedition when things go wrong quickly. No Spoilers 
 but the story is good enough to follow and with all the actions and momentary puzzles, it will 
 leave you wanting more.
  
  Graphics  the best looking game on the PS3 hands down. The attention to detail in this game is 
 like no other. Some examples of this is physics i. e. jumping, balance, shooting. My only thing 
 is no faster running like your use to in other games. But that's the point I guess. Not everybody 
 is randy moss.
  
  Gameplay  third person view shooter, mixed with puzzles at times. I won't compare this to other 
 games as that's clich and takes away from this game in its own.
  
  Overall  Gamespot's 8.0 is a slap in the face to someone out there, and shows where they are at 
 the moment. I saw nothing wrong to the effect that this game gets an 8.0. To say the action was 
 unbalanced at times is just being picky. Apparently the standard is achievements points and multiplayer 
 now a day. Naughty Dog somewhat covers this with unlocks in the game. NOTE: with HOME coming soon 
 I see these things being put more and more into games. This game is a perfect example of when a 
 team does not rush things and start from scratch, like most games do (ports) . If this game came 
 out on release as it played now it would of got a 9.0 or a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The good, beautiful graphics, vivid colors and stunning water visuals grade A+. Controls very accurate 
 and responsive. Music A+++ 
  I played the game 3x's normal and then 3x's on hard mode. I love searching for secrets/medal/treasure 
 and get rewarded for it. I like the fact that you can shut off the game hints, i don't like hints, 
 i like to solve the puzzles my self. Music and gameplay work perfect together, every beat played 
 was top notch (truly loved it) . I thought boishock and or crysis had nice looking water but i think 
 uncharted beat them all so far in my opinion. (ok crysis is nice) I played on a 42inch hdtv 1080p 
 (i think uncharted only runs on 720p) the part on the river where you ride the jet ski up i killed 
 all the bad guys then i started to screw around the rapids and let me tell you i got sea sick lol. 
 Any game that can pull that off, well you get the idea, just lovely water visuals. If you like 
 great music to go with the game, well then naughty dog did a great job here. Shooting/aiming is 
 nice and easy and if you don't like to shoot that much, go and do some hand to hand combat. there 
 are some button combos but don't hit then fast like in tekken or other fighter games go nice and 
 easy and the moves come out like magic. If you hit then fast you won't get the combo move you are 
 looking for. My favorite is the no loading of levels, they all seem to blend together and smoothly. 
 Ok enough with the good as there is to much to write here so, let's get to the not so good. 
  the not so good, enemies can be overwhelming only because to many come out and you can't stay in 
 1 place for to long because the will flank you.
  Jumping from platform to platform is very easy but there are a few spots where you are guarantee 
 to die. played the game several times and these spots always get you (F&*^**) . there is also a 
 few spot where i got stuck do to game glitches like, climbing a rock got stuck had to reload. the 
 game auto saves at certain spot and even if you save ten times it overwrites the last save. I wish 
 i could save myself. I have more patients then other people or else i might have given this game 
 an 8.5. but i truely enjoyed it so i give it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Correyov31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Well, were do I begin to praise this game. The characters facial expressions are some of the best 
 I've seen on the Playstation platform or any other platform for that matter. The time and detail 
 that have gone into this adventure game have really shown in the final product. A perfect example 
 would be the shadows that are cast through the foilage and the wetting of Drake's clothes as he 
 jumps into areas of water.
  
  Aside from the attention paid to the graphics, the game plays extremely well. The fighting and 
 cover system seem to work very well. The melee attacks are a change of pace from the constant shoot 
 and cover gameplay. One complaint that can be made about the gameplay is the AI of the enemy. At 
 times the game can become extremely difficult due to the tough enemies and the high amount of them. 
 This game can be compared to Ninja Gaiden Sigma when it comes to difficulty. Then again I was actually 
 able to beat this game and didn't have to constantly die while fighting the enemies over and over 
 again... but back to the point.
  
  The story is quite entertaining and takes a very interesting twist at the end. It is a cliche story 
 but then again what stories aren't these days. The story is still a very interesting one. All in 
 all this is one of the most intriguing games I've played in a good while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmacscores91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is made by Naughty Dog, and is a Playstation 3 exclusive game. Naughty Dog 
 is the developer of the Crash Bandicoot Series for the Playstation 1, and also the developer for 
 the Jak & Daxter series for the playstation 2. The game is a game about a "descendant" of the famed 
 treasure hunter Sir Francis Drake. Throughout the game you fight enemies from modern-day pirates 
 to cursed Spaniards. The game is rather long, and is very well developed. The visuals are stunning, 
 especially the water. They are twists and turns throughout the story, and in the end, it seems 
 like a movie... but u just played it. At the end of the game, you will be wanting the sequel and 
 will have fallen in love with one of the best games made to date. I fully recommend this game to 
 everyone. This game received the Game of the Year for the PS3 award from IGN. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawtymann
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an action packed third-person shooter/platformer that never lets 
 up from beginning to end. This game will literally keep you glued to the television for hours. 
 The graphics are stunning, the best I've seen on a console so far, and the animations are so life-like 
 you''ll easily be creeped by how real it looks.
  The story is pretty good, but nothing it's to brag about. It's the characters who bring the story 
 to light, as you'll notice each character is highly distinctive. People seem to call this game 
 "dude-raider" as a reference to Tomb Raider, but the only similarities they have is the platforming 
 elements, where you jump from ledge to ledge and swing from vine to vine, but even in that aspect 
 they're both pretty different. In Tomb Raider games the platforming requires a lot of concentration 
 and you'll pass through a lot of levels using trial and error; however, for Uncharted, the platforming 
 elements are pretty easy and you can pass them on your first try.
  The gameplay isn't innovative but its extremely fun. And speaking of gameplay, toward the end of 
 the game it changed up a bit which was a very satisfying and surprising twist.
  The only bad thing I noticed about the game was it has a little glitches. They shouldn't bother 
 you too much as I only encountered a few throughout the entire game.
  Overall, Uncharted is just an amazing experience that shouldn't be missed by anyone with a Playstation 
 3. I give it a 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeysmall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  I'm not much of a fan of Tomb Raider games, too many funny looking amazingly convenient poles sticking 
 out of walls. This is a half decent attempt at a slightly different take on the genre. 
  
  They spent a lot of time getting the environment and atmosphere of the game right and have done 
 a great job. The voice acting and cut scenes are much better than the average PS game, and you 
 end up quite liking the quips and comments that the main character 'Drake' comes out with, rather 
 than cringing with horror as so often can happen.
  
  The all action female side kick is good to have around too- handy with a gun. Some great co-operative 
 scenes on vehicles and a jet ski.
  
  I found the characters movement a little jerky at times, though there is good transition from walking 
 to climbing, jumping etc. Some of the jumps Drake makes are a little implausible and the way you 
 perspective moves can be a little nauseating. The gun fights and hand to hand combat action is 
 well thought out and very engaging. I suspect a lot of time was spent developing this aspect, and 
 you spend a lot of time shooting seemingly endless baddies (but don't get bored doing so - very 
 therapeutic - in fact) .
  
  The storey is quite good, if a little dragged out towards the end. Still, the humour, involving 
 combat, lush environments and better than tomb raider climbing / jumping action will keep you involved 
 to the end.
  
  If you like the genre you will love the game, and it is even worth a look if you wouldn't normally 
 buy such a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepangel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok Uncharted, drake's fortune maybe is not the best game ever, but it is great. I love it. Since 
 the begining of the game the story is something that make you wanna know more about, technically 
 is impresive the work done, the jungle, the water, all the graphics are just wonderful, with so 
 many changes during the game, i was always watching the enviroments cause alll the time is something 
 diferent. The gameplay is just right donde, cover system and gunplay is very entertaning, and the 
 dificult is the right one, i have to try the last dificult yet, but i'll bet it will be gorgeous.
 
  
  Another thing that i loved was the twist that the game takes in the last part. i will not spoil 
 anything but i loved that the game had that kind of unnatural events. But not everything is cool, 
 i would like to have some boss batttes, and puzzles a little more dificult, and no to have so many 
 help to solve them. the final boss battle (and the only one) should be more amazing.
  
  At the end i enjoyed the game and i will keep it for my collection, and i expect the second one 
 to be more impresive, hope that naughtydog could add things left in this first title. 
  
  God Job naughtydog, and you reader i think you will like it you should try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardMurphy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous! Stunning in fact. Even on my Stone Age widescreen TV the lush visuals fill 
 my eyes with colours, design, textures and lighting I never thought possible. I was literally blown 
 away by its beauty. Dewey green palm leaves sway gently in the wind. Mossy brick crumble as a stray 
 bullet cracks into a wall. Light blinds you as it reflects off a shimmering waterfall hiding a 
 rusty brown German U-Boat. This sort of depth is not found regularly in a video game and it's a 
 credit to the medium that designers still have the attention to detail enough to create a world 
 that, whilst being highly fantastic remains truly believable and utterly desirable. The crispness 
 of the visuals does not end at the environments. The characters in Uncharted have the most believable 
 animation I have ever seen in a video game. Wading though a river up to his waist in murky water 
 Drake barrel rolls for cover by a nearby crate. Flinching every time a bullet comes a little too 
 close for comfort and with clear desperation in his facial animation he unloads his pistol into 
 a group of mercenaries, sending them flailing for cover; apart from the one unlucky recipient of 
 a blind head shot who realistically slumps to the floor in a tangled mess.
  
  I feel I have mirrored the development of this game with my opening ramblings. Sadly this games 
 one redeeming feature is its unbelievable visage. Sadly there is a fairly simple but pleasant young 
 girl behind the supermodel good looks, and that's not what I was looking for. I feel the developers 
 have relied too much on gamepaly modes that are very much of the now as opposed to those of the 
 future. The two fundamental aspects of play rely on exploration and fire fights. Unfortunately 
 the exploration is limited as there only ever seems to be one rout and the firefights are crushingly 
 uninspired due to their lack of creativity in the set pieces and their elementary cover system. 
 The action never seems to flow from one section to the next. This gives you time to catch your 
 breath and collect ammunition until you walk through to the next section which leads onto a very 
 similar situation, but their might be three pirates with shotguns as opposed to two like in the 
 previous room. You lack the urgency to push on towards your goal during these shooting sections 
 as the story simply lacks the drive push you forward.
  
  Narrative and accuracy of character was important in this game. Cut scenes are punctuated though-out 
 the action and provide you with base details of why your stuck in the middle of nowhere. It sits 
 at an average Hollywood adventure film and all the stereotypical characters are in there. The voice 
 acting and script is generally above par for a video game and on more than one occasion I found 
 myself in stitches at some of the banter. It sits on the same fence as the gameplay mechanics, 
 it's all very well put together but lacks any form of spark of genius that makes a good game great. 
 Does this make it a bad game? No, but it does stop it from becoming a classic. The game play isn't 
 varied enough to stay fresh and the one off sections (jeep chase and Jet Ski ride) are fairly annoying 
 (the Jet Ski in particular) but do break up the monotonous gunfights.
  
  Uncharted will stand as a trophy wife for Sony until something with a bit more bite comes along 
 that dazzles the eyes as well as tickles the brain cells. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  There have been a lot of mixed reactions about this game, but I don't think it is reasonable to 
 not appreciate Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. There is much to like about Uncharted, especially because 
 it does what any good video game should do: provide a fun, memorable, exotic, and enticing experience. 
 While many of the elements of the game have been done before, it doesn't mean that it has nothing 
 to offer. 
  
  For starters the action is incredible and surprisingly challenging at times. There are some great 
 gunfights that take place and the AI puts up a good fight. It goes really well with the pace of 
 the story, which, might I add reminds me of movie I would have watched in the late 80's early 90's. 
 The voice acting is excellent and keeps strong through the entire game. As the story progresses 
 you are pulled into the swings of things and are left wanting to know what will happen next. Uncharted 
 probably would make a good action film.
  
  The visuals and level design are the put together very well and will have you almost lost at times. 
 Everything is very realistic looking but still has that video game feel that you want to see from 
 a system. There were times when I would just scope out areas to catch a better view of some of 
 the scenery, it was just plain beautiful to look at. This is definitely a strong point in Uncharted; 
 the visuals are some of the best on the PS3 as of now. 
  
  The controls are really smooth for most of the game; however, there are these parts where you must 
 ride a jet ski that don't feel as realistic as they could have been. I don't think Naughty Dog 
 was going to spend a lot time working the physics on how a jet ski glides on water, but this is 
 just my speculation on the matter. It isn't really a big deal though, just something that might 
 be noticed by anyone who plays. It was only worth mentioning because when you're playing Uncharted 
 its like: Oh my look how real it looks." You get stuck in that vibe where you are all deep into 
 the game. But then the Jet Ski parts unplug you for a minute due to the unnatural feeling it gives 
 at first. It wakes you up for a minute, a quick reality check. That's how good the game plays. 
 On the other hand it really is nothing to hinder the feel of such a great game. The realism of 
 the look of the water might help you to overlook that. You will be amazed at how real it actually 
 looks, this will plug you back in: incredible.
  
  This was a great exclusive title for Sony to have and shouldn't be missed. It is an all around 
 solid game that will leave your eyes stunned. It is definitely something to remember. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woofie13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  This is the best graphics you can find on any console game. The only game I've ever seen that looked 
 better was Crysis. 
  The graphics are simply beautiful. This game's setting is lush and well made. The tree's sway realisitcally 
 and bushes sway as you brush past them. I'm in awe of the huge size detail of the world. Facial 
 animations as well as how the characters interacted with their environment astounded me. The characters 
 even seemed to emulate real muscle movements.
  Cut scenes come in and out without changing the style or flow of the game and load times seem inapparent. 
 The game sometimes focuses and changes light filters to show a goal or tell you something. It's 
 all very cool.
  It feels like playing a movie! It's epic.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  This is the best action game I've played in a very long time. I enjoyed this game's style very 
 much. Hand to hand combat is simple and can be very challenging when fighting a multitude of enemies. 
 The range of weapons and discovery of more as the game progresses kept me excited all the way through 
 the game. The cover system and camera angles worked together very well and really made the experience 
 something that stands out above other games. Some people say it reminds them of gears of war, but 
 this game seems like so much more.
  Apart from the combat stages, there are also vehicle chapters like the jeep and jetski as well 
 as platforming stages that look and play very nicely.
  
  Story: 10/10
  Although this game follows the lead of complex movies with saving colonies and plot twists featuring 
 multiple enemies and hidden information. This game really refreshes the style of plot with it's 
 complelling characters and deep plot line. The plot twists and WTF moments (like ch 17 with the 
 spaniards returning mumified) really kept the game interesting and asking for more. I've played 
 through the game multiple times and it still hasn't gotten old. You can even pick up some foreshadowing 
 when playing it through again. It was very well planned out and told through the games series of 
 events and turns.
  The character's develop with each other too, they start out with no trust and witty dialogue between 
 them. As it progresses they need each othe to stay alive and work together.
  
  Control: 9/10
  It just felt right. The combat system worked smoothly and didn't feel too complex 
 or too simple. The hand to hand combat can be tricky on the timing and deathly hard on crushing 
 difficulty, but the combat worked out very nicely. The platforming elements were a bit obvious, 
 but they were a lot of fun and expanded the gameplay far beyond the ordinary run and gun.
  The sixaxis controls were kept to a minimum but were still there, they actually worked very nice 
 like this and similar to how resistance handled them.
  
  AI: 9.5/10
  The enemies can range from easy to very hard, Naughty Dog must've spent quite a while perfecting 
 the difficulty. Those headshot chances, and times where enemies team up or surround you really 
 make this game stand out. If you cower in a corner they will come to you, and if you run out in 
 the open you often get owned. 
  The AI of your allies is also very good. They don't suck either. They'll actually go after the 
 hard enemies and often kill the ones that you miss. It's basically coop with a skilled computer. 
 
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  The story and awe alone will make you want to play through this again. There are also unlockables, 
 extras, and achievements that really add some replay value to the game. :)
  
  All in all, this game is epic, the the best game I have played in a VERY long time. It flows together 
 with a great story and fantastic gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  A PS3 exclusive finally! 
  
  Its a good game, infact its a very good game BUT its only half a game.
  Way waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay 
 too short, the levels are quite small for a game of this type and you always feel like your on 
 a set path with no chance for exploration. This game really makes you want to expolre it but you 
 cant, its also far to easy, the platform jumping sections might as well be a cutscene because all 
 you have to do is move roughly in the direction of the ledge and press jump, everything else is 
 done automatic. 
  The graphics a really nice and show what the PS3 is capable of doing instead of the usuall 360 
 to PS3 ports that im really sick of seeing! if i wanted to play 360 games i would buy a 360!!!!!!!!
 
  
  All in all its a good game that is over so fast it feels more like a tech demo than a full game.
 
  I hope the follow up has bigger play areas and more puzzles and exploration, then it would be 
 a real blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeBreww
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is one of the best games I have ever played, And also some of the best 
 and gorgeous graphics I have ever seen. This is the game the PS3 has been waiting for. 
  
  The Story- Basically you play as Drake, just a normal guy, who is a descendent of Sir Francis Drake, 
 tagged along with your friend Sully, and a TV reporter, Elena. You are searching for a treasure 
 on an Uncharted Island, but you soon learn that the treasure is cursed. There is also a few good 
 twist's in it.
  
  The Gameplay- The gameplay isn't that hard, but the gun fights somtimes do get a little frustrating. 
 The gameplay also comes in a variaty of third person shooter fights againts pirates, to being in 
 a jeep turrent, to driving a jet ski, to being an adventure game, running up walls to ledges, and 
 jumping huge jumps on cliffs, and trying to figure out puzzles. You'll be fighting pirates most 
 of the time. You can run up to pirates and fight them with fist to fist action or drop kick them, 
 but usually you'll get shot at, and die before you kill them, but when you do kill them that way, 
 it looks cool. When you get near the end of the game, you start to have to dodge lasers on snipers 
 around you which is a really cool effect.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are absolutely amazing, and the visuals are like i said- gorgeous. And all 
 of Drakes moves feel very realistic. Little water ripples sway, as you swim through the water. 
 Plants sway back and fourth, as you run over them. The Lighting in the game is great. Shadows are 
 dark, and when you come out of a dungeon, or some dark area indoors, and you go outside, it actually 
 looks super bright for a second as you get used to the light. Drakes moves are all very realistic. 
 He stumbles, he runs up and down stairs very realistically, and he will struggle for big jumps. 
 Explosions look very cool when they all form into mushroom cloud of smoke in the air. The gun bullets 
 wizzing past you look great, like you'll see all of the shotgun bullets scatter around you as your 
 shot at by them. The videos are also great too. Usually videos are always better looking then actual 
 gameplay, but Uncharted's graphics look so fantastic that the gameplay and videos look exactally 
 the same.
  
  The sound/ Voice Acting- The sound is great. All of the sounds of guns, sound very much like that 
 gun would really sound like, and all of the sounds of the enviorment around you, sound very much 
 like they would in real life, when you jump in the water, or your steps, jumps, and gun echoes 
 in a dungion. The voice acting is very good to. Each of the characters having theire own unique 
 personality, and their voice fits them perfect. 
  
  The bad- there is almost nothing I didn't like about this game. Mabey one thing that I saw is you 
 can step through some bodies, but they also move when you step on them, which makes up for it. 
 I didn't have a single glitch, mabey two bugs here and there, but that's pretty much it. 
  
  So all in all Uncharted Drake's Fortune is one of my all time favorite games, and I would definitely 
 recommend it, with in my opinion almost being a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is a shooter with platforming elements forming a brilliant adventure game. 
 First of the whole concept is pretty much like the Indiana Jones movies or the Tomb Raider games, 
 Uncharted however has a much more compelling and interesting story with a some charming humor.
 
  
  The story is pretty straight forward to begin with but don't be fooled as loads of interesting 
 ideas come flowing in after the first few chapters, not only that but there is a pretty interesting 
 if a bit obvious twist later on. So the basic outline of the story is this. You are Nathan Drake 
 an explorer who has embarked on a journey to El Dorado to find Sir Francis Drake's lost treasure, 
 take notice that Nathan is his decedent. 
  
  Game play: Pretty solid if a tad unbalanced. The platforming is too easy and the gunfights are 
 too hard. The controls are simple L1 to aim R1 to shoot and X to perform leaps etc. The combat 
 is pretty hard but after some time you will get used to taking out swarms of enemies which feels 
 like an accomplishment afterwards. 
  
  Platforming is good but its lacks complexity and difficulty. The enemy AI is wonderful, they will 
 actually work together to try and take you out rather than just running at you like an idiot. The 
 game is not just about shooting and platforming though as there are a few puzzles but they don't 
 seem like much time had been put into them, so some may take a a couple of minutes to work out 
 and some you will notice in a split second but altogether when you finally work it out you will 
 notice how simple it actually is.
  
  During the course of the game you will be accompanied by many companions but altogether they are 
 pretty much useless unless its a key point in the game. 
  
  The game also throws some on the rail shooting parts at you, for example during a car chase you 
 will be forced to use the guns mounted onto the back of the jeep but to be honest this is a tad 
 tedious. However when your in control of the driving and the shooting later on the game becomes 
 challenging again and gives some more life into this game. 
  
  Graphics: They are superb, the facial animations are top notch with loads of detail, Drake reacts 
 when a grenade falls to his feet. The jungle environments are beautiful from the very beginning 
 of the game, the bunker is very atmospheric due to the amazing animation on the grubby walls and 
 the few corpses that lay in the dark. The ragdoll deaths are very nice and who would of thought 
 seeing Drake fall off a cliff and hit many rocks on the way down could seem so beautiful? The facial 
 animations are great so cutscenes seem like actual movies. The movement is great and overall the 
 graphics are on par with Heavenly sword.
  
  There is some very minor tearing which is hardly noticeable and I've had the game freeze on me 
 once. However these are very minor issues the frame rate is pretty solid and overall it just looks 
 beautiful. A work of art.
  
  Sound: Very good the voice actors in this game are superb and could be compared to some voice acting 
 from games like Heavenly Sword or Metal Gear Solid. The 'o no' you or your comrades make after 
 death do seem a little out of time though. The music is great and fits in very well with the surroundings. 
 
  
  Overall: This is a fantastic game and is probably the game for PS3 there are loads of unlock ables, 
 no multiplayer isn't really a problem because the game has loads of replay value. The story is 
 great, the gameplay is solid and the VA is superb. However if your not the most experienced gamer 
 this may be a bit tough but ultimately its worth it either way. The sequel hype starts here!
  
  Score: 9/10 brilliant (BOOSTED BECAUSE OF TROPHIES) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  To be honest, when this was originally announced I thought absolutely nothing of it, apart from 
 it being a "Tomb Raider Wannabe but with some bloke instead of some bird with really ginormous 
 assets" and to be honest I find Tomb Raider games an absolute slog as it is so Uncharted: Drakes 
 Fortune seemed really unappealing to me.
  
  Boy, how wrong I was.
  
  Firstly, Nathan Drake is a genuinely likeable character for a start. Something that is rare in 
 videogames nowadays, sure you get Mario and Sam Fisher and other greats like that, but they are 
 so hollow. Drake, on the other hand, has funny one liners and reactions to situations that for 
 a slight second you believe he could be an everyman doing a superheroes job and his interactions 
 with other character seems genuinely real and not scripted by some chap on a typewriter.
  
  Visually, Uncharted is the best thing you will possibly see this year on PS3 (with maybe the exception 
 of R&C: TOD or COD 4) and the scenery is just bursting with vibrancy and life. The island feels 
 real and believable. Animations are fluid and natural and different every time. For example there 
 isn't one death animation for all the characters, it all depends how they fall, where they fall 
 and details like that, and small details like that makes a game more realistic and believeable. 
 
  
  Narrative is also great and the story is quite involving, it's paced very well but I feel somethings 
 happen too soon or quickly, like Sully's demise. I also thought I would find Elena, the female 
 character alongside Drake, irritating, to be fair on occasions when she talks a lot, yes I do, 
 but overall she is a welcome addition to the story.
  
  One thing that really does grate on me, that Nathan often comments on, is the constant bombardment 
 of enemies sometimes, they just keep coming and coming and coming and sometimes you'll clearly 
 shoot them in the head and they'll carry on shooting the crap out of you. However, they are intelligent. 
 They will dodge and move around and some a very quick on their toes, some will even pick up guns 
 of dead comarades.
  
  Some people have had a problem with the platforming bits, but I thoroughly enjoy them, they break 
 up the action nicely and offer you a chance to take in some of the phenomenal views. I just wish 
 they were either a little more frequent or longer or a tad more trickier. 
  
  Overall, you can not go wrong with Uncharted. It looks ludicrously fantastic and the story is often 
 highly exciting. Platforming is great, the shooting is good and the vehicle sections, though on-the 
 -rails, pretty thrilling. All I can ask for is more please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vexer4000
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a very good adventure game. The graphics are great and the game provides good game 
 play. The most disappointing part of the game is its length. 
  
  The game itself is fun and interesting. The story isn't the greatest, but it isn't bad either. 
 The game play is "Anti-Rambo." You have to scavenge for your weapons and once you have them don't 
 waste any ammo! Cause killing enemies can take a whole clip or two. Try aiming for the heads of 
 enemies
  and getting as much cover as possible. There are some puzzles in the game but they aren't too difficult 
 and the game gives you clues.
  
  The CGI videos in the game look great as well, but there are too many. They look great but as the 
 game goes on they almost interrupt the flow of the game.
  
  Overall this would be a great game if it were longer. You can literally beat the game in 10-12 
 hours. If you want to save some cash rent it and you can beat in one weekend. Hopefully the next 
 game is longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I got a PS3 for Call of Duty 4 and Assassins Creed, then fell in love with Uncharted. Uncharted 
 is a rare gaming experience, its very fresh and feels old school at the same time. Any hard core 
 gamer appreciates old school games. I'm going to through out some games and movies that remind 
 me of Uncharted; Tomb Raider (the good one) , Gears of War, some Assassins Creed (fluent level platforming) 
 and Indiana Jones. It has some good combinations of game play, platforming and shooting action. 
 At the same time it feels like a classic action adventure movie (Harrison Ford would be proud) .
 
  
  The characters are the best video game personalities yet. No hollow conversation, actually interesting 
 personalities and witty conversations. The main character is calm cool and collected. Nathan Drake 
 actually makes you want to play as him, and Elena Fisher is a girl you actually want by your side, 
 so when she isn't, you want to save her. That being said, she doesn't always need saving and the 
 portions with her are perhaps the most fun (sea-dooing up a river is awesome) . Of course Nathan 
 needs a mentor Victor Sullivan, Sully. The characters are actually worth mentioning in a review.
 
  
  The graphics can be explained in one sentence. The best console graphics to date. I'm aware of 
 Crysis (and how it hasn't sold well due to requiring a new computer to play) however Uncharted 
 in terms of consoles, takes the cake. When Nathan and friends get wet, they get wet. Cut scenes 
 are great looking, but not as good as game play (thats a lie) . Game play graphics taunt the hardware 
 of the PS3 with all the characters shooting and moving at the same time.
  
  Game play however is bitter sweet (recently was listening to bitter sweet symphony) . There are 
 portions that are good and fluent, and then some that annoy you in a bad way. Some gunning moments 
 are jolly good fun, and others are a difficult that makes you shake your head. All the vehicle 
 levels are really fun and cool. I actually would not have minded some filler vehicle levels. Thats 
 the thing about this game, it is short, there are no filler levels, all of them flow perfectly. 
 That being said, some filler levels would have been appreciated. 
  
  The problem is that the enemies have an unnecessary difficulty in that they have too many hit points. 
 You will fire about 10 bullets in to them, and they won't die. Their good at dodging bullets too, 
 but you aren't. I don't want to spoil anything, but later on in the game, some enemies will also 
 be annoying because you can't punch them out. You'll find out.
  
  The platforming aspect of the game is pretty good, mostly about timing the button pressing and 
 solving puzzles. The game has a good moderation of including the puzzle parts.
  
  The voice actors, well, I would want their autograph. The voice work is fantastic, and so is the 
 orchestrated music. With the adventure motif set with sweet sound effects and a heroic sound track. 
 
  
  The story is one of the best scripts in a video game, up there with RPGs. Thats the cool thing 
 about this game, the thick script of an RPG but with action packed game play.
  
  PS3 owners are few and growing, Uncharted Drake's Fortune is why we bought a PS3. Don't cheat yourself 
 out of a grand experience. A bit short, and some questionable game play aspects are not enough 
 to derive this game of its greatness. Play it, now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  uncharted drakes fortune is a very actio pack game, that delivers a very fun gamiig experience, 
 that could be very funny a sometimes, like when I Blasted this african crazy guys head off, he 
 sreamed Yahhhhh!!!!! Then I told him go suck a lemon. So this game can make you pretty angry at 
 some points , some of thise guys make me pretty angry but I always blast their heads off . but 
 it lacks the intense feeling that something is always happening, sometimes It can get pretty queit, 
 and that makes me angry, but everything else is real awsome. so because of all this , I give this 
 game a 8.5-9,. so stay tuned for my next review, and remember whos the best amer in the world, yeah 
 thats right, me Cures Mark Chris, the great, and dont you ever, ever forget that, so see you later 
 Ill catch you on the flip side, or should I say Flip Flop, Peace!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First off from now on my reviews will be more well organised, my early ones were not thought out 
 and it showed. Now my reviews will be split up into sections - Story, Graphics, Gameplay, Charecters, 
 Problems, Multiplayer (If Any) and Summary
  So without further ado here is my review for-
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (PS3)
  
  Story
  Now when a game is hyped up so much it is often 
 impossible to meet those standards, sony being prime example rember the killzone 2 "in-game" footage 
 at E3 2005 anyone?, but Naughty Dog have almost cracked it. The story goes that the main charecter, 
 Nathan Drake, believes he is the decendent of historical english pirate - Sir Francais Drake who 
 famously led the brittish defense against the spanish armarda. Now the reason that he has for believing 
 this is a ring which he wears around his neck. Elena, the female sidekick, is the host of a tv 
 show about exploring ancient places that have remained untouched for centuries and is intrested 
 to see where it goes from there. The game starts in the middle of the ocean and Nathan Drake hoisting 
 a coffin onto a ship. The reason this is so intresting is that no one knows where Sir Francis Drakes 
 coffin actually is. When Nathan and Elena open the coffin they find a map which leads to the fabled 
 - El Doraldo, which in this tale turns out to be a giant gold statue. You are then ambushed by 
 modern day pirates but rescued by co-adventurer - "Sully" or Sulivan. In the following cutscene 
 you leave Elena and go off to find the treaure. This is where you are introduced to platforming. 
 A few chapters of exploring and puzzle solving lead you to a german U-Boat. Upon leaving here you 
 are confronted by the leader of the pirates. Sully is then shot leaving you to flee, after you 
 escape Elena cathes up with you again and yuo two then go to an island which is shown on a map 
 inside the U-Boat. Eventually you discover sully is still alive and in true action- movie style 
 he was saved by something in his short pocket. The game then leads on building up this fabled treasure 
 with amazing cutscenes and brilliant voice acting leading up to the final showdown which is pretty 
 lacklustre by the games standards. The ending ties all the loose ends you may have had but leaves 
 room for a sequel if Naughty Dog Wanted to make one.
  Story - 8/10
  
  Graphics
  This game look beautiful and if you have a HDTV you can really see the differnce. Orginally i started 
 playing this game on a 19 inch SDTV but halfway through i bought a 32 inch HDTV and the differnce 
 was incredible. Im not saying the game looks horrible in SD but it is that much better in HD. A 
 comparison would be Crysis on a Mid-range PC compared to it on a high-end PC. You can see every 
 tree and flower in exquisite detail and hardly any of the pirates look similar but the same can 
 not be said for the mercinaries. When you swim Nathans body realisticly drips and you can see him 
 get wet. Also if you just walk through water unlike most games only the bottom of his trouser legs 
 will get wet. If you are looking for a game to wow someone with this is it.
  Graphics - 9.9/10
  
  Gameplay
  This is where Uncharted looses some marks, the game is split 
 up into two sections - Platforming and GunBattles. The platforming sections perform well and are 
 responsive and there are only one or two areas where you will find it frustrating, but hey what 
 were you expecting these are the guys behind Crash Bandicoot after all. The gunbattles are where 
 you loose your patience but only on the harder difficulties. There are some fights that are just 
 so huge and explosive with so many enimies you find it almost impossible to complete and can almost 
 hate Naughty Dog at times. Without spoiling the massive (and we are talking Final Fantasy Huge) 
 twist around chapter 17 of 21 the game becomes so frustrating. Being blunt a whole new type of 
 enimie comes into play (in the problems section i will reveal spoilers so please don't read that 
 section if you want to find out about it for yourself) which really brings to light how slowly 
 you move when aiming, luckily you can shoot from the hip at whatever is directly (and i mean Tomb 
 Raider: Angel of Darkness jumping directly) in front of you. In addition to this in the normal 
 gunbattles sometimes you are forced into the middle of the battlefield and exposed from all sides 
 which means you will die fairly quickly. It is solid but it could have been alot better.
  Gameplay - 7/10
  
  Charecters 
  So often the main charecter is a testosteroine fuelled super-human 
 who has no fear, is Uncharted like this? No. Nathan Drake is scared of heights, is prone to telling 
 lies and can not make jumps that would make superman proud. In one particular instance you see 
 a cutscene before scalling a mountain and a real show of fear is seen on his face as he utters 
 the words "Oh S**t, You have got to be kidding me." This alows you to feel more connected to him 
 and actually care about whether he dies in a gunfight or not which so many action-adventure games 
 fail to do. Then there is Sully a roughly 60 year-old-man who has been searching for treasure all 
 his life but has hit a blank for several years and owes some large debts. The main reason we can 
 relate to him as we have had to fork out almost a small debt to get a PLaystation 3 and all the 
 extra hardware to optimise the gameing exerince - HDTV, Wireless Router, headset etc. Elena is 
 involved heavily in the game and as not many of us are tv hosts its hard to relate to her. However 
 thanks to the excellent motion capture sessions she feels real enough that you understand her and 
 care about her. Of course the orginal brown-haired model would have been cared about less by men 
 but then the world has turned into one great big beauty contest has'nt it? The enime models are 
 great and move realisticly and do not disapear 5 seconds after death. The main villians are portrayed 
 well ( Ican not rmeber there names off-hand) and give that feeling of - I so hope i get to kill 
 that guy which really makes the ending all the more enjoyable.
  Charecters- 9.4/10
  
  Problems
  There are some spoilers in this section but i will mark them like this this - !*! SPOILERS!*! 
 the spoiler will be here !*! SPOILERS!*!
  Now my main problem here is with the big twist. In the making of videos you can unlock the devolpers 
 said we want to make something orginal unlike the other shooters on the market which focuse on 
 undead enimies and until chapter 16 to 20 thats fine but !*! SPOILERS!*! in chapter 16 you encounter 
 - Zombies, Undead, Mutants whatever you want to call them. Up until this point you could imagine 
 this actually happining but from here it becomes extremly far-fetched. I would'nt have minded at 
 all execpt they said they wnated something orgininal now off the top of my head games that have 
 zombies or aliens in - Halo, Gears of War, Resistance Fall of Man, DEvil May Cry, Resident evil 
 to name a few. IT is a small anoyance but lowered my respect for Naughty Dog and i feel it should 
 be noted !*! SPOILERS!*! The shooting which i mentioned earlier is also a slight problem when you 
 are facing pirates its fairly easy they do the same things as you and it pans out with you taking 
 them down one by one. When the mercinaries come in the whole aiming system goes out the window 
 because it takes you around 4 seconds to get your sights lined up on an enemy but by then you will 
 have been shot by a merc with a laser sight which effectively gives them one-hit kills. !*! SPOILERS!*! 
 When the mutant things come into play there is even less of a cross-hair friendly shooting system 
 as around 3 or 4 of these things will charge at you and two hits from them will kill you so while 
 your taking down one of them the other three have taken you down and feasting on your flesh. Admitedly 
 the shoting off the hip system helps here but it wastes alot of ammo taking an enemy down and soon 
 after you a have to take down the mercs and mutants at the same time. This really gets frustrating 
 and alot of patience is needed to get through these sections.!*! SPOILERS!*! The final problem can 
 be helpful but can also be very anoying - the press L2 for a hint message. Most of the time theis 
 tells you where to and is helpful but sometimes where you need to go is not what you need to know. 
 You need to know how to get there. Some ledges are blended in so you don't know you can reach tem 
 to get to the place you are supposed to go to so after your 12th consecutive suicide jump you get 
 your 11th press L2 for a hint message which shows you what you were trying to get to in the first 
 place. Apart from these three problems it was a well-built game.
  Total Problems - 3 (For each problem i take off 0.1 from the total score)
  
  Multiplayer - 
 N/A
  
  Summary
  Overall Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a solid well rounded game which most people should enjoy with 
 a intriguing plot and charecters wwho feel real this is a must-own for playstation 3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is quite a good PS3 exclusive and definitely satisfied me. I will likely 
 play it through a second or third time because the story and pacing are so tight.
  
  The Good: The graphics are fantastic. If you are showing off your PS3, this is a proper selection. 
 The music is sweeping and filled with glorious motifs and note patterns. I consider this to be 
 amongst the best music in a game to date. The sound effects are also very much above average. The 
 animation is stellar and it really causes the game to feel like a movie. The voice acting is also 
 very good. I particularly liked the performances of Emily Rose as Elena and Nolan North as Drake. 
 The platforming elements of this game are very fun because they are forgiving and contribute to 
 a continuous experience. Cut scenes are very well done and compelling. 
  
  The Bad: Shooting sections rely heavily on quantity of enemies. Wave after wave of guys run at 
 you kamikaze style and it gets old in certain parts of the game. There are several times that readily 
 come to mind that are just stupid hard, especially the end of the game. The last chapter of the 
 game is just PUNISHING and really caused some frustration on my part. Also, this is a minor pet-peeve 
 of mine, but this game DIRECTLY rips off the Xbox 360's idea for achievements with "medal points." 
 They even have 1000 "medal points" and the game notifies you when you "earn medal points" (a. k. a 
 unlock an achievement) . Bah humbug. 
  
  Verdict: No question this is a buy. I have been waiting for some good exclusive games on this platform 
 and this is yet another winner from Naughty Dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowguytc
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are definitely something to brag about for us proud PS3 owners. 
 If you have a t. v. 42 inches or bigger you really get to enjoy the most out of this. The backgrounds 
 are beautiful and the animations (especially the melee ones) are top notch. The part that really 
 blew me away is when your in the dark and your flashlight is on because you really get to see how 
 good the lighting effects are (kinda of reminded me of some killzone shots)
  
  Controls: The controls are for the most part good but you will have some trouble here and there 
 trying to get off and on walls and getting to the one you want to for cover. The shooting system 
 is not the best but not worst. Sometimes you feel like you got some headshots that did not count 
 and stuff like that. The controls are awesome when it comes to this games best feature, the platforming. 
 The platforming is definitely in the highlight of the game and just feels so natural. 
  
  Fun Factor: This game is a blast to play through and is hard to put down. To me a game succeeds 
 if I can not stop playing and thats what this game did to me. I just wanted to play through it 
 and did not want to end at the same time. The cut scenes are never boring to watch because this 
 game has a sense of humor. The main character is a funny guy with his little quick remarks and 
 his relations with his pretty girl sidekick. The story is pretty good and falls into the same categories 
 as Indiana Jones. 
  
  Final thoughts: Go buy this game if you got a PS3 because right now it is one of the best games 
 for the system. Its an adventure that may not be the longest (took me 7 and half hours) but definitely 
 will leave you satisfied. The length of the game is not an issue like heavenly sword was so drop 
 that worry. The characters are lovable, the story is gripping, and the game is just pure fun. Do 
 yourself a favor.... play, rent, borrow.... just experience this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0lidSnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Approach Uncharted as you would a summer blockbuster and you wont be disappointed. If you are expecting 
 it to have innovative gameplay then you will be disappointed. However, on the whole, its an experience 
 like no other. 
  
  The graphics, the awesome gunplay, intelligent enemy A. I and amazing story telling all come together 
 to make this game stand up against any hollywood action movie. I will start with the cutscenes.
 
  
  These are sharply written scenes, full with humor and great acting; quite possibly the best ever 
 acting in a video game. The gorgeous graphics make the scenes look like they are CGi, but they 
 are done with the in-game engine, so these cutscenes dont really take you of the game and keep 
 you immersed in this beautiful world created by Naughty Dog. These cutscenes alone are so good 
 that after finishing the game, you would wanna go the the Special Features and watch them all in 
 sequence. The writing, like i mentioned before, is fantastic. The characters are nicely developed, 
 one-liners are hilarious and they actually move the story along pretty nice. Better than Heavenly 
 Sword cutscenes? hell yeah! and well all know how briliiant they were. 
  
  This game has been proclaimed by many critics as THE best looking console game on the market and 
 if you dont count Crysis running on a $1000 rig, then its easily the best looking game on any platform. 
 I dont care about the technical details about the graphics, but how the overall graphics totally 
 immersive you in the world. The game starts out very vibrant, full of color and man, does the jungle 
 look beautiful! oh and the water is easily the most impressive aspect of the game and you will 
 see why when you play the game. The game's story gets darker as it progresses and the graphics 
 brialliantly reflects that. Without giving too much of the story away, when you see that boat towards 
 the end of the game, you would've been totally blown away by this powerhouse of a graphics engine. 
 oh, and the character models all look fantastic and animation is easily the best seen in a video 
 game. All you gotta do is watch Drake run, jump, land imperfectly, stumble, pick himself up and 
 continue running, all in one motion without any breaks in the animation. It's done so well you 
 wont even notice it. The only game that comes close to it is Call Of Duty 4, but its mostly because 
 of the amazing lighting filters they have for each level. Overall, the character models, water, 
 and the world around Drake looks more livelier than COD:4. I would rank COD:4 on PS3 a very close 
 second.
  
  Gameplay is what sold me to this back when the demo came out. And I am actually a sucker for amazing 
 cutscenes and a graphics whore, both of which were overly satisfied by this game. while most will 
 say that the gameplay brings nothing new to the table, I would say it does perfect everything it 
 is trying to do, which is rare in most game that either leave you unsatisfied or wanting more variety. 
 From the gunplay, to the platforming, the puzzles to the vehicles shooting sequence, they are are 
 done exceedingly well. The puzzles aren't very hard, but thats because you are given tons of hints. 
 If you want to be challanged, then play with the hints off on your first play through. THe platforming 
 is also very accessible, and not at all frustrating like in Tomb Raider. however, expect to find 
 yourself repeating the harder areas at least a couple of times. It is not as easy as many make 
 it out to be, but since the game has absolutely zero loading times and very responsive controls, 
 you wont get stuck anywhere for more than ten minutes and you will never feel cheated by the game's 
 engine or controls. 
  This game is essentially a shooter with some platforming elements and a fantastic story. So it 
 was imperitive that they got the shooting controls right and let me tell you, it works perfectly. 
 The controls are easy, shooting people in the head is rewarding, guns are fun to use and picking 
 the right gun actually helps make some of the fights easier, cover system is handled brilliantly 
 by making cover destructible and enemy A. I makes this game an absolute thrill to play. Expect to 
 have a lot of enemy pirates and soldiers flank you and a lot of grenades thrown your way. Third 
 Person Shooting has never been this much fun. However, I saw some people complaining it was a little 
 too easy and that they completed the game in 8 hours or so. I suggest playing the game at hard, 
 it will kick your ass. After beating the game, another difficulty level will be unlocked and I 
 would be surprised if you will be able to finish the game in 12 hours. The enemy AI is just relentless 
 in that difficulty.
  
  In the end, I would say that the game feels just right. I have never played a more polished game. 
 My only gripe with the game was that it didnt have a co-op mode or any other mode that I could 
 go to after finishing the story mode. Thats not to say that the story mode is short, i think if 
 it was any longer it wouldn't have been this good. Its still a lot of fun to go back and play the 
 game on a harder difficulty level and the jungle still looks amazing. :) In short, every PS3 owners 
 must own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foffity
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up Drakes Fortune, I was pretty much broke. It was 3 days before my pay day, 
 and I had vowed that I would wait til I had the cash to buy it. But working in a games shop doesn't 
 really help with a situation like that, and so I had to give in to the temptation. And boy, am 
 I glad I did.
  
  The first thing that hits you is the graphics. Let's make no bones about this; they are amazing, 
 and they only get better the more you look at them. Without giving anything away, the final cut-scene 
 looks absolutely beautiful. The jungle scenario gives the game plenty of opportunity to show off 
 with lighting effects, and water physics and the like, and when the game dives into the (relatively 
 bland) indoor levels, the atmosphere that the graphics and sound combine to make is truly memorable.
 
  
  So I better mention the story then. You play as Nathan Drake. A supposed descendant of legendary 
 explorer Sir Francis. We join him on a boat, filming a documentary with presenter Elena Fisher 
 (who despite being a game character, is very fit) . He has managed to discover what he believes 
 to be the coffin of his famous ancestor, and after following the clues inside, and fighting off 
 some pirates, escapes with the aid of trusty friend Sully to go in search of the mythical treasure 
 of El Dorado. The three of them get separated from time to time during the course of the game, 
 but there is plenty of times when you can rely on another member of your party to be lying down 
 some covering fire for you to position yourself in one of the games many set-piece gunfights.
 
  The fight scenes themselves are well handled, with a Gears of War style duck and cover system 
 being employed to great effect. A simple tap of the circle button allows you to dive from where 
 you are to behind the nearest available cover with ease, with the shoulder buttons being employed 
 for aiming/shooting. Also of note is the games use of the "primary and sidearm" arsenal. One pistol 
 and one rifle/shotgun allows you to fight the scenes realistically, and the sometime overwhelming 
 number of enemies can often bring your frustration out. But it really is a great system, as you 
 are more or less forced into taking a conservative approach. Guns blazing is not the way forward 
 here, which is how I think a game such as this should be.
  
  The firefights also allow us to witness some of the great facial animation. Bullets whizz past 
 Drakes face, and you can pan the camera round to witness the terror in his eyes (which grows considerably 
 when a grenade lands near. Understandable really) . Little things such as this and Nathans shirt 
 visibly soaking up the water he enters add so much to the game that you don't notice until it's 
 blatantly obvious.
  
  The puzzles in the game are slightly too easy for most peoples liking, with your diary often being 
 employed unnecessarily to help you solve them. Thankfully though, the puzzles aren't a HUGE part 
 of the game. Some of the platforming, Prince of Persia style elements are very unforgiving, with 
 jumps needing millimeter precision to avoid death. This was probably the most annoying of all the 
 niggles for me, but again, it was only very rarely that it affected me.
  
  Taking everything into account, I couldn't do anything but recommend this game to all PS3 owners. 
 The story is great, with plenty of twists and turns being employed to keep you interested, and 
 with rumours of a second game being already in development, the less than satisfying ending is 
 more forgivable.
  
  If you like Tomb Raider and/or Prince of Persia, this is definitely for you. If you're not, then 
 at least get a 3 day rental out, as you really should give this game a chance.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveGray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a new franchise from Naughty Dog, of Crash Bandicoot and Jak and 
 Daxter fame. They have taken what they've learned in their years of making great platformers, and 
 added a cover-system and gunplay to create what is best described as Tomb Raider meets Gears of 
 War. You play as Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter, in the mold of Han Solo, and on the cusp of the 
 big discovery. Joining him on and off through the game are Elena, the spunky documentarian, and 
 his partner Sully, the man's man who's seen it all.
  
  The story and characters are very straightforward and archetypical, and intentionally so, as the 
 cinematic storytelling and score closely mirror traditional adventure films, especially Indiana 
 Jones. While you're on the hunt for the big find, modern day pirates are right behind you, and 
 you'll have to do a mix of running and gunning, climbing about, and light puzzle solving to uncover 
 the various mysteries of the treasure before they do.
  
  The environments in Uncharted are beautiful. A stark contrast to most popular shooters released 
 in the past few years, Drake's Fortune is bright and colorful, only getting dreary and dank in 
 a select few areas. Most of the game is played outdoors in lush jungles and in and around castles 
 overseeing glistening oceans, and among ancient ruins of lost civilizations. The character models 
 are very detailed, and the emotion shown through posture and facial expressions is significant. 
 Like the locations, the characters are fantastical and have a whimsical look about them. Even when 
 dirty, the maintain a waxy, almost comic feel that keeps the game seeing lighthearted, despite 
 the somewhat dire straights.
  
  The sound design is also fantastic, with some of the best voice acting ever seen in the industry. 
 The music sets the tone perfectly and ramps up to set mood. The score is very much a part of the 
 storytelling, as treats Uncharted like a summer blockbuster. Together, the look and feel of the 
 game, from technical graphics, aesthetic art design, believable voice, and movement animations 
 make for great interactive storytelling, and a rarity: interesting cutscenes.
  
  Uncharted does cut corners in level design, and often resorts to gaming clichs and sloppy, unimaginative 
 mechanics. Luckily, if you're just looking to have a good time, these things can add to the fun. 
 For example, you'll see a lot of randomly placed exploding barrels that don't make a whole lot 
 of sense to be there, or less so, be used as cover with bullets whizzing by. However, shooting 
 them will cause guys to fly up in the air, or will crumble boundaries that open up to new areas. 
 The platforming often falls to the same fate, with perfectly placed ledges and vines that just 
 so happen to lead in the one direction that allows you to scale ridiculously dangerous crevasses, 
 cliff faces, and structures get to your next location. Again, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense, 
 but it's a whole lot of fun.
  
  The game has collectibles that add nothing to the gameplay, but at least are individually named, 
 so it makes finding ones you may have missed a bit easier. There are also unlockables earned through 
 completing various tasks, like garnering a certain amount of kills with the various weapons or 
 amassing so many headshots, for example. These allow you to add costumes, tweak weapons or watch 
 behind the scenes movies, and exist to encourage additional playthroughs. You probably won't want 
 to, however, as much of the excitement comes through scripted events, enemies usually follow the 
 same paths, and the path is the epitome of linear.
  
  Lengthwise, the game ends right when it should, as you've exhausted interesting locations and begun 
 to tire of the gunplay. You'll get about 12-15 hours out of it, and it lets you off the hook before 
 its worn out its welcome. Uncharted does a good job of keeping things fresh, adding some vehicle 
 segments and on-rails shooting to break up the platforming and shootout segments.
  
  None of what Uncharted does is fantastic. The cover system, along with combat is adequate, yet 
 sometimes frustrating, and the platforming is often unpredictable and even tedious. As a standalone 
 in any of these genres, it would be forgettable. But it manages to keep switching things up and 
 do things well enough that you never tire of it, and above all, it's always enjoyable.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a great start to a new franchise, and while it often sacrifices realism 
 for outright fun, it comes together as a very recommendable game, and something that PS3 users 
 will likely have a good with. It succeeds where so many other games fail, in that, above all, in 
 addition to its technical merits, it's just a really good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok people you asked for a review from me for this game and there it is finally....
  
  just like alot of reviews im ganna talk about the pro's and cons to each subject...
  
  Graphics: 
 
  
  Ok to say the graphics are sweet is really underminning due to the fact that this game has OUTRAGIOUS 
 graphics even down to the smallest details... for example when your in a cave strolling along as 
 you do you can even see the dampness on the rocks due to the air condsensation. Naughty Dog really 
 didnt hold back any punches when making this part of the game to the point where they even may 
 of innovaited graphics due to the fact that the water effects are nothing i have ever seen in a 
 game before even a playsatation 3, it even makes your character Nathan Drake have wet and damp 
 clothes when u enter then leave water....
  
  Controls:
  
  '' For the most part '' the controls of this game work i mean obviously the back buttons are going 
 to be aim and shoot like most games that use guns and x is jump but jumping has some issues as 
 it may somtimes be delayed but this seems to mostly come at random...
  
  Enviroments:
  
  Through out the game you'll see your self in huge and wonderiously genuin enviroments ... hold 
 on before your like '' awesome go and explore the jungle'' ect... the game seems not to want to 
 let you explore at such but just to continue the story this is shown due to the fact that you cant 
 go and climb a building unless it has somthing to do with the story, which is odd as you'll see 
 a ledge but when u jump you cant grap it... 
  
  Vioce acting:
  
  Where to begin with the vioce acting.. its just superb as the characters vioces seem to fit the 
 models also there is a blend of emotion that the acting gives as for the most part its very believeable... 
 the only problem id have with the vioce acting is that you'll see alot of the same character model 
 thugs that you have to take down and so you'll here '' What was that'' or '' Get him '' in the 
 same vioce alot..
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall the game is stunning and lush due to the fact of its outstanding graphics and great story 
 and is im glad to say a must buy for a PS3 owner and although no multiplayer is available this 
 game will give you one hell of a ride.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumchilled
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  OK so it is pretty to look at and the water is lovely, but after a while, the incessant and annoying 
 gun-play get to you. I've almost given up on ever completing this game, which is a first for me. 
 It reminds me of JAK II Renegade for the PS2; After loving the shear brilliance of Jak & Daxter: 
 The Precursor Legacy, I rushed out and bought JAK II, only to be bitterly disappointed by the lack 
 of FUN that the first game had. Unfortunately, UNCHARTED: Drakes Fortune has pretty much the same 
 feel as JAK II, but with no Precursor Legacy to back it up. Any fun and interesting sections are 
 quickly subsumed by wave after wave of Guerrilla's shouting "He's over there" before firing grenade 
 launchers which immediately kill you, or some form of mutant El Doradoean creatures where one strike 
 from them renders you dead and the lady screaming "No...!!", both very repetitively and seemingly 
 without end. Sorry Naughty Dog, but I'm going back to Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction and 
 Tomb Raider, to fulfill my blowing things up and adventuring separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow. 
  Yes i dedicated the whole first line to wow and thats because this game is simplay amazing. 
 
  I rented this game, as i usually do cuz u know i dont wanna buy a game that sucks cuz games are 
 expensive nowadays. As i was with my buddies that time, they kept on sayingyo dont get that 
 game man. it sucks. Well wtf, i still rented it. I came home putt it in, and then... well then 
 i couldnt stop playing it. Probably played it for 4 hours, i was even amazed at myself how i played 
 for so long, but god did the time fly fast. The game just sucks you in right when u start playing 
 it. The story is so intense that you wanna keep playing and figure out what happens next. There 
 hasnt been in a long time, a game with a story so intense as uncharted. But u see, not only is 
 the story good, but uncharted also has brilliant graphics. Man i mean the first time I was going 
 thru the game i was looking at the scenery more then anything else. Uncharted has a lot of different 
 weapons, but not only there are weapons, cuz u can also fight the enemies by hand. 
  There were times in this game that were somewhat frustrating. Especially the first time you go 
 thru. I mean its hard to know where your you need to go or do, so during this game i did end up 
 saying swearing. But wtf i always swear when i play video games. Now finally, the sound. Well I 
 have to say the sound wasnt bad at all. In fact it was great. The voice acting was just awsome 
 and so was the music. 
  Overall, honestly I dont think you should buy this game. There I said it. No but dont get me wrong. 
 This game is great, but its kinda small. Thats all i can say. I mean theres no online play, which 
 sucks. So once youve been the story a couple of times, the game gets quite boring and youll putt 
 it on your shelves and it wil be collecting dust for months. So my suggestion is to RENT this game 
 = cheaper and more efficient. 
  
  happy gaming ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozberlin76
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes a game doesn't have to be perfect. Sometimes it has that certain swagger or quirky charm 
 that keeps your controller-gripping, Cheetos-snatching fingers busy for days. that would be Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune. From word go the graphics and production values are unbelievably high and you're 
 suddenly reminded that Naughty Dog rarely makes a game without it's heart poured into it. You play 
 as Nathan Drake, a some-what arrogant treasure hunter that seems he would be better suited talking 
 trash on a sand beach racquetball court with that Chandler Bing hairdo of his. But lo and behold 
 the story (as well as the game play) has some moxy. Along for the ride is spunky TV journalist 
 Elena Fisher, determined to get her story, and your old buddy Victor "Sully" Sullivan (think Lando 
 Calrissian type character - you don't trust him completely, but hey he is your friend.)
  
  The game opens with Drake recovering the coffin of the explorer and an ancestor of Nathan (as professed 
 by himself) , Sir Francis Drake from the ocean floor, using coordinates inscribed on a ring in Nathan's 
 possession. The coffin is empty, only containing a diary written by good Sir Francis, pointing 
 to the location of El Dorado, the fabled city of gold where Sir Francis went to find the treasure. 
 What ensues is gorgeous graphics and a fun (yes sometimes cheesy) old-fashoned treasure-hunt. Fortune 
 and Glory and allthat jazz. With the assistance of Sully, they fly to the island, ditching Elena 
 much to her chagrin, and find clues that El Dorado is not actually a city, but a large statue of 
 gold. The game continues on with some stylish environments that almost recreate even the jungle 
 humidity (they are that beautiful.) Not as many twists and turns as a good Indiana Jones flick, 
 but all the action of a Tomb Raider game with less frustration due to ill-time jumps. The gameplay 
 system is a mix of 3D platform and third-person shooter. The platform elements are oh-so Prince 
 of Persia and the shooting/combat experience is a la Gears of War. The combat is easy enough to 
 get used to and in no time you will be rolling from one point of cover to another and turning around 
 the corner, dropping some pirate scum, then quickly hiding back behind a pillar. the games controls 
 and play are never really revolutionary, but the stunning visuals and the storyline compel you 
 to play "jusy one more level" and postpone a much-needed bathroom break to see what happens next 
 in the story.
  
  What keeps you hooked is Naughty Dogs ability to provide Hollywood-level production. Characters 
 emotes and expressions, camera angles and screen shots will have you gawking at the screen like 
 a peeping tom up in a tree.
  
  Some reviewers will get al tech-specific, citing the short play time and been-there, shot-that 
 experience. But with PS3 sorely lacking console exclusives, Naughty Dog's original entry into the 
 next-gen arena (not relying on Resident Evil with an ever increasing number after it to sell the 
 game) has given Sony's hardware monster a promising look into the future. Heck, maybe a few directors 
 in Tinsel Town can take note and learn a thing or two about engaging characters and enticing locales. 
 (Michael Bay, hope you're listening...)
  
  Get Uncharted: Drake's Fortune and don't be afraid to rip through it in one or two sittings. You'll 
 probably beat it quickly, but the rewards system and secret treasures for 100% completion of the 
 game will give you an excuse to go through it again and take in any digital masterpiece your eyes 
 missed the first time through. Summer movies are never ashamed to be popcorn flicks, so as Uncharted 
 shouldn't hang it's head for being a quickie-fix in the Action-Adventure genre. Not all games are 
 Call of Duty 4's. And after playing this one, you'll realize they don't have to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theamitgoyal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Uncharted just further cements my belief that there are some studios, Naughty Dog for example, 
 that do not know how to go wrong.
  
  I want to get the bad stuff out of the way first... People who criticize this game for NOT being 
 innovative is pure bull****! Not because they think the game is not innovative, but because they 
 do not see how the rest of this game makes this point completely moot. It's very easy to screw 
 up even a tried and tested formula and we see it more often than not in the plethora of sub-par 
 games that come out. What we don't see often enough is Uncharted... a game that brings together 
 the best elements from two games that are completely on different tangents (Tomb Raider and Gears 
 of Wars) so naturally, packs it in with a load of extra goodies and churns out the most exhilarating 
 ride for 8-10 hours. 
  
  The other problem, and I think that is a valid point, is the fact that the game is linear. Again, 
 there is nothing wrong with the good old fashioned linear games as long as they are engaging, and 
 Uncharted most definitely is, but given the level of technology behind the game and setting on 
 a lush tropical island, the linearity doesn't gel as well with the game.
  
  Finally the platforming and Puzzle Solving is far too simplistic. I would like to see it more prominent 
 in later installments. But don't worry... the combat more than makes up for it.
  
  That's it... I have no other major complaints, in fact these are also annoyances more than complaints, 
 and knowing Naughty Dog, I don't think we need to worry about these problems in the future installments 
 of Uncharted.
  
  Anyway, here are my scores:
  
  1. GRAPHICS - 9 (While Uncharted graphics are mindblowing, there's some apparent polygons here 
 and there especially in the jungle environment. Somehow I was a lot more impressed by Assassin's 
 Creed in this department)
  
  2. SOUND - 10 (I wish 10 wasn't the limit to a score. From the voice acting to the background score.. 
 especially the brilliant background score... this game deserves a lot more than 100%)
  
  3. STORY - 8 (A good story which looked a lot better than it is thanks to some great motion capture 
 and direction. It's a fairly standard story somehow the story "twist" fell a little flat on me. 
 The great detail of all the cutscenes was far more impressive than the story they told)
  
  4. GAMEPLAY - 9 (The combat simply couldn't be better. Smart enemy AI, a good selection of weapons, 
 responsive controls, silky smooth transmission from gunning to melee and and great implementation 
 of the cover based system. Too bad the platforming and puzzle standards fail to meet such high 
 standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Let it never be said that I am an unfair reviewer. Drake's fortune has a few things going for it...... it 
 is pretty.... I think jungles are aces.... and Drake himself is a strapping, hunky man with short 
 brown hair and rugged stubble...... same as countless other video game heroes. Anyhoo, now that 
 I have filled my praise quota for the day allow me now to be brutally honest in my thoughts on 
 the game. It is by all accounts..... ok. Gunplay mechanics robbed straight from gears of war (sounds 
 like a good thing but it is heavily diluted, guns don't feel powerful to the point where it feels 
 like you would do more damage to the enemies if you took off your shoe and threw it at them which 
 there is sadly no button for, and I still haven't forgiven the lack of rumble in the ps3 pads yet 
 which seems like a massive step backwards for action games) . Platform sections are robbed from 
 various Tomb Raider games, something that wasn't all that appealing in Tomb Raider to start with. 
 I'm running out of things to say, I didn't really enjoy it. Just further proof to my mind that 
 right now my ps3 is nothing more than a glorified blu-ray player. Let the fanboy slaughter commence. 
 
  
  Summary- Gears of war minus the gore / Tomb Raider minus the T&A.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elamp84
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever dream about being in an action adventure movie. Uncharted puts you in control of the lead 
 actor in that movie. With the intense motion-capture and excellent acting, Uncharted makes you 
 feel as if you are in your favorite action/adventure movie. Uncharted is so natural, taking what 
 seems like an everyday Joe, wearing everyday clothes, shooting everyday guns, using everyday language. 
 Foul language is used so casually making Uncharted even more natural.
  
  The facial expressions Nathan Drake makes as he is traversing a ledge or about to throw a grenade 
 or taking on heavy fire or about to make a huge jump are priceless and again make the game feel 
 so natural. The best part of this game or at least my favorite part is the duck and cover shooting 
 feature of the game, I love that in a shooting game. I love hiding behind a wall or bolder or box 
 or something and leaning out and popping a bad guy right in the head. I must have had over 100 
 headshots.
  
  The overall story and game play of the game are amazing. This game mixes in strategy as you try 
 to uncover what it was Sir Francis Drake was in search of and what happen on that "Uncharted" island. 
 
  
  I would recommend this game to any action/adventure//shooter game junky with a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoob_man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune, Is one of the best looking games to date If you like the tomb raider 
 series and Gears of war's cover system this might be the game for you but the main thing that made 
 gears of war was its multiplayer this is basically just a shooter, there is more shooting involved 
 then puzzles which is why this game not worth the money, but I do give Kudos for this games graphics. 
 Id rent it at most and if you do seem to like it go out and buy it but you may want to wait for 
 this game to be put on the bargain bin I found this game to be awfully boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattimer22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is graphically very scenic, I've traveled to many places across the globe and none seem 
 to compare to the settings you play in is one, it absolutely breathtaking. I find it looks very 
 similar to the Caribbean. The game play will make you stay in your chair with its heart pounding 
 action and puzzles. The enemy will move just as you fire at times which makes it a bit aggravating 
 but that's if you go for headshots! ha ha. Shoot in the body it takes 4 rounds to put them to sleep. 
 One bullet for a headshot, and you get rewarded for headshots. You will also be awarded points 
 for finding various objects throughout the game so be on the lookout for sparkles in sometime odd 
 or sometimes hairy places such as near 100-foot cliffs. The suspense in this game is addicting. 
 You will want to play it all the way through the first time you pick up the controller to find 
 out what the Drake treasure is. Plus find out if he gets the girl.
  
  You will be scaling walls riding jet skis and riding in jeeps. The camera system is nice and simple 
 and you will find it to be user friendly unlike some games out there. It has a lot of classic successful 
 game styles in it i. e. Resident Evil With its Puzzle game play, and it should be fun and well 
 worth the price of $59.99. I personally like this game and I'm tough to please.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjr074
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  While this game has the best graphics I've seen up to date, it just doesn't quite cut it. The gameplay 
 seems to be a mix of gears of war and tomb raider but not quite as good as either. Fighting and 
 shootouts have a gears of war feeling where you hide behind walls, try to shoot people while peering 
 around a corner, run up and smash the occasional guy, and move to hide behind the next building 
 or wall. The controls aren't as good as gears of war and feel a little odd. Plus if you've ever 
 played with the chainsaw gun, you'll be wishing you could just run up to someone and chainsaw them 
 instead of using the crappy fighting system that "Uncharted" has in place. While out of combat, 
 you are running around trying to figure stuff out or climbing around on walls like in tomb raider. 
 This is fun except that most the time there is really nothing to figure out because the game gives 
 you really easy hints or you just have to look where the next jump is. As for the graphics, they 
 are unmatched. While other games do come close, none offer the vibrant color and landscapes that 
 can be seen in "Uncharted". While most games these days seem to be dark and grey, it was great 
 to see one that is bright and shows off a lot of color. Another problem I had with this game was 
 getting used to the controls. Besides the gameplay, they also seemed to try to merge the controls 
 of tomb raider and gears. This kind of makes it a little tough to control the character. In my 
 opinion, this game is almost worth buying solely on graphics but since the gameplay is also decent 
 and the story isn't bad I would recommend playing it and think its the best game out on the PS3 
 right now. However, if you like the combat more in this game, sell your PS3, get an Xbox, and buy 
 "Gears of War", and if you like the searching around and solving problems, get a game from the 
 tomb raider series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a third person action adventure game created by Naughty Dog. It stars 
 Nathan Drake, a fortune hunter, on a great mission to discover the lost treasure of El Dorado. 
 Plain and simple the game borrows ideas from a variety of different sources and blends them well. 
 Platforming and a duck and cover system combine and give the user a fresh new experience on the 
 PS3, moreso if you have never been a fan of Laura Croft and have not played Gears of War (which 
 I am not and have not) .
  
  Graphically, the game is astonishing, even on a standard television! The vivrant jungles are fully 
 texturized and everything seems alive. Character's expersions are fully realized, making them seem 
 alive as well. Shadows, vines and trees swaying, running water, even Nate's wet clothing add to 
 a graphical experience I've never witnessed before. Naughty Dog did a great job blending the cutscenes 
 with gameplay and you have a difficult time telling the difference between the two graphically.
 
  
  Pause
  
  I must address the whole wet clothes issue. You can see his clothes become wet and then once out 
 of water, over time you can see his clothes return to its initial dry state! I believe this is 
 what Sony was referring to 4D graphics.
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=rcc3xxvanUc
  
  But I digress...
  
  The sound is wonderful with top notch voice over acting. Everything 
 seems natural as if the actors themselves were in the game. The story is a common tresure hunt 
 story, but the action is fast paced and plentiful. The only lull is during some platforming areas, 
 but the majority of the time these areas are mixed with other elements to keep you on your toes.
 
  
  The game can be completed in just under ten hours. This includes searching (but not going crazy) 
 for scattered pieces of treasure. The game's difficulty is not too great as was dictated by other 
 reviewers. If someone was turned off by the supposed "wave after wave" of enemies I'd have to think 
 that they weren't that good at the game to begin with... put it on easy and stop crying... but I 
 digress yet again.
  
  The enemy AI is very good as they will flank your position in a convincing manner if you stay in 
 one spot too long. They will flush you out with grenades or send a thug armed with a shotgun in 
 to make you take action. There were not glitches discovered as it was clear that Naughty Dog took 
 their time to polish this game COMPLETELY (which is rare now-a-days) to deliver an experience that 
 is a definite must for ALL PS3 owners. If you own a PS3 and have not played Uncharted... well... WHAT 
 ARE YOU WAITING FOR??? I gaurantee... you won't be disappointed!!!
  
  Final Score: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog have always been famous for games such as "Crash Bandicoot" or Jak and Daxter" great 
 platformers but who would of seen this coming, certainly not me. Uncharted is easily the best exclusive 
 game available for the PS3 at the moment. Whilst Uncharted is not entirely original, Naughty Dog 
 has taken every great game play element from many different places and perfected them to make the 
 ultimate Action/Adventure game.
  
  Plot/Story:
  
  The story of Uncharted whilst it may appear to have unoriginal concepts, don't worry it lives up 
 to the hype. Uncharted has a brilliant and enjoyable story which involves some of the best and 
 memorable characters I've ever come across, most certainly within the action/adventure genre. The 
 plot was clever, intriguing and always left you on the edge of your seat desperately wanting to 
 know what happens next. 
  
  Graphics/Presentation:
  
  The graphics and the way the game is presented is amazing and we finally have a true representation 
 of what the PS3 is capable of and why it will stand out in the future. This was an area Naughty 
 Dog did not get lazy in, everything from the lighting to the way drake moves right down to the 
 impressive lip sync and the thousands of animations and details that were added, its just strait 
 out amazing.
  
  Sound:
  
  Uncharted's characters would not stand out so well if if were not for the brilliant voice talent 
 involved, these guys really bought these characters to life. Uncharted easily has some of the best 
 voice acting seen in 2007 rivalling both Bioshock and Mass Effect. The music and SFX in the game 
 was immersive, dynamic and never seemed to be out of place and constantly drew you into the environment 
 and contributed to making one of the best sounding games of the year.
  
  Value/Tilt:
  
  Uncharted whilst not offering any kind of multi-player mode offers much replay starting from just 
 the sheer enjoyment of playing the game as once you finish it you will be tempted to back through 
 at least a second time, but besides from this game just being plain out fun they added in achievements 
 similar tio that seen on the Xbox 360 which offer more dynamic rewards for collecting treasure, 
 getting head shots etc. and will give you the ability to collect points and as you collect certain 
 amounts of points you can have fun making quirky changes to certain things in the game.
  
  In conclusion Uncharted is just plain out fun and in my books is an instant classic that just perfected 
 everything found in an action adventure game and performed on every level. A slightly longer story 
 mode or some kind of multi-player might of been desirable by some but this is just one game which 
 I find hard to fault and will highly recommend to anyone who is a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Unchartd Drakes Fortune is a great game with an amazing story about El Dorado. The graphics in 
 this game are great and so is the voice acting beacuse the game overall is pretty realistic exept 
 there are a few glitches but not major ones. The guns in this game are pretty cool beacuse no two 
 same guns are simillar. Another great thing about this game is that you can replay all the videos 
 and levels you have already played which is good because some of the levels are very fun. The gameplay 
 is pretty good exept for a few glitches btu something that I would like to chang a bout this game 
 is that if you shoot some one in the leg they dont grab thier throught and die. overall this is 
 a great game and if you are looking for adventure than this game is deffinatly worth playing and 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: direktor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, keep this title in mind folks cause it wont be long before a sequel 
 comes around. This is the game that made buy a ps3, well maybe Metal Gear to, but you got it, this 
 is a ambitious game, good story, put the ps3 qualitys to the test, since Tomb Raider, i havent 
 seen nothing like this, in fact, some of the people i know think that this is a better game than 
 Tomb Raider, but this is a relative opinion, is like saying that Kobe is better than Jordan, me 
 myself, just think that this game is a mindblowing one, i love to play it, i spent hours playing 
 it, is so addittive. Just to finish let me say that buying a PS3 was worth just to play Drakes 
 Fortune and Metal Gear, Folks this is a great game, its not only about run and shoot all that 
 moves, or blowing things up, its about a full pakage, and a great story to support future sequels... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  To be blunt, Uncharted is strictly ho-hum. There's nothing really special here: the platforming 
 is very Tomb Raider (with a bit of Assassin's Creed thrown in) , the combat is quite Gears of War, 
 and the storyline is quite corny. That said, the package manages to be better than the sum of its 
 parts, and does end up being a very fun package if you're into the genre.
  
  If you're expecting Gears of War from this game, look somewhere else (perhaps Gears itself?) . GeoW 
 it isn't; while it borrows the cover system, the weapons are nowhere near as well-balanced, and 
 the cover system isn't as well-defined or easy to use. That said, combat, while playing an important 
 part of Uncharted, isn't it's only focus, so it might be forgiven that it doesn't have quite Gear 
 of War quality shooting and cover.
  
  Moving on, the graphics are quite impressive, but that's mitigated by the fact that by now, most 
 next generation games are expected to raise the bar on graphics. To be blunt, if it didn't, it 
 risks the stigma of being called "dated". That said, the graphics really evoke the word "epic". 
 The leaves sway gently in the breeze, and one jungle scene depicting a sunset is truly stunning.
 
  
  If you happen to have surround sound on your system, the sound is quite impressive. Especially 
 indoor scenes can sound really claustrophobic, and the guns all make pretty nice sounds. I rarely 
 buy a game because it sounds great, but good sound is always a good thing. Oh, and the music is 
 appropriately Indiana Jones (in case you're wondering, that's a good thing) .
  
  As for gameplay and story, Elana is the character that really grew on me, I will admit. However, 
 the storyline in general is so very corny that I had to stop myself from rolling my eyes. Now, 
 that was probably deliberate, but I have to say that for me it was a bit of a turn-off. Nevertheless, 
 the gameplay is solid, and the story, while predictable and corny, is still quite a romp to play 
 through.
  
  I won't say Uncharted sucks, because I really don't think it does. I just think that Naughty Dog 
 could've done better. In many ways, Uncharted seemed like it wanted to be so many things it ended 
 up being none of them. However, it manages to hit enough right notes that it doesn't fail on all 
 counts and ends up being a fun, if corny romp through a world that Naughty Dog has set up for us. 
 Just don't expect anything particularly deep, either story or gameplay-wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Now, I've played almost all the big blockbuster games of 2007. From Halo 3, Assassins Creed, Mass 
 Effect, etc. and in my opinion, none of them can hold a candle to this game. Thats not to say that 
 there wasn't an awesome selection of games on all syestems, but again; I feel UNCHARTED is by far 
 the best. Here's why:
  
  
  THE GOOD
  * Awesome visual presentation, the graphics in this game will "wow" you.
  
  *Great soundtrack 
 that cues in at all the right times during gameplay.
  
  *Easy and fun "pop and lock" gunplay.
  
  *Memorable charecters that any gamer can deffinantley 
 relate with. I found myself thinking "Hey thats what I would say" numerous times while playing. 
 
  
  *It's great to finally see an "achievement" syestem used with a PS3 game, gives UNCHARTED a great 
 replay value.
  
  *Just plain fun! There are a lot of games trying to do new a different things to get you to play 
 them. Now that is not a bad thing at all. I think one of the great things about UNCHARTED is the 
 fact that we may have done something like this before, but hey, it never looked or felt so good.
 
  
  THE BAD
  *The game ends. :)
  
  THE Ugly
  *I firmly belive that this game did not get the recognition it deserved. Sure it got good ratings 
 from most critics and gamers, but UNCHARTED should of been at the top of more "best of" lists last 
 year.
  
  So if you own an PS3, you owe it to your self to experince this stunning and one of a kind game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I didn't have high expectations for Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, but I picked it up on Boxing Day 
 and decided to give it a go. From what I had played in the demo, it seemed like a visually appealing 
 game with finicky controls. The design of the battle zones and difficult shooting really turned 
 me off the game at first. There were so many enemies coming from all angles, it was hard to manage, 
 but when I was immersed in the full game experience, I couldn't put it down.
  
  GAME ENGINE: Uncharted gets off to a great start and never slows down. You are introduced to unique 
 characters and an interesting story, then thrown right into the action. It's fast paced and everything 
 looks great. Sometimes you may just want to slow down and admire your surroundings; there is so 
 much detail in the graphics. The frame rate was always good, but you may encounter so camera trouble 
 from time to time. When trying to leap onto a narrow ledge, the camera angle may be frustrating. 
 Other than that, the characters are lovable and the voice acting great. In fact everything about 
 the cut-scenes compliment the overall feel and appealing story line of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Getting a grip of the controls and managing the game may take a bit of time and patience; 
 there are some parts where you may find it difficult to make a simple jump or stick to cover when 
 you want to. When the whole game experience is considered though, it seems quite minor. Most of 
 the time you will be in a hot battle zone deep in the jungle, or exhibiting amazing acrobatic skills 
 while in an ancient castle, searching for the treasure of El Dorado. The fire fights prove troublesome, 
 as you will be surrounded my multiple foes from different angles, but it's satisfying if you have 
 the skill to handle you weapon with a nearly invisible crosshair against already hard to see opponents. 
 I'm not saying anything is wrong with the graphics, in fact is seems more realistic that the bad 
 guys tend to blend in and take cover. Not that shooting rival treasure hunters isn't always a blast, 
 but I think the part of the game that you'll really enjoy is the exploring Drake will do when alone. 
 He will have to scale tall towers, swing along walls, jump off cliffs and over waterfalls, as well 
 as solving ancient puzzles. This part of the game will really get you going.
  
  All I can say for sure is that you won't get bored of playing Uncharted. Beginning to end it is 
 interesting a fun gameplay with edge-of-your-seat cut-scenes. One of the top titles for the PS3 
 in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  - Immersive story keeps you interested. The cut scenes are well done with good voice overs and 
 nice graphics. The treasure hunt story line has been played out recently (National Treasure movies 
 come to mind) , but it still makes for a fun game.
  
  - Overall, the sound is good. The musical score is excellent and really sets the tone for the game; 
 however, the sound effects fall short in some areas.
  
  - Graphics a pretty good, especially the details. Water stands out as one of the best details. 
 The way the light and scenery reflects off of it is amazing. Detailing on the buildings is also 
 very good. 
  
  - Controls are easy to learn
  
  - Game is a good length. It took about 9 hours to finish the game, and kept me interested almost 
 to the end... more on that below.
  
  - Nice selection of weapons
  
  - Vehicle sequences add some depth to the gameplay
  
  - Climbing, jumping and puzzle solving 
 is fun
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Although the controls are easy to learn, they are very frustrating at times. It takes forever 
 for Drake to turn around. Very frustrating, especially towards the end of the game where the zombies 
 come in. Pressing Triangle to pick things up doesn't always work... you need to walk around, turn 
 around to get it to work. Firearm aiming is decent, but not great.
  
  - Some of the graphics are poorly done, namely the enemies. They just don't have much detail, the 
 blood looks fake when you shoot them. Seems like not much time went into that aspect of the graphics.
 
  
  - Enemy movements and motion is completely unrealistic... very arcade like. Time Crisis comes to 
 mind, which isn't a compliment. The computer AI is also very basic. These are some of the dumbest 
 enemies you'll kill in a video game.
  
  - The amount of enemies you need to clear out gets ridiculous at times, they keep filing in. This 
 is especially funny when they come in from an area that Drake had to scale a wall to get to... 
 how did they get there?! Also, they have a "stealth kill" available, but there are slim to no opportunities 
 to use it in the game. Seems like an afterthought.
  
  - Zombies... seriously? For me that killed the last 15% of the game. They're stupid, hard to kill 
 and there are a ton of them! It's as if they decided to throw in some poorly done Resident Evil 
 action at the end.
  
  - The puzzles are almost too easy at times
  
  - The jet ski is very hard to control 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is amazing. Visuals are outstanding.... there are moments when i catch myself 
 staring in the woods and at the sky. I can find no problems at all in this game, and wish it was 
 longer. Gunfights are not hard at all.... maybe if you are on the hardest level, but, otherwise, 
 quite standard difficulty for a shooter. The "cover" system is also great. you can take cover behind 
 anything. And the fighting system is even cooler. I always try to take out a bunch of guys until 
 2-3 guys are left so i can go up and punch them.
  
  
  Anyway, Uncharted is a great game that you must have if you have a ps3. No doubt about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is easily one of the best titles released in 2007 and deserves much 
 more recognition than it receives. It applies many archetypes and previously designed gameplay 
 types and stories and raises them to an art form. Throughout the entire game you will be dazzled 
 by unbelievable visuals, addictive and challenging gameplay, an array of puzzles and platforming, 
 a twisting storyline which will constantly have you wanting more and a great connection to the 
 few main characters in it, a bond that isn't made in most games. Overall, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, 
 though absent of multiplayer, is probably the best game that this generation of gaming has seen 
 thus far and is the rightful game of the year.
  
  GRAPHICS === 10/10
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has the best graphics on any game released this generation for any console. 
 The environments are all carefully designed and feature a great variety. Though the primary story 
 takes place on a lustrous island full of lush, green wildlife that approaches photorealism, you 
 will come across a huge number of completely different environments - caves, dungeons, ancient 
 ruins, jungle, water, modern architecture and boats, and more. Every moment of this game is a visual 
 sensation and will warp you right into the game world and trap you there. 
  
  The characters are also well-designed, both friendly and enemy. They feature very realistic movement: 
 they flinch from nearby fire and grenade blasts, they gasp in pain when shot and will even crawl 
 on the ground and struggle to get up when in severe pain - all seen in crystal-clear quality. When 
 Drake swims through water, you might notice something that isn't seen in most games - his shirt 
 actually gets wet! You actually see remnants of what effect your actions can have on the environment.
 
  
  The cutscenes are also beautiful - you can tell without watching the extras that tons and tons 
 of work went into creating each of these realistic sequences and they are always a pleasure to 
 enjoy. This game has the most realistic water I've ever seen, coupled with Bioshock and Crysis, 
 and always displays vivid colors and realistic environments with absolutely no screen-tearing or 
 lag of any kind.
  
  GAMEPLAY === 9.5/10
  The gameplay in this game is on par with the graphics - it's the funnest game I've played in a 
 very long time. It features a high level of interactivity with the environment, using every little 
 ledge and crate to hoist yourself to necessary areas, putting a great arsenal of weapons and encouraging 
 use of your environment and grenades. It is a third person shooter, and you will experience combat 
 similar to Gears of War, but combat that I enjoyed even more so than Gears of War. Don't expect 
 this game to be a cruise-through game either, both the Hard and Crushing levels are quite difficult, 
 and may force you to try certain sequences several times to refine your strategy of how to take 
 out the enemies. In these higher difficulty levels, the AI of your enemies is extremely well-done, 
 they will try to flank you, run straight up and attack you, throw grenades right on top of you 
 and even more - if you're not careful, they will kill you in a matter of seconds with just a few 
 shots. Refining your techniques is part of the fun of the game and an experience you don't want 
 to miss.
  
  The game also offers a good deal of platforming and puzzle-solving, which is great, because many 
 times you will want a break from the intense gun-fire and just sit back and solve a few puzzles.
 
  
  SOUND === 9.5/10
  In short, this game's sound is great. The sound effects of shooting, explosions, gasps of pain, 
 wheel-turning, etc. are all excellently done and believable. However, the true greatness of the 
 sound comes from the voice-acting. All the voices in this game fit PERFECTLY with the created characters, 
 and is believable in every aspect. This only adds to the immersiveness of the game.
  
  STORY 9.5/10
  WOW - talk about taking a seemingly predictable and very worn story and turning 
 it into a masterpiece. This game's story will seem very clear-cut and not important... until it 
 twists... again... and again. This is probably one of the best stories I've ever seen in a shooting 
 game. It may not capture you at first if you at first if you aren't into the whole treasure-hunting 
 idea, but it will get you hooked eventually.
  
  You play Nathan Drake, a treasure hunter searching for El Dorado, a fortune his ancestor, Sir Francis 
 Drake had been hunting at the time of this death. You are accompanied by Sully, the archetypal 
 gray-haired, experienced treasure-hunting extraordinaire, and Elena, who is trying to record this 
 spectacular adventure on camera for TV. You will have to deal with the typical hardships of treasure-hunting 
 - modern day pirates who are also searching for the same treasure and maybe even more. 
  
  The story is entrancing and will keep you wrapped up until you finish it, but something else is 
 also achieved through it. It will bridge a unique connection between you and the characters you 
 are so often exposed to throughout the game. This is a game you won't want to finish, but must 
 eventually come to an end.
  
  REPLAYABILITY === 9.3/10
  Unlike many shooters, this game has no multiplayer or online mode. However, this 10 hour (approximately) 
 game is not devoid of replayability. It features four modes of difficulty, Easy, Medium, Hard and 
 Crushing. Crushing will prove extremely difficult if you do not quickly become acquainted with 
 the outstanding Artificial Intelligence. On top of the four modes, there are various medals you 
 can earn for a total of 1000 points as well as many bonuses and extras you can unlock and 61 treasures 
 to find hidden throughout the game.
  
  BOTTOM LINE === 9.56/10
  The bottom line this game is a must-have for any gamer, is the greatest PS3 game and the true game 
 of the year - will bring hours of countless enjoyment, hundreds of awesome headshots, an essence 
 of strategy and a complete immersive experience that will have you cringing in your chair.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Ok, so first off let me get this off my chest.... Wow!
  
  Yes, "wow!" is a word that you'll be saying to yourself quite often during this game, for an obvious 
 reason first and foremost; the graphics.
  
  This is the best looking game out there, not just on PS3, but on any platform. You cannot deny 
 how amazing this game looks and feels, its quite simply breathtaking.
  
  On to the gameplay itself.
  The game plays very well, with very fluid animations as you navigate 
 Drake around the lush environments. Aiming can be a little bit difficult at times, but this isn't 
 down to the targeting itself, its mainly down to the very intelligent enemy AI. They can be pretty 
 shifty these pirates!
  
  My advice?... Go for the head!
  
  The story is very engaging and draws you in right from the get go. Mix this with some fantastic 
 music and you've got a very cinematic experience playing Uncharted.
  
  I've heard that the game itself it not particularly long. However the hidden tresures and bonus 
 features are sure to tempt you enough to give it at least another go, perhaps in an increased difficulty.
 
  
  Uncharted : Drakes Furtune is a fantastic game, both to play and to look at. This is definitly 
 one of the games you should buy a Paystation 3 for. It's that good.
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikook
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game at the E3 upcoming games I was thinking this is a game I would dislike. 
 But I bought it for my father who like tomb raider adventure games genre and I played it and It 
 is a very fun game too the story line, to the very detailed enviorment. The story is Nathan Drake 
 finds a tomb of Francis Drake his grandfather but instead of a body he finds a book which he thought 
 he would which was a map to El Dorado. So he goes and tries to find it. The enemies in the game 
 are one of the best AI you will ever see they will think of stratagies. And they are like real 
 people and you can accually move without them noticing you so they will shoot to the place you 
 previously were, Which is very realistic. The down side to the enemies are you will fight a lot 
 at once, Which is a burden of the fact that it happens at the points when you have less ammo because 
 of all the fighting you did and dont have enough time to get some from dead enemies before there 
 assault. Didnt effect me as much as all the people I know who has this and they all had massive 
 problems at these parts. Other than this game is very good esspecially there detail to the enviorment 
 its looks very realistic and polish to perfection. This game also has achievements to unlock special 
 game cheats like new costume, mirror world, weapon drop. Which is fun to do after you beat it. 
 If you like tomb raider or any action adventure game you will love Uncharted Drakes Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2gcnxbox
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one the best games on the PS3 right now. At first I was a bit skeptical 
 but the story starts to grow on you. Of course, everybody knows that you play as Nathan Drake. 
 You go on this treasure hunting escapade with a female companion named Elena. Throughout the game 
 there are many gun fights, as well as, your occasional puzzle. Most of the puzzles were pretty 
 easy. Towards the end of the game it starts to get interesting. I was totally surprised by the 
 "curse". I could've done without weird boss battle at the end... it left me wanting more; and that's 
 what I hope Uncharted 2 will do. Naughty Dog has a nice franchise on their hands right now. I would 
 like original IP's from some of the developers nowadays and Uncharted pretty much nails it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N_GOYER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is Naughty Dog's first attempted on PS3 and what I believe to be their 
 3rd (hopefully) franchise, the other two being the Crash Bandicoot and Jak series.
  
  I will break my review into four sections: Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, and Presentation. Let us 
 begin.
  
  
  Graphics-10
  Simply stunning, easily the best I have seen so far. Everything in the game looks great from the 
 lush environments to the large detailed models that are coupled with some fantastic animation. 
 Really gets me excited for where they can go from here. Plus, the frame rate is rock-solid. Somewhat 
 cartoony at first glance, but you'll come to love the uniqueness of the style. I did.
  
  Sound-9.0
  Excellent voice acting is paired with a rousing orchestral score that really makes 
 you feel like you are on a spectacular adventure. The guns can be a tad underwhelming at times 
 and there are a few odd stilted lines of dialogue. 
  
  Gameplay-9.0
  While all of the gameplay elements have been done before they still work brilliantly here. The 
 controls are what you would expect from a Naughty Dog game; very tight and responsive. The pacing 
 and difficulty in the game is excellent. You will be challenged and you will die a lot, but it 
 never reaches the point of frustrating since the checkpoints are so well placed. The game is a 
 mixture of cover-based shooting, fast-paced but forgiving platforming, light puzzle-solving and 
 some simple but brutal looking melee combat. The A. I. is among the best I've seen, and love to 
 pin you down, flush you out with grenades and flank constantly. You will have many heart-stopping 
 near death experiences. Plus, right as the gameplay just starts to get a little stale, a great 
 twist is thrown in for good measure that changes the way you have to play. The game really is more 
 than the sum of its parts. However, you will find some quirks when trying to take cover or roll 
 around, (the two are mapped to the same button) so you'll find yourself trying to roll away from 
 fire and end up taking cover in the wrong direction. But because of the checkpoints it never really 
 becomes more than an irk.
  
  Presentation-9.5
  The closest you will ever get to actually playing a movie. The cinematics are laugh-out loud funny, 
 well directed and characters are easy to relate to. Still the story is a bit clichd and can be 
 a little predictable at times, but Nathan Drake and the crew are so well presented you'll still 
 care from start to finish.
  
  Closing Comments
  Uncharted is a cinematic masterpiece that action-adventure gamers will eat up. It's not entirely 
 original and there are some clichd moments, and it's a touch too short, but the game comes past 
 these problems. You will want to see it out from start to finish. You will think about it and how 
 great it was weeks after you've finished it, and want to go do it all over again. It's just that 
 good.
  
  Graphics-10
  Sound-9.0
  Gameplay-9.0
  Presentation-9.5
  Overall-9.5
  (not an average)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNForget
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Let's start with some background: I'm not a platforming nut. I purchased this at the behest of 
 testimony after testimony proclaiming this as "one of the best games of the year".
  
  Very succinctly and to the point: this is one of the best games to come out for PS3. It astonishes 
 me why this title hasn't gotten a halfway decent media campaign from Sony. It is completely under 
 the radar.
  
  This game sets a new benchmark in so many areas, you'll be comparing every game you play to this 
 one from this point forward (I know I will) . IGN hit the nail on the head when it elected this 
 GOTY.
  
  First the visuals: the artstyle is positively delicious, drop dead gorgeous; from the slightly 
 overexaggerated color saturation, and lighting, to the photo-realistic textures, and beautiful 
 modeling. You'll often find yourself stopping in the middle of a game just to gawk at the environment. 
 The numerous cut scenes blend seamlessly with the normal gameplay and are rendered beautifully.
 
  
  The story and the characters are engrossing; deep, believable, and often times humourous. The voiceovers 
 are first-rate. I won't go further, as a tome could be written about it. What they've done here 
 is every bit as masterful as the visuals.
  
  The gameplay: the vehicle chase sequences are sublime; fast paced exhilarating fun through eye 
 popping environments... and being given a grenade launcher to extinguish your foes in the process 
 is just icing on the cake. Gunfights are very Gears of War-esq. A simple duck and cover system; 
 time tested, and works great. Add to this the melee combat abilities (which are very matrix-like 
 when you pull off a combo) and you have a simple, yet complete combat system. I just love saving 
 the last few foes so I can take them out sans-weapons.:) You have the ability to stealth kill but 
 I would have appreciated more opportunities to use this. The mo-cap is excellent on all fronts, 
 very well done. The platforming sequences are perfect; plenty of puzzle-like variety, and very 
 imaginative.
  
  Overall, this game is highly refined in just about every way. There are very few flaws to report. 
 Naughty Dog has turned out a Michelangelo of a game, just masterful. It's evident that this developer 
 knows how to squeeze every ounce out the PS3. I won't hesitate to get the next installment in the 
 series. Let's all hope that this is one franchise that rises to the greatness it so richly deserves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SRC_319
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  What more can I say about this game? This is the first game I got after getting my PS3 and what 
 better way to be introduced to the PS3 with such a great game! This game is amazing in so many 
 different ways. One thing that made this game really stand out to me was how it felt so much like 
 you were in a movie. You play as the main character, Drake, and you take the role as a treasure 
 hunter. On your adventure, you come across enemy pirates, some type of SWAT/Police type of enemy, 
 and also creatchers from within the island you are on. That's all i'll say about the story, I don't 
 want to give much away!
  
  As for graphics, I play on an SDTV, and the graphics are still amazing! I can only imagine what 
 it would look like on an HDTV! For example, when Drake comes out of the water, you can clearly 
 see his clothes changed from dry looking clothes to clothes that just came out of the water. You 
 also can see reflections and other things like that of the surrounding area in the water.
  
  The voice-acting is superb. I didn't get into any research as to see who played the role of 
 Drake and the rest of the cast, but whoever they were, they did an incredible job with the voice 
 acting. It really made the cut-scenes in the game so much more enjoyable. As I had stated, this 
 game really felt like you were in a movie, and the voice acting played such a big part in that. 
 If the dialogue wasn't as good as it was, the cut scenes would not be as enjoyable.
  
  So, that's it for the plot, graphics, and voice acting. The gun battles in the game are great. 
 It doesn't get to complicated with weapons, as you dont have many to choose from. You can choose 
 from a couple of different handguns, ak-47, machine guns, and grenades. No knives. You get ammo 
 by going around and collecting it from the people that you killed. I've heard complaints about 
 the gun battles, but I did not have a problem with it, it was enjoyable for me!
  
  Overall, the game is great. An instant classic. The only negative thing I can say about this game 
 is that it was too short. WAY TOO SHORT. I beat this game in only a little over 8 hours. I played 
 on "Normal Difficulty" and plan to play on a harder one eventually. Im hoping for a sequel and 
 its been rumored that there will be one. I didn't tell you much about the plot of the game, but 
 that's only because I don't want to spoil anything for you, just trust me and go out and buy it! 
 And if your still unsure about it, at least give it a rent and play it! You will not be dissapointed!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomnia37
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Right away I have to say the visuals are amazing. Everything from the graphics to the animations! 
 The visuals of this game were so amazing there were times while I was "rock climbing" and such 
 there were many times where I wasn't sure of what I can and cannot jump to a grab a hold of!!! 
 Its just that good and realistic looking. 
  
  Moving to the game play it uses the cover system ( same from Killswitch and Gears of War) , with 
 light puzzle solving. Personally I preferred if the game was entirely spent shooting but the puzzles 
 were a good side step from all the shooting. 
  
  The story and characters were nothing special for me but it was entertaining. 
  
  My biggest 
 complaint about this game is that you can only carry 2 guns!! That usually wouldn't be a big deal 
 if there weren't so many enemies rushing at you at times!
  
  Overall Uncharted is fun and there is quit a few reasons to go back and play through it again. 
 Such as the fun gameplay and unlocking rewards like weapon select, infinite ammo, and slow motion.
 
  
  If your a fan of shooting games and puzzle solving this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg74
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is just like a movie and your playing the main character. This game has everything from 
 gun fights, puzzle solving, high speed action chases, monsters and curses.
  
  The graphics are extremely detailed. The storyline keeps you hooked on guessing and wanting to 
 know whats going to happen next. And it give a realistic feel like you are in a movie.
  
  For those who havn't played this game you play Nathan Drake a treasure hunter who is hunting the 
 lost treasure of El Dorado by following his anceter Sir Francis Drake's journal. Along with him 
 is Sully a fellow treasure hunter and a reporter along for the story Elena. You face having to 
 survive on a cursed island against people who are trying to beat you to the treasure. You have 
 to solve puzzles and go through gun fights to get to the treasure but thats not all that you have 
 to face you and the people racing you to the treasure are not the only ones on the Island
  
  This game is simply one of the best games that will keep you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought this would be like any other shooter out there and pretty much have a lame story 
 and average gameplay like 75% of shooters that are out for the PS3. I was wrong, even after being 
 doubtful after playing the demo
  
  Gameplay 8/10- This is where the game really does great in. It is a pretty good shooter that offers 
 great variety. The weapon variety is great that goes from you average pistols to your assault shotguns 
 to more impressive guns like the Dragon sniper rifle and the Desert Eagle. It is mainly set around 
 an adventure style method of gameplay, and you will be jumping around and exploring for most of 
 the game, but there is a lot of fighting as well. The exploring part is done pretty well and also 
 seems almost perfectly done jumping ledge to ledge, similar to Assassin's Creed's style. The story 
 is pretty good, although not amazing, it is better than most game's stories and really gets you 
 the cinematic feel that movies usually give you. The characters are mostly likeable, and there 
 are some pretty funny scenes in the game. The duck and cover system was done well and the combat 
 system was done pretty good but still could use a little more variety in the combos and sometimes 
 the jumping and exploring does get a little boring and repetitive but once your done and fighting, 
 it will get better. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- This game has some great environments and really brings out the beauty of the jungles. 
 Maybe not Call of Duty 4 or Metal Gear Solid 4 great, but still has great animations and graphics. 
 
  
  Sound 10/10- Great voice acting and sound effects make this game pleasant to listen to. The soundtrack 
 is also pleasing to the ears. 
  
  Value 8/10- This game is still fun to replay some of the levels and get the various medals for 
 doing certain things. Now that this game supports PS trophies, the replay is much higher. The unlockables 
 are great and offer a great variety from tons of costumes to slow motion to ability to change any 
 type of gun at any time. Although the replayability won't be as great as the first time playing 
 it, it still is fun to play again with the unlockables and especially for fans of trophies. Not 
 to mention, Crushing difficulty may prove a challenge. 
  
  Tilt 8/10- Overall, this game was done well and offers great unlockables, but if you are not a 
 big fan of trophies or are bored by adventure-styled games, this game probably won't be worth a 
 buy. I recommend renting this game first, you probably will be able to get all the trophies in 
 a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanMillerCEO
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  From the moment this interactive CG movie opens up, you know you made the right decision in shelling 
 out for the Sony system. The landscape is so beautifully rendered, and while that is of great benefit 
 to me, it becomes a terrible hindrance for the protagonist under my command. Drakes MisFortune 
 is that he finds himself riddled with bullets because I'm too busy looking at the detail on a leaf, 
 or staring down into the refracted image of a pebble through the water.
  So while this game may be quite difficult to get through for those of us stricken with ADD, it 
 doesn't even matter because it's so pretty to watch, and fun to play. Most of the gameplay details 
 have been covered and smothered in previous reviews, so I don't think I need to scatter them here. 
 (Hash Browns sound good......)
  
  Let me preface this again by saying this is by far the best game on the PS3, and one of the more 
 enjoyable gaming experiences I've ever had. Enough gushing, I want to get to the minor griping....
 
  
  Elaina just doesn't work for me on a number of levels. In comparison to Drake, her voice actor 
 just sucks. That's not to say that whoever voiced her wouldn't be the shining star of a Resident 
 Evil voice cast, but the acting done by Drake's actor makes Elaina sound like a late night Cinemax 
 starlet. It's like Keanu Reeves in Devil's Advocate - Pacino just makes him look like an amateur. 
 (Insert "Dracula" and "Gary Oldman" for some more Keanu-bashing fun. Actually, "any film" and "any 
 actor" works too, but I digress.)
  Aside from her acting chops falling short, something just doesn't look right about her. Her teeth 
 are so white that they make it look like she's biting down on Michael Jackson's sequined right 
 glove the whole game. I can't put my finger on it, but something about her face just isn't believable, 
 especially since Drake looks and sounds so real. 
  More importantly, something intangible falls short in the chemistry between them. You sort of hope 
 that some sexual tension will develop, making you care even slightly about her well being. But 
 really, I just don't. In fact, I find myself wishing that the grenade she inevitably stands on 
 top of will actually blow her into bits. She does help in small ways though, she'll indicate whether 
 you've killed everyone in the area, and she'll save you some ammo.
  
  One of the glaring problems in this game, as well as most similar platforming-hybrids is the inconsistency 
 in what the level designers deem scalable. Certain obstacles of similar height and texture to those 
 that Drake does climb, are simply background. This is only of minor concern because you rarely, 
 if ever, find yourself lost as to where to go. But it does make for some frustrating wasted time 
 as you try to re-angle your jump onto a ledge that looks just like the one you scaled a moment 
 ago, yet actually isn't viable.
  
  The water effects are just spectacular. The only thing that's even remotely negatively remarkable 
 is the fact that Drake somehow swims completely above whatever body of water he's in. I chalked 
 his remarkable bouyancy up to an extraordinarily high salinity in jungle waters, and then proceeded 
 to look down into the lake at the reflected trees.
  
  That is all I have to say in the pessimistic tone. When I think about this game, I smile - and 
 that's really what it's all about. This is a must-have for Sony owners, and it really shows me 
 that the capabilities of this PS3 are just now being realized. It's just a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoverOfTheLamb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game that has great controls, and looks great. Nate who is the main character 
 has amazing and very realistic movements throughout the game. The game is particularly short. There 
 are different types of medals that can be earned throughout the game for various achievements, 
 which adds interest to the game. Also there is 60 pieces of treasure hidden throughout the game. 
 The weapon selection is very limited. Some parts of the story line seem to be rushed and not fully 
 laid out. Though the game has a few flaws Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a great game for those 
 who enjoy shoot em' up and adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  (5 out of 5) Story: The game is about a modern day fortune hunter named Nathan Drake who sets out 
 on a quest along with Elena and Sully, to discover what his ancestor Sir Francis Drake failed to 
 find, El Dorado. The story is cleverly made, and it feels like something out of a Tomb Raider/ 
 Indiana Jones movie. There are many plot twists that keep you guessing, which is a good thing since 
 many stories in videogames today are so predictable. 
  
  (4 out of 5) Gameplay: In the game you will be doing three things the entire time, running, jumping, 
 and shooting, mostly shooting. Uncharted uses the duck and cover type of game play found in Gears 
 of War, without the big buff armored men. The shooting and hand to hand combat in the game are 
 extremely easy to handle, but at times it feels like there are way too many enemies in an area. 
 There will be moments where you will get frustrated due to the fact that you have to keep restarting 
 because of the heavy onslaught of enemies on screen, they come from every direction and what makes 
 it worst is that they can use cheap weapons. The platforming is nicely done but can feel unbalanced 
 with the rest of the game since the shooting parts are hard and the platforming parts are too easy. 
 Even with those slight problems I found the game fun.
  
  (5 out of 5) Graphics: What makes Uncharted: Drake's Fortune so unique is the detailed and lush 
 environments. Many shooters today involve killing aliens, and monsters inside dark factories or 
 dungeons, such as Gears of War and Resistance Fall of Man. That's not a bad thing but I would like 
 to see a change in the environment, and Uncharted is that change. Most levels take place outside 
 in the open in lush green jungles and natural flowing water. The way the trees move, the way the 
 rocks are formed, everything is gorgeous and looks so natural. The facial expressions on the characters 
 are very believable and add that piece of realism to the game; it especially goes well with the 
 in game dialogue. The character animations are believable as well; it seems Drake is always changing 
 his position when he is moving, ducking, and jumping. There are so many character animations in 
 the game.
  
  (5 out of 5) Sound: The voice acting in the game is top notch, each piece of dialogue is cleverly 
 written, and although I didn't find myself laughing out loud from what Drake had to say I did find 
 myself snickering in the background. The sound effects from the explosions to the sounds coming 
 from the forest are nicely done too. The in game music matches the atmosphere perfectly as well.
 
  
  In the end Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one of the best games I have played this year. It wasn't 
 a hardcore shooter like Gears of War yet it wasn't a crazy platformer like any of the Jak and Daxter 
 games. It held a perfect combination of both most of the time. Uncharted is a fun and unique experience 
 that shows what would happen if a movie were to end up into a fantastic game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VindicatedAVP
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-wise, it uses the same formula that Gears of War perfected. As soon as you get into a 
 gunfight, you have to get behind cover, and just pop up from time to time to bust some pirates. 
 There's no auto-aim, but the manual aim that is available is so smooth that I was actually glad 
 that there was no Auto-Aim. The guns are what you would expect from any good shooter. A couple 
 of semi-automatic pistols, a magnum, a couple different types of assault rifles, a sniper, and 
 a grenade launcher.
  
  Being an action-adventure game, it does have platforming and exploring, etc. Though, one thing 
 that bugged me was that there wasn't much freedom while exploring. There is always a linear path 
 and you would have to be totally retarded not to know where you're going or how to reach your destination.
 
  
  Now, the best part of the game. The visuals. I was playing this on an SDTV, and I was still WOW'ed 
 by the graphics. Everything looks so magnificent! Nate actually looks wet after he gets out of 
 the water. The water actually ripples when swim in it. It bounces when you shoot in it.
  The fire and smoke effects are equally as mind-boggling!
  The small shrubs/branches of trees 
 actually move because of the wind. And's it not one up-&-down movement. It totally depends on how 
 strong the wind is blowing.
  The visuals are so good, you'll actually feel that you're traversing through a lush jungle yourself!
 
  
  The story, acting, and dialogue is really good. I mean, you'll actually care about what happens 
 to these characters by the end of it. For me, there wasn't a line that I felt was very cheesy. 
 The story is very fluent. The cutscenes aren't the only thing that keep the story flowing. The 
 comic and humor in the lines keep the atmosphere from feeling tense.
  
  Apart from the usual gun and climb, the game slows the pace down at times by making you ride jet-ski's 
 against the current of the river while oil barrels are coming towards you and pirates are shooting 
 at you with AK's. Or, there will be a part where your partner and hottie, Elena Fisher, will be 
 driving a jeep and you'll be in the back shooting cars chasing after you using a turret. It's mad 
 fun and beautiful when when pirates go down when their cars blow up... O_O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demio123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much action in it it will keep you playing for hours. The firefight scenes are 
 numerous and only get more challenging as the game goes on. The characters in this game are animated 
 so well that it feels as if they are actual actors. The excitement in this game keeps you plastered 
 to your seat, asking for more. I have never felt such a connection with a character in a game before. 
 This game is definitely worth the price you pay for it. This game is definitely underrated, people 
 say they don't like it because there is no exploration. I think that it is perfect the way it is. 
 I hope Naughty Dog had a sequel planned for this one!! actual score --  9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daws07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  This is a definate buy for any ps3 owner, as i have already mentioned the graphics, charecters and 
 everything you could want in a game is there, but like every game, this is not without its flaws 
 1. When you get to the chapter called "the heart of the vault" this is around 80%, the game takes 
 a serious turn for the worse, you will know why when you reach there.
  
  2. Enemies take a little to many bullets (around half a clip) , when a few punches drops them is 
 secounds.
  
  3. No multiplayer or online content (maybe a good thing?)
  
  4. On normal difficulty its is hard, but a serious gamer can complete this is around 12 hours (maybe 
 more if you want to take in the spectacular enviroments and views)
  
  It is easyier seing the games problems than strengths, but exept these few small problems this 
 is a game worth your money, it has great replay value and is s instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradys1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Quite simply the greatest game I've ever played... comparing this game with other "random games" 
 just simply isn't fair (with respect to the latter) . It's analogous to comparing a major blockbuster 
 to a normal movie that doesn't even make it to the theaters. There's really no competition. Honestly, 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is absolutely amazing in every way. An incredible story-line, beautifully 
 orchestrated score, dead-on dialog, witty humor, outstanding visuals, and revolutionary graphics 
 are just a few of the many stellar components of this game (I hesitate even calling it a traditional 
 game because of how polished and professionally put together it is... it's really above and beyond 
 anything I've ever seen, and I've been a video-gamer my whole life) . Simply put, this game is a 
 must-own; and furthermore, in my opinion, it showcases what the Playstation 3 is (and WILL be) 
 all about.
  
  P. S. My wife watched me play this one all the way through over the holidays... that should go to 
 show you how entertaining it truly is.
  
  *9.8 is really my score (I had to round up) . I really like modern shooters that allow the player 
 to shoot off heads, limbs, and the like. Only down-set to the game unfortunately...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  When you first enter the Uncharted world you will be flung into a funny and hectic invironment. 
 You play as Nate (Nathan Drake) a treasure hunting adventurer who has set out on a quest to find 
 a treasure lost centuries ago.
  
  The graphics in this game are eye meltingly sweet water looks crystal clear and flawless and the 
 environments have a sticky hot feel to them giving the game a sense of simulation. As always though 
 with good comes some bad and the down side is about the great graphics and feel is you really do 
 need a HDTV to fully enjoy the absolute epicness of the graphics i myself played the game in store 
 on a Sony Bravia and when i got home and started playing on my SD TV it just wasn't as immersive. 
 Also of note is the fact every single explosion looks the same with no variety in how explosions 
 fan out and the smoke created by the blast is nothing to be proud of in fact instead of pluming 
 as smoke does it instead rises in a neat little cloud however not a real factor in game playability 
 it is still annoying.
  
  the story for me is quite well written and worthy of Hollywood that being said they could not make 
 a movie about this because all the characters are unique and i could only shudder to think of Tom 
 Cruise playing Nate with an "all star cast" . . . anyway enough about that because there are some 
 truly unique lines in this game as well as some priceless moments for example Nathan stumbles upon 
 a water fall with his friend Sully the thing about this waterfall is the fact that it has a German 
 WWII U-boat in the middle of it. Nate says to the astonished Sully "What? you look like you never 
 seen a U-boat in the middle of the jungle before?"
  
  as far as game play goes it delivers a fun packed action setting with easy to remember controls 
 and a pretty decent cover system the weapons vary between the humble 9mm to the explosive M203 
 grenade launcher. you will find yourself switching weapons fairly regularly to adapt to your surroundings 
 for instance you will be using a combo of pistol and AK47 for open jungle environments but when 
 in a ruin or temple will find much more use out of a shotgun and micro-uzi combination and yes 
 you can only carry 2 weapons at a time due to the current trend of realism going around in games 
 these days.
  
  all in all Uncharted is a solid and immersive experience with a great story and brilliant characters 
 with a tonne of action a must have for fans of the action adventure genre and movie lovers alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  To begin things off with Drakes Fortune, you play of course as Drake, a young treasure hunter. 
 Looking for the city of Gold. With a good looking side kick writer, and a best friend. Lots of 
 dark secrets and excitin times await them. GOOD THINGS:
  The game play is great, the graphics are beautiful, you can hardly tell the difference in when 
 you are watching a cut scene and when you are playing the game. The power of the PS3 and wow of 
 the capabilities of the systems is wonderful, and unbelievable. The game has a grat replay value. 
 Even tho the game is short. The story line in the game is great, really keeps you involved in the 
 game and wanting to keep playing. You get the same feeling from this game that you do when you 
 are watching a movie and you just have to see the end, while at the same time it keeps you so entertained 
 that hours hae went by and it seems like no time. The levels can be a bit trying and you will have 
 to use logic and stratgey to get pass some of them, good ht ing also , if you get stuck you can 
 hit L2 for a hint, as to what you need to do, and it really helps sometimes. The characters in 
 the game are as likeable as they come and are very entertaining. Also has some good comedy. 
  BAD THINGS:
  Not much I can say along these lines, really didnt find anything about the game 
 that I did not like. Like I had said before, it is kind of short, but does have replay value. So 
 that doesnt hold it back any. 
  OVERALL:
  THis is a very impressive game and very enjoyable for anyone at any age. Heck my mom even liked 
 it. This game is defintely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vainn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has been described in a number of different fashions, such as Indiana 
 Jones meets Tomb Raider, or the descriptive yet hilarious "Dude Raider" moniker. Whatever you want 
 to call it, there is a lot of pressure on it to deliver a great gaming experience on Sony's black 
 beast, especially in a year where Sony has lost a number of exclusives, and those that it managed 
 to retain have been less than stellar. Naughty Dog's latest endeavor is quite a departure from 
 the Jak and Daxter series that they had become known for on the PS2. Like their good friends at 
 Insomniac Games, Naughty Dog decided to create an entirely new IP for their gaming debut on the 
 PlayStation 3. Have they create a new game from which a franchise will flourish? Or did Naughty 
 Dog make a major mistake in trying something new?
  
  You start out the game as Nathan Drake, a descendant of the legendary Sir Francis Drake. At this 
 point in time you are also introduced to Elena Fisher, a journalist who is seemingly here solely 
 for the story and is the one providing you with the means with which to fund your journey; that 
 is to say, she's your financial backing. It's not long before you come into contact with the rest 
 of the main cast: your partner in crime, Victor "Sully" Sullivan and the main antagonists, Gabriel 
 Roman and Atoq Navarro. From there, you're off to numerous exotic locales such as a forest that 
 could very well pass for the Amazon rainforest as well as a number of underground caverns filled 
 with relics of past civilizations all in a race against rival treasure hunters to find El Dorado, 
 the lost city of gold. There are the obligatory twists and turns in the story, and some of them 
 tend to be a tad on the predictable side like your average action flick, but the story manages 
 to feel unique and engaging at the same time.
  
  If you thought Lady Croft moved fluidly in her recent outing, excuse the clich but you haven't 
 seen anything yet. Naughty Dog has stressed the fact that Drake is basically an "Joe Everyman", 
 a regular Joe who happened to get himself in way over his head. He really is just like you and 
 me: he can't jump extraordinarily high, he doesn't have super strength, and he's not exactly the 
 most agile person on the block. He moves just like most of us would, except for the fact that he's 
 a crack shot and occasionally during some of the platforming and climbing sequences, his leaps 
 and bounds do seem to border on the supernatural. He also has the uncanny ability to recover from 
 nearly fatal wounds by simply ducking behind some cover and avoid taking any more shots for a short 
 while, a power I'm sure many average Joes would love to possess.
  
  The gameplay boils down to a platforming/third-person shooter hybrid. There are moments where Nate 
 will have to traverse ledges, make daring jumps over high cliffs and swing from vine to vine while 
 doing his best Tarzan impersonation. You also have the occasional vehicle sequence where you're 
 in the back of a jeep shooting at pursing foes, or on a jet ski trying to reach a destination that's 
 further up river. There are also some environmental puzzles sprinkled in here and there, but most 
 of them are pretty straightforward and none of them will really have you racking your brain trying 
 to figure out the solution.
  
  The combat sequences borrow heavily from Gears of War, and that's not necessarily a bad thing. 
 When you reach certain designated areas, your enemies, usually pirates, come flooding out of what 
 seems to be every crack in the floor and begin unloading on your position indiscriminately. Your 
 options for combat come down to fisticuffs or returning fire with your own weapons. If you choose 
 to get up-close-and-personal, pressing the  button will have Nate throwing punches. Simply 
 mashing the button is enough to pound most any enemy into submission, but there's also an option 
 to pull off what's known as a 'brutal' combo by pressing    with the right 
 timing, which will get the enemy to drop additional ammo.
  
  Gun play will have Nate immediately diving for cover, the best course of action even if you decide 
 to let your fists do the talking, so that he doesn't instantly become a bullet-riddled corpse. 
 Taking cover is as easy as hitting the o button near just about anything, say, a wall, or even 
 a crate, and Nate will instantly lean up against the object. At that point, you can hold L1 to 
 bring up your weapon's crosshairs for precision aiming and press R1 to fire, or just use R1 by 
 itself to blindfire around cover. You can also choose to just run around and fire from the hip, 
 but you'll find yourself replaying the same few areas more times than you would probably like.
 
  
  The game also features a destructible cover system, so unlike Gears of War you won't be able to 
 stay behind one piece of cover for too long. Certain things like tunnel walls won't ever break 
 no matter how much many bullets get lodged in them, but things like small brick walls or crates 
 will shatter under constant fire. 
  
  Nate starts the game armed with only a pistol, but as the game progresses you gain access to grenades, 
 shotguns, machine guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles and even a grenade launcher. You can only 
 carry one sidearm such as a pistol or an uzi, and one larger weapon like a shotgun or an rifle, 
 and up to 4 hand grenades, and you use the d-pad to select between them. Different weapons also 
 have varying degrees of accuracy as well, so even though you might like the idea of running around 
 like Rambo with an assault rifle, you might want to switch to your pistol every once in a while 
 to take advantage of its better accuracy.
  
  As this is a PlayStation 3 game, there is a bit of Six-Axis motion control worked in. When you 
 have a grenade prepped, you use the left analog stick to control the direction of the throw and 
 you tilt the controller forward and back to control the height and distance of the throw's arc. 
 The only other time you really have to use the Six-Axis is when you have to fight an enemy off 
 of Nate or to help him keep his balance as he is crossing a narrow passage like walking over a 
 fallen tree trunk. There are also a few interactive cut-scenes  la Resident Evil 4 that pop up 
 once in a while, but it's not overly intrusive.
  
  A lot has been said about the PlayStation 3 and how much power its cell processor can push out, 
 but there haven't been many games that have been able to take advantage of all that horsepower. 
 A year into its lifespan, Uncharted changes all that. The game still looks amazing on a standard-definition 
 TV, but it's simply breathtaking in high-def. If Nate walks under a waterfall, he will emerge from 
 it soaking wet, even his clothes. Eventually they will dry off, that is until he wades into some 
 more water. But there's this one moment near the beginning of the game, where you come across the 
 sun setting over the horizon. It is an absolutely breathtaking moment.
  
  Not to be outdone, the motion-capture, voice-acting and facial animation featured in the game is 
 second to none on any system. The characters laugh, grimace and scare realistically, and it will 
 show on their face unlike some other so-called "next gen" games. It is almost as if you were really 
 watching people in real life interacting with one another, and it is actually not too far off. 
 Naughty Dog chose their actors not only to voice their respective characters, but to do the mo-cap 
 for them as well. It really gives it that extra bit of realism, and you can really feel the chemistry 
 between the characters, especially the two main protagonists: Nate and Elena. Speaking of which, 
 Elena is one of the best characters to come around in recent memory which doesn't rely on curves 
 or sex appeal to be liked, just like Alyx Vance of Half-Life 2 fame. She is strong-willed, independent 
 and can hold her own in a gun fight, and yet there are times where you can feel her vulnerability. 
 You just can't help getting attached to her as you progress through the game. And trust me, you 
 will get attached to her by the time you reach your journey's end.
  
  Uncharted has often been compared to an action movie, and its soundtrack does little to disprove 
 that. However, that's not a bad thing. The music always plays something that is suited to the mood: 
 you'll never have drums pounding feverishly when you're trying to make a few easy platforming jumps, 
 nor will there be soft wind instruments playing gently in the background as dozens of pirates descend 
 upon Nate and try to add more lead to his diet.
  
  With all that said, Uncharted is not without its faults. Even on the normal difficulty setting, 
 enemies can take an absurd amount of punishment. If you aim for their torsos and appendages, it 
 can take upwards of half a clip of ammunition to get them to fall. A point-blank shot from a shotgun 
 or a single well-placed bullet to the noggin will usually keep them down for the count, so the 
 lowly pistol will probably be your best friend for most of the game. There is also a large focus 
 on shoot-outs, much more so than the platforming and puzzle sections. It would have been nice to 
 have a little more balance between the two, hopefully Naughty Dog will nail that balance for the 
 sequel.
  
  At the start of the game you get to choose between three difficulty settings: Easy, Normal and 
 Hard. Beating the game once then unlocks a new difficulty level: Crushing. Drake's Fortune also 
 features a reward system that bears more than a passing resemblance to Xbox 360 Achievements. Completing 
 different tasks such as finding a certain number of treasures to killing a specific number of enemies 
 in a specific manner will reward you with points that unlock development videos, concept art and 
 new outfits among other things, which, along with the unlockable difficulty level, helps add to 
 the replay value.
  
  Upon first glance, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune seems like it treads familiar ground, and in some 
 ways it does. It clearly borrows elements from a number of different games, but rarely is a developer 
 able to take those ideas and put them all into a game successfully. Naughty Dog not only does it, 
 but it accomplishes this feat on its first attempt. This game is more, much, much more, than the 
 sum of its parts, and is a tremendous achievement for Naughty Dog and a gem for Sony. There are 
 games that have done what Uncharted does, but few if any have done it so well. It is not only a 
 graphical showcase for Sony's behemoth, but a spectacular game that everyone should have a chance 
 to experience. This is an amazing must-own experience and one of the PlayStation 3's defining games, 
 be sure you don't miss it.
  
  Presentation: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 9.5
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Lasting Appeal: 8.5
  Tilt: 9.5
  
  Overall: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doddie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a true family game. It is going to become a classic and hopefully a series. The colors 
 are awesome and the scenery is spectacular especially the water scenes. The save points are excellent. 
 One does not have to play and replay a particular part of the game until boredom sets in. So often 
 one has to leave to go to school, work, meals whatever and hours of gameplay are lost due to poor 
 saves. A lot of thought went into this game and one is drawn into the story. The conversations 
 carried on by the characters as the story unfolds draws the player into the story and the player 
 really becomes the character. I can't think of anything that is wrong with Uncharted unless I become 
 very picky. A sequal hopefully will be forthcoming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog, makers of Crash Bandicoot and Jak and Daxter IPs, has expertly developed Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune. The style of Naughty Dog is everywhere inUncharted, from well rounded characters, 
 tight game controls, and a story worth fighting through the 10+ hours of island hopping. All of 
 these elements come together seamlessly, and the action never stops and never gets lost.
  
  Crash Bandicoot helped Naughty Dog bring their vision and expertise to the masses in a stylistic 
 vision of how games can be developed outside the box. Jak and Daxter continued NDs flavor for original 
 game play and introduced to the gaming world more of what could be done right with focused game 
 play. Uncharted: DF is an excellent showcase of how Naughty Dog has been ever growing upward towards 
 individual and unique style in game development.
  
  U: DF is simply a story of perseverance over adversity that the main character, Nate, is voluntarily 
 and involuntarily placed in. With Nate as the player's avatar, the player genuinely wants to work 
 towards gaining the advantage in order to progress the story and characters to their end game. 
 
  
  Uncharted's characters are wonderfully crafted visual story telling elements. All of the supporting 
 characters that Nate works with throughout the length of Uncharted are full of quirks, and stereotypical 
 strengths and weaknesses that help guide the player along a clear path to the objective, while 
 helping the player to ultimately understand the character's motivations for being where they are 
 in the Uncharted world. This is all done with some of the best looking facial animations seen on 
 any system. Emotions are clearly presented through the characters by excellent acting and voice 
 work, which all lends to making Uncharted one of the many superb examples of how story telling, 
 driven and presented through the medium of interactive video games, have evolved, in many ways, 
 beyond what major live action Hollywood films are capable of today. 
  
  Story isn't everything though, and game play must be in above average quantity. Uncharted, while 
 comparable to other games, does well to stand on its own, apart from many of the traditional game 
 play mechanics that it borrows from other genres.
  
  Whether your platforming across collapsing structures, shooting down your jungle pursuers, solving 
 ancient puzzles and traps, driving a jet ski up-river, or exploring a level to find hidden treasures 
 as a side objective, then Uncharted will dabble in each with a style that screams well-thought-out 
 game play continuity. 
  
  Uncharted's platforming will certainly remind players of Prince of Persia and Tomb Raider where 
 reaching your objective takes more than finding a key and unlocking a door (for Uncharted, opening 
 doors is done with Nate's foot, and locks give way to bullets) . Finding where to jump or climb 
 during the platforming portions of Uncharted is not difficult, and trusting that Nate will be able 
 to successfully clear a jump from one base to another is also a non-issue. What to do and where 
 to go is second nature after the first 10 minutes of play, or with help icons turned on, any procrastination 
 on the player's part will prompt a hint mechanic to point the player in the right direction, but 
 this hint is rarely useful, because the level design and layout is not confusing.
  
  What makes Nate's action of platforming different from others is in the way he moves from running, 
 gunning, and jumping without looking like a purposefully animated superman, and more like a human 
 being. 
  
  Shooting, the other half of Uncharted's action, while always available to the player regardless 
 of his situation, is paced nicely between exploring and platforming. Carrying only three types 
 of weapons  pistol/rifle/grenade- each with different models (however an Uzi can be swapped with 
 the pistol slot) , the player is made to choose what best helps Nate fight against his immediate 
 threats.
  
  Running and gunning is the name of Nate's game. Firing is accurate on the crosshair, and making 
 headshots is as easy and as difficult as you would expect. One visual oddity is that Nate's pistol 
 animation looks to be aiming far to the left (or right, depending on your view preference) of the 
 crosshair. It does hurt game play, just looks odd. 
  
  Nate's cover mechanic is second nature, with a slight learning curve. With the press of one button, 
 Nate will press his back against nearby cover until it's clear to start popping out of cover (with 
 the holding press of another button) for a quick shot at enemies.
  
  The process of duck, cover, pop out, and shoot, feels natural and quick, all while running Nate 
 can pick up enemies' dropped weapons when ammo gets low, or swap it for his currently held weapon 
 when it proves ineffective or not as fun as something more attractive. 
  
  Uncharted's Graphical presentation is a great achievement for Naughty Dog. The ND team has proven 
 that attention to the details in what makes games fun and adventurous, can create a lush and visually 
 attractive setting for players to explore. Water, trees, enemies, vehicles, explosions, and atmosphere 
 all help to heighten the level of polish that Uncharted provides a player. And from beginning to 
 end, Uncharted's levels load in the background as cinematics play, which helps keep the player 
 in the world of Uncharted and keeps the pacing of the game consistent between story elements.
 
  
  That's not allbonus content, extra little tweaks to the game become available after a player finishes 
 certain achievements while playing. Killing a number of enemies in a certain way, collecting treasure 
 hidden around the levels, and other tasks will earn the player points to unlock new outfits, graphical 
 touches, unlimited ammo, weapon selection, and behind the scenes documentaries on Uncharted's development. 
 This extra content is not part of a collector's edition, it's just there in the standard retail 
 copy, and it is an example of an industry standard that should be set for future games that may 
 attempt to get away with charging an extra ten dollars for less "extra content".
  
  All these different game play styles, technical attention to detail, and extra content cooperate 
 in one smooth succession taking the player deep into Drake's Fortune, and not allowing distraction 
 from the atmospheric element that players started in when the game began. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonygamerchick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Croft look out... you have some great competition.
  
  I was more than excited when I received this for Christmas and I couldn't wait to get started... 
 and when I finally got a chance to play I couldn't put it down!
  
  There's the obvious here: stunning visuals, vivid colors, and a smoothness to gameplay that mix 
 together for an amazing gaming experience.
  
  Next up is the intriguing story line. The cut scenes are interesting and drive you to find out 
 more with each chapter. And after gameplay, watch the scenes and you catch some great foreshadowing 
 of the story that you miss because you are unaware of what to look for.
  
  Then there's the voice acting: superb. There's nothing more annoying than playing a game where 
 the voice acting is something out of a middle school play. It's a video game, but we also want 
 to believe these little characters on our screen when they speak.
  
  The gameplay, on easy, is easy enough, but still a bit challenging at times. But never do you feel 
 overwhelmed... just know where to hide and cover and you'll be fine. And if you're killed you are 
 put back into play near (and sometimes beyond) that last point of departure.
  
  I'm not going to spoil here, but there's one point, many chapters into the story, where certain 
 characters appear that really (at first play - upon replaying and watching the cut-scenes you are 
 made aware of them, but it's entirely too subtle.) seem to not fit in.
  
  This game is fantastic. An instant classic for the PS3 in the way Tomb Raider is. Hopefully the 
 next incarnation of TR will be able to match what Uncharted has brought to the table. It has tons 
 of replayability and is way too much fun to not add to your collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienOverlord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. It has a great story and keeps you immersed and interested and towards 
 the end it becomes very intense.
  
  I don't know how it could be said that this game is too hard. I only started playing shooting games 
 this gen with Warhawk and I played through this game on normal difficulty without any frustration. 
 Did I die? Yes, and often, although I think I died more often from the 'easy' platforming. However, 
 when you die you don't have to go back very far. If you die in a gun fight you just restart the 
 gunfight and if you die while platforming you restart sometimes at the beginning of the puzzle 
 sometimes half way through. I felt challenged at all times but never frustrated, to me that's perfect.
 
  
  My only problem was the lack of reality, hundreds of enemies willing to throw their lives away 
 and always in locations that seem like no one should be there. However, even with several unrealistic 
 elements in the game it still manages to keep you immersed and it is a lot of fun. The gun fights 
 are thrilling and you have to pay attention to your enemies movements so that you don't get flanked. 
 The platforming is fun because he makes such incredible leaps that look so real and because once 
 you figure out what to do it is easy to do it again if you mistime a jump further on and have to 
 restart.
  
  So, the story is great and immersing, the game play is fun and often exhilarating, how is the value? 
 Is it worth $60? In my opinion, definitely. This game has what Heavenly Sword should have had, 
 interesting rewards and cool ways to gain the points needed to unlock the rewards. You will almost 
 certainly want to play through it again to get the rewards, which include changing his outfit, 
 changing your appearance to look like one of the enemies, choosing which weapons you start with, 
 slow motion play (helps you get head shots) , unlimited ammo and of course videos and pictures. 
 Lastly, it's a great show piece of what the PS3 can do with it's beautiful graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deavincalhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed . so much fun then i completley freaked me out almost at the end with the plot 
 twist. Naughty dog did a superb jo, from animations, to voices, to gameplay, etc. This was so much 
 better than gears of war, especially the graphics with all its lush enviroments. I wish this were 
 a summer movie , it would e awesome. When it becomes a greatest hit im buying it because i just 
 rented from gamefly this time. I reccomend this to anybody who likes games. also this is a hell 
 of alot better than tomb raider which feels so dry compared to this, thanks sony and naughty dog 
 10/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bk_rause
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Is a master piece and a great game. If you can afford it, BY IT!!! It is by far the best 
 game have played in my entire life. The commercials might make it look a little bad but it exceeds 
 expectations. If you like third person shooter mazes with edge of your seat action, hear it is. 
 If you somehow don't like this game then you're weird and unusual. Naughty Dogs finally hit the 
 spot. This game has great graphics, voice work, and a great plot. I gave this game a perfect ten, 
 because its perfect. This game is AWESOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdgates
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I had been aware of Uncharted. I saw the videos and played the demo but wasn't that hooked by any 
 of them. I got the game as a gift and the last time I had so much play a game, was so amazed by 
 the graphics and didn't want it to end was when I played the first God of War.
  
  For me Uncharted finally delivers on the next-gen gaming experience I have been waiting for since 
 the launch of the PS3. The graphics in HD are nothing short of jaw dropping. So much so that you 
 will laugh at yourself for spending so much time admiring the water. The animation system is every 
 bit as good and dynamic as the city running found in Assasin's Creed but the characters and story 
 are world's better. Think 60% National Treasure, 30% Indiana Jones and 10% Resident Evil.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is just amazing! There are too many words to describe this unbelievable game! First of 
 all, the graphics in Uncharted are simply awesome! The rainforest and ruins in the game look so 
 life-like! The characters also look very real from the details on their faces to the way they walk 
 and talk! The cut scenes really add an extra kick to the game since it makes you feel like you 
 are watching a movie! The gameplay in Uncharted is also very good! The game is very challenging 
 but not too much! You have to find your way around the rainforest while finding hidden treasure 
 and fighting off pirates and enemies! The controls are sharp and the combat is very realistic! 
 The only thing that keeps Uncharted from being a 10 out of 10 is the lack of a multiplayer feature 
 or online play! But dont let that convince you to not purchase this game! Overall, Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune is one of the best games ever made in my opinion! You won't be disappointed once you purchase 
 this game! It provides a great story, smooth graphics, and awesome gameplay! It is the the complete 
 package! Make sure you buy this game if you own a PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wave128
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  The game is great with some of the best graphics I've ever seen in a next gen game. The characters 
 are very fun to see with the game playing like a movie. The game play is the part where this game 
 has it's up and downs. The guns are fun to shoot and the puzzles are great to solve. There are 
 a few puzzles in this game which means that this isn't a puzzle game. It's an action game. Not 
 adventure because theres only one way to go. The action aspect is great with amazing firefights 
 and explosions. The down part about the action are the number of enemies. There are parts when 
 Nate kills everyone and has low ammo levels. So he start walking and all of a sudden 10 bad guys 
 come out 2 with shot guns some with pistols and one with a rocket launcher thing. Out numbered 
 and no guns means death. Of course this is the only part about the game that is frustrating. The 
 rest is one sweet ride through the jungle and some other place that Nate goes to. Once the sweet 
 ride is over Nate can go to the beginning and find all the treasures and get all the rewards to 
 unlock bonus material. This game has high replay value that will last you until the next Uncharted 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is just perfect from the graphics and sound to the game play and the story line. Now 
 the game play is superb it's like taking the toom rider game play and making it a lot better Uncharted 
 is like playing gears of war but in the jungle the game play is just amazing the story is another 
 thing this is the best story on the PS3 and one of the best in any game with this story you feel 
 like you are watching a movie, the story is just plain perfect. Now the graphics and sound, this 
 is the most amazing looking game I've have ever play everything feels so real you feel like you 
 are in there you feel like you are Indiana Jones its just perfect. Now that goes for the sound 
 to because the sound is one of the most perfect sounds in a game this game is just great I only 
 have one complain that there is not any online multiplayer if this game had any online this would 
 be the best game ever. If you have a PS3 BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scubei
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not finished with this game yet, but I will tell you that I am impressed with the visuals of 
 this game. Nothing, well maybe heavenly sword, but in my personal opinion, this game is what true 
 next gen is all about. Forget Gears of war or Halo 3. Those games look really good, but Uncharted 
 looks effin' radical. From the way the character's hair looks or their skin's pores. The soundtrack 
 blends everything together from frenzied gunfire to unexplored caves and the such. At first it 
 took a little getting used to all the polish, but my eyes adjusted and I began to take in the story 
 and haven't really put it down yet. 
  It does play like Gears of War, but I like this game's attitude better. It's not a blood fest, 
 but I do like the blood splatter when you take a guy out with a head shot. Its a well put together 
 game and the challenge is self setting. At least it feels like it adjusts to your gameplay quality. 
 But I do suggest this game to any PS3 owner and to any video game player. This is NEXT GEN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lup-0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  What would be the result of mixing Tomb Rider and Gears of War? Probably something similar to Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune. 
  
  Visually the game is a tour de force. It looks fantastic, great animation and funny voice acting 
 (English voice track seems to have better voice acting than Spanish or French, c'mon guys! give 
 other languages equal quality as English!) . The also plays fantastically except for the motion 
 sensing parts (even Level 5 did it better) , fortunately there are only very few times when you 
 needed them) .
  
  The game pretty much consists on action scenes and platforming areas. The action scenes (with hide-and-shoot 
 game mechanics similar to GoW) with extremely good AI that increases in efficiency and improves 
 their weapons as the game progresses. They are fun, but can be extremely frustrating, especially 
 in the later areas. The vehicle areas are few, fun, but a little bit too long and repetitive
  
  The platforming scenes are relatively simple, the puzzles are simplistic, but sometimes the 
 high detail of the environment won't help you to find the solution. Fortunately when the system 
 recognizes that you are lost it will give you a hint on how to proceed. These scenes are probably 
 the weakest part of the game.
  
  The game also counts with a reward system. Think of them as Xbox Live achievements without being 
 able to show them to anyone on line, but they are designed to unlock rewards
  
  Is it game-of-the-year material? Close, but not enough (at lest not in 2007, when so many great 
 games were released) ; none the less it is indeed one of the best PS3-only games and one that will 
 make you happy you have the system. Is it a console seller absolutely not, but if you already have 
 a PS3 and you don't mind getting frustrated in a game every once in a while, you must absolutely 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOL88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  ~SPOILER ALERT~ Ahhhhh were do I start. How bout the gorgeus graphics, Awesome Animation and voice 
 acting. The platforming adds to the recipe. Personally this is one of the reasons of getting a 
 Ps3 . The weapons felt familiar but responsive. Shorter than i thought i beat it in less than 7 
 hours on medium difficulty.
  Shooting rebels got alittle repetitive thankfully they added them monster type of things. And it 
 was alittle annoying how it takes multiple shots to kill one rebel with the AK especially with 
 the short supply of ammo on some levels. And the last level Showdown was bullcrap The guy with 
 the laser on his gun has Rediculous aim. His laser wasnt even on me and i pop up from cover abd 
 BAM headshot I thought that was ridiculous. This reminds of Raiders of The Lost Arc - Indiana Jones 
 I dont know if this is good or bad. So it had a solid story, Superb graphics and Animation , Platforming 
 , Puzzle-solving and even alittle bit of Rail Shooting, with a few problems in my book. But overall 
 this game is just something you buy and play once or twice. So you dont get your moneys worth. 
 But it is solid as in a SUPERB SINGLE-PLAYER GAME ONLY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a great game, plain and simple; it overall is the basic treasure hunter 
 story. You play as Nathan Drake hunting for the lost treasure of El Dorado. This game graphically 
 is great, now it's not the "next gen overly polished graphics" but it captures a realistic but 
 artistic feel. What sets this game differently to all others is the great show of "emotions" during 
 game play because of the many different animations in this game. Sound in this game is great but 
 not bad there is not too much to say in this department, Game play is Basic renovation of GOW cover 
 system which is a lot of fun epically when the game gets really difficult Story wise this game 
 isn't a Mass Effect or Final Fantasy but its presentation is great. The puzzles range from simplistic 
 to trial and Error and Error and Error and Error. The platforming of this game isn't challenging 
 but will cause you to die many times.
  Now the big question is it worth 60$? My answer is a big yes this game is very addicting and a 
 recommended buy for any Ps3 owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KengoK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  well.... i had my doubts about this game.... i don't like shooters very much and i heard that this 
 game is kinda short.... and i thought that nah i will buy some other game instead.... but since there 
 is not other game i bought this one.... 
  and i must say this is the best game i had in a while..... it's probably better that assassin's 
 creed even thought Uncharted is much shorter.....
  the graphics are really nice, outstanding even....
  gameplay is superb no problems at all even 
 for me (like i said i don't like shooters)
  the best part of the game is the plot.... it is unique and addictive you just want to play to the 
 end to find out what will happen...
  The bonus feature is a great addition  costumes , treasures and etc...
  all in all the game is 
 a must have, must buy and etc. If you don't have the game get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsaxon07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is by far one of the top 5 games I have ever played. It is a game that I can play over 
 and over again and not get bored. This game is difficult and you will die a few times but there 
 is never a spot where I felt like the game was too hard. The only thing I do not like about this 
 game is sometimes the game does not recognize a head shot and the enemy will not die and the camera 
 angle on some of the jumping sequences does not help. There are countless great things about this 
 game, the graphics, the detail in the story, the voice acting, the mystery behind the story, the 
 fighting and the endless inability to turn off the game. There was only one thing about the story 
 that I did not like and that was the curse of the gold because the zombies got annoying after awhile. 
 At first I thought it was cool but those buggers got annoying because you had to fight two enemies. 
 Overall amazing game a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Before purchasing this title I was a little doubtful whether I had made the right decision - this 
 type of game is not usually my cup of tea. How wrong I was! I cannot think of a better, more engaging 
 story of any game I have ever played for the following reasons:
  
  1) The voice acting is amazing, with the voices fittin the look of the characters to the enth degree 
 and an amazing script.
  
  2) The plot is not too farfetched, something I always look for in a game.
  
  3) The excellent 
 twist rivals any horror game such as Resident Evil or Silent Hill and could even surpass them due 
 to the "monsters" not looking as ridiculous as in other games.
  
  4) The controls are easy enough to use and switching between shooting and puzzle solzing is seamless.
 
  
  The only down side for me was the huge amount of repetitive shooting battle which were all to easy 
 to win, perhaps making it shorter to move from A to B would have eliminated the need for these. 
 Thankfully, the puzzle solving breaks this up and is not too taxing. 
  
  Finally I will say if you want a game that will grip you and make you want to complete it, Uncharted 
 : Drake's Fortune is what you're looking for. A game that has saved the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box bWhen writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. 
 Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time 
 - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. elow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game has been one of the very best games i truly have ever played. It is like one, huge, epic, 
 "5 Stars *****!" blockbuster. The story is an incredible one of an ordinary treasure hunter and 
 deep sea diver Nathan Drake and his friend and Manager Victor Sullivan. 
  Nathan believe that he has Sir Francis Drakes blood running through him, and goes on a quest to 
 find Sir Francis' real burial place, as in the first level it is realised that he faked his death, 
 and did not die when he supposedly did. 
  Nathan and his friend/love intrest (towards the end at least) Elana Fisher have no choice but to 
 kill the mercenaries that are attacking their boat. You can sense definite hostility between the 
 two in the earlier missions, but it becomes clear that they care for each other by the end. 
  He goes on an incredible journey to find the lost gold of El Dorado, and finds it, along with its 
 terrible secret and a bunch of heavily armed mercenaries. Towards the end these guys have laser 
 sights and will kill you if you are out of cover for a second, which, along with the love-it or 
 hate-it supernatural twist towards the end, make for some seriously pulse pounding missions at 
 the latter end of the game. 
  Talking of the aforementioned supernatural twist, im uncertain whether im in the "love-it" or the 
 "hate-it" camp. At first i was very suprised to see, what are basically zombies, roaming around 
 the game, and thought that maybe it was a mission in Nate's dreams, but apparently not. As the 
 presence of these things had been explained i think i was divided by it in the end. If there had 
 just been some random zombies put in i would have been very dissapointed, but with the fleshed 
 out story behind them, it brought a fun twist to the game, but im glad that it didnt run the whole 
 length, as i found killing the guys with guns much more... satisfying. 
  Which brings me neatly onto the FANTASTIC cover system. As a fan of Killzone 2, and someone who 
 is going to be buying it, to see the cover system that will be used by KZ2 work so amazingly is 
 a good sign. 
  The weapons feel weighty, and the occasional "Ah, crap" that Nate exclaims as 5 or so enemies pour 
 near to his position just adds to the drama. 
  It is rumoured that there was origionally going to be a 16 player online mode available to Uncharted 
 but it never made it in. Hopefully next time eh fellas? Hopefully there will be a next time for 
 this game, as if there is, count my name to be on the pre-order list. 
  Bravo Naughty Dog. Bra-vo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnoflife3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  i have enjoyed playing in the lush green enviroments and the thrilling adventure. the game is also 
 kinda like prince of persia where u hav to find ur way out. the only thing i hate about this is 
 the shotting. it is freakin frustrating. i hav been playin for a month and still dont hav a hang 
 of it. yet still i would recomend this game to people whpo like action adventure games. the game 
 is also is not very realistic i would say. they should hav made it as if he was a real man trying 
 to find the treasure not a superhere or something. i hav no idea what to write and its askin me 
 to write 100 words so im writing this ,hope this is enough. still not enough so im still gonna kepp 
 typin stuff ,u dont hav to read this u could just check other reviews u know...., ok i think is 
 enough? still not enough but only a few left and i think thi hould be just about enough. ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_gamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune had me out of my seat because of the exciting fun story and the amazingly 
 gorgeous graphics. The sound effects are great and the gameplay is awesome. This game made me feel 
 like I was in an Indiana Jones movie looking for a lost treasure from hundreds of years ago. I 
 think I never been so involved into a story. I had fun jumping from cliff to cliff and swinging 
 from vines and I had fun at the parts when you got to shoot a rocket launcher from the back of 
 a jeep and ride a waverunner. This game also makes good use of the sixaxis controller's motion 
 part by using it to throw a grenade or walking across a log. Uncharted works like Gears of War 
 with the duck and cover system. The shooting system was easy to use too. The enemies were a little 
 hard at some points and the AI was cool. The graphics in my opinion are the best I have ever seen 
 in a game and the voice audio is sync with the character. At some points the frame rate was slow 
 but that does not stop it from being one of the greatest games I've ever played. PS3 owners out 
 there I'll tell you right now DO NOT let this game go by you need to buy it or just try to borrow 
 it from a friend because you don't want to miss out on one of the greatest games of the year. 10/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Like Heavenly Sword before it, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune slipped through my fingers. I knew it 
 looked like a fun game, and yeah, it was absolutely beautiiful, but other than that I didn't really 
 care.
  
  ... and then I downloaded the demo off the PSN and said "wow. Beautiful is an understatement for 
 this game", and it was as fun as it looked. When it comes to third person shooters, Drake's Fortune 
 was pretty damn awesome. A great storyline, cool characters, fun (yet repetitive) gameplay kept 
 me coming back for more. The ending to the game leaves you BEGGING for more, and I think Naughty 
 Dog will ride Nathan Drake to the bank.
  
  No game is perfect and Drake's Fortune is no different. The camera was a problem. I often found 
 myself, when in enclosed spaces, having trouble figuring out which way to move my left analog stick 
 in relation to the camera-related controls. Other than that, this game was pretty much roses.
 
  
  PROS:
  Beautiful graphics
  Fun gameplay
  Awesome storyline
  Cool characters
  Jetskis, trucks
  
  CONS:
  Annoying camera
  Sometimes-repetitive gameplay
  
  Uncharted 
 is an awesome third-person shooter, and if Naughty Dog can keep producing, SCE has quite a franchise 
 on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genosis27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  In my eyes, this game is how tomb raider should have played. Ever wanted to play a game that takes 
 all of the great hits and combines them together? For instance, the setting of pitfall, the controls 
 and game play of Gears of War, story type of national treasure, or Indiana Jones, and the platforming 
 of tomb raider? Sounds impossible right, nope, heres your game?
  
  You play character named Drake, a treasure hunter, who claims he the decedent of sir Francis drake. 
 Your a treasure hunter, people are trying to get to it first. Whats a treasure hunt without someone 
 trying to beat you to it? :P. Im not going to get into the characters besides the fact that they 
 are all great, and very very believable. It shows off the ps3 power and uses great facial and body 
 movement animation, the best ive seen yet. 
  
  The graphics are in fact, the best on any console. They may not look the most realistic... but they 
 are the most pleasant to the eye, It is the best presentation of an island setting in any game, 
 including Crisis. The minute you start up the game and watch the first cut scene and start shooting 
 the baddys... your eyes will pop.
  
  The game play is just as impressive, the platforming and jumping from ledge to ledge is almost 
 effortless. The shooting works well, the cover system actually works better than Gears, in the 
 sense you don't have a sprint button... so you never accidentally dive into cover.
  
  The story and characters probably had the best influence on the overall game though... the story 
 pulls you in, and is true to and Indiana jones feel... with more awesomeness in the mix. It has 
 its twist and turns... and the characters feel real.
  
  Now with the only complaints I have with the game. While the single player was amazing.... it was 
 a tad to short. Im glad they focused on single player.... but the game was totally open to a good 
 online multilayer. With the Island setting, all the weapons, and the graphics.... if they did it 
 right... it would have kept me from selling after I beat it. Sure, it has loads of unlock ables... but 
 im not interested in those, they dont add on once you have already beaten the game. The other complaint... the 
 game ends... when I saw the credits... I was so happy that they ended it right, like a movie would, 
 but I was so upset that it actually ended.
  
  Overall... the game is a blast, you will never be bored playing the game... and you wont want to 
 put the controller down. Unfortunately... I cant tell you to buy the game... if you have the time 
 to rent and spend 8-10 hours to beat it... go for it... because if you own a ps3... this is the game 
 to play. If it was a movie, it would be one of my favorites, but thank God its a game, so I can 
 actually play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xterra182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Many games like this one fail at keeping you hooked to your gaming system. Uncharted: Drakes Fortune 
 serves its purpose and keeps you in suspense to find out what happens next. The graphics in this 
 game are top notch and squeeze out a lot of the PS3's potential. The game feels just right even 
 though in some parts the battles and puzzle completion get very frustrating. The story is absolutely 
 brilliant and the cut scenes are the best I have seen on the PS3. Drake's animations are incredible 
 and look very realistic. The sound in this game is impeccable and the music fits perfectly with 
 the game. The voice acting is brilliant too. You feel like your actually a part of the fortune 
 hunter's team. In a final thought, this game comes out as one of the best games for the PS3 fin 
 2007. The graphics, story, and sound all combine to make this just a great game for the Playstation 
 3's library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  If you remeber playing Crash Bandicoot on PS1 or Jak and Daxter on PS2, Naughty Dog have once again 
 made anathor enjoyable games for the PS3. Uncharted Drake's Fortune is a look alike version of 
 Tomb Raider mixed with Resident Evil 4, Prince of Persia's wall climbing and old Spanish history. 
 Nathan Drake is looking for a 400 year clue in Sir Francis Drake's coffin set in modern-day life 
 looking for the lost treasure of El Dorado stranded on a forgotten island in Spain in the middle 
 of the Pacific Ocean, Nathan's search turns out danerous where there are mercenaries who are also 
 looking for the lost treasure and hunting Drake down where your out gunned and out numbered and 
 Nathan has to fight his way through with his companions Elena who is in a popular survial reality 
 TV show, she's mostly upsessed with her TV camera so that she can put on her show and your other 
 friend Sullivan who's Nathan's business partner and one-time mentor who's just into money and treasure.
 
  
  Gameplay is really great you are climbing, shooting enemies behind buildings for cover and brutal 
 punches to knock them out its reminds you of the Indiana Jones eries back in the 80's there are 
 many puzzles to solve but most of your answers are in this old book that Nathan's got with him. 
 Graphics are really done well I could stop playing it I didn't finish this game til 3 am in the 
 mourning becuase the game was defenitly Revolutionary for a PS3 game you could wow when your at 
 a great view of a sunset when your in the mountins. Brillient sound effects that makes you feel 
 like your in an action movie with HDMI graphics and great voicing from most of the charcters and 
 alot of Spanish history that you will see in the game.
  
  I always like playing games from Naughty Dog but Uncharted is one game that we'll see again sooner 
 or later. Finally somthing worth playing on your PS3 now instead of waiting for Metal Gear Solid 
 4 or somthing big Uncharted will keep you busy for a while really worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humblumi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have to admit I'm not into this kind of game, I really don't like platforms and 
 I'm not into this jungle games. I have to admit though, that I loved it. The story is a bunch of 
 cliches, like an indiana jones movies, and besides I don't like commercial movies (with cliches) , 
 I liked to play a game which reminds of unpretentious movies I watched during the early 80's.
 
  
  About the gameplay, it's fantastic, I like the way they change from the gameplay to non-interactive 
 parts, it goes straight without loading. The shooting parts sometimes get a little boring, with 
 hundreds of enemies coming in your direction... but I think this is the only bad aspect of the 
 game. I really believe it's worth buying, I bought with Heavenly sword and Oblivion, but this is 
 the game I liked best. (between this 3) .
  
  It's not something revolutionary, but it's what is supposed to be... fun to play, with wonderful 
 graphics
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: High_Roller82
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Great game overall. If you like shooters and adventure type games then this is the game for you. 
 They even throw in some creepy and sometimes scary enviornments for all of you thrill-seekers.
 
  
  Frustrating parts on higher difficulties cause loss of motivation. (people will surround you causing 
 bullets flying at you from all directions = death) One shot deaths can piss you off but at least 
 the game is challenging and not a breeze.
  
  the graphics id give 10/10. Facial expressions and acting are incredible. Textures and Shaders 
 are done well on all enviornment surfaces. The acting can cause a chuckle or even a laugh out of 
 you (not becuase it's bad, just becuase it is actually somewhat funny) .
  
  The characters in this game are very lifelike as well. They all seem to be normal (ish) people and 
 not just a huge a$$ dude that is ripped with a huge gun, and a deep 5 O'clock shadow (Although 
 Drake has one :P) like in most games.
  
  I personally believe the story line is phenomenal. A little dragged out but a game gives as much 
 fun as it is long, right? The jungles, ruins, caves, waterfalls, lakes, underground catacombs, 
 tombs, broken down buildings and much more are fantastic looking and are very fun to play in/on
 
  
  9/10 for this game and is a must buy for the ps3. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game on the normal setting, and it says I did so in 12 hours and I collected 
 51 of the 60 treasures. I had a great time playing this game. The challenge level for me was perfect, 
 and they kept the frustration level low with a series of well placed check points.
  
  The graphics, and the sound, and the music really were some of the best I've seen. I loved all 
 the interaction between the characters too.
  
  I usually like a good 10 hour game, but this was one game I wish was a little longer. The bonus 
 artwork show a couple scenes that may have been cut, it is too bad there wasn't more. I was just 
 totally sucked into the gameplay and the story. And while the story didn't really make too much 
 sense to me, I had a fun time going through the action involved.
  
  In summary, I can highly recommend this game. You won't be disappointed.. until it's over and you 
 are wanting more.... hopefully a sequel someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calabroj
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  My Xbox broke and I was fed up with Microsoft so I made the console switch. Picked up this game 
 as it had good reviews. Its basically like playing the movie National Treasure mashed up with Indiana 
 Jones. Very fun puzzle solving. Reminds me of the old Lucas Arts Indiana Jones game. Play it on 
 hard setting. Gunfights are great. Graphics insane. The moves the main character make are a bit 
 too Spidey like sometimes but its kind of fun to watch him jump around alot. Also includes a neat 
 making of video on the disk that is really cool. The story is basically a treasure hunt. Good acting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  uncharted is the best game i have played for the PS3 the gameing is good and the 3rd person shooting 
 is kool the game play is good but wat surprised me was the zombies and u teaming up with Eddy kill 
 the zombies and then him dieing the beggining was good but the enimeis were very easy and not theat 
 hard but when u get to the zombies it got a lot harder most of the weapens are kool but my favorite 
 just was to bee the wes revolver my least favorite gun just must has to bee is prboley the 9mm 
 handgun at the beggining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seancamp90
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  Arguably the best game available for play station 3 at the present time. Exciting firefights follow 
 throughout the game after what it seemed to be a never ending introductory exploration level to 
 start the game. AI isn't perfect as they seem to take an unbelievable amount of bullets before 
 they die. They will also flank you at given opportunities but sometimes decide to just stand there 
 while you have a clear shot of them after they decide to come out of cover, rather than finding 
 another position. The game makes use of its Tomb Raider style of play, and makes it fun, but given 
 the size of Nathan (small, skinny white boy) , the main character, some crazy acrobatic jumps make 
 it a little unbelievable. Hailed as the graphics king of consoles so far, its incredible visuals 
 make the game that much better. Beautiful design of trees in the jungle to exceptional detailing 
 of walls and rocks inside underground ruin proves that. Hype surrounding this game were well deserved 
 as it lived up to it, if not exceeding it. A definite must have for play station owners. All around 
 Uncharted is a really great game, not an instant classic but good enough to make you spend hours 
 enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud216
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an interesting game that is a mix between Gears of War and Tomb Raider. 
 This has been done before with the Ratchet and Clank series, but this is another addition to this 
 genre.
  
  The game starts off with you being Nathan Drake, a descendant of Sir Francis Drake. Nathan is trying 
 to find a treasure that Sir Francis Drake was trying to find. Of course this doesn't run as smoothly 
 as planned and you are soon attacked by pirates. This story is most like a summer movie, full of 
 action adventure, comedy horror, love, etc. While the story can be cheesy at times, it's enjoyable 
 and keeps you interested.
  
  The gameplay is split into two parts. Shooting, and platforming. Both with there pros and cons, 
 however, both are completely separated in the game, there are very few instances where you will 
 be shooting and jumping from platform to platform. The shooting part is pretty fun with the usual 
 variety of weapons like pistols, shotguns, machine guns, sniper rifles, and grenade launchers. 
 However a lot of times you will find yourself swearing at the screen when you face 15-20 enemies 
 in one battle only to be blind-sided by a grenade from a grenade launcher and killed instantly 
 causing you to start the battle over again. Like Gears of War you need to take cover if you want 
 to survive any battles. You don't have a health meter, but your screen will turn grayer as you 
 take damage. Once the screen starts to get blurry, you need to find cover and fast. You also have 
 a context sensitive melee attack where you do some pretty fancy moves to take down your enemies 
 and are fun to do. Unfortunatly, you are rarely able to get close enough to an enemy without getting 
 gunned down.
  
  The platforming is sort've that of Tomb Raider where you will do all kinds of things, from jumping 
 from platform to platform, climbing ledges, and swinging from ropes and vines. While the platform 
 is fun overall, you will probably be disappointed at how easy it is. You just don't need to do 
 much in order to proceed and it's more of a challenge just to find a ledge to where you are able 
 to hold on. But with these complaints aside it is fun acting like Indiana Jones.
  
  The graphics in this game are top-notch, showing of the Playstation 3's graphical power. The environment 
 is beautiful the characters faces and animations are photo-realistic and you would swear that you 
 were actually in the jungle. This is one of the most gorgeous games you will ever find on any platform 
 period. This game pushed the graphics far beyond other games. For example, it's common now for 
 games to show their characters wet when they get in water, but when you take Drake into the water 
 at ankles length, then you are wet at ankles length, exactly at the point you were in the water. 
 
  
  The sound is also top notch. The guns sound as they should be, and the music is engrossing always 
 fitting the scene in the game. But the voice-acting really takes the cake, where the actors really 
 fit the personas of the characters and never act bored or dull.
  
  This game should take you around 8-12 hours to beat so it is a size able adventure, however this 
 game does not have any online features which really takes away the replay value. Also this really 
 isn't one of those games where you will want to play through the story again, I would recommend 
 renting this game before you buy it.
  
  Overall this a solid title with a good amount of action and adventure with a great hollywood move 
 style story, and a beautiful environment. And a great exclusive which the Playstation 3 needs. 
 I recommend anyone who has a taste for adventure, and likes Indiana Jones to at least try this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This is finally a ps3 game that shows off how good the ps3 is... not that it already wasn't. It 
 just shows the ps3 is more capeable than the 360 in terms of graphics and detail.
  
  As I said the graphic are unbelivebly gorgous. Everything reacts to Drake from the leaves moving 
 when you walk into them to him actually getting wet from coming out of the water. The character 
 modles look realistic and the explosions are beautiful.
  
  The sound design is great but not as good as the graphics the explosions are sweet and sound great. 
 Gun fire could use touching up but barely noticeable. Voice acting is spot on and sound how they 
 look.
  
  The gameplay is like gears of war meets tomb Radier a great combo. It is easy to get used to the 
 controls and the animations are great. The A. I. is surprisingly amazing reacting to everything 
 and anything.
  
  Uncharted is a must buy for the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Well you play as Nathan an treasure hunter, you went to an Island too search for gold and you ended 
 up with bad people who wanted you to be killed. You will explore many unforgettable places that 
 you will be searching for your way out. Well I decided too rented Uncharted: Drake's Fortune I 
 really enjoy this game a lot, this game has a lot of action none stop adventure. The storyline 
 is wonderful, voice acting is really great, the characters look so real even the background looks 
 real. You feel like you were in this game, it's real funny as well. Even the music is good as well, 
 the enemies are easy to beat. The weapons are easy to get and all the weapons are good in there 
 own way. This game is real fast and you feel like you were in this game searching for treasure. 
 You will unlock certain items through out the game, earn points for certain head-shots, kills and 
 a lot more. Sometimes the controls can be shaky, when you have to do some puzzle like jumping across 
 certain area it difficult to see or hard to get over to one area. But everything else is really 
 great game. This game is really unique, this game is really different from other games that I have 
 play. For people who not sure too get this game I will recommend you this game. I really enjoy 
 this game a lot and you should too. This game should be in your collection as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the latest game from famed developer, Naughty Dog. The team behind 
 Crash Bandicoot and Jak & Daxter.
  
  Story (7.5) :
  
  In Uncharted you play Nathan Drake, an explorer searching for the lost treasure of El Dorado. Drake 
 is descended from England's Sir Francis Drake and during the game you follow in his footsteps through 
 South America trying to find the treasure.
  
  The story does a good job of driving the gameplay but it gets extremely convoluted towards the 
 end. Despite this it remains entertaining, but you'll probably find yourself saying "what?" more 
 than once before you're finished.
  
  Graphics and sound (9.5) :
  
  Graphically this game is far and away the best the PlayStation 3 has to offer and one of the first 
 to look as if it couldn't be done on the Xbox 360. The quality of the character models is near 
 photo-realistic and the environmental graphics are equally impressive. All of these factors, coupled 
 with the vast draw distance, create a sense of realism which very few other games have achieved.
 
  
  The graphics do have some problems though. Playing in 1080p resolution you can see some noticable 
 issues, the main one being inconsistent reflections. There is also some texture popping on occasions, 
 but the overall visual quality is so high that these issues can be forgiven.
  
  Uncharted takes place primarily in a jungle environment so sound design is of huge importance in 
 maintaining realism. Naughty Dog have done a great job in this area with superb sound effects. 
 On top of this the game features some of the best voice-acting ever recorded for a video game and 
 a perfect musical score.
  
  Gameplay (9.0) :
  
  Uncharted plays very similarly to two other games. In its platforming sections its very comparable 
 to Tomb Raider: Legend. The moves available to Drake are almost exactly the same as Lara's but 
 the platforming moves at a much faster pace in Uncharted. This not only makes it look more spectacular, 
 but also creates a greater amount of tension as you make fast, instinctive decisions.
  
  Then there's the gunplay, which feels very like Gears of War. Uncharted uses a cover system which 
 functions the same way as in Epic's sci-fi shooter. Its much slower paced than the platforming, 
 which breaks up the gameplay well, but anybody who's already played Gears may find it a bit lack-lustre. 
 The hand-to-hand combat is interesting but there's only one button combo.
  
  Finally, there are some vehicle sections in the game. One is on-rails using a mounted machine gun 
 on a jeep, which does exactly what it says on the tin. The other is on a jet-ski going up-river 
 through rapids, which is much more original and pretty spectacular as well.
  
  Overall (9.5) :
  
  Uncharted is the best kept secret of 2007. Its the most impressive of the 
 PS3 exclusives released so far and really demonstrates the system's power. It has an enjoyable 
 story backed up my some brilliantly poised gameplay and spectacular visual presentation.
  
  For me, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the undisputed game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkalactomo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Is this the game you should buy??
  The answer is more than simple . . . YES!
  You will get everything bundled in this game that is needed for great fun and
  something that 
 will make you feel good . . .
  This game provides us unbelievable graphics, voice acting, animations, and
  much more.
  If 
 you like adventures full of intense action, something in the style of the Indiana Jones ,legendary 
 tomb raider, if you have a soul of the explorer, if mythic locations full of dream-like pictures 
 wake in you feeling of the something
  indescribable ... nice... then there is no time to lose my friend...
  give yourself a relief and 
 grant yourself for this Christmas and new year
  a more than pleasant gift.
  I would give it 10 out of 10 . . . but 9.5 is given because, as said,
  game has everything needed, only 
 the logic puzzles could be more striving and with that game would gain on some hours of game-play.
 
  That's all... one final word MUST HAVE (two words ;) ) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog's Uncharted Drake's Fortune is PS3 game of the year. Like everyone is says its almost 
 as if Indiana Jones slept with Gears of War and Prince of Persia. The game looks, feels, plays 
 all very well. Though it is not a epic or revoulutionary game, it is a an achievement and will 
 be ps3's best for sometime to come. The game gives of that movie feeling with gorgeous cut scenes, 
 appealing and believable personalties, and an awesome story. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Campaign: These days its hard to find single player oriented games, with all the shooters and online 
 games out. And its even harder to find one on the PS3 with only one year since its launch but this 
 is definitley a quality game. Nathan Drake aka Nate is a handsome, charimatic, enthusiastic treasure 
 hunter. He with his friends Sully and Ellen find his ancestors diary which tells of a golden statue 
 on an island. During there disocovery a group of business men who Sully owed kill him while Drake 
 escapes. Now with the map and Ellen a camera woman looking for a story go on a hunt for the golden 
 statue on this mysterious island facing of aganist pirates and having an adventure. The games story 
 is solid and with the movie like, suspensful cut scenes give it more of a blockbuster flick attributes. 
 The cut scenes sometimes also feature (similar to Resident Evil 4) interactivity, for example in 
 a scene where Drake is running on a ledge and suddenly it breaks you have to keep hit X to get 
 him to jump to the other one. The personalties are great too, every character is believable and 
 likeable. Nathan Drake will always be giving a humorous comment in the middle of a dangerous situation, 
 or Ellen's sense of adventure or Eddy Raja as the hot headed bad guy. The game features many guns 
 from Ak-47's to M4's to Shotguns. Each one has different strengths, accuracy and range. There are 
 also grenades and you may happen to fall upon a machine gun once in while. The AI is great too, 
 the shotguns carrier knows that he can take Drake out so he moves to his position, the other pirates 
 know they cant be just shooting Drake for him to come out, if you take to long they'll throw a 
 grenade at you. They will eventually be moving from one place to the other and if you get to close 
 they'll try to melee you and start moving back to take you out with a gun. There are some sequences 
 where you will be using a jeep and jet ski's. These parts are rare and very well implemented. With 
 different kind of enemies coming at you. There are moments you will be feeling like that you are 
 moving from a firefight to a jump and climb and than back to a firefight sequences but the story, 
 the cutscenes and new ways to kill enemies will keep you engrossed. As mentioned in the gametrailers 
 review, the cover system was invented by Killswitch, perfected by Gears of War and revisisted by 
 Uncharted and its been done very well if I may add. Pressing circle next to any wall or cover will 
 get you aganist the shelter, than you can pop out, aim and shoot, or you can just do some blind 
 fire to scare the enemies. If the enemy gets in close quarters than brute force must be used thats 
 where th sytlish combos come in, by pressing certain buttons you can pull of different combos taking 
 out the enemy. But these should only be used when theres only one enemy or maximum of two or else 
 you'll be gun down by the other enemies. Grenades can be pointed to a place by the sixaxis and 
 thrown by the firebutton, adds that extra tense situation to the game. The sixaxis is also used 
 when you are going across logs crossing from one ledge to the other. The realism in the game is 
 very impressive, you come out of a dark cave into the sunlight it takes sometime for your screen 
 to adjust to the sun, when a grenade launcher shoots near you, the sound of the game temporarily 
 goes of to add that extra realism to the game. Small medals, treasures and awards can be unlocked 
 during the duration of the game, but thats not the reason you may play the game again just to get 
 all the treasures but you may want to enjoy the game on a harder level and have that experience 
 again. The only complaint I have of the campaign or the game is that there are a moment or two 
 where you may feel like going from firefight to climb but it quickly goes away. All in all the 
 campaign feels complete and enjoyable. 
  
  VISUALS/GRAPHICS
  
  Yes, they are very impressive indeed. The envoirments have been created to utmost detail, the jungle 
 areas really look and give of the sense of moisture, the trees may be swaying, the sunglight might 
 be breaking through the leaves, the water may be trickling down the rocks. The water looks very 
 realistic as well, during your swims or jet ski sequence your clothes will get wet giving of that 
 wet shine and dark color when your soaked. While your adventure you will come upon ruins, they 
 have very vivid texture and moss growing on it giving of that old destroyed architecture. The only 
 con maybe about the visuals is that sometimes when you get to close to Drake with the camera, the 
 screen blurs but it isn't annoying or a nuisance just a spec of dust on a beautiful painting. 
 
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS
  
  All in all, Uncharted Drake's Fortune is a fun, action packed, adventurous, humorous and blockbuster 
 flick experience. The characters have great personalities, the chase sequences are very well implemented, 
 the cut scenes are gorgeous and the gameplay is near perfect. All this making Uncharted Drake's 
 Fortune PS3 Game of the Year. I recommed this to every ps3 owner and 360, wii owners cause this 
 game is a great experience that should not be missed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornymushroom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  uncharted is a game developed by naughty dog and is one of the best games ever. The charectors 
 are amazing a lovable with different personalities and humorous lines. The action is rock solid 
 and is similair to gears of war and resident evil. The platforming can as gamespot said to forgiving 
 because all your doing is pressing x repeatedly or jumping to a ledge from any angle. The game 
 is intended to be started on hard and even that is kind of easy and is about 8 hours long on hard 
 and maybe 6 on easy. The game has puzzles but those take about maybe 2 to 5 minutes to understand 
 and finish. 8 hours may not seem like a long time but there is tons of replay value like you unlock 
 a new difficulty setting and new skins.
  The graphics are state of the art and are full of detail like plants sway as you move past the 
 and when you go into water you come out looking wet.
  This game a good example of a next gen game and is a must buy to anyone you like action and adventure 
 and some romance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune sets out to do so many things. For a company like Naughty Dog, this interesting 
 departure from their Crash Bandicoot and Jak and Daxter series was a skeptical title for me. Fortunately 
 for PS3 owners, this iteration holds the same strong gameplay and storytelling that has made Naughty 
 Dog a top developer.
  
  The game is huge in scope. Your adventure will stretch far and wide, though through a lush jungle 
 landscape. Think of the scope of some of the Pirates of the Carribean stories or Indiana Jones 
 movies. It surely is a great way to enjoy your videogame experience and everything is lushly detailed. 
 The graphics are simply amazing, walk into water waist deep and you will see the water makes your 
 hero Nathan Drakes clothes become wet up to his waist. These details and the incredible looking 
 water make Drakes a gorgeous showcase for your PS3.
  
  The story is a mature action adventure, straight from a movie like Indiana Jones or National Treasure. 
 I have to admit playing as Nathan Drake is a much more enjoyable experience than pointing Cage 
 and his raspy horrible voice through an adventure. The voice acting is great and the cinematic 
 sequences are all in game using motion capturing. Just like the rest of the game, the animation 
 is absolutely flawless.
  
  The controls in Drakes fortune are a breeze to get accustomed to. Jumping from ledge to ledge can 
 usually be achieved with little difficulty. The aiming is done in an over the shoulder view ala 
 Resident Evil 4 and generally works okay. It did seem rather clunky to me and the switching shoulders 
 sounds good but generally is not as fluid as I would have liked. The cover system works similar 
 to Gears of War and allows a duck and cover approach to combat. Generally however Drakes Fortune 
 is a game that has controls I would consider clunky. I suppose I was used to the ultra fluid Call 
 of Duty 4 controls and seemed just a bit washed in this game.
  
  Overall Drakes delivers a great action adventure with stunning visuals, sickeningly real animation 
 and superb storytelling. Its only drawback is the slightly clunky control system. I personally 
 rented the game and beat it in the week I had it. I do not like to spend $60 on games that offer 
 little replay value unless it is something like God of War or Metal Gear. While I beat it in that 
 time period, it is a lengthy adventure, 15-20 hours, and well worth it if single player games are 
 your bag.
  
  It is unfortunate that the controls in Drakes simply were not tighter. With some minor tweaking 
 I feel the game could have been an all time great. And it comes extremely close, but the cumbersome 
 controls hold it back. Download the demo and if you like it you are in for one adventure you won't 
 soon forget. It is worth the purchase if you are into single player games and want an unforgettable 
 adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ad-2cool4u
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fourtune is truely an amazing game, but we have to start somewhere and that will 
 be with the plot: You are Nathan (or Nate) Drake, and your ancestor is the great Sir Francis Drake. 
 Sir Francis Drake had supossedly found a great treasure, and you, Nathan, have found his Coffin... but 
 its empty, except for his diary. This Diary helps you quite a bit with your search for the great 
 treasure Francis had found. You end up going to an island, where you find out that you are looking 
 for El Darado, aka, The Golden Man, or a giant statue of PURE GOLD shaped like a man. The story 
 is very engaging and changes near the end from a search to a survival game, and ill let you find 
 out about that for yourself. But be warned it took me 7 hours on easy, kinda short, and i wasnt 
 playing it obsessivly, but I cant say i didnt want to, hehe...
  
  Now the Graphics, honestly, are the best I've seen to date. If Drake rolls in water, he'll look 
 wet, and it'll take him a little while before he doesnt have the wet look any more, or he dries 
 off, whatever you want to call it. The animations of the characters ingame are stunningly realistic; 
 When Drake is just running he'll jog like hes been running for hours (which he has hehe...) but 
 when hes running AND getting shot at he sprints with his head down. Then when a bullet comes too 
 close he puts his hands over his head and runs a little faster, and sometimes says the occational 
 curse. Dont even get me started with the Facial Expressions and Animations in the cutscenes. They 
 are the most realistic i have seen in my life, it looks amazingly real, I honestly dont even want 
 to know what Naughty Dog went though to be able to make it look like that. 
  
  The Gameplay on the other hand has some flaws, such as how 3 shots from the pistol you start with 
 will take down an enemy (at the beginning of the game mind you) and it takes an entire clip sometimes 
 from an AK-47 to take down an enemy at the beginning of the game, and that can be a real piss-off. 
 Another flaw is that the Aimer stays white the entire time, when you aim at en enemy it wont turn 
 red, and sometimes when i was trying to pick off an enemy, i would just barely miss his head because 
 of that. Other than those flaws, I CANT GET ENOUGH OF THE GAME PLAY HERE. I honestly crave an online 
 part for this game. But again there where only 3 vehicle Sequences, one with a Jeep that had a 
 turret (the greatest one) and 2 Skidoo ones, which were very hard, mostly because you had to drive 
 and shoot, and could only do one at a time, a major design flaw in my opinion. Plus they were just 
 plain out frustrating. Along with some very hard enemys and situations makes this game quite hard 
 and frustrating sometimes, but once you've beat the game, it is oh so sweet.
  
  And lastly, the Value, one of the biggest questions. The story is short, but i imagine that played 
 on the hardest difficulty will make it last so much longer, most likely 20 ot 25 hours long, even 
 longer if you tried to find all of the 60 Treasures along the way. I think I got about 16 and i 
 even found those hard to find. Then itll problably last about 25 to 30 hours, most likely somewhere 
 in between those two figures. Then along with that there are little achivements, very much like 
 the ones on the 360, such as 10 headshots, 30 head shots, 100 head shots, 10 enemys killed with 
 the AK-47, 30 enemys killed with the AK-47, 100 enemys Killed with the AK-47, 10 treasures found, 
 and so on. By the way i got the 100 headshots award :D: P when you try to get all of these things 
 the game should last 50 hours or more, making its value very high in the end, but again i only 
 played though the story once, and that was very satisfying, and i just rented it.
  
  All in all, i have to give Uncharted: Drakes Fourtune 9.0, do not belive the gamespot reviewers, 
 they didnt know what the hell their takling about when they gave this game an 8.0. If your a person 
 that will take the time to beat a game 100% then this game will last you so long, along with gameplay 
 that makes you want to play it all night and into the morning, and a story that really sucks you 
 in, Uncharted: Drakes Fourtune is a game no one should miss.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacUser511
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Let me just start out with a preface to my review, and a background to my interests. I've never 
 been a fan of Naughty Dog. Crash Bandicoot became boring and stale after the first game and Jak 
 was always a bit too loose in controls, not to mention I had no interest in the game because the 
 characters were not engaging beyond Daxter. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is completely different. 
 I mean radically different. Sure it's a platformer, but it's also that "summer blockbuster" you've 
 been waiting for, never-mind it was released in fall... but I digress.
  Uncharted is an incredible game. The immersion is so intense that I never knew when a new "level" 
 was beginning, or when the last had ended. There's no "Autosaving..." message displayed in your 
 upper right corner of the screen. In fact, the only thing on the HUD is your current weapon and 
 its ammo count. You don't pause to select weapons nor to perform any action -- everything is real-time, 
 including all the animations, which are amazing. 
  The game itself is like a cross between Gears of War and Prince of Persia, only it takes all of 
 the bad combat of POP, throws in guns, takes out swords, and jams in the cover system of Gears. 
 Run up the sides of massive building, climb on ledges, avoid danger, then shoot up some pirates. 
 It's not a ton on paper, but when you begin to play, dear mother of donuts it's sweet. Not to mention 
 that you receive "achievements" for doing specific things that unlock costumes and character models 
 as well as cheats, movies, concept art, and more. It presents definite replay value on top of the 
 incentive to just play it a hundreds times over.
  Graphics. I am a graphics-whore. I bought a Wii and thought that it would be sufficient. Incorrect. 
 The Wii overall has better games in many respects -- Mario Galaxy, Prime 3, Smash Bros Brawl, Wario 
 Ware, Trauma Center, Twilight Princess -- but they lack, despite all of those titles' superb art 
 directions, the immersion of the PS3's raw graphics horsepower. Simply put, when I'm in a dungeon 
 in Zelda, I recognize and praise its incredible art, but I can't get past the awful texturing and 
 low definition. Uncharted, luckily, has both an amazing art-direction and superlative graphics 
 -- probably the best on any current-gen console. Facial features are amazing, water is breathtaking, 
 and the vistas, due to HDR lighting and blooming, are just awe-inspiring. You will stop to admire 
 the graphics more than once.
  The difficulty is hard to describe. On normal it will take you at least 10 hours flat. On hard, 
 thirteen to fifteen, and on the unlockable difficulty, somewhere around 20-30, if you don't get 
 frustrated and destroy your PS3 (please don't) . 
  My only -- only -- qualm with Uncharted is the length! I really want this game to last twenty hours, 
 and not because it's hard. I just want to get to know the world and its characters more. One more 
 thing: BUY UNCHARTED. If you got nothing else from this review, then understand that this game 
 is a, as much as I hate to say it, "must-buy". There is no excuse for not playing Uncharted, and 
 let me plant in you seeds of an incredible twist in gameplay in the last three hours (on normal) . 
 
  Conclusion: buy Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, yell at Naughty Dog for the lack of Multiplayer and 
 comparatively short length, and then tell your friends to come over and watch (you probably won't 
 let them play) the most cinematic, action-packed, platforming, and entertaining game of the PS3's 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_2k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is an amazing work of art. The production value is through the roof. 
 Uncharted will drop you draw multiple times per chapter, all 22 of them. The game play in my opinion 
 is very smooth and well done. The environments are so beautiful to look at that you can sometimes 
 get distracted from the main course. Which the game does a good job in showing you the way that 
 you're supposed to go. My only complain is that the enemies in the are kind of super human. They 
 will not go down easily, like you will have to unload an entire clip sometimes in order to bring 
 them down. To sum it all up, the graphics are absolutely amazing; the game play is very addicting 
 and smooth, the game goes have its difficult spots but its nothing that is out of this world difficulty. 
 So my final opinion is, a great game, which is very addicting, and the first really must have game 
 for the system, outside of Resistance: Fall of Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blancobo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted delivers beautiful environments, solid game play, combined with very detailed graphics, 
 beautiful colors , nice cinematics and great sound. Altogether, from the moment the game starts, 
 the player is inmersed in a world of adventure, intrigue and great coloring. The game's tutorial 
 involves the player into the shooting and fighting system, and basically you learn 50% of what 
 needs to be learned in an instant. Overall the game experience is generous in it's coloring, cinematics 
 to game combination, sound and gameplay style.
  Uncharted is far much more than a "Pitfall" mutation... In that train of thought, let me just say 
 that GS is a little biased towards other game systems hence the poor reference... If the reviewer 
 has not really played many games the comparison will fall short. 
  Much more than that! Uncharted is a combination of Max Payne shooting style (I played and completed 
 Max Payne) , fighting combo style (sort of Prince of Persia WW and TTT) , and the puzzle of PoP, 
 and the acrobatics style of PoP as well. On the cinematics, the quality is very close to a Metal 
 Gear style cinematics.
  So where does the game fall short?
  
  The puzzle system is way to simple when comparing to the typical Prince of Persia, and God of War 
 puzzle. Uncharted could have also HAD many more puzzles to solve. The game spends possibly 90% 
 of the time in a Max Paynesque shooting style, while the puzzle, given away by Drake's diary are 
 close to trivial.
  Next gen puzzle shhould be about having so much experience from previous games, that it should 
 not fall for being too simple.
  
  The ledges and other environments where some of the acrobatics take place are a little hard to 
 distinguish, hence there is a little trial an error (which i do not like) to move forward. Other 
 than that, once the player gets accustomed to the environments, the game sections including acrobatics 
 are almost perfect (I did not find a good tutorial for these section of the game hence my other 
 50 % of tutorials which was a bit lacking)
  
  On the weapons, the grabbing/using of weapons is close to perfect, while the aiming system is very 
 well tuned, the part where the game could have been better, was if the player would have been able 
 to carry more than two weapons at a time (the player can carry one type of hand gun at a time, 
 one type of rifle-shifting from shotgun to Spaz to machine gun, and 4 grenades) .
  
  the Sixaxis motion system could have been used a little more... it was indeed used for grenade 
 throw length adjustment, some bridge crossing balancing and fighting with Spaniards (this is a 
 surprise if you have not played the game) .
  
  On overall game lenght, well I am never satisfied, and Uncharted felt short... the game conclusion 
 was easily solved in a couple of attempts and there could have been a little more.
  
  Cool game additions like Jet Sky sailing or even as a passenger, and car driving made the game 
 varied. None the less, these are some elements that should be more exploited into a future installment 
 of the game.
  
  All in all, Uncharted is a MUST buy, the game has a lot to offer and gamers will not be dissapointed 
 in Naughty Dog's final product. Once you start playing the game, you will not want to let it go 
 until youo are done... I basically played it from 12 am to 3 pm! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  It is a increditable game of the year for all PS3 game. I have compleled the game twice. Also i 
 have unlock all the hidden videos, without using hints and cheats.
  
  The graphic design are great and all the shooting and taking down of enemies are facinating. Especially 
 when the enemies have all kinds of weapon against one man, ie : M9, Turret, M4, shot guns, etc...
 
  
  But one bad point about this game, ammo for M9 is too little and cannot afford to waste it like 
 AK-47 and M4.
  
  Other than that, Unchartered : Drakes's Fortune is a great game.
  
  And i hope the producer of this game is already to make a second game of Unchartered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csadhoo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Naughty Dog returns with a new franchise, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. This game is an amazing experience 
 just like Jak 2 or Crash BAndicoot 2 or 3. The game has beautiful graphics, intense action, quick 
 thinking, puzzles very good music score and alot more. The game is pretty difficult which is a 
 very good thing. I can see a series of Uncharted games coming in the distant future. The controls 
 in this game are fluid and are very responsive. The camera is very good, no problems at all. The 
 story isnt very shallow, it keeps the gamer on the edge of his or her seat. Some points in the 
 game are based on stealth which is a nice change of pace from the action. With many games out on 
 the PS3, Uncharted has surpassed all of the other games with playability, story, graphics, and 
 secrets. This is a must have game for every PS3 owner ,go and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game for my website ps3vids. com and hoped for the best. I wanted this PS3 exclusive 
 to be a great game. 
  
  Lord knows Playstation needed it to be. 
  
  It is. 
  
  Think Indiana Jones meets Tomb Raider. It's a beautiful game that takes time to develop a story 
 and give you a series of challenges. You will scale walls, shoot bad guys, work puzzles, find treasures 
 and maybe, just maybe, get the girl.
  
  The story is helped along with awesome movie scenes that don't bog the game down. The only flaw, 
 in my opinion, is the ending. That is where the game play goes from new to old. But the pay off 
 is good enough to play shoot and cover with the bad guy.
  
  There is also no multi-player game, which does leave you wanting. It would be easy enough to have 
 an online component where good guys and bad guys go for treasure or just kill each other.
  
  None of that matter while you playing. So grab the game and head for the treasure.
  
  PS3 
 owners should have this game in their library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Uncharted does everything right, great action, guns, AI, etc. it has excellent graphics, a decent 
 storyline and enough replay value to play it atleast two times through. The only real problem is 
 that it doesnt do anything most gamers havent seen before, there is really nothing truly new or 
 innovative. Whether or not that is a bad thing will depend on what you're looking for, however 
 if you're looking to have an enjoyable single player experience that you wont soon forget you cant 
 go wrong with uncharted. Its easily the best ps3 exclusive this year and not a game that you will 
 find any real fault in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpt_caven
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the Demo, I though, WOW this is going to be awesome. And it is. From start 
 to finish the game creates a realistic beautifly rich world with amazing graphics and animations. 
 The game is simply stunning. It's a good thing to be a PS3 owner, and it's very encouraging to 
 see some exclusive games coiming out, this being the best so far. The gun fights in this game are 
 awesome, the cover system works perectly, being less sticky than that of gears of war . I'd say 
 it's just inbetween GOW and R6 LV. The shooting isnt the best ever, but it's very good for a 3rd 
 person game, expecially since shooting is not all you do. Jumping and climbing adds platforming 
 elements true to the developers roots, making this game awesome! It's not just a renter though, 
 Ive found great pleasure in reliving some of the best moments and plan on going through it again 
 with the time off during the holidays. As Tommy T from reviews on the run, I give it a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to the day i bought this game, now that i have it, i gotta say, Money Well 
 Spent.
  From sleek Animations to an intriguing story, Drakes Fortune delivers in all fronts.
  The action 
 is great, taking cover while blind firing is just plain fun. Nates actions during fighting range 
 from flinching when bullets hit his cover, to saying things like "Oh Crap" when a grenade lands 
 near him. Speaking of Animation, everything is so smooth, it looks like a movie. Cut scenes use 
 the same graphics as the gameplay, so this gives you a bit of an idea.
  The Graphics are absolutely B-E-Autiful. The trees, the grass, the water, all look great. You won't 
 get tired of making Nate wet just to see his clothes turn from white to grey in a realistic manner.
 
  The Gameplay could use a bit of tweaking, the questionable gun play is a bit scetchy and not too 
 realistic like, but the hand to hand is enjoyable. The game will tend to get hard by sending loads 
 of bad guys at you, and the problem here, is that they tend to outflank you or you run out of ammo 
 and have to run in and beat the living crap out of a guy to get ammo, while being shot. Voice acting 
 is top notch as well, and it actually makes you feel the emotion of the characters. Go get this 
 game now, because it will keep you hooked until the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LionHearted207
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  The single-player is about 10 hours long on easy, which isn't bad. And that's assuming you don't 
 lose and restart. You can easily spend an upwards of 15 hours through the story mode, but there's 
 also a lot of treasures, medals, and rewards to find. I'd definitely say this is a worthwhile adventure 
 to embark on, certainly worth the coin.
  
  By now, you should know that Uncharted is probably one of the best looking games of the generation, 
 thus far. It's a proper example of what we've expected out of the "next-generation" consoles. For 
 starters, it boasts that signature Naughty Dog tropical color palette. The greens are absurdly 
 lush, and help present one of the prettiest pictures a videogame has ever seen. The environments 
 are richly decorated with stunning textures practically everywhere you look. No matter if it's 
 the ground, walls, or way above your head, it's all textured with amazing clarity and detail. I 
 simply love just looking at the breathtaking views, and I've already shown it off numerous times 
 to impress a few friends - Uncharted is just that damn beautiful.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Drake's Fortune was a big suprise for me. I borrowed it from a friend, not expecting much, just 
 passing the time while I waited on my 6th XBox 360 to get repaired. But DF was a really good game. 
 While the platform parts were not quite Tomb Raider difficult, the overall gameplay was fun. Where 
 Drake's really shines is in the total experience. You truly feel like your watching and playing 
 a movie during most parts of the game. Yes the hints and all make it too easy, and I see no real 
 replay value, but if you have a long weekend rent this and you'll have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prototype1218
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Many people seem to be looking down on games like Uncharted for their philosophy of sacrificing 
 a massive, open-ended gaming experience for the sake of a focused, truly memorable one. So the 
 simple question is, is a truly memorable gaming experience worth your $60, or are you merely planning 
 to "get some use out of it", and kill time with sidequests and collectibles? I believe that after 
 playing more games like this, you'll appreciate what you're being offered here.
  
  The story kicks right off. And I mean, right off. There's barely any backstory necessary, and the 
 characters manage to get everything you need to know out of the way in literally 5 lines of dialogue. 
 So, don't let its emphasis on storytelling worry you; it's not asking you to commit to anything. 
 Just to enjoy it. And I will admit, it's nothing groundbreaking. This game has reminded me of how 
 much more important the actual storytelling can be than the story itself. In fact, the familiarity 
 of it all will most likely come across to you as charming and welcoming instead of hokey and unoriginal, 
 especially since there are some pretty fresh ideas here.
  
  So, after the first little scene, the game introduces you to the gunplay, taking cover, and the 
 close combat almost simultaneously, and by the end of the 2-minute sequence, every mechanic of 
 these will be second nature, save for the possible want to switch your aiming to inverted, which 
 you can do right away. And I dare say, the action will only get better as the story progresses. 
 You're almost constantly having to advance by taking cover from the crossfire as in Gears of War, 
 one of the aspects of Uncharted that will emphasize Nathan Drake's ordinary everyman feel. And 
 you're always comfortable with the environment you're about to shoot your way through; if anything 
 looks like you can use it for cover, go for it. Another realistic and surprisingly acceptable feature 
 is that you can only carry two of the dozens of different weapons at a time; that's one handgun 
 type and one bigger gun. You also have a slot for up to 4 grenades. You use the d-pad's left and 
 right to switch weapons, down to equip grenades (the usage of which is also up to par with Gears) , 
 and up to reload your current weapon. One thing I love is that there's never a definite weapon 
 of preference in any situation. You could use an uzi and an AK-47 just as easily as a revolver 
 and a shotgun to make your way through the exact same sequence. It's completely up to you. The 
 final encounter is the only one where you don't have much of a choice. The enemies are equally 
 smart with their weapons of choice. Sure, the actual enemies might be repeated a lot, but the variety 
 in their weapons will more than make up for it. You'll find yourself ducking behind a pillar and 
 scoping the area, deciding if you should take out the guy with the sniper rifle in the back first, 
 or if you should instead deal with the M79-wielding fellow slowly gaining ground. Some of the firefights 
 get pretty vicious, but the bigger and more epic they are, the more satisfying it is to loot ammo 
 and possibly find a new gun afterwards. I should also note something very unique here; the grenades 
 aren't overpowered at all. You won't be using them just because you can, but rather because you 
 feel it's really the best way to reach a foe. The same grenades are used on you pretty frequently, 
 and it's exciting to hear Nate promptly swear as you look for new cover to dive to, but you're 
 never afraid that you're essentially dead once they're thrown. Lastly, concerning the gunplay, 
 anyone you're escorting can actually hold their own. It's so refreshing to never see them die, 
 and even take out their share of baddies with their own unlimited ammo. Another thing that really 
 takes the stress out of the whole game is the complete lack of a life gauge. If you're taking a 
 lot of hits, a heartbeat will get louder and faster, and the screen's color will fade with every 
 hit to black and white. This is especially noticeable for a game as colorful as this one, and makes 
 for a very simple survival mechanism. All you have to do is take cover and avoid being hit for 
 as long as 5 or 6 seconds, and the color will quickly fade back in, making you good as new. Of 
 course, you'll still take more damage from some weapons; you still want to look out for shotguns, 
 sniper rifles M79's, exploding barrels... the obvious stuff.
  
  Okay, there's platforming here too, and it's as solid as the recent Tomb Raider: Anniversary; not 
 too hard, and just challenging enough to make you feel heroic after jumping and shimmying your 
 way across great heights to the next area. Nate recognizes your mistakes; he grabs every ledge 
 he slips off of, and he always sees where exactly you're trying to jump. And as a subtle note, 
 the platforming is where the hundreds of different randomized character animations really make 
 things exciting. You're always nervous he might miss a jump by the way he moves. It's hard to explain.
 
  
  I should also point out that the driving sequences are actually fun, and they don't feel as out 
 of place as they usually do in an action game like this. The jeep is especially fun, since you're 
 at the turret while your partner drives (very well) .
  
  Graphically, I put this game alongside Motorstorm and Genji as a showcase for what the PS3 can 
 do. The best part though, is that this game didn't have to sacrifice any fun for the sake of its 
 visuals. You can just feel developers getting better at using the dev kits, it's such a natural 
 part of the whole. The sounds also help the memories along, from the free-flowing voice acting. 
 By the way, I think what helped this is the fact that the motion capture actors and the voice actors 
 are one in the same, and they capture both aspects of their respective characters all at once. 
 Anyway, the music is one of my favorite parts as well. I can't remember the composer's name, but 
 it's the same guy that worked on the show Firefly. It's not so original it's hard to categorize, 
 but it certainly doesn't shamelessly rip off any other games or movies if you ask me, and it always 
 fits the mood.
  
  I think at least fractions of points should be awarded for little things that many games of all 
 kinds should take note of. For one, you can pause in the middle of the cutscenes. Thank you, Naughty 
 Dog. Also, you have the options during all cutscenes to toggle the subtitles on and off with the 
 Square button.
  
  Like Heavenly Sword, it's short, but the entire effort by Naughty Dog here is to make sure that 
 what experiences you do have are an assured good time. There are rewards for collecting hidden 
 treasures throughout the game, and there are medals for weapon accuracy and things like that, but 
 the real reason you'll wanna hold onto it is for the same reason you keep your DVD's; you'll remember 
 the experience, and eventually pop it back in for another telling of the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  A suprising game from the company that brought us Crash Bandicoot. This action packed action adventure 
 game has a great story, excellent gameplay and excellent unique graphics.
  
  You will spend most of your time shooting in this game, it has a nice cover sytem and nice variety 
 of different weapoins (Piston, AK/Grenade Launcher, Sniper, Shotgun, etc) aswell as grenades.
  
  There is some puzzle solving involved in this game, and the puzzles in there are great and 
 satysfying to solve they just werent hard enough and there werent enough of them, what can I saw 
 Im a Tomb Raider player. Whilst on that subject I would like to mention this game is very similiar 
 to TR, could almost call it a rip-off but Im not complaining.
  
  Another truly next gen title. It does have replay value. Lots of Treasures to find and medals to 
 earn by doing certain things like getting headshots.
  
  There is also some basic but very cool melee combat in this game.
  
  You get to drive one vehicle, 
 I wont spoil what it is but its fun, you also get to shoot of the back of vehciles.
  
  Overall a great game, kinda short and kinda too based on shooting but still a must own, plays and 
 looks amazing. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan00013
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I purchased my Playstation 3 and this was the first game I decided to pick up for it. As I looked 
 at some mixed reviews I was unsure if I made the right decision to pick this one up. So I started 
 up the game and got into the first cut scene and could not believe how good the graphics were in 
 this game, the character models look so realistic its insane. The cut scenes are like watching 
 a tv show or movie. Then you get to the game and it looks just as good - best graphics I have ever 
 seen in a video game, the character models are amazing and they act so realistic. The soundtrack 
 for the game fits perfectly. I got really into the story line of this game and had a very hard 
 time turning it off. Many companies have tried making games along the lines of Indiana Jones and 
 many have failed. This game is no failure, this game is exciting all the way through and in my 
 opinion a masterpiece. This is one of my highest rated games of all time and one of my favorite 
 games. In my opinion this game is probably the best of so far in this generation and one of the 
 best games in years. While it is not the longest game it def. has replayability because its so 
 amazing I dont know how you could possibly not want to try it again on a harder difficulty. This 
 game is not completely original its basically Indiana Jones mixed with Prince of Persia, but it 
 does everything right. I really hope for a secon installment of this series. Every Playstation 
 3 owner shoudl have a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Not to down on Gamespot or any other reviewers for the "Decent" scores given to this game, but 
 I truly think this game deserved better. Name off this year's best, such as Crysis or Bioshock, 
 excluding Halo 3, and I gotta say, this game dominated all. This game perfected the repetition 
 of Gears of War, and gave us the platforming that pee-ed us off in Tomb Raider, and gave us the 
 true feeling of cinematics better than what Metal Gear Solid has been doing for years. This game 
 is nothing but perfection, and I cannot stress anymore on how insanely beautiful this game looks, 
 and how smooth everything flows together. So what do I have to say about this game that truly makes 
 it the best single player experience? Let's just say that this game's level and uniqueness in the 
 action adventures genre is right up there with The Legend of Zelda, it was a perfect execution 
 of everything a gamer wanted. Whether you like drama, suspense, action, and maybe some gore, this 
 is your game... this is why you bought a PS3, and this is why 360 owners are in denial to many things. 
 All I gotta say is, true next gen never started... not until Uncharted was released... it's a marking 
 point of what true next gen was all about. I'm going to say a 10, it's just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coffey85
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  One of the first exclusives I have played on the PS3 and its awesome. 
  
  The graphics are the first thing that will astonish you, the rendering is great the visuals from 
 scenes are life like. For me I thought the jet ski levels stud out the most for graphics. The best 
 thing is that everything plays smoothly no frame freezing or crashing, it all goes together great. 
 
  
  The Sound is good as well, it synchronizes with game play with no delays. If the sub woofer is 
 turned up you will feel the impact from explosions and gun shots. 
  
  The game play. The gun fights have to be the best thing, you will never go through a level and 
 do the same thing you will shoot from different cover, kill in different ways etc, this is helped 
 by the fact that the AI of the enemies is really intelligent, say for instance you take cover behind 
 a wall the enemy will start to flank you straight away so you have to go from cover to cover, when 
 you health decreases the screen will start to go black and white clearly indicating you need to 
 keep out of the way of the enemy. The cover system works really well aswel there is never glitches. 
 
  The climbing system works smoothly and acts realistically, for example jumping of a high ledge 
 the character will stumble a bit when he lands or forward role. Hanging on a ledge and shooting 
 over using it as cover.
  Levels. Every level has been created with full detail and interaction, during game play the cut 
 scenes fit nicely together and there is no loading screens to have to wait and there is the option 
 to skip them but they give the game more character and involve the player more and reveal key information 
 that you would'nt get by skipping them. The game play is great it varies all the time you will 
 be going from gun fights to puzzles to shooting from jeeps, riding jet skis etc. 
  
  The only bad point about the game is that it doesn't take long to complete on normal difficulty 
 it will take about 7 hours to complete for most people, but the quality of the play adds to the 
 replay value and there is loads to unlock like cinematic's and different choices for playing through 
 levels such as playing in fast motion changing the colour etc. 
  Another bad point is no online, which just about every game has now but the campaign is enough 
 to keep you playing more and more. 
  
  Overall this game is great and I would recommend it because it is the best PS3 exclusive out so 
 far, i would'nt recommend it if your a fan of online gaming and tend not to stick to story mode. 
 
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Game play: 9/9
  Long term Value: 7 
  Overall: 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken2_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  First time i got this game i was hooked the story line the shooting the action it drags you in 
 the game as soon as you enter it everything is amazing there is nothing 2 complain about took me 
 12 hours 2 finish this game so the game play is big en + if you collect all the treauseres in the 
 game you will get extra features like extra characters fast motion slow motion in the game extra 
 movies en much more the game is all about finding a gold called el dorado you start in a beatifull 
 jungle where you got 2 look for the gold en thats where the action starts jetskis shooting amazing 
 graphics that drags you in the game the only thing i got 2 say is this game is fantastic a must 
 have ps3 game for all you shooting action fans so for all you guys have not played this game i 
 suggest you guys 2 rush 2 the shop en get it because this is a game you must play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protector99
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, how to begin!!!!! First of all best graphics i have seen IMO.
  The gunplay was outstanding! The story per-fec-to!!!!!!!!
  
  Ok so Uncharted does not do anything 
 new, but does all of the stuff
  just as good or better. The main way this game works is
  you find cover behind a near-by pillar Or somthing of that nature.
  So theres about 8 to 10 guys 
 in a part you are in at any givin time
  So you run, dive do anything you can to get to cover FAST!
  So you get there pop off a few shots 
 reload, and thats how the gunplay works...... for a very litlle sum (its amazing to say the least) !
 
  But yea the story is great doesnt seem dole' or somthing like that
  And every-thing is sooo belevible!!!!! From you trampleling plants to getting wet in water!!!!!!!!! 
 Or the guys beeing very intelligent!!!!!!
  
  So thats a very brief review of the game!
  If you dant have the game what the heck are you wating on!!!!!!!
  graphics:10.0
  Sound:10
 
  difficulty:9.5
  Tilt:10.0
  Fun:10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akumous
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  
  The last quarter of 07 has really been a heaven for gamers. There were a lot of excellent games 
 regardless of which platform, but only a few of them held dear to my heart. The best games of 07, 
 in my regard, is Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, God of War 2, and Uncharted. 
  
  Many say that Uncharted is like Tomb Raider and Gears, but that is so far from the actual truth. 
 Naughty Dog has successfully created a new IP that stands on its own with its own merits. It has 
 an engaging cast and excellent artistic and graphical show piece of what the PS3 can do with hardly 
 any noticeable load times to hinder the immersiveness. The game goes at a face enjoyable pace, 
 keeping the game head on his toes without making it tedious.
  
  Assassin's Creed doesn't deserve 9.0, that score clearly belongs to Uncharted. Uncharted is breathtaking, 
 exciting, and one of the most beautiful game of any gaming platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbullitxx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Story is well developed, which feels really epic with some interesting twists - no spoilers :) . 
 When you play will feel like a movie star ;) ! 
  
  The Visuals are really impressive. One of the best looking (if not the best) for consoles. The 
 character models and character animations (incredible use of the mocap technology) , level design, 
 textures, everything is top notch! Though it's not perfect. Explosions for some wired reason looks 
 incredibly lame too me. First of all every explosions looks exactly the same with the same smoke 
 effects, and they look too static and simply unreal! Some varity and details to the flames would 
 make it look way much better. I just simply don't understand why they have't changed this. The 
 blood on bullet inpact also looks a little unreal....
  
  Music and audio is all right! I Love the original scrore it's amazing.
  
  Gameplay is great. 
 Lots of gunplay with an implemented cover system ala Gears of War with some platforming, spiced 
 up with some vehicle usage. IMHO -because there is no mulitplayer : ( -Naughty Dog decided to implement 
 an achievement system similar to the Xbox 360 games. And it really adds a lot to the replay value. 
 You can reveal more and more bonus content as you complete those achievements. There are unlockable 
 making of movies, costumes, etc, You can even mirror or flip the world while playing and you can 
 change the game's rendering mode to b&w and sepia. 
  
  On the downside the despite the 22 chapters it could be longer. I finished it around 9hrs for the 
 first time on hard difficulty. But will do it again to complete some of the achievements I missed. 
 
  
  Overall I highly recommend this game! Great gameplay with incredible visuals, you shouldn't miss 
 this! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one of those games that catches attention. It has a high enough profile 
 before its released that everyone forms opinions about it before they can even play it. Does it 
 live up to the hype? I think so. Here is why. 
  
  Uncharted is a over the shoulder 3rd person platforming/shooter game from the makers of Crash Bandicoot, 
 and Jak and Daxter. It splits it's time between it's over the top platforming and its shooter elements. 
 Lets start with the platforming. It is very much over the top. Despite being called an ordinary 
 guy, Nathan Drake shows a uncanny prowless for Olympic gymnast level agility. This makes the platforming 
 aspects of the game seem too artificial. However that seems to be in the artistic direction of 
 the game. Drake will jump, hang, and swing from one thing to another with seemingly no reguard 
 for his own safety. This platforming may seem similar to the more recent additions to the Tomb 
 Raider series, but is far more involved, and better controlled in Uncharted. Overall the platforming 
 aspect of the game alone makes this game superior to Tomb Raider. The puzzles are often simple, 
 and not really noteworthy. If you somehow manage to get stuck somewhere, the game will eventually 
 give you clues as to how do something, or where to go next. 
  
  As for the shooter gameplay, it is as strong as the platforming. As said before it is a over the 
 shoulder 3rd person similar to Resident Evil 4, with similiar duck and cover mechanics to Gears 
 of War. The controls in Uncharted work faster, and better then RE 4 but the duck and cover gameplay 
 is less hectic then Gears, and falls just short of it's high water mark. The enemies when shot 
 over react, and toss themselves around like ragdolls. This along with the fact that most enemies 
 will take quite a few hits before going down can make the game seem too cartoonish. However as 
 stated before, this type of thing goes with it's artistic direction.
  
  The graphics are among the best of any game on any console. The colors feel too saturated, but 
 once again that was the artistic direction. The real time lighting, water effects, and countless 
 other graphical effects are well in place here with few if any hints of slow down. During the cutscenes 
 the characters are very well animated, and really show emotion with their facial expressions as 
 well as their movements. During gameplay for the first time ever we have a character who moves 
 like a human. Drake makes subtle changes to the way he walks when going up hill as well as countless 
 other little things that really make a difference. 
  
  The voice acting is very well done here, and really helps to set the mood with the games often 
 humorous moments. 
  
  As for the things i think are wrong with this game? It is too short. It really could have been 
 longer, just a little longer would have been perfect. The puzzles are not very hard, as hints are 
 so blunt you feel as though you were slapped across the face with them. Also the ending is underwhelming. 
 As is the boss battle at the end. After playing the whole game, I was disapointed to find that 
 the interactive cutscene was actually the boss battle. 
  
  The game isn't perfect, and it doesn't really do anything new from a gameplay perspective. However 
 it does do most things as good or better then those it copied from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserWebb
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  One of the most impressive games yet for the PS3, naughty dog did a great job of bringing the world 
 in this game to life and made the world of Uncharted both believable and interesting helping it 
 stand out in the crowd and really give the game a nice "flare"
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very solid, although the games jumping mechanics are rather off where at times 
 you will jump and die but have no idea what happened as u never really know if drake will make 
 the jump out alive until the last second which after dying around 50 times because of this can 
 be a problem. The actual gameplay works well and is a blast to play, even though the game is rather 
 short it is a satisfying adventure and a game you will remember for a long time. 
  
  Story: 
  I wont give to much away but the story is actually pretty good and if ur an Indiana 
 Jones fan you will no doubt love the story and the great cast of characters really help you care 
 about the story.
  
  
  Overall:
  If you own a PS3 this game is a must buy, while not perfect it shows off the power and potential 
 of the console in a way we havnt seen since Ratchet and Clank Future. Its short but you'll enjoy 
 every moment of it =]
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokesc
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Alrighty, here's a game that's hoping to be a PS3 killer app but not quite there yet. but, I must 
 say the visuals are stunning. With a HD TV and 1080i or 1080p all crank up, your eyes will surely 
 dried up. I think the forest is rather a bit too elaborate and colourful to really believe it's 
 a forest. I've been to Angkor Wat and it sure brings back some of the essence of a ruin, temple, 
 archaelogical feel to it.
  
  For an adventure gamer, Uncharted is really a treat especially the 1st 2 hours involves mostly 
 exploring. Midway through the game, a lot of gun fight will be introduced and gets a little steep 
 towards the end but manageable with all the checkpoints and save feature and there won't be really 
 a real obstascle to finish the game around 8 hours. There is one particular cool real time scene 
 where the wooden platform of a bridge falling apart with your surroundings going havoc while you're 
 running away from it. it's a supercool scene to play through and it really remind me of the old 
 Indy jones movie sequence where he's running away from a huge boulder. Unfortunately, it's too 
 little in this game, probably 2 or 3 of this real time sequence game play. It really create that 
 cinematic feel to it. I hope Naughty dog will put in some really similar breathtaking sequences 
 if there's any follow up on this game. Well, we have God of War "Heroes" moment where you have 
 to press a certain buttons to execute a cool sequence. But, I think having not pressing the buttons 
 but with the interaction of the directional button, I can enjoy the full real time sequence. GOW 
 "heroes" moments forces a gamer to press random buttons which forces a player to concentrate on 
 what button sequence needed to punch which prevent players from enjoying the spectacle!
  
  What really separates Uncharted from being a killer app is it's lack of depth in the storyline, 
 variety in gameplay and length in terms of gameplay. If this game can clock about 12 hours of gameplay 
 with other areas to explore may be a bonus to the overall experience. The game also quite linear 
 and with some minor backtracking. If the game is built around an open world like Crysis, this could 
 be experience in numerous ways.
  
  To sum it all up, this is a very impressive visually stunning game to show off to your friends. 
 If only there's a built in feature to take photographs while you explore the game in different 
 environments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog's first game on the Playstation 3 is simply put, a masterpiece. From great visuals 
 to a great storyline, this game delivers on every promise it made. The only problem i had with 
 the game was that it was a little too short, although there is much replay value to the game in 
 harder modes and earning medal points as well as collecting treasures in the vast environments. 
 An instant classic main character in Nathan Drake, he seems to be one of those rare gems of personalities 
 that will last for a while like that of Dante and Ryu, and maybe even Altair. The games environments 
 only rival that of Ratchet and Clank's and the continued gems made by Naughty Dog and Insomniac 
 are a treat to all gamers who appreciate them. This game is amazing, and i hope it receives the 
 recognition it deserves, it is my vote for game of the year just edging out Ratchet and Clank Future: 
 Tools Of Destruction. In a world full of FPS that all seem the same, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 is a perfect summer action-flick at your finger tips. Now the wait begins for Devil May Cry 4... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  My ohhhh mythis game looks freaking off the hook.. I was so into it like it was a movie. Game 
 play was good, sound was great, graphics was off the charts, and everything else was just amazing. 
 The best feature of the game is the graphics of course but the story behind it was great as well.. 
 It kept me wanting more and waiting to see what happens next. I have yet to see a game looks this 
 good! I mean I luv my 360 in all but it needs to step up BIG TIME. If these are the graphics PS3 
 can pump outman. us 360 fan boys are in trouble.. Which brings me to say I'm happy that I've 
 brought a PS3. Anyway back to the game. when you get wet you can actually see that YOUR WET.. wow. and 
 it looks good! NaughtyDog.. I applaud you. please come out with another oneLast but not least. Lets 
 just say this game is like Tomb Raideron crack! PLEASE 360...... take notes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soupflakez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  My first impression before I played the demo on PSN was that this game was going to be all looks 
 and that's where the line was drawn. I was wrong. The demo showed off an awesome battle system, 
 sported amazing visuals, and had a nearly flawless cover system. The only problem I had with the 
 fighting system was the aiming and how the cross hair was positioned in relation to the angle of 
 your gun. Over the right shoulder the gun would look like it was being pointed at something off-screen, 
 but the cross hair would be on an enemies head. When I shot the enemy I killed him, but the bullet 
 pulled, what looked like, a 90 degree turn to hit him in the face. About half way through the game 
 when I picked up a revolver (like the golden gun in 007 it kills in one shot) and aimed it. The 
 gun was aimed directly perpendicular to the screen yet my bullets would hit the enemies and pull 
 the magic 90 degree turn to even reach the target. It was one of the funniest mess-ups in a game 
 considering how much work had actually gone into it. The visuals of the game is where it truely 
 shines. The game has the best graphics of the year, hands down. The lighting in the game is absolutely 
 awesome. Probably the most beautiful parts of this game are in the jungle setting during the day. 
 The lighting effects and the shadows are well done. The water effects are especially cool; they 
 are extremely realistic from the way the water ripples when you walk in it to the way your character 
 gets wet when he goes for a swim. All of the plant life interacts with the wind and your character 
 (meaning the plants do not just magically glitch through you like they do in most games) . The relative 
 shortness of Uncharted might drive away those of you who have a tight budget. I figured the game 
 would be longer considering the devs had blu-ray at their disposal. On normal it was pretty solid 
 all the way through. The game took me about eight and one half hours to complete on normal. The 
 bonuses, unlockables, and medals give it some replay value, but for the most part this game wont 
 keep you hooked for more than 20 hours. It is practically a must have considering the shortage 
 of AAA titles for the PS3 right now, but if you're tight on money this game would be a good rental. 
 Uncharted's puzzles are pretty easy, but luckily the puzzles aren't the highlight of the game, 
 so it's not that big of a deal. There is a good variety of weapons, but the basics include the 
 machine gun, shotgun, pistol, grenade launcher, and sniper. Of course there are variations of these 
 and more powerful versions, but for the most part the weapon selection is pretty plain. Pros: - 
 Awesome Visuals (720p output) , should have won best graphics on Spike - Pretty good 3rd person 
 shooter aspect. - One of the best story lines of 2007. - Rewards, Medals, and bonus's give it some 
 good replay value - Different setting and color tone from the current trend in the market - The 
 best water I have ever seen in a game Cons: - Sorta short (played through on normal in 8 hours 
 and 30 minutes) - Some of the aiming with the weaponry is obviously flawed - $60 US might not be 
 worth it for some of the gamers who have a tight budget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune sets a course for third-person adventure and arrives safely, providing 
 12 gripping hours of action. However with most of its elements being borrowed from the very best 
 of games little is uncharted. Controls? They are from Prince of Persia. Level design? On loan from 
 ICO and God of War. Shooting and cover mechanism? Gears of War needs it back next year. Exploding 
 barrels? Just got a shipment from Donkey Kong's arcade. Naughty Dog was not content to merely borrow 
 though, they took the best elements of those games, improved on them and then applied imagination 
 and technology toward the brilliant execution that is Uncharted. For example, the controls are 
 more fluid and forgiving than those of Prince of Persia. The cover mechanism of Gears of War that 
 would sometimes stick you to unwanted cover is no where to be seen, and variety of game play between 
 exploration and combat breaks up the occasional tedium found in ICO.
  
  The story which ties the game together is by no means original either, drawing on 1930's matinee 
 material familiar in the modern era through the Indiana Jones trilogy. Our hero, Drake (who is 
 in some way related to the English pirate Sir Francis Drake) is on a search for El Dorado, the 
 mythic city of Gold. Along for the ride is a journalist (think Laura Dern in Jurassic Park) and 
 at times an old sea-dog who can occasionally be trusted. They explore the most beautiful jungles, 
 rivers and temples to ever grace a console in a chase with a variety of enemies with whom they 
 alternate discoveries and the upper hand.
  
  The impact of the game's visuals cannot be understated they often motivate the player to continue 
 to the next area, and the next. The high level of clarity afforded by the HD graphics introduced 
 the ability to shoot accurately at long distances, even using a handgun. Weaknesses did appear 
 periodically though with level design deficiencies being pointed out by an on-screen prompt that 
 would offer hints as to what to do next (only golf games should have caddies) . Only three times 
 did I find myself lost trying to travel paths that had nothing to do with the game, again a weakness 
 of level design rather than art direction. I also found the stark up-tick in difficulty for the 
 last level strangely cheap for a game that otherwise played fair with the gamer.
  
  With it's heavy borrowing from other games Uncharted will not change the way you think about games, 
 but it may change your feelings about Naughty Dog and it most definitely will change your thinking 
 about the future of the PlayStation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewmandew7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, Uncharted is by far the most engaging, polished video game experiences I have witnessed 
 thus far. Everything about it is simply amazing. Nothing stacks up to it. Having had two years 
 since the release of Jak X for the Playstation 2, Naughty Dog has been able to craft one of the 
 most engaging stories of all time and some of the most believable characters in a video game ever. 
 I've taken a dive into this game and now I've come back up for a breather and to spread the good 
 news.
  
  Before I begin to sing this game's praises, let me share my story of how I acquired this game. 
 This game was released retail on Monday, November 19. Of course, I just had to pre-order the game. 
 *slaps forehead*. So, Best Buy didn't even ship the game until Wednesday, November 21. Then, of 
 course, my shipment ran into Thanksgiving which is a government holiday... So, I thought, I'll 
 get it on Monday, November 26! No go. I don't think I got it until Wednesday, November 28. I think 
 this is the last game I order from Best Buy.
  
  So, I finally received the game, popped it into my PS3... and part of my soul was completed. Everything 
 about this game is absolutely beautiful.
  
  Let me start off with the characters. All of them are beautifully animated. They all have their 
 own little nuances like real people would have. Now, all of the cutscenes are pre-rendered. This 
 is where the bulk of the character development takes place. However, while you're playing, you'll 
 be able to pick up on what makes each of the characters tick. Nathan Drake has tons of different 
 animations for taking cover, meaning you'll never feel like Nathan Drake is a video game character, 
 but an actual person who never really does the same thing more than once. Also, he stumbles and 
 falls, adding a whole new since of life to this character. Instead of playing as a super hero, 
 you're playing with this average joe stuck into an extraordinary situation. The only gripe I have 
 is that Nate has a bit more upper body strength that your average guy would have. However, this 
 is easily ignored because of the over-all quality of Nathan's character.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Everything is rendered with a stunning surrealism. Naughty Dog somehow 
 blended realistic graphics with slightly cartoony visual effects to make the best looking console 
 game to date. The jungles are bright green and beautiful. Some of the later, darker levels are 
 also all incredibly detailed. The textures are amazing, though there is a bit of pop-in from time 
 to time. All of the characters look incredibly life-like. It's hard to not just stop and stare 
 around at Nate's surroundings.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. Some people have said Uncharted is just a Gears of War clone, other say 
 it's a Tomb Raider clone. However, it really is none of these. Actually, if I had to compare it 
 with any games, it would be Ratchet and Clank because of the mix of platforming and gun-play and 
 Metal Gear Solid 4, for the free rotating camera and the way the gun-play works. Uncharted goes 
 from intense fire fights to scaling cliffs to puzzle solving, without ever losing a beat. The game 
 is incredibly fun to play, and it will keep you coming back for more and more with four different 
 levels of difficulty, 60 treasures to find, and over 1000 Medal points to achieve (most likely 
 to be integrated into Home when it is released next year) .
  
  The story is definitely one of the better video game stories written. I wouldn't say it's the best, 
 but it's definitely among the top 20. You play as Nathan Drake, the heir of Sir Francis Drake, 
 who supposedly had no children. You search for his lost coffin along with the help of Elena Fischer, 
 a TV show host, whose network is funding the operation. Nathan Drake wants a bit of treasure but 
 his larger goal is to find out what happened to his ancestor. However, his friend, Sullivan, is 
 up to his eye balls in debt and really needs the supposed treasure that Francis Drake was searching 
 for to save his neck. This is all I will reveal, but I will say that the story grows darker and 
 darker over its course and the ending really begs for a sequel.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a steal for $60. It is also one of the best games I've ever played. 
 I'm not ready to call this the winner of my GOTY award for my first annual Golden Ottsel awards, 
 but it stands a fighting chance. My parents have bought a Wii for my brother and I for this Christmas, 
 along with, of course, Super Mario Galaxy. I will have to save final judgement until January 2008 
 when I hand out the awards, but this game I think definitely has a fighting chance against the 
 juggernaut that is Super Mario Galaxy. So, if you are a PS3 owner, you owe it to yourself to buy 
 this game. It's definitely the best game on the system and is the game PS3 owners have been waiting 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The Playstation 3 is truly proving to be a system that can deliver a Hollywood caliber experience 
 in video games. First, there was Heavenly Sword which truly felt like a summer blockbuster with 
 its spectacular set pieces, sound, and dialogue. Now, Naughty Dog delivers Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 which follows in similar footsteps. However, Uncharted's pacing is handled much better than Heavenly 
 Sword and makes for a more entertaining experience all around. In fact, the story in Uncharted 
 is more entertaining than a lot of movies I've seen recently. There are a few gameplay flaws that 
 should be corrected in the inevitable sequel (another Hollywood parallel) but this is definitely 
 a game every PS3 owner should check out. Uncharted tells the story of Nathan Drake, a treasure 
 hunter who is also a descendant of Sir Francis Drake. Drake is investigating the false death of 
 his ancestor and comes across a diary detailing the location of El Dorado, the lost city of gold. 
 Along with his partner Sully and charming reporter side kick Elena, Drake goes on a journey to 
 discover the city of gold as well as the true cause for Francis's death. The story opens up quite 
 a bit as you progress and there is a great curveball thrown towards the end to change up the pace 
 in several fantastic ways. The story never gets truly complicated, but it also isn't so simple 
 that you'll ignore it as soon as it starts because every scene proceeds naturally into the next. 
 Also helping matters are the amazing facial features that Naughty Dog has always delivered and 
 the incredible sound design. All of the dialogue is delivered fluently and convincingly and the 
 musical score always sets the tone perfectly for each area. If you have a full surround sound setup, 
 this game will blow you away and probably wake your neighbors.
  
  The gameplay consists of two main parts: Prince of Persia style platforming and cover based gunplay. 
 Additionally, there are a few diversions such as a great escape scene on a turret mounted jeep 
 and a somewhat frustrating speed boat level. For the most part, the gameplay aspects play out fine 
 but there are a few occasions where it feels like the game could have used a bit more polish. Starting 
 with the platforming, unlike Prince of Persia or the recent Tomb Raider games, all you really have 
 to do in Uncharted is leap in the general direction of your target and Nathan will automatically 
 hone in on it and grab on. This works fine for most of the game, but there are a few occasions 
 where you'll wish for a bit more control in your jumping. For example, while trying to get a specific 
 treasure I just wanted to do a small hop to a nearby ledge. What would have been a simple task 
 in a similar game was a bit more complicated in Uncharted because it was hard to stop Drake from 
 doing his flailing arm super jump. Also, occasionally you'll miss an important jump one minute 
 and nail it on the 2nd try, even when you didn't do anything different. Moving on to the gunplay, 
 which you'll spend most of the game doing, the game uses a cover system similar to Gears of War. 
 In pretty much every encounter, the only way to survive is to take cover behind a pillar or under 
 boxes and lean out and shoot when the enemy is vulnerable. The shooting takes quite a while to 
 get used to because the targeting reticle control is somewhat slow compared to the movement of 
 the enemy. It also doesn't help that there's no indicator as to whether or not you've got an enemy 
 in your sights (i. e: turning the reticle red) . These flaws are mainly a problem when you have to 
 fight distant enemies. Trying to squeeze a skinny pirate's jellybean head into my reticle from 
 100 yards away with a handgun caused me to curse quite a few times early on. However, after you 
 spend some time with the game, you'll generally get the hang of things and learn to move from cover 
 to cover efficiently. The closer fights are always exciting and the story twist mentioned earlier 
 really forces you to play the game differently which helps amp up the intensity. You can finish 
 Uncharted in roughly 10 hours but the game has great replay value in the form of its rewards. Pretty 
 much identical to the Achievement system on 360 games, you are awarded a certain amount of points 
 for collecting treasures, scoring headshots, and using a gun a certain amount of times. Also, the 
 only way to get all 1000 points is to finish the game on the Crushing difficulty so you pretty 
 much have to play the game at least twice if you're a stickler for doing every single thing in 
 a game.
  
  Uncharted has been praised for its graphics and I also think the game truly does some impressive 
 things, especially in the cutscenes. Characters all interact with the enivornment realistically 
 and there are very little awkward or jerky movements. However, from a technical standpoint, there 
 a few things that kind of distracted me. For one thing, there is quite a lot of texture pop up 
 throughout the game. When characters and objects first appear on screen, the textures are very 
 flat and bland and little by little the wrinkles and details are filled in. This is noticeable 
 right at the start of Chapter 2 and continues at various times throughout the game. Also, even 
 though elements such as the sunset on the horizon and clouds look impressive, some of the indoor 
 environments don't really stand out too much. Not saying the game looks bad by any means, but for 
 me personally it's just not as good as Heavenly Sword and Ratchet and Clank. While it has a few 
 glitches that keep it from perfection, it's hard to fault Naughty Dog because they've created a 
 great franchise and a truly memorable game experience. I think its safe to say the sequel should 
 apply a layer of polish to truly take the franchise to the next level. Two Thumbs Up!
  
  
  Story: 9
  Sound: 9
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Lasting Value: 8
  Overall: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hip-hop-cola2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Uncharted dose what it was made to do. It's blatantly clear the game was made to blend the platforming 
 of tomb raider with the gun play from gears of war.
  The game is a visual masterpiece, but don't believe for a moment that it's all looks no substance. 
 The gears of war fight style works very well, it's been called "frustrating" but I disagree with 
 this completely. Its challenging, enemies attack from many different angles making cover very important 
 on the harder settings. You're kept on your toes constantly, making the game play very engaging. 
 The AI aren't stupid, they will dodge gun fire if out in the open like crazy, you can see them 
 lie down and crawl out to trick you or dive into different positions, it's very interesting to 
 watch and play against, but there are always those who seem to have forgotten that there being 
 shot at. The flaws of uncharted are in the length and variety, I would feel slightly annoyed if 
 I had bought the game but I can't help love it. The ending is also ridicules, and a horrible but 
 very funny example of bad writing. For uncharted to score higher in my point of view it would need 
 to give me more in terms of "oh snap" moments, the game is beautiful and some walls explode spectacularly, 
 id would have liked to see more action in the general fights, but the game manages to keep them 
 entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicalva
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game. The story is interesting and I always have a soft spot for games 
 which base their storyline on some historical event to some extend. It makes them feel more realistic. 
 However, Uncharted could have benefited from a bit more depth. Some elements of the story seem 
 underdeveloped, e. g. the reason for the presence of Germans in south America near El Dorado is 
 not explained.
  
  Shooting is fantastic. It\'s so easily mastered that you soon become an expert at killing enemies 
 without being hit (in easy mode that is) . But it nevertheless remains challenging when you are 
 outnumbered and outgunned.
  
  The setting is simply stunning. The jungle, water cascades, secret galleries, temples, etc. are 
 beautifully rendered. It looks very next gen. The characters appear reasonably realistic as well.
 
  
  All in all, a fantastic gaming experience. The best adventure game for the ps3 so far. Naughty 
 dog, you're the dog's b*******. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is not only one of the best games on PS3, its also one of the best games this gen. Why? 
 Oh for so many reasons. Let's start with the obvious, the graphics. Uncharted's graphics are on 
 a whole other level. It really is unreal when you first look at it. The way the light comes in 
 through the trees, the way the water ripples when you jump in it, the way the leaves move in the 
 wind, the wrinkles on everyones face, the textures, everything is just amazing. And something it 
 really does well to stand out from the rest of the games with good graphics is all the colors. 
 So many games today with good graphics tend to blend into one shade of a color. Uncharted doesnt. 
 Sure there is a lot of foliage, but each level is pretty much different from the last. It actually 
 interesting because if you go to the chapter select in the game, the shades on the image previews 
 go from a bright green on the first chapter, to a blackish/reddish color on the last chapter. Another 
 great thing about the game, is the story and the voice acting. Both are top notch. Nathan and his 
 allies (and enemies) are some of the most realistic characters ever in a video game. The way they 
 move and what they say is just so spot on. And the story of the game is really immersive and has 
 a lot of plot twists to it. Quite frankly, you never want to stop playing just to find out what 
 happens next. The AI in the game is also amazing. The way to try to flank you when you are taking 
 cover is awesome (although frustrating when you are actually playing, but in a good way) . I was 
 astounded to see how they duck and dodge your bullets as you fire at them. They even prone on the 
 floor, hiding in the grass to take you out. And their aim, boy is it deadly. The music of the game 
 is also just so incredible. It really just takes you into the game when you combine it with the 
 incredible looking environments. However, what really makes this game stand out is the gameplay. 
 The cover system the game uses, although not the first game to use it, is awesome. It works really 
 well popping out of cover and rolling to other cover. The aiming also works really well although 
 you have to start to be smart about your ammo seeing as how the AI can take quite a pounding. A 
 really nice thing about the game is that aside from being an awesome shooter, its also an amazing 
 platformer. All of the aminations that Drake goes through as he climbs up a ledge, falls down, 
 etc are just phenomenal. The thing about this game that is really insane though is that, you go 
 the first 75% of the game learning to gunfight a certain way. Then, they completely switch it up 
 on you and you are no longer aiming and taking cover. You are running and gunning. It is rare to 
 see a game that changes its gameplay formula so drastically mid-game and im happy to say, Uncharted 
 pulls it off very well. However, not all is terrific for the game. If it was, it would be getting 
 10. My main problem with the game, is that its short. It'll take you about 10-11 hours to beat. 
 Thats kinda lame, but there is some replay value. You can find treasures that unlock videos and 
 different game modes (kinda like skill points in Ratchet and Clank) . However, this really isn't 
 too much of an incentive to go back and play through it again. My main incentive for starting my 
 progression again was to beat it on Crushing (Very Hard) . That and that the game is insanely fun. 
 Another problem with the game is that there is the occasional texture popping. Its not anything 
 too major but i did notice it every now and then while playing. Also, the fact that there is no 
 type of multiplayer is a real shame. Uncharted would have been a blast online shooting it out with 
 other PSN users. Or at least coop since pretty much in every level of the game you are accompanied 
 by another ally. However, these are relatively small complaints that don't stop Uncharted from 
 being what it is, awesome. Uncharted is a must buy or at the very least a must play for anyone 
 who has a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrison91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  the playstation 3 has been waiting for a truely brilliant exclusive and here it is.
  I dont care what people say this game is brilliant simply because it makes you feel like your in 
 a film it looks so real and the animations are awsome and killing pirates is fun some times when 
 you shoot the and there stood on a bridge they will trow themselves off it like in action movie. 
 the guns are brilliant and you will find a favurate and try to stick with it through the game if 
 you can. But you get better wepons later in the game.
  The game has one game mode and it's the story but luckly it a good story and the all the main charaters 
 are playable once you finishede the game and unlocked them which isnt hard. finishing all 22 levels 
 in the game will take about 10h but you have to find all 61 tresures in the game and all 1000 points 
 on the medal system to unlock everything witch can take another +10h if you start on hard mode 
 like i did but if you start on easy you will have to complete the story on all 4 difficulty levels 
 and finding the tresures wich comes to 50+ hours but if you start on hard mode you will spend more 
 time playing through the story wondering whats next rather than easy mode spoiling things i dont 
 know why they put easy modes in games i dont ever go on them and the only person i know who dose 
 is my sister. so when you get this game go streight to hard mode and prove to your self that youre 
 good at games or you can prove you terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of those games that has the ability to really glue you infront of your tv screen 
 just playing and playing.
  Its fun, action packed, puzzles that ain't impossible to solve (most of them are really easy and 
 takes just a few minutes to figure out what to do)
  
  Graphics wise this game looks fantastic. Naugty dog has managed to capture some real life looking 
 surroundings and put some of that anim&euml; type of feel to characters, even though they behave 
 and act very natural.
  
  A few screen tearings can be found here and there but they are minor in the game so it doesn't 
 affect gameplay at all. soundwise it totally rocks just as much as the graphics does. chooce between 
 DD5.1, DTS5.1 or regular Pro Logic (stereo)
  
  Control wise there is not much to say. You have full control over your character everytime which 
 is nice. Games like this one can easliy become frustrating when it doesn't do what you want it 
 to do.
  
  is the game challenging? yeah it is, some fire fights are really hard even on easy mode and you 
 will certainly see have to start over more than once, luckily naughty dog has added many check 
 points in to the game so if you die there ain't much you have to re-play to come up to the point 
 where you died.
  
  All in all this is a really fun adventure/action game and is certainly one of the best games to 
 hit the ps3 so far.
  Sadly, since it isn't named halo, CoD or Half-Life I guess many will let this one slide which is 
 sad.. it is a good game, that looks stunning, sounds stunning and plays real well...
  
  on top of this naughty dog has managed to give people a little bonus sytem of their own. thruout 
 the game hidden treasures can be found 63 in all and its damn hard to find all of them on the first 
 run.
  Collecting these rewards you with various medals and also some bonus stuff.
  
  various kills like melee kills etc. also rewards you with medals, get 15 kills for brutal bla bla 
 medal and so on. In the end, if you like adventure/action games like the Tomb Raider series chances 
 are very very big that this game will satisfy your lust on that front for a long time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Ill be honest, i never thought uncharted was gona be any special, while people were going nuts 
 about it and the hype level went off the charts, i wasnt impressed.... and then i played it.
  
  To start this off, the graphic in this game are showcase worthy, thre are moments where you 
 just stare at the world naughty dog has created, its truely a breathtaking sight, lush forests, 
 creepy catacombs and variety of other locations keep this game fresh at all time, fps is constant 
 with no slowdowns ( that i found) . Audio is great, gameplay is fantastic, cover system works great 
 and the combat is just right. THe platforming is fun, but its never really challenging. The story 
 is great with great charactersand realy good voice acting, a rariety these days.
  
  With that said their are a few areas where the game goes from great to WTF. Theirs one scene where 
 you have to drive a seadoo which is terrible, you have to drive and shoot, but you have to stop 
 to shoot, and if you stop, your basically dead so what you hae to do is take it slow and shoot 
 guys and barrels before you drive through an area, which kinda runins what naughty dog probibly 
 intended, a resident evil 4 style seadoo run. Other then that, the game is great, definitly worth 
 playing again and getting the achievements is addictive. Overall thank you naughty dog for giving 
 me one of the few good ps3 games out their 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionRising
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a new Playstation 3 exclusive title from developer Naughty Dog. It's 
 a well made game that mixes platforming, gunplay, and puzzle solving to create one great and unforgettable 
 adventure. Naughty Dog did an excellent job for their first next-gen game. STORY
  In Drake's Fortune, you are Nathan Drake, the story's protagonist, who believes himself to be the 
 descendant of legendary explorer, Sir Francis Drake. Nate finds Francis's empty coffin, learning 
 that he faked his own death. Inside the coffin is Francis's diary, which pretty much gives away 
 the location of the legendary treasure of El Dorado. So Nate sets out to an uncharted island in 
 the middle of the Pacific Ocean to locate the treasure, but there's various forces trying to beat 
 him to it. GAMEPLAY
  Uncharted has two major gameplay elements: gunplay and platforming. You traverse the land in many 
 ways: The shooting takes up most of the gameplay. There are a variety of different weapons to use, 
 ranging from your fists to grenade launchers. Nate can carry three types of weapons at once: a 
 pistol, a rifle/shotgun, and his grenades, creating a sense of realism. He is a regular human being, 
 and can only take several bullets before going down, therefore, you'll have to utilize cover if 
 you want to stay alive long enough. The AI is really something as well. If you stay in one spot 
 behind cover for too long, the enemies will try to flank you or throw grenades to force you out 
 of hiding. They have excellent aim and strategies for taking you down, and each enemy will use 
 different tactics to ensure that you don't make it past them alive. The PS3's SIXAXIS features 
 are used in this game, as well, but they won't be very common. The most you'll use the motion sensing 
 is when you're setting the arc for throwing grenades. Besides that, it'll be used for maintaining 
 balance when crossing logs and such. The platforming comes in play when traversing areas or solving 
 puzzles. This is a major part of the gameplay, and isn't uncommon. Nate is surprisingly agile, 
 but still human. He can't make superhuman jumps or anything like that, but he'll utilize his environment 
 when he needs to get to a certain point.
  
  In total, Uncharted will take you about eight to ten hours to complete on your first play-through, 
 but the game has an Achievement-type medal system that really adds to the replay value. You earn 
 medals by completing certain objectives such as collecting treasures or getting a precise amount 
 of headshots. For every medal you earn, you get a set amount of medal points, and the medal points 
 unlock rewards. The rewards include non-gameplay related material, such as videos and concept art 
 galleries, and direct gameplay related unlockables such as alternate costumes, fast and slow motion, 
 weapon select, render mode select, and infinite ammo. All of this definitely gives you reason to 
 play through Uncharted more than once. GRAPHICS
  Uncharted shows what the PS3 is capable of. Although not as good as Heavenly Sword or Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma, the graphics in this game are amazing. It's all beautifully rendered, textured, and lighted, 
 and it's just great to look at. The one minor problem that just annoys me is that, sometimes, the 
 textures will take a little while to load up. So in some areas you'll be standing in the midst 
 of blurry areas for a few seconds. This isn't a big deal, just an annoyance. The developers really 
 took their time with the animation. Every time Nate steps behind cover, he'll be in a different 
 pose. If his health is low, you'll see the despair in his face, every time a bullet whizzes too 
 close to him, he'll flinch. When he jumps, his arms and legs will flail about as he tries to get 
 footing. When grabbing a ledge after a long jump, he'll barely keep his grip with one hand as the 
 other completely loses it. And the best thing is that all the characters go from one animation 
 to the next seamlessly and smoothly. As the characters move their eyes, their eyelids will move 
 realistically with them, and so will their lips as they speak.
  
  SOUND
  The incredible voice acting in Uncharted is definitely evident, both in the cutscenes and in the 
 gameplay. When in a gunfight, near death experiences, bullets whizzing nearby, and grenades being 
 thrown at you, will cause Nate to mutter to himself as he tries to control his own sanity. The 
 voices really tell the characters apart and show that each one has their own personality. All this 
 can be pretty uncommon in a game. The music really sets the mood for the different situations. 
 When entering a new area that's completely oblivious of other life, soft and eerie music will play. 
 During high battle situations, you'll hear loud and fast paced music. Everything is nicely set 
 up, and you would definitely notice a difference if the music was gone. PROS
  - Excellent Graphics
  - Great Platforming
  - Awesome Combat &amp; Gameplay
  - Incredible 
 Voice Acting
  - Characters Have Their Own Personalities
  - Music Perfectly Sets the Mood
  - Lots of Replay Value
  
  CONS
  - Too Short
  - Textures Sometimes Take a Few Seconds to 
 Load
  
  FINAL SCORE
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  With an average critic score of 9.0 with 44 critic reviews it is no surprise that this site will 
 not reconize or even give sony or Naughty Dog thier kudos for the use of the awesome power of the 
 Ps3 and its ability to allow some much more then just good graphics with in a game engine.
  
  I do admitt that thier are a few minor problems with in this title but not to the toon of an 
 8 The ingame graphics are by far the best to date on any console of this generation not only by 
 my opion, but even to Gamespots own reviewer. the seemless cut scene and game flow transintions 
 are almost seemless and alow a player to feel as one with in the envioremt. if one looks at the 
 whole view around you one would see trees moving as the wind flows and the water ripples like as 
 if you where in it spashing as you wade. as most of us know water in a video game is very difficult 
 to do. i have never seen it done better then in this title even with drake wading in and out you 
 can see the water almost feel it and if you look at shows your clothes damp and dripping. the textures 
 are some of the best i have ever seen and shading is just breathless.
  
  Game play is face paced through the first 2 thirds of the game when you come to the end 3rd it 
 becomes challenging and i feel as did gamespot it got some what repetitive so does God of war in 
 some parts, but isnt it what a game requires of us to keep busy and into the game. the story line 
 is intense and the ending is a gliffhanger leaving you to want more hint sequele seeems in line 
 dont you think... and i do agree that the targeting system could have been a tad better with maybe 
 a red highlight in the site to help you target better so you would be able to use less ammunation.
 
  
  Sound is amost great the sounds of the weapons are right on some slight misses like a few jungle 
 sounds would have enhanced the game.
  
  replay value is good with tons of hidden treasure to find and tons of goals to reach to get unlockable 
 content and weapons the game for an average player would last 12-14 hours and for most everyday 
 players maybe 7-10 hours but if you where to play at the higher difficulties i feel one could make 
 this game last twice that amount with ease and still find it fun.
  
  So with many of the critics i feel a 9 is and should be the proper score for this game seeing this 
 is the best AAA title to hit the ps3 market this year besides R&amp; C which i agree deserved an 
 8.5 like most critics...... seems too me in order to get a 9 or better out of this site you must 
 be a 360 only game or a multi platform including the 360....... wonder how much MS is paying you 
 all to under cut the compitition... seesm like it may be just true that money is the all mighty 
 around this site.
  and if it is what a shame.. because over the years you always seemd so fair with sony, but over 
 the last 2 years the facts seem to be any time you get a chance to stab sony you do even on On 
 The spot you spot lifght far more 360 games then any other platform combined......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Think Indiana Jones meets Mission Impossible; that's what Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is like. You'll 
 spend your time exploring a mysterious island, swinging from vines... and blowing dudes up. I compare 
 Uncharted to movies because that's what it is like most. It feels like a high-budget, no holds 
 barred blockbuster from Micheal Bay. Drake's Fortune embraces this, and delivers one of the most 
 beautiful, memorable and intense experiences in years.
  
  When you first boot up the game, you're introduced to a pre-rendered cutscene - or what you think 
 is a pre-rendered cutscene. Meet Nathan Drake, a cocky, funny adventurer who's the apparent descendent 
 of Sir Francis Drake. He resides alongside the light-hearted and quirky Elena Fisher as he pries 
 open Sir Francis' coffin. Inside there is not a body, but a diary. The diary of Sir Francis himself, 
 which details the location of a priceless treasure.
  
  But things don't go as planned when pirates attack their boat. This is when you realize that the 
 cutscene was not pre-rendered at all. Uncharted really does look that good. It only gets better 
 when the cigar-munching, money-hungry Sullivan comes to the rescue. He picks you up in a plane 
 and drops you off in some of the most realistic and beautiful jungle environments to date.
  
  The sound of birds singing echoes in the sky as Nathan walks through a lush path of towering 
 trees, moss-covered rocks and rotting tree branches. The plants sway to the side as he brushes 
 past them, inviting him to an unrippled patch of water that lays underneath a gentle waterfall. 
 As Nathan foots into the water, ripples glide from his feet, capturing the reflection of the lush 
 environments that surround him. With his jeans still dripping, he exits the water and continues 
 his journey in search of the lost treasure.
  
  Some Tomb Raider-esque platforming and puzzle solving elements later, Nathan discovers an underground 
 tunnel. Creeping around this dark and damp structure with only his torch to guide him, he realises 
 that he must clamber over crumbling ledges and take death-defying leaps over huge drops if he wishes 
 to find the exit.
  
  Squinting his eyes from the emerging sunlight, the adventurer escapes the tunnel alive, but only 
 to be met by bloodthirsty pirates. Nathan equips his pistol and takes aim in a Resident Evil 4 
 over-the-shoulder perspective. Thanks to some quick thinking, rolling in and out of cover and some 
 conveniently placed explosive barrels Nathan comes out the victor. After some more exploring passes 
 by, Nathan confronts more pirates. But this time they come in waves. After Nate has lost count 
 on how many cunning pirates he's took down, they still keep coming.
  
  And this is Uncharted's biggest issue: Balancing. Not very far into the game the platforming becomes 
 heavily outweighed by the sheer amount of gunfights. This isn't to say that the gunfights aren't 
 fun. In fact, it's quite the opposite. Darting in and out of cover, popping headshots and blasting 
 enemies away with your shotgun is great fun! It just all gets a bit tedious when it seems like 
 you're moving from battlefield to battlefield, rather than lush environment to lush environment.
 
  
  But this isn't enough to ruin the whole game because the diversity of the environments, whether 
 it be the lush jungle, or the delapidated ruins; they are all unique and fun to traverse. Separated 
 by some great vehicle levels, the amount of gunfights is more than forgivable. Uncharted will keep 
 you coming back for more thanks to the tremendous replay-value. This is mainly thanks to the achivements, 
 which when you accomplish a certain task; say, get 5 headshots in a row then you'll earn yourself 
 some 'Medal Points'. Once you accumulate a number of Medal Points, you'll get some nifty unlockables 
 like infinite ammo, or different skins to play in.
  
  Whether you're looking to explore a mysterious island, blow some dudes up or you just want to challenge 
 yourself, then Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is for you, thanks to some clever AI and stellar voice 
 acting. Movie like visuals and some novel twists to the story only add to the experience. If you're 
 at all interested in games then Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is certainly an unmissable experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Uncharted was one of the most hyped up game for PS3, and received more attention than it would've 
 because it was PS3 exclusive and many positive reviews from media. Unfortunately, it seems like 
 those positive reviews are nothing more than pity scores. 
  
  For PS3 owners like myself, it is another disappointment.
  
  The game unfortunately feels obviously 
 rushed. Let's get into the details slowly. 
  
  First the idea of the game seems pretty obvious. Mix what works. Following the trend faithfully, 
 Naughty Dog blend two popular franchise out there. Tomb Raider and Gears of War in Indiana Jones 
 like setting. The love child of two franchise game does take some characteristics of both games 
 but fails to take full advantages of both games. It does take good use of Indiana Jones like setting 
 though.
  
  Platform gameplay is most frustrating. After playing Assassin's Creed which came out around the 
 same time as Uncharted, the platform gameplay feels extremely restricted and limited. It can't 
 compare much with Tomb Raider either. The platform gameplay is extremely linear and straightforward. 
 Assassin's Creed platform gameplay is fun because even though it doesn't test your reflex, it gives 
 you vast sense of freedom of allowing you to climb or jump on top of anything you see out there. 
 Uncharted on the other hand makes plenty of surrounding that LOOKS like you can climb, but you 
 can't. Climbing isn't Nate's specialty it seems. He has to jump. He is forced to jump the long 
 way around, which looks obviously dangerous and pointless when it seems so easy to climb couple 
 of rocks to get up to locations he needs to. 
  
  At least Tomb Raider uses some clever level design to cover many of linear paths and really tests 
 you reflex for their platforming, but Uncharted it's feels like platform gameplay is just there 
 to extend gameplay hours and wastes your time. Still it can get mildly entertaining, but just when 
 you feel like you are getting entertained, the platform element ends and are you stuck with shooting 
 part of the game. 
  
  Before we get into the shooting part of the game, let's talk more about platform gameplay. The 
 game has beautiful graphic that looks fairly realistic. Everything does look little plastic figures 
 but still it is pretty. However the great illusion created by realistic graphic is quickly ruined 
 when you can't interact with your surrounding realistically. Especially after playing Assassin's 
 Creed this becomes painfully obvious and frustrating, which ends up ruining enjoyment of the game. 
 If the game had Naughty Dog's other popular franchise Jak jumping around all over the place, it 
 would've been more acceptable because it fits the stylized art, but Uncharted uses realistic graphic. 
 The platform element needed more realistic approach but instead it relies too heavily on jumping 
 element without giving the surrounding that fits the jumping oriented environment. The jungle simply 
 has too many design where it looks natural to climb, rather than jump. Not utilizing that quickly 
 ruins the jungle environment and makes you feel trapped and game feels much more linear than it 
 should. Everything in this game feels like a straight path. 
  
  Another problem comes with lack of challenge in platform gameplay. Tomb Raider is fun because you 
 have to test your wits to think about how to get from point A to point B. Not only that, it tests 
 your skills to get through cleverly placed walls, and platforms for you to jump and climb. Uncharted 
 has painfully obvious setting for the platform gameplay where it kills another illusion of realism. 
 Way too conveniently placed edges just gives it away too much. Also many of the platform segments 
 have you move around like monkey too much. Nate doesn't seem to be able to climb easy rocks, but 
 when he has to jump from one edge of a wall to another edge, he is extremely quick to do so. Even 
 monkeys can't move that well, thus breaking another illusion of realism. Lara Croft moves well, 
 but she moves well enough for us to believe she is a human. 
  
  There is another problem with Uncharted. This is unexpected problem but the animation isn't smooth. 
 One set of animation is very smooth in the game, but the transition from one animation to another 
 is rarely smooth during platform segments. Add all these problems together, and Uncharted provides 
 some really lackluster platform elements. 
  
  Then the game follows it up with lackluster shooting gameplay. 
  
  Uncharted uses the popular 
 cover mechanics just like Gears of War. Unfortunately it doesn't bring the fun with it. 
  
  Problem with Uncharted's shooting gameplay is that it is way too repetitive. Ok, I see some pirates 
 to shoot. Good I kill them, let me move one. But no, they send you waves after waves of pirates 
 for you to waste your time. Just dealing with first wave already gets me sick of that area, but 
 after 3rd or 4th waves, it's just tiresome and boring. If they at least added some variety, it 
 wouldn't be so bad, but it's identical to one gun fight to another. Use same weapons against enemies 
 using the same weapons and patterns. It is painfully repetitive. just like this review. 
  
  Also the lack of different weapons really hurts the game as well. The game focuses the gameplay 
 aspect on shooting, but the number of weapons provided is no better than Tomb Raider, a platform 
 focused game. 
  
  Add all this together and the game feels really rushed. Perhaps if they had more time, Naughty 
 Dog might not have the needs to reuse the same locations multiple of times by sending extra waves 
 of pirates. Perhaps if they had more time, they would've made better transition between the animations 
 during the platform gameplay. Perhaps if they had more time, they could've had not so simple design 
 for their platform gameplay. 
  
  Well, that's how it ends up. Uncharted could've been a great game, but it isn't. At best it ends 
 up being mildly entertaining game. 
  
  At least the story is interesting..... somewhat. Even the story feels too much of a Hollywood movie 
 ripoff. You simply can't shake the feeling that you've seen these characters in some other Hollywood 
 movies and saw this story in some cheesy B-rated Hollywood summer action flicks. 
  
  Uncharted represents everything that's wrong with today's gaming industry. Lack of originality 
 and shameless rip off from other franchises, and not even doing a good job at it. But after reading 
 many reviews from fans and media, it seems it is true that Americans are happy as long as they 
 can shoot something, and power of fanboys and their loyalty is fearsome. 
  
  It is quite scary how positive Uncharted managed to score in many reviews while Assassin's Creed 
 became anti-Christ in gaming industry. Being a long time gamer myself, this is definite red flag 
 for the industry and I can't help but to feel that with fans and media supporting the wrong games, 
 it won't be long that the industry will get caught in a flow of generic gameplay designs and void 
 of originality and creativity. 
  
  For PS3 owners, it looks like we won't be getting that high quality exclusive until MGS4 comes 
 out. If you can't wait that long, and is dying for PS3 exclusive, then go play Heavenly Sword. 
 If you are looking for platform game, look away from here. There are so many better options there 
 especially when Assassin's Creed has just come out. If you want a shooting with cover system, I 
 suggest you wait until Army of Two and see how that turns out or wait for MGS4. If you want to 
 get this game for story, I suggest you to just get Indiana Jones collection or something. You won't 
 have to waste your time goring through some repetitive and generic gameplay and just enjoy the 
 story. If you are in for just some mild fun pretending to be Indiana Jones wanna be while jumping 
 sporadically and use want to over-play the cover system, then give Uncharted a rent. The game can 
 be mildly fun, but it is far from a must have and there simply is too many other options for you 
 out there for you to invest your time and money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdelmessih101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Yet another smash hit series (likely to become one) from Naughty Dog, who brought other such series 
 including the Crash Bandicoot series for PS1 and PS2, and the Jak and Daxter series for PS2 and 
 PSP.
  
  I beat Uncharted on hard, (my first time through) , I have to honestly say that it was the most 
 fun and overall the best time I've had playing a single player campaign in a long long time (ever 
 since God of War II) . It is one of, if not, the most immersive and enthralling game experience 
 on the PS3, or any game console out, thus far.
  
  If you want to know the statistics, it took me 12 hours and 52 minutes (because I played to have 
 fun and not to finish it quickly) , I found 26 out of the 60 treasures, and I recieved a total of 
 530 out of 1000 points from medals. I wasn't actually trying to find the treasures or get the medals; 
 those are just what I happened to earn as I completed my first playthrough.
  
  I can't wait to beat the game on Crushing and eventually find all of the treasures and get all 
 of the medals (even if I have to play on Easy to do it) . Those who think that this game has little 
 to no replayability don't know Naughty Dog. They know how to add replayability to a game without 
 multiplayer. There is a difficulty level to unlock, 60 treasures to find, 1000 points worth of 
 medals to earn. There's plenty of fun to be had with the rewards you earn like different costumes, 
 weapon choice, and unlimited ammo. Not to mention that the game is essentially a summer blockbuster 
 that you'll want to see/play over and over, again and again.
  
  If you plan on playing this game, leave yourself a big chunk of time because it's really hard to 
 stop playing it once the story gets good (which happens within the first ten minutes) . The game 
 is in no way monotonous, as each of the 22 chapters offers its own unique take on the gameplay 
 with astonishing new environments, weapons, enemies, buildings, and other structures. There are 
 several vehicle sequences in the game as well. Each sequence was a welcome change of pace and was 
 very well done. Also, each firefight was unique because of the AI, different settings, and different 
 weapons. You can also use different strategies to spice up the action. You can try running and 
 gunning instead of using the cover system. You can use melee more often, which I'm a big fan of. 
 The gameplay can only get repititive and boring if you allow it to do so.
  
  In addition, towards the end, the game throws you a curve ball and forces you to change your style 
 of gameplay. It makes you change the style you've been accostomed to using pretty much the entire 
 game, and this is actually quite refreshing. It also serves to make the ending more exciting.
 
  
  Well, the enemies pretty much have the same health throughout each of the difficulty levels. The 
 changes are improved AI aiming and intelligence.
  
  I'm playing through the game on "crushing" difficulty, and at mid-range to far-range distances, 
 their aiming is good enough to take you down with two or three well placed bullets in a row. In 
 close range, they usually kill you with one shot (pistol/shotgun) . However, Nate is still able 
 to withstand 5-7 poor shots in a row, as with all other difficulty levels.
  
  On hard, the enemy tends to flank you if their group has at least 5 or 6 people. On crushing, however, 
 they'll flank you when there are as few as two or three of them.
  
  I've been able to take advantage of this by hanging back, and killing them one at a time as they 
 flank me to thin their numbers. In some situations, you can melee them as they come. This tactic 
 usually leaves one or two opponents to pick off.
  
  I can understand how the extra waves of enemies can be frustrating, but since the game uses a health 
 regeneration system, instead of a health pack system, there's nothing to worry about other than 
 lack of ammo or lack of places to take cover.
  
  Also, I find that it takes half as many bullets to kill someone when shot simultaneously. For example, 
 it can take as many as eight or nine pistol shots to kill someone if you pop up, take 2-3 shots, 
 duck, pop up, take 2-3 more shots, duck, pop up, and take 2-3 final shots.
  
  However, it takes about 4 shots if you fire them all at once in succession without crouching back 
 down and allowing the opponent to recover. This is assuming that you don't get a headshot.
  
  In conclusion, the game is not unfair in terms of the difficulty. It may seem that way at first, 
 but after some analysis, you'll find there's more than meets the eye. I've beaten the game on hard 
 without any frustrations, though I can't say the same about my current playthrough on "crushing" 
 difficulty.
  
  When you play on "crushing," the gap in skill between you and the enemy AI is very slim - even 
 a single opponent must be considered as a viable threat to kill you, and thus, you can't let your 
 guard down for even a second.
  
  Overall, Uncharted still earned my GOTY award for 2007. I gave this award to Uncharted based on 
 the fact that every moment I've spent with it was pure enjoyment. It was the most fun I've had 
 with any game the whole year, and I'm still eagerly playing today.
  
  There's not enough that can be said about a game this good. Superlatives cannot describe and words 
 cannot explain the fun to be had playing this game. Definitely 100% worthy of my GOTY 2007.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justin_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's fortune is the first game since God of War II that I feel deserves my written 
 review. I haven't had this much fun with a platformer since Super Mario 64. This game kept me on 
 the edge of my seat the entire time I was playing. A few times during the game I failed to realize 
 when the cut-scene ended, and gameplay started. 
  
  A real stand-out feature to this game are the animations of the main character, Nathan Drake. He 
 always seems to be running and tripping differently every fire fight. The score also does an amazing 
 job at making this game feel as epic as it plays. The sound really gets your heart pumping in those 
 intense pirate/ mercenaries battles throughout the game.
  
  The game is not without a few (VERY) minor flaws though. The puzzles in the game, which feel natural 
 to the storyline, are hard to come by. This game definitely could have used about five more good 
 puzzle sections in it.
  
  Also, some of Nathan's dialog can get old from time to time. One of the more repetitive phrases 
 in the game occurs when a grenade is thrown in the vicinity of Nathan. He tends to either say
 Uh OH!" or "NO NO NO NO!" while funny at first, can get tired.
  
  Other than those minuscule squabbles, this game goes above and beyond what I expected for this 
 highly anticipated game. This game makes me very excited for things to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  There's nothing surprising about how good a lot of this years games are. At the rate things are 
 going, games are improving considerably on an exponential basis. That being said however, I was 
 certainly surprised by Naughty Dogs 'Uncharted: Drakes Fortune'.
  
  After having played the demo, I thought it was okay... nothing special. I didn't even expect to 
 pick it up... but I was hungry for something to sink my teeth into... and I found just that! the 
 demo doesn't hold a candle to this delightful game. the animation, graphics, voice overs, acting 
 and story are all TOP NOTCH. The gameplay is fluid and Naughty Dog do a great job of pushing the 
 story along... maybe too good of a job.
  
  The negative points are that the game is way too easy and short (Were finding more of this in games 
 nowadays) . I played all night last night and am at chapter 15 already. I havnt even finished playing 
 the game and I miss it already and already Im trying to pencil in some more PS3 time so I can start 
 it from the beginning.
  
  Im one of those guys that likes to play games over a few time so for me the value is worth it. 
 The atmosphere and sound effects are wonderful and really get you into the game fast. I totally 
 lost myself on this one... and had to eventualy TEAR myself away to get to sleep... and the thing 
 is... I wasnt expecting this at all. This is one instance that I would say the demo hurt the game 
 more than helped it. I guess thats because the story is such an important part of the game and 
 the characters are so likeable that by the time you get to the demo stage... its a whole new breed 
 of game.
  
  Pros: Story, Animation, Graphics, voiceovers. Third person shooting is excellent (sort of like 
 Gears of war / Tomb Raider) and really fun. I didnt get tired of the constant assaults from enemy 
 forces... bring it on. 
  
  Cons: A little too easy (but you can fix that in the difficulty select anyway) and too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA5Addict
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is an action platformer game from the game creators from the Crash Bandicoot 
 and the Jak and Daxter series. With both of these hugely successful series on Naughty Dog's resume; 
 Uncharted had quite some expectations put on it. Does Uncharted Drake's Fortune live up to its 
 hype? The answer is a resounding yes.
  
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune puts you into the role of Nathan Drake, a rugged treasure hunter, who 
 is looking for the lost treasure of his supposive ancestor, Sir Francis Drake. Nathan Drake, along 
 with the reporter Elena Fisher, and Victor "Sully" Sullivan, explore a long lost Island for Sir 
 Francis Drake's hidden treasure. Finding this treasure will prove to be no easy task, as hordes 
 of angry, stubborn, greedy pirates try to stop Nathan along every step of the way.
  
  Uncharted Drake's Fortune's strength is in two places. Its story and graphics. The storyline of 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is exceptionally well put together. Uncharted really makes you feel 
 for the characters throughout the game. The conversations among the characters are put together 
 so well; that they can pass for a movie. The interaction among characters is pretty special. By 
 the end of the story you want the characters to succeed. The actual plot of Uncharted is put together 
 with intricate details. It really puts you on your heels, and you want to know what happens next. 
 The basic story is simply looking for treasure that is hidden on an island. The game really gives 
 you background as to what happened in the places Nathan is exploring for the hundreds of years 
 before Nathan got there. Its too bad that the story doesn't give more of a background on Elena 
 Fisher and a few other details. It seems like Naughty Dog got a little lazy and summed her story 
 up in 2 mintues near the end of the game. However that is a testament to itself, the game makes 
 you want to know what happens with her. You really sympathsize with the characters by the end of 
 the story.
  
  The graphics in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune are some of the most immersive out of any game on the 
 market. The lighting and shadows that the trees make is a testament to the graphics that this game 
 produces. This game has very lush, green, colorful, graphics. This really sets this game apart 
 from other high graphic games currently on the market that have a brownish shade to them. Although 
 some parts of the game do have a dark feel, this is neccessary for variety and still look exceptionally 
 real. Everything about Uncharted really makes you feel like your in the jungle exploring a lost 
 island.
  
  Along with the graphics giving you a sense of realness the sound does quite a bit to add to this. 
 The music will get epic at the right times as your in a fire fight, and get eerie when your wandering 
 around alone about to get stalked by a bunch of pyscho pirates. The sound and music make it feel 
 like your wandering around a dangerous jungle. Along with this, the gun fire sounds clean and crisp 
 as if your shooting a real gun in the wilderness.
  
  The gameplay in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is solid, but could be improved. The game uses a cover 
 system, much like Rainbow Six Vegas and Gears of War. Sometimes this just doesn't feel right in 
 certain situations. Although when you get used to it, it does become second nature. You press circle 
 to stay in cover and then hold down L1 to peek out while firing with r1. Using the sixaxis to control 
 the grenades can be frusterating to use in the heat of battle; but nothing that time cannot fix. 
 Jumping from ledge to ledge, as the game often has you do, is a pleasure. Unlike in Tomb Raider, 
 this is very forgiving. You do not have to perfectly time the jump in order to land on the other 
 side. This avoids many potentially frusterating moments. Naughty Dog once again has put many platforming 
 elements in this game. They are often cleverly hidden, such as ridges on walls, or sets of pillars. 
 There are also close quarter combat combos that can be used by pressing a series of buttons together. 
 These combos are very satisfying, although these opportunites are rare, as getting that close to 
 a pirate often warrants death. The constant gunning down of pirates does get broken up throughout 
 the game by riding vehicles such as a Jet Ski or manning the turret on a jeep (which is a lot of 
 fun.) Overall the gun system could use work, it just doesn't feel right at times.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a game that does nothing new; it does what it tries to do well but 
 nothing more. It takes about 8 to 10 hours to finish the main story on medium. This game is very 
 replayable, and there are hidden treasures skewed through the game to add replayability. Getting 
 a certain amount of treasures unlocks different awards etc etc. Past the main story of Uncharted 
 and the hidden extras, there isn't anything more to the game, which really keeps it from becoming 
 a legendary game. However, the story campaign is one you don't want to miss. If you own a PlayStation 
 3 you must play Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Better then I though it would be since Naughty Dog hasn't really made a good game since the Jak 
 Series but they made a huge hit with this game it beats out tomb raider with great game play the 
 puzzles are the same old same old but not as easy but not more difficult since you have a in game 
 journal to look at that helps.
  
  Th gun play is alright but the cover system, could have been alot better think gears of war but 
 more trouble sometimes but if your smart you'll learn to just stand behind pillars (the guns are 
 typical pistols, assault Rifles, shotguns, snipers... ect.....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Sony and the Playstation 3 brand have been promising AAA titles since the release of the PS3 back 
 in November 2006 and finally, they have their first true, must-play title for the system. Uncharted 
 is a great adventure that unfolds perfectly with all the great qualities a AAA game must have, 
 great visuals, great sound and exceptional gameplay.
  
  The only factor which takes away from this game is the lack of replay value. Sure it offers the 
 obligatory hidden items to collect, various difficulty levels and skill based tasks but in the 
 end, the rewards aren't much more than artwork and movies about the game. Other than that, the 
 game must unfold only one way due to the linearity of the game and the lack of other playable characters. 
 
  
  Set on two lush, tropical islands, Uncharted gives the PS3 a chance to show its graphical power 
 through the vibrant and life-filled environments and the great lighting displayed all around. The 
 animations for the characters are also very good with each lunge for the next precariously placed 
 ledge and diving for cover during a firefight being very believable. 
  
  The control scheme isn't ground breaking but they are solid. The cover scheme works like just like 
 other games with cover schemes that have come before it. The highlight of the controls is the one 
 button, X, which controls all the jumping, diving, grasping and swimming making the controls very 
 simple and easy to operate. This game was meant to be accessible by both casual and seasoned video 
 game people alike.
  
  2008 looks to be a big year for the PS3 console and Drake's fortune kicks it off in a great way.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bufta
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  To be honest the build up to this game left me a little cold and it wasnt one of my chosen favourites 
 for the christmas period. However upon playing drakes fortune i have to say i was blown away by 
 how utterly incredible this game was. The first thing you notice are the visuals which are easily 
 the finest on PS3 to date, water ripples rocks shine and detail goes to new levels of intricacy 
 that ive never witnessed in a videogame before. In fact id say this pips Gears of War for the all 
 time graphics Prize, Its that good!
  
  Whilst looking good is great the game plays beautifully its so much fun taking the pirates in the 
 game down with a headshot (very satisfying) . Drake can run jump duck and climb his way out of any 
 situation and the whole thing feels intuitive and never becomes a drag to control. In amongst all 
 the gamplay is a story which is fit to adorn any modern action film. This draws you in easily with 
 the 3 main protagonists who are all likeable and quite often funny with it.
  
  Sound in term s of fx is incredible with the 5.1 DTS pumping out crystal clear ambience. Lavished 
 on top is the music score which sets the tone perfectly and sometimes scares the living hell out 
 of you later on in the game.
  
  All in all then this game is fantastic I truly enjoyed it from start to finish. Highly reccommended....! 
 Game of the year easily! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisIsntLeonard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  When I was reading reviews of this game, prior to playing it, I was wondering why so many XBOX-ers 
 were hoping it would become multi-platform. When I played the demo, I was very impressed. When 
 I bought the game, I realized why this is one of the top rated games of the year.
  Uncharted takes familiar storylines and characters, along with beautiful scenery, and flowing movements, 
 and puts it all into a fun-filled, action-packed shootout. Comparisons to Tomb Raider and Indiana 
 Jones are expected, but this game is much more. The game is a little more believable than the Tomb 
 Raider genre, and a little less bright than the Indiana Jones series. Uncharted is very colorful 
 and lively, the dialogue being very snappy and intimate. But at times, when necessary, the shakes 
 set in, and the gameplay, story, music; everything goes dark, and suddenly you're playing a heart-pumping, 
 resident evil-esque game. Mix this all in with the acrobatics of the acclaimed Prince of Persia 
 trilogy, and you have an incredible game.
  
  Did I mention that the game has some of the best graphics I've ever seen, on any system? (And I'm 
 talking real-time, not cutscene) . The lighting effects are simply jaw-dropping.
  
  My say is that if you own a PS3, then you need to pick up Uncharted this holiday season.
  
 
  Edit (12/20) :
  I am a fan of all games, all platforms. I do think that CoD4 is the best game of the year, and 
 I thought Halo 3 was substantially disappointing. But of all the games I've played, I've never 
 seen such a great game get so little love. C'mon Gamespot?! The f'n awards feature you have going, 
 and Uncharted isn't listen for ONE?! It's a great game. And it's not even up for best PS3 game? 
 Jeez, you could've atleast allowed it to be an exclusive. Ofcourse CoD4 is going to be best game 
 for both 360 and PS3 now... Ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooby1970
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  I put this game on last night for the first time, after playing the impressive demo that was downloaded 
 from PSN. I was pleasently surprised as the full game totally kicks the demo's ass.
  
  The game manages to be bigger than all it's parts, it's a shoot-em-up, it's a platformer, its a 
 vehicle-driving obsticle avoiding mash of all things great in video games. Sure, people have compared 
 to to Tomb Raider, and I'm sure it would have made a great Indiana Jones game, but this game is 
 just so special compared to the relentless averageness that is released out there.
  
  Graphically speaking the game is probably the best looking game you would have ever seen. It feel's 
 like you are in a jungle, or at ancient ruins or where ever you may be. The water effects are simply 
 oozing.. erm... water! All the graphics are simply stunning. The animation is first calss and everything 
 about the artwork looks like they actually loved the game they were designing.
  
  As for the soundtrack, turn up the sound and you're in the jungle! The musical score is of film 
 quality also, and it all sounds lush in DTS 5.1 surround sound. It really is a musical feast for 
 your ears.
  
  Overall, its an amazing game with the best elements from all your favourite games thrown in to 
 make one huge and enjoyable game. Ok, if there is one little niggle, it's the enemy are sometimes 
 a little too devious and it can take about 5 or 6 shots to kill them if you hit them in parts of 
 their bodies that do not cause much harm, but it's pretty easy to learn how to do head-shots more 
 often than not.
  
  Awesome... amazing... sweet... sexy... Thats Drakes Fortune! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game and it took me 3 weeks. I work so I can only play this like an 1 per 
 weeknights and about 3 hours in the weekends. This game is not short, so don't listen to those 
 people, unless you are a hardcore gamer who doesn't have a job or school. 
  
  This game is amazing. The story pulls you in as you go. You will want to know what will happen 
 next. At first, it got corny but then after chapter 1, the story kicks in and the real action begins.
 
  
  This is the best looking console game I've seen so far. Each and every animation is done fluently. 
 When Drake jumps or do any sort of stunts, it will actually make you feel like he's a real person. 
 The texture and background is incredible. The details are everywhere, for example, the trees, walls, 
 water, and buildings looks incredible.
  
  The Sound of this game is really good. The Voice-Overs are done perfectly. Each person sounds exactly 
 like the characters. The Music is top notch. It makes you feel like you're watching a Movie. When 
 the credit started to roll, the music made me feel like, wow.... that was great.
  
  Gameplay is nothing new. We've seen it on GeOW, Tomb Raider, and Resident Evil, but this is a good 
 thing. I see nothing wrong with bringing in the good ideas and combine them in this game. A casual 
 gamer, like me, can jump right in and have no problems with it. The AI is smart. They hide when 
 you try to shoot them and they advance when you just hiding. They come in all sides. The only problem 
 I have with the gameplay is the hand-to-hand combat. You won't last long with doing that, but it 
 does comes in handy if you run out of bullets or you want to do some crazy stuff, like shoot and 
 then run behind the enemy and SNAP his neck (that's freaking cool) . 
  
  For all PS3 owners, this is the game you want to own. Best visuals, great soundtrack & voices, 
 solid gameplay, and a great story. I'm glad I have this game and it is ONLY on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oman2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Naughtydog has done a fantastic job with its first game on the ps3.
  They have used the abilities of the ps3 to create a masterpiece game and an amazing visuals.
 
  the game play is very nice and the surrounding environment is out standing.
  maybe it is not a very long game but i think it worths the money and if anyone says that there 
 is no huge diffirence between the ps2 and the ps3, this game will prove that he is wrong.
  the good thing in this game that it uses the power of the ps3 and it allows you to see the graphics 
 power of the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  Graphics are hands down amazing. Textures are ultra detailed, everythinglooks really realistic, 
 with a twist. Characters are as detailed and animated perfectly. Lighting effects, water, everything 
 looks amazing. This is by far one of the best looking games I have ever played, it has that kind 
 of "Gears of War" wow effect when you start playing it. To be really anal, here are a few quirks 
 here and there though... Some textures tends to appear a second too late and in a few instances 
 Drake looks like he is skating instead of walking 
  
  Sounds
  Orchestral sountrack is great, never invasive, always on point to stress and describe situations. 
 Dialogue are acted very well, every charcter is extremely believable. Sound effects are what they 
 are supposed to be. 
  
  Playability
  Here is where I am thorned. The game flows really well and is entertaining from beginning to end, 
 but thinking back nothing about the gameplay is really special or particularly new. There are 2 
 types of gameplay here. First is platforming, that borrows heavily from titles like tomb raider, 
 but in a dumbed down way. There's nothing to understand or find out, you just go ahead and do it, 
 it's all there for you. The game is very forgiving so precision is not even an issue. They could 
 have definitely put more effort into developinf the platform element more. Then there is shooting, 
 which is cool but is pretty much a Gears of War rip off. Same cover/shoot dynamic all over, never 
 really changes. I didn't find it particularly difficult, just need to be patient and take enemies 
 down one at a time. There are a few puzzles here and there (mostly environmental) but a) they are 
 really simple and b) the game gives you plenty of hints so that not getting is not an option, unless 
 you are totally retard. All in all, everything flows, but I wonder how much of the fun is because 
 the game looks so amazing and immersive and how much is for the actual gameplay itslef
  
  Longevity
  The game is pretty short, clocking around 8-9 hours. It sounds short but it feels 
 right - you have experienced enough of the gameplay to be satisfied with it (and since there are 
 not many changes, it's a good thing that it doesn't drag along) and the story is well developed 
 (surprisingly well given the premise) . One comment is that the end is a bit lame and could have 
 been a bit more developed. There are 60 treasure you can find and many achievements you can unlock 
 so if you are into that type of stuff you might find some replayability. It's the same game over 
 and over though, so not sure how interestng that is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  I really didn't find the Intro level to the game very satisfying compared to how well the game 
 gets as you play! 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10 After you get used to the controls the game really becomes addicting to play. 
 yea it's the same enemy throughout the game but the cover system is down very well. I'd compare 
 it to GoW. I'd have to say the weapons aren't the greatest I've played with but it carries the 
 game well enough. i really would have liked to have a scope. The lara croft style of jumping up 
 and down ledges is pretty easy and very forgiving if you do fall because the game saves very often. 
 There' a lot of other things to accomplish as well. There's a bunch of hidden treasure to find 
 and lots of different gameplay achievemens to try and get. That said, you could play this over 
 and over again because the game does let you keep what you find on our next go around. 
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 The game really shines in the visuals. It isn't Crysis but for this game the look 
 and feel of the environment works very well. The really made the water extremely well. One small 
 beef I had was the characters have kind of a plastic look to them.
  
  
  Sound: 9.5/10 What can I say about the sound except it is very immersive. The music draws you in. 
 The guns sound great and overall it flows well throughout. The voice overs are top notch. It's 
 been awhile since a game has told a story as well as this.
  
  I don't know if I would buy it because it really is a short game but the thrill ride and fun you'll 
 have is worth the 10 hours or so that's there. I personally rented it but won't buy. Even though 
 it has a lot of things you ca do each time you play again, I'm usually satisfied with playing a 
 game once through. Sometimes twice. But that's just me. For most I'd assume they would play this 
 game more than once so for those, this is a definate buy! With all that said you wo't be maing 
 a mistake buying it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaitoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  First, I'd just lie to get the negative things out of the way. The length of the game is approximately 
 8 - 10 hours, which can be short. But other than that, I can't find any fault in the game. 
  
  The game is made from ideas of pulp action comics and movies, and that has made the story and 
 gameplay amazing. The story has a couple twists including one that changes the game very drastically. 
 The characters all have depth, and are life-like. Voice-Acting and dialogue is top notch, with 
 amazing believability. 
  
  Gameplay is a mix of gunplay, platforming, and the occasional fighting. It also uses a cover system 
 similar to Gears of War, and does it just as well. Platforming is simple, but only because it is 
 not meant to be a Tomb Raider-like game, but an action/adventure game instead. Fights can also 
 be fun if it's one-on-one. Simple puzzles are in the game as well. There is also a portion of the 
 game where you are on a jet ski, driving and shooting, and there is also a part when you're on 
 the back of a truck, shooting enemy vehicles. Both are very fun experiences. There are also parts 
 that utilize the SixAxis function well, such as aiming for grenade throwing, and balancing while 
 walking over logs.
  
  The sound is unbelievable as well. The environments have all the ambient sounds people would expect 
 it to have, and (stated above) the voice-acting is terrific too. Other sounds such as those of 
 guns and footsteps are of the same quality as well. There is also an amazing orchestral score that 
 compliments the game very well, with an amazing theme and different tracks for different areas 
 of the game.
  
  AI is also one of the best things of Uncharted. Pirates and Mercenaries will take cover, suppress 
 fire and flank you whenever they get the chance. They are quite intelligent and because of that, 
 you will probably die many, many times. They also use grenades well, throwing very accurately, 
 and having the ability to flush you out of cover.
  
  Last, but not least, the Graphics are simply one of the best I've seen. The characters looked superb, 
 and the environments look and act amazing as well. The leaves will sway in the wind, and some plants 
 will bend when you step through them. The environment is colorful when it's supposed to be, and 
 gritty when it's supposed to be. There is no overdose of effects such as specular mapping, bump 
 mapping, and bloom/HDR. There is also a "Next-Gen" Filter that you can unlock that (I'm guessing) 
 makes fun of new games with over-excessive bloom and brightness. The characters move believably 
 with amazing animations. They have tons of animations, from walking, running, to walking or running 
 up stairs, when Nathan Drake is hurt, or rolling on the ground. 
  
  There is also a replayability value that has made me play the game over again. You are able to 
 collect treasure and do certain things in the game to earn rewards. Certain things can include 
 killing a certain amount of people with a certain gun, shooting 50 headshots, fighting with five 
 people, or collecting 20 treasures. The rewards unlock several things including rendering modes, 
 different skins, videos of the game, and other stuff such as Fast Motion, Slow Motion, and Infinite 
 Ammo. This may seem a little boring, but it is a great and fun way to replay the game. 
  
  There are also no load times except for when loading the game when you start it, which is wonderful 
 because it really immerses you in it. 
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a brilliant game that excels in pretty much all categories, and is 
 definitely a must-buy for PS3 owners. It is, without a doubt, one of the best games ever made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahstar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying this game is great. The visuals alone blow you away. The story 
 line has enough plot twists to keep your attention. The gameplay is amazing and very responsive 
 for a game that has soooooooo many animations. There are so many animations that even in the last 
 chapters of the game you'll still be seeing something new that should entertain you. The voice 
 acting even out does heavenly sword. Music and sound effects blend perfectly for this game. I must 
 admit i do wish the puzzles were a little harder, but that by no means takes away from the game. 
 You will definatly enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Where to start, Uncharted is an action adventure that has been developed by naughty dog as a PS3 
 exclusive. And its fantastic!!! 
  
  Presentation
  The menus and basically the whole style of the games presentation fits very well with the theme 
 of the game.
  
  Gameplay
  There are many elements of gameplay in Uncharted, you have your platforming which is supurb, the 
 level design is great and the camera works really well i the platforming areas. you have the gunfights 
 that usually have you taking cover then popping out to cap the bad guys, i love the gunplay its 
 perfectly implemented. theres also the brawling which is great fun, i love kicking the crap out 
 of the last enemy left. there are little diversions which break up gameplay as well, jetski riding 
 and manning a turret on a jeep these elements add a great variety.
  
  Story
  The story is the best part of Uncharted, full of mystery and exploration and filled to the brim 
 with fantastic characters that enhance the experience from start to finish. the characters are 
 great you feel like they could be your real friends, the voice actors to a great job of making 
 the characters accessable.
  it brings back memories of indianna jones
  
  Graphics
  The visuals in Uncharted are stunning, naughty dog stopped short of photo realism and in all fairness 
 its a good thing, theres almost a cartoony quality to the visual style especially the characters 
 and i think this once again makes the story and characters more approachable
  
  Sound
  the sounds are great, the voice acting is supurb and the noise of the jungle is realistic
  
 
  Overall
  Uncharted is a great game, finally PS3 has an exclusive to be proud of, naughty dog should be proud 
 of themsevles too, with heavenly sword and lair not living up to their full potential this is a 
 great game, my favourite in my collection so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, without a doubt, is a masterpiece, and There are so many great things 
 to say about this game. First, I'll start off by saying that the graphics in Uncharted have to 
 be the best graphics I have ever seen in a video game. Beautiful textures, beautiful, lush jungle 
 environments, and fantastic animations are all over the place. This game is simply glorious to 
 look at. 
  
  Gameplay wise, Uncharted plays like Tomb Raider and Gears of War. You are always jumping across 
 huge valleys, swinging on vines, climbing great cliffs, and solving simple but entertaining puzzles. 
 The combat system, similar to GeOW's combat system, requires you to take cover behind certain objects, 
 such as crates, walls, etc, and poke out from around the corner, and shoot at the damn pirates. 
 Or, if you really lose your patience, you can simply run up to a pirate and press the melee button 
 to knock him out. Drake really has some awesome moves up his sleeve. 
  
  Uncharted's story is very, very cinematic, and the cutscenes make it feel as though you are watching 
 a Hollywood action flick. Everything in this area is once again very well done. 
  
  Simply because I am too lazy, I'm not going to go into any more detail. But I hope from reading 
 my review that you can understand the message I am attempting to tell you: GET THIS GAME. You won't 
 be disappointed. Good job Naughty Dog, and keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairyassapeman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Presentation: 10 out of 10
  Uncharted scores top marks in presentation. It captures the feel of pulp adventure books, movies 
 and comics perfectly. The acting and voice talent is some of the best ever seen in a video game. 
 The fully motion captured cutscenes are a joy to watch. It reminds me very much of a Don Bluth 
 cartoon film from the 1980s, only more photo-realistic. (or similar) The music is good and does 
 a great job of setting the mood. I had no trouble navigating menus, and the graphics for menus 
 were appropriate. 
  
  
  Graphics: 9.5 out of 10
  Uncharted is graphically fantastic. I noticed a pop-in once or twice while playing, and the blood 
 doesn't look realistic at all. Other than that, I can't find anything to fault the graphics on. 
 Animation is fantastic.
  
  
  Sound: 10 out of 10
  I cannot find anything to knock the game on, soundwise. As mentioned above, voice talent is first 
 class, and the music is good. The in game banter also is done very well, and I can't remember any 
 annoyingly repetitive voices or sounds. 
  
  
  Gameplay: 6.5 out of 10
  Ok here's where the game suffered in my opinion. The platforming was way too excessive and over 
 the top. The whole game you were constantly jumping to and from ledges and monkeying your way through 
 the jungle. I think I spent more time climbing in Uncharted than on Assassin's Creed. Seemed like 
 every scene had you climbing and jumping to somewhere above you. After all the jumping and monkeying, 
 you usually had to find a way to open a door, either with a chain wheel, or some other puzzle. 
 The constant platforming reminded me I was playing a game, rather than experiencing an adventure. 
 
  The camera during the platforming parts didn't always serve you well. I died several frustrating 
 times because of the camera. Thank goodness MOSt of the time you can reposition it with the right 
 analog stick. 
  Occasionally I died because the animation of Nathan starting to run carried me over a ledge. The 
 controls can be a bit finicky at times, but overall it handles pretty well. 
  
  The gunplay is fun, but occasionally difficult and frustrating. Sometimes it is very hard to get 
 an aimed shot at a target because the camera won't cooperate. Gunplay in Uncharted reminds me a 
 bit of a survival horror game. You're constantly scavenging every last bullet, and having to decide 
 whether it's better to pick up a higher powered weapon with fewer bullets, or keep the weaker weapon 
 that you have more ammo for. I tended to stick with the Makarov 9mm pistol and the Ak-47 up until 
 the M-4 and Berretta were available. I didn't care for the shotguns much until the last 3-4 chapters. 
 
  I didn't make much use of the melee system. If you ran out of ammo, you were most likely going 
 to die. The animations of the melee fights look awesome though. 
  
  
  
  Story: 7 out of 10
  When I was playing the first few chapters, I was really excited about the 
 story. I loved the characters and couldn't wait to get to the next cutscene. However by the time 
 Nathan finds the German U-Boat in the jungle, I started feeling like the story was going to take 
 a turn for the worse. What started out as a pretty realistic adventure story, soon ventured into 
 the realm of the ridiculous after that. I won't spoil it for anyone else.
  Overall the story is very cliche and predictable. The only time you really are unsure of what might 
 happen is when you're wondering whether a certain character is a traitor or not. Still, it's entertaining 
 and will keep you playing to see the next cutscene. 
  
  
  
  Replay Value: 4 out of 10
  For me, the replay value of Drake's Fortune is very little. There 
 are lots of treasures to discover and medals to win, but personally the thought of going back over 
 all those frustrating platforming pieces is a real put-off. Also the thought of a few of the gun 
 battles on harder difficullties is a bit scary. 
  The game will take you roughly 8-10 hours if you just play through it. I finished in about 8-8.5 
 hours doing only minor explorations for treasure. I found 20 of the 60 treasures. (I'm guessing 
 those were the 20 easiest to find ones) I played on "easy" and I died more on the platforming parts 
 than in the gun battles. Even on easy, the battles can be challenging, however if you die, you'll 
 probably pass it on the very next go. 
  
  There's no multiplayer in this game. (I didn't take points off for this by the way, just letting 
 people know) 
  
  
  Value: 5 out 10
  The game is very entertaining while it lasts. It's a shame it's all over in 8 hours though. After 
 paying $110 Australian, I feel like even though I enjoyed the game, and thought Naughty Dog did 
 a fantastic job overall, I can't help but feel like I didn't get my money's worth. A year from 
 now, I can see myself breaking it out and having another play through . It's definitely a game 
 I would keep. It's a keeper like Final Fantasy 6 and 7, where even though you have a newer generation 
 console to play on, you still occasionally get out the old system and visit old "friends". The 
 characters in Uncharted are so likeable, that I'd challenge most gamers not to like most of them. 
 You may even like some of the bad guys. 
  
  Closing Comments:
  This is probably the first console game I've played that hasn't sunk into the usual "Germans are 
 evil monsters" propaganda when dealing with world war 2 era Germany. 
  
  Because of the short length, (you could finish it in a day or weekend) I'd recommend renting this 
 or borrowing a friend's copy. If you like it, buy one for your collection. If they make an Uncharted 
 2, I will definitely be looking out for that. 
  
  Final Score: (average of all scores above, rounded up) 7.5 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smylexx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  When i played the demo of Uncharted, I was slightly underwhelmed. Although it looked quite nice 
 and the animation was obviously fantastic, the level design felt a little constraining and the 
 edges of the gameplay areas were clearly visible which went someway to ending the illusion that 
 this was a vast jungle.
  
  The full game however, seems to have rectified this issue and now the game plays fluidly with each 
 new area feeling big but not too overwhelming to completely make you lose your bearings. 
  
  From the moment the game starts you can tell you are witnessing a quality product. The seas 
 look stunning, the lighting is beautiful with golden afternoon rays casting long shadows through 
 the trees. The foliage moves realistically as you scamper through the jungle.
  
  The first couple of levels offer up puzzles, gunfights and ledge jumping as you'd expect and the 
 pace never seems to stop from start to finish with glorious set pieces interspersing the levels 
 such as a rusting u-boat, a jeep chase and assorted deadly traps. 
  
  The characters themselves reminded me of Romancing the Stone or The Mummy series - our main hero 
 is a likable chap and the supporting cast include the usual comic-book parody of outrageous euro-villains 
 and tough-dame love interests with more emotional range than half the Hollywood A-Listers.
  
  Overall, if you love Tomb Raider but feel the franchise has been a little stale recently, pick 
 this up. Alternatively, if you just love a good adventure story with likable characters, this is 
 also for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornorway
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 have not been blessed with not so many high quality titles so far but Uncharted Drakes 
 Fortune is changing that. The game is clearly inspired by a mix of Tomb Raider and Gears Of War 
 and in Uncharted you play as Nathan Drake. In the game you must solve puzzles, shoot alot of enemies, 
 climb up some moutains and swing yourself using lians. The game offers alot of variety that keeps 
 you going.
  
  On the graphical scene this title is one of the prettiest and most well done with title that this 
 generations of consolls have seen so far. There where moment i just stopped about to look at the 
 stunning views from some of the viewpoints or simply just look at the cool water effects.
  
  Naughty Dog have proven yet again that they are capable of making classic games and this offering 
 surely say that they are keeping their good tradition up.
  
  If you have the PS3 go out and buy this classic and if not and considering buying it there should 
 be no doubt in your mind, this game alone is worth it and glancing at the upcomming games for the 
 ps3 for 2008 you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  There used to be a time when Naughty Dog were able to come up with there own ideas, the person 
 responsible for them seems to have left the company.
  What we have here is blatant robbery of other peoples successful games, the exploration and indeed 
 the whole premise of the game is like a discarded Tomb Raider plot, with Nathan Drake searching 
 for the lost treasure of his famous namesake Francis Drake.
  Francis would be turning in his grave if he knew what they had done to his family name.
  But 
 its not just Tomb Raider they've raped for ideas, some platforming elements have been taken straight 
 from Prince of Persia, although here the implementation of said ideas is somewhat lacking in execution.
 
  And to compound the thievery even further, the gun battles have been lifted from Gears of War, 
 again without the cIass and styIe of the original game, sometimes its much easier to just run up 
 to your enemy and pummel them in melee combat, at least it feels like you're actually doing something 
 then.
  Sure they've prettied the game up nicely, the scenery looks amazing, if a little overly coloured 
 at times, but the animation on Nathan himself never lets you forget that you're playing a video 
 game, some of the actions and motions he goes through just don't feel right, especially for the 
 situation you find yourself in.
  To compound everything, they've copied something from Heavenly Sword that the game is simply too 
 short, all the boasting and bragging about Blu-Ray giving us bigger and better games seems to be 
 nothing more than idle boasting as yet another game comes in with a short run through time.
  If you liked Tomb Raider, but were upset at having to play as "a girl," or you're easily pleased 
 by some pretty graphics, then this will be right up your street, but as someone who's been playing 
 games for years I was expecting more from Sony's big holiday release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  I have to say I'm not a Naughty Dog fan but what they've done with Uncharted DF is a huge step 
 in the gaming industry.
  
  Uncharted is a nice mix of Idiana Jones, Tomb Raider, Geow elements and if you ever watched the show 
 Firefly it's got some good humor that reminds me of that show (the musical composer was actually 
 the composer for Firefly) .
  
  The gameplay has a cover system thats from Geow and Killswitch so if you've played any of those 
 two games Uncharteds cover system should feel right at home. Most of the button layout for Uncharted 
 seems pretty well balanced except a few times the melee system is kinda iffy at times but I really 
 liked the melee option in the game since it seemed so real most of the time.
  
  I have to say Uncharted is prolly the most gorgeous game to date at least console wise with a beautifull 
 environment to amazing character animations like none that I've ever seen, at times I swear the 
 characters could almost seem real when they move whether it be from fighting, shooting or just when 
 they are talking in cut scenes.
  
  Theres very few games that make me scream "sequel!" and Uncharted does that and hopefully Naughty 
 Dog sees potential in Uncharted being a series. There where very few cons while playing Uncharted 
 but the only one that actually bugged me was the hit detection which it seems most the time your 
 emptying half a clip into a thugs chest just to have him jump for cover which was annoying especially 
 when they come at you with full force which brings me to the AI, expect to die a lot if your playing 
 the game above easy since the enemy can flank you, run for cover if your shooting at them, chuck 
 grenades around corners and even fight back when your trying to land a melee attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjhean
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Uncharted wasn't a game I had planning to buy for long. I decided to get it about three weeks ago, 
 and the story is quite funny. I did planning on actually buy it the upcoming week (since the releasedate 
 here in Sweden was december 5th) , when I did have a day off from work, but some days ago - two 
 days ago to be precise - I was on our big market place to buy some food and other stuff. When I 
 had payed and was on my way home, I checked out the games section just before I left the building 
 and got my eyes on Uncharted. -OMG, i thought. I didn't hezitate to not get it.
  
  That's enough talk about that, now over to the game.
  
  I started up Uncharted yesterday for 
 the first time and have been playing for about 2 hours and I completely love the game. The story 
 is really good, with great acting and voices. Well, since I haven't played through the game yet 
 I talk for the time I've had with it so far. But I don't think it will differ in the end.
  
  The gameplay is great, and the difficult is just right. I always start out on Normal difficulty, 
 since this is the one that the game is made for. Then after that I give it a try on higher difficulty.
 
  
  One part I really liked about the gameplay though, is when you were about the blow up the jeep 
 to get a bridge-like pass. I like all the clues and that you really have to think all the time.
 
  
  Go get Uncharted: Drake's Fortune today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RookWolf
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted brings forth an amazing environment and graphics in the same class as Assassin's Creed 
 and Mass Effect... the environment is in depth and has such amazing detail you could spend hours 
 just watching how the plants react to you walk through them.
  
  Your cloths even get wet when you're in the water (visible wetness) I have never seen this in a 
 video game before... that alone is reason for a high mark...
  
  As stated before it has a very GoW feel to it, you'll go from cover to cover in the environment 
 fighting enemies, and you will magically cure when enough time has gone by, but this just adds 
 to the games overall good playing experience.
  
  This game easily competes with Assassin's Creed on a fun level and an graphics level adding some 
 unique features that quite easily crush the visual effects on the Xbox's coveted Halo 3... the 
 story I found was more in depth than most platforms so from start to finish this game is one you 
 won't be putting down till you've played through it at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the 8.0 that GameSpot handed this game is completely unwarranted. 
 This game is SOOOO much better than an 8.0. This game is easily in the 9.0+ arena. Before I get 
 too far into this review, let me give you some perspective as to who I am, so you don't assume 
 that I'm some 12 year old fanboy that stumbled into gaming yesterday. I'm a 31 year old gamer and 
 have been playing for the better part of two decades. I'm hardware agnostic, in that I'll play 
 anything that's good. So when I tell you that this game is AMAZING, you know where I'm coming from. 
 I'm not judging a game because I think Nintendo is the greatest, or that Microsoft is RAD, I dole 
 out my judgment after carefully playing a game through to its conclusion and deliver an unbiased 
 opinion based solely on the merits of the game. 
  Now that we've put the history and objectivity of the reviewer to rest, let's discuss the game. 
 I finished it this morning and it was truly, (for lack of a better word) , AMAZING. This is what 
 next-gen gaming should look and feel like. This is what interactive entertainment should be about. 
 Great stories, Jaw dropping graphics, Unreal responsiveness, Soul moving musical scores. That's 
 what Uncharted: Drake's Fortune Delivers in spades. 
  
  Difficulty: It danced the fine line between challenging, and cake walk in that Drake's is not too 
 hard, nor too easy, (at least for the normal mode) . The most challenging bits required no more 
 than 8 attempts.
  
  Graphics: In case you haven't downloaded the demo on PSN, (which only shows a fraction of how gorgeous 
 this game is) , I can say in all honesty this is the best looking game of this genre I have ever 
 seen. The game is truly, truly beautiful.
  
  Sound: Unfortunately, my PS3 is currently not connected to my surround sound system, so I only 
 heard the game in stereo, but even with reduced setup, the game's sound design was really great. 
 
  
  Just to further convey how much this game moved me, I'll admit that at I rented it, (since games 
 are so expensive now a days that I couldn't bear paying $60 dollars for a lemon) , I beat it, and 
 then I purchased it just to assure that I did my part to propel this game into a commercial success. 
 Naughty Dog really hit this one out of the park. This game is sure to become a classic. Of the 
 10 years that I've been with my wife, this is the first game that she encouraged me to play a video 
 game, because as far as she was concerned, while I was playing, she was watching a fantastic adaptation 
 of an Indiana Jones movie. Final word: Get this Game. At the very least, rent it, and play it to 
 its conclusion, if not, you'd be robbing yourself of an amazing gaming experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darwin67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game that certainly ups the ante in the next gen system war. This power punch 
 of a game demonstrates the power and potential of the PS3. When you stop staring at the graphics 
 and get busy playing you will find that the A. I. is above par, however, a bit un realistic in how 
 many shots it takes to kill these guys (one of the drawbacks to this game) . The game is pretty 
 massive, and will provide hours of fun and at least a couple of hours being creeped out!
  
  The game plays like a movie.... with entertaining cut scenes and dialogue. The plot is interesting 
 and even provides a few twists and turns. 
  
  What is truly enjoyable about the game is that it is difficult without being impossible. There 
 are HINTS to help along the way, and the game is mostly intuitive making it hard to get truly STUCK 
 and finding yourself pulling out your hair and scouring message boards for help (although there 
 was one section I hit the boards for... that damn VINE at the church) . 
  
  The game provides plenty of action, an okay assortment of weapons, and the side objectives (gathering 
 treasure) make it playable more than once just to see the unlockables. 
  
  I would highly reccommend this to anyone who likes adventures, shooters, and wants to see what 
 a next gen game should like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light_Jak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay, where do I even begin? Let me tell you one thing, you'll face A LOT of pirates. There is 
 so much action in Uncharted that you'll wet yourself in nearly every chapter and pretty much be 
 on the edge of your seat the whole game. The only reason why Uncharted had so much action was because 
 of the endless pirate fights and all the "hanging off of a cliff" moments. The game is massive 
 and it will take you a while to get to the other side of the island so make sure you bring a Power 
 Bar and a Coke with you. It's not the longest game in the world ending in about 10 - 12 hours but 
 there is so much story to take in and so much action that you won't really care because the game 
 is worth replaying.
  
  One thing I have to stress that should be in EVERY game: In-Game Achievements that actually give 
 you something for your troubles. Uncharted has a medal system that rewards you on stuff like how 
 many headshots you got during the game or how many treasures you found during the adventure, there's 
 a lot of stuff to try and get. Pretty much, if you find all the treasures and all that crap, you'll 
 get about 200 out of the 1000 medal points that are available in the game, so there is a lot of 
 other things you'll need to make sure you try and achieve. You won't get it all in one playthrough 
 so that gives you a little extra incentive to play it through again and maybe even a third time 
 if you really suck at finding treasures. Either way, it's fun but without an online multiplayer, 
 the replay value goes a bit down. Oh well, it's more of a story game anyway.
  
  Finally, we present the best cover and combat system since Gears of War. I thought the best part 
 of Uncharted was the cover and combat systems, even though the marker was a bit hard to see since 
 it doesn't light up when you target an enemy but it was more challenging that way which is good. 
 The cover system works so good and you never see Drake assume the same position against a wall, 
 at least you don't notice it if he did anyway. Another great thing about the combat system was 
 how smart the enemies were. The AI would take cover and some would even sneak up on you with shotguns 
 and you'd die so you are not against mindless AI so take caution when you tread through the jungle.
 
  
  I didn't cover everything but I think you have a good idea of what the gameplay is like and how 
 amazing it is. Gears of War and Uncharted: Drake's Fortune are the two best games to feature a 
 cover system so I suggest you give them both a try since they are similar in gameplay and if you 
 love this style, you'll love these games.
  
  Simply, wow. The graphics in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune are simply the best out of any PS3 title 
 and it looks almost real.. just almost. The fluid motion of the characters is enough for you to 
 even consider it is real. I really don't see how you can get any more real than that with a game. 
 There are literally no repeating motions when you are running, climbing stairs, taking cover behind 
 a toilet, anything really. The water, oh my god, don't get me started. It's so amazing that you'll 
 love to just play in it when you see the waterfalls in Chapter 4, Naughty Dog took environments 
 seriously in Drake's Fortune and it definitely adds to the experience.
  
  The character models are extremely detailed and actually don't look crappier outside of the cutscenes 
 which I'm still getting used to from PS2. The landscapes are all set up for use of cover as well 
 and would make good use for online maps but I don't think we'll get a multiplayer mode for Uncharted.. 
 sadly. Also, if you like hanging off of the edge of buildings and rocks, this is your kind of game. 
 Screw rock climbing when you have Uncharted, which is almost equal the experience since you'll 
 be nervewracked trying to get to the other side of the rock. All in all, it's easy to say Uncharted's 
 graphics are the best you'll ever see on PS3 until Metal Gear Solid 4 and then the next Uncharted 
 or Jak and Daxter game.. Guaranteed.
  
  Yet another amazing aspect of the game, it doesn't give up. The music is done by the Firefly (TV 
 show) composer: Greg E. (we'll just call him that.. forgot his last name. ) and he takes Uncharted 
 and puts an intense amount of life into it. Uncharted wouldn't be Uncharted without the music and 
 you'll understand what I mean when you actually play the game. The music puts you right in the 
 middle of the jungle and it truly feels like a movie when you add the music to the game. There 
 is not much that can be said about the music other than that it is excellent and I love the work 
 that the composer did with it.
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is the best Christmas present on anyone's list, other than probably 
 Mass Effect or Rock Band, eh? I must warn you though, if you are afraid of heights or can't understand 
 how to shoot a gun with a video game controller, this isn't the game for you but I still recommend 
 it for you out there afraid of heights. Face your fears people! Anyway, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 retails for $59.99 and was released on November 20th exclusively on PlayStation 3 so if your kid 
 asked for this and Assassin's Creed and you had to go for one of them, just go for this one (as 
 a recommendation) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fady904
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game and i'm given it 9.0. I found few glitches but nothing major. Finally an enemy 
 with some AI, where they dock, roll and take cover. Never boring and you would never know what 
 to expect, one time you're in the care and another time you're in the skidoo. What i like to see 
 is a map of the place that i can see to check where the hell am i. Also more puzzles to solve. 
 But over all i'm satisfied and i'm continuing playing it because of the surprise element. The best 
 thing about this game is you see the character rather than a moving hand with a gun (first person) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgearstud
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  i had a blast with this game the gameplay kept switching up on me platform to shoot em up a little 
 strategy back to platform then shootem up. i loved that i never got bored. the graphics were great 
 it had a better forest atmosphere than metal gear 3. the gameplay is flawless everything ran pretty 
 smooth together. it took me a little while to get the shooting controls down but once i got them 
 i got them. and also they could have added some extras or some kind of mini game, but other than 
 that this game deserves a better score than "8" thats insulting i think someone is a lilte one 
 sided here and enjoys x box more..... not fair! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endtime222
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a great game that draws you in and keeps you glued to your controller. I enjoyed the 
 easy controls and was into the action in no time. The game is nothing new from your typical Tomb 
 Raider style gaming. The puzzles are not complicated and the action scenes are consistent. It can 
 get a bit frustrating with the gun fights and surprisingly your hand gun is your best weapon. The 
 addition of achievements (ie. number of head shots) is also a welcome treat that motivates you 
 to unlock other achievements. There is also hidden treasure that can be spotted by any explorer 
 that is on the look out for its "shiny glimmer." This causes further exploration and an appreciation 
 of the games beautiful graphics. Uncharted doesn't break any new ground but it's good to play a 
 game that is actually enjoyable even if once your done with it you might not play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  From the makers of Jak and Daxter comes a game that will easily remind you of Tomb Raider, and 
 even Pitfall in some instances.
  
  Story:
  
  Basically, the game follows Nathan Drake, a character that may vaguely remind you of Capt. Malcolm 
 Reynolds from Firefly. He's an unusually laid-back man who claims to be a long lost relative of 
 Sir Francis Drake. At the beginning of the game, you pull up a coffin from the ocean that supposedly 
 
  holds the body of Francis Drake, but only contains a map to El Dorado, the city of gold.
  Nathan crashes his plane onto an island while on his way to El Dorado, but there's hundreds of 
 mercenaries hunting him for possession of the map.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Cons-
  1. The game is very linear. You'll find yourself on a path blocked in by trees or the walls of 
 some ancient ruin, solving puzzles, getting attacked by a set number of mercenaries, and sometimes 
 going back through the same scenery.
  2. Melee combat can be difficult to get used to. It's 100% based on timing. If you attempt to button 
 mash through this game, you'll find yourself dying a lot.
  3. There seems to be a shortage of ammo in the game, especially for the more powerful guns. This 
 makes the game more realistic, and really makes combat more intense, but you'll find yourself taking 
 the AK-47 over the shotgun or explosive guns because every enemy has AK-47 ammo, and as soon as 
 you run out of bullets with any weapon, the A. I. charges in to kill you.
  4. Enemy character models repeat throughout the entire game.
  
  Pros-
  1. The game is BEAUTIFUL. 
 You should stop to admire the scenery every chance you get. The background draw distance is very 
 impressive.
  2. The character animations are well done. Nathan will duck and weave while running if people are 
 shooting at him. Enemies will will jump and dodge. Also, the out of combat sequences are made more 
 interesting by the way Nathan will sometimes hang from ledges with one hand, or teeter over the 
 edge of cliffs.
  3. There isn't a single part of the game where the action gets dull. The puzzles aren't as simple 
 as most games. Sometimes you might actually prefer the out of combat moments to the combat. Jumping 
 and climbing around the scenery is probably the best part of the game.
  4. Collecting pieces of treasure is fun. Every piece of treasure is unique, and has a little picture 
 to go with it.
  5. If you like the achievement aspect of Xbox360 games, you'll find a similar feature in Uncharted. 
 There are rewards for killing a certain number of enemies. Getting headshots. Collecting treasure. 
 Etc.
  6. Combat is intense and realistic. If you can master the melee combat, it's very rewarding. For 
 instance, pressing Square, Triangle, Square at the appropriate times performs an instant kill. 
 Running out of ammo would seem like a hassle, but it gives you more reason to duck and roll around 
 the scenery and really gives taking cover a purpose.
  7. The game has great replayability. There are plenty of unlockables, such as infinite ammo, different 
 character skins, mirror mode, etc. 
  8. The different difficulties are very accurate. Easy mode is easy, but not in a way that makes 
 the game boring. Hard is hard, but not in a way that makes the game impossible. If you've played 
 a lot of games, you know this is a hard thing to get right.
  
  
  Overall-
  It's by no means a perfect game, but it keeps getting better the more time you put into it. Even 
 if you don't like Tomb Raider or Pitfall, there's some X factor to this game that makes it unbelievably 
 enjoyable. Expert craftsmanship went into making Uncharted: Drake's fortune a likely candidate 
 for Game of the Year.
  As a PS3 owner, you'll be doing yourself a favor by getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felshs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure fun.
  if you`re an action/adventure type gamer, you will regret it if you dont own this game.
  The 
 whole game play is a none stop exciting and thrilling .
  
  you know how you play those adventure and RPG games and alway worry about restore you health, reload 
 cuz you didn`t do good on the last battle, or confuse about where to go next, or explore every 
 inches because you dont wanna miss a hidden items. These are the thing that kill all the fun and 
 turn game into frustration, not to mention NO replay value.
  
  Well this game change it all. you dont have health, so you never worry about it being too low for 
 the next fight, explore + reload = boring. when you get hit too many time the screen went black 
 and white, that mean you about to die so find cover and let it rejuvenate. sound too easy?? dont 
 worry the battle is intent, you probably die at lest once in any battle. hand combat is very dangerous, 
 so dont be a happy trigger.
  
  you will never confuse or frustrated, cuz there is only one way to go, despite of complex enviroment. 
 and you never have to worry about going back ward the game prevent you from doing that in some 
 place, or they make it for you to recognize where you have been. like when you open a gate, instead 
 of open it, you break it, so you know you been there.
  
  and save point system is great, when you die in a battle, you can simply replay it with a different 
 strategy. 
  
  LIKE i said its eliminate all the boring factor of most action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I seriously can't say enough positive things about Uncharted. It by far exceeded my expectations. 
 I was actually gonna to pick up COD4; but took a chance after reading positive reviews on this. 
 
  
  Honestly, it's nothing short of a 9.0. I couldn't believe the amount of artisitic detail in this 
 game. The water looks like water for once. Uncharted really demonstates the PS3's power without 
 degradation throughout the gaming experience.
  
  Ok, so there's an element of Tomb Raider-style gameplay with puzzles to solve and enemies to fight 
 all the while swinging through forests and demonstrating your supernatural rock climbing skills; 
 but it's just so much deeper. It's like Far-Cry meets Tomb Raider meets Eternal Darkness all even 
 throw in COD elements. All in an overwhelmingly delicious package. 
  
  If you do pick this game up, you'll love chapter 7 or was it 6? Anyway, after being caught, your 
 female reporter friend helps you escape. You're then forced into a jeep only to fire on enemies 
 who are chasing you through the forest with your reporter friend behind the wheel and you're launching 
 grenades at multiple enemies in jeeps & motorcycles. It's just enough of a rush to make you want 
 to play that single part all over again. It's so good. 
  
  Not to put a game like Halo down. I do like it and I have finished Halo 1, 2 and now working on 
 3; but frankly, is it me or do you find Halo so damn boring. It's taking me a while to finish 3 
 because there's just nothing new to draw me back, other than it's much more polished look. I actually 
 remember feeling the same way when I finished 1 & 2, it took me a while cause I just wasn't interested. 
 There's only so much of the same repetitive gameplay, recycled enemies and monk themed music you 
 can take. 
  
  All in all, if you want a different spin on the typical FPS, Uncharted will deliever a very satisfying 
 experience. The music score is superb, the graphics obscenely good and the terrific voice acting 
 really heIps deliver the story and keeps your attention. It's without a doubt worth a space in 
 your small; but growing PS3 collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew0824
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is only the 2nd PS3 game I've purchased and I've had the console since release. I have been 
 looking forward to this game since I first heard about it and it certainly did not dissapoint.
 
  
  First of all the graphics are really fantastic. It's the best looking next gen game I've seen so 
 far and though I only have 2 PS3 games, I have about 15 360 games, so I've seen quite a bit of 
 the competition including Gears of War, Bioshock, and Oblivion, and graphically at least, Uncharted 
 outclasses them all. Picture a next gen combination of Tomb Raider and Far Cry and that will give 
 you some idea of the art style. It's not that they style is that original, but it's flawlessly 
 executed. There is almost none of the texture pop-in common to many Unreal 3 Engine games. The 
 framerate is rock solid and the animation is smooth and realistic.
  
  But great graphics don't matter much if the gameplay isn't there. Fortunately, Drake's Fortune 
 delivers in this department. The combat/cover system is basically lifted intact from Gears of War. 
 That's not a criticism either. Gears has, in my opinion, the best combat system of any shooter 
 I've ever played, so if you're going to steal, do if from the best. The only difference is that 
 there is a small combo based melee system added in which isn't necessary to use, but which makes 
 the combat more fun if you do use it. 
  
  I was suprised to hear the Gamespot reviewer say the combat was difficult and could be frustrating. 
 I found the game to be a little on the easy side, combat-wise, on the normal difficulty setting 
 anyway. The only tough parts come near the end of the game and it never gets so difficult that 
 it becomes frustrating. Or at least the combat doesn't.
  
  Which leads me to the other part of the gameplay - the puzzle and platform elements. The puzzles 
 are mostly easy, but have enough of a challenge to make them interesting, though I think the game 
 could have beneifitted from testing ythe player's puzzle skills a bit more thoroughly than was 
 done. However, they are a nice change of pace and, if nothing else, gives the player ample opportunity 
 to explore the stunning enviornments which one tends to miss during combat. The platorming parts 
 of the game are well done, though sometimes suffers a bit from arbitrariness. There is usally one 
 "right way" to go and if go try to make a jump that looks just as makable as the one you're suposed 
 to make, you'll often find yourself dying. In fact, I would say that 80% or more of the deaths 
 I had in this game were due to mistaken jumps/paths rather than combat.
  
  The story is, as the developers discuss in some of the bonus "making of' footage, based on the 
 type of 30's action films that the Indiana Jones movies were also based on. The story while being, 
 as the Gamespot reviewer correctly points out, very derivative (nazis, an ancient cursed treasure, 
 and characters right out of a summer action flick) , is still fun and enjoyable mostly due to the 
 great voice acting of all the major characters. All of the actors do a great job and make you care 
 about characters and a story that you otherwise might not since the story isn't that compelling 
 on it's own merits as it suffers from "been there, done that" syndrome.
  
  The music is extremely well done. Certain parts seem very similar to the musis of Far Cry and anyone 
 having played both games will immediately recognize one particular hauning wailing vocal that appears 
 in both games. Native instuments mixed with traditional movie scoring make a combination that will 
 raise your heart rate without being too intrusive ,as is frequently a problem in action games.
 
  
  All in all, this is a game well worth playing if you're a fan of the action gerne. The 8.0 given 
 by the Gamespot reviewer was a bit low in my opinoin. While perhaps borrowing a bit too freely 
 from other games and movies to rate in the 9's, it certainly belongs in the high 8's (which I would 
 give it had 
  Gamespot not recently gone from their former 100 point scale to their current, much less useful, 
 20 point scale;' consider my "real" score an 8.8) because, after all, fun is the standard by which 
 we should judge games, not originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  First off, we will talk about the gameplay in Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, The Gameplay is smooth 
 and the shooting is fun and easy to catch onto. Rather than just shooting people all the time (Which, 
 there is alot of) . You'll be solving puzzles to get around the beutiful Jungles, Forts, and many 
 other "Uncharted" areas you will encounter throughout.
  Second, the Visuals, which are, simply put: Amazing! One of the strongest points are it's graphics, 
 which area always smooth, and crisp. They are look and move realisticly. Terrifictly detailed enviroments 
 and characters.
  The weapons you get aren't very unique, just modern weapons, you've got your pistol, and your machine 
 gun, but al of these are used in clever ways, and loads of fun also. 
  The characters in this game are easy to fall in love with, they are charming, have a nice sesne 
 of humor, and really, end out like you know them. 
  The story in this game is basic, your a treasure hunter, looking for the lost King Francis Drake's 
 treasure, but you will encounter other hunter there on your way.
  Another gameplay mode is the JetSki, which is fun, yet hard to drive, and really isn't anything 
 special. 
  Its an all around good game that any PS3 Owner should put on their wishlist.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xASSASSINx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  uncharted is visually awesome and everything in this game really rocks, from the super realistic 
 graphics and visuals to the really fun story and gameplay
  the only problem in this game is .... it's short , it's the kind of game that lets you want more 
 but you wont get more unfortunately, that's the only thing that keeps the game away from getting 
 higher ratings, but everything else just ROCKS and this game is really a must buy for all PS3 owners, 
 even 360 owners wish it was on their console but hey each console gets its own awesome games.
 
  so just like i said, if you're a PS3 owner and you don't own this game, then you should go get 
 it RIGHT NOW !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal-Mother
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Uncharted brings back the action adventure genre, It's been such a long time since i've seen anything 
 like God Of War, Or Tomb Raider. Uncharted tells the story of Nathan Drake and him searching for 
 the lost treasure of El Dorado, just like his ancestor before him Francis Drake. The look and feel 
 of this game is amazing, everything from the gun play to the jumping/climbing/puzzles and the voice 
 acting and cut scenes are just incredibly well polished but sometimes too easy. The thing I enjoyed 
 much about the puzzles and thought was somewhat innovative to incorporate was the use of Francis 
 Drakes journal to solve these puzzles at times. The gun play is very similar to Gear's of war run 
 duck and take cover mode, and works well, the only thing that takes getting used to is the aimer 
 seeing that it seems a not completely over the shoulder. But whats extremely fun is the hand to 
 hand combo system, i just find it so much fun and you don't see something that in many shooter 
 games. Seeing that it apparently from what I've read, it only uses 30% of the play station 3's 
 power, I'd defiantly like to see ND pump out a sequel for this game. In the end Drake's Fortune 
 is remnant of a great pulp action movie with a likable cast of characters and adventures. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I was blown away by this game on every level possible. It is a beautiful, as challenging and as 
 cool and diverse and story driven as any other masterpiece game we've seen in years.
  
  First thing i wanted to mention is the over the top action, endless number of enemies and "cheesy" 
 punch lines throughout the game. These are actually not cons, like GS put it but pros. If you read 
 about the game you will realize that it was based on old school, indiana jones style action, with 
 the accidental hero as the protagonist, who gets the cash and the girl and does it with a whole 
 lot of style. This ensebmle of characteristics comes to life with perfection in Uncharted, making 
 you in the end very fond but kinda nostalgic for more, or it will make you grab Indiana Jones trilogy 
 box and watch it back-to-back, like in my case :P
  
  Visually game is amazing. From the lush jungle to hidden cities all of the locales are beyond realistic, 
 detailed, and just plain fun to roam around in. Characters move and act as lifelike as they can. 
 Drake cant really compare to Altair but his movement is more than satisfactory. However what will 
 blow you mind away are small details, such as getting wet and than gradually drying, or moving 
 extremely life like when in deep water, or the physics of a white water rapid against your sea-doo, 
 and much more.
  
  Audio is also thru the roof. Voice acting is amazing and much better than in AC. Musical score 
 is epic, with the main theme almost being comparable with the legendary tunes from Star Wars, or 
 Indiana Jones, or Batman. Very memorable composition by all means.
  
  Story is by far what drives the game the most. Rock solid treasure hunting adventure with enough 
 twist and turns to make you play thru in minimal number of sittings. 
  
  Action is more or less divided in shooting and melee. However on contrary from what you've read 
 the game is not all Gears of War styled. There is a lot of hiding and shooting but you will do 
 an ample amount of run-and-gunning. Best part for me though was beating thru scores of enemies 
 as most of the combos are cool enough to be reused as many times as needed. And if that is not 
 enough there is a driving mission and 2 sea-doo riding missions to break the monotony, even though 
 there is really none.
  
  One minor issues is in the platforming department. Fact that there is really no silly pointers 
 as to where to go and the paths are not so obvious all the time can get frustrating from time to 
 time as you will get stumped and waste some time running in circles. However this is also justified 
 by having to collect treasures scattered around the levels.
  In addition to treasures you can do bunch a cool stuff with your weapons and earn some achievement 
 points, which can be used to unlock some much needed help for beating the game on harder difficulty 
 levels.
  
  I will cut it here, as i dont wanna get in too deep and bust out any spoilers, but on last note 
 i have to say that Uncharted is an amazing game and even better start to a potentially iconic franchise. 
 Get this asap, or in worst case scenario make sure its in your gift stash for christmas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrangeCrown
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is one of those games that makes you remember why it is you got into 
 video games in the first place: The epic sense of adventure is undeniable, akin to watching Jurassic 
 Park for the first time.
  
  The graphics are easily the best seen in a console game thus far, though occasionally textures 
 take a moment to pop up, particularly on ground objects. But this is forgiveable as the quality 
 of said graphics are amazing. The character models are also fantastic, though decidedly stylized. 
 Animations are smooth and believable, and with a steady framerate and precious little loading times 
 the game runs without a hitch. The environments are linear, but it's all in fitting with the game's 
 cinematic story. Freeroaming would have ruined the feel of the game, in my opinion.
  
  In addition, production values are very high, with both motion capture and voice acting superb. 
 You'll really start to care about and connect with the characters. The story may be your typical 
 adventure/treasure hunt story, but it's fun every step of the way.
  
  The game has a built-in rewards system (think Xbox's achievement system) for those who want to 
 earn a plethora of awards and bragging rights. But earning this points doesn't just simply merit 
 you a number: along the way you're earning all sorts of rewards, including additional costumes, 
 weapons, concept galleries, making-of featurettes, etc. There's also a total of four difficulty 
 modes to play, ranging from Easy to Crushing.
  
  Platforming is reminescent of Tomb Raider in the best way. There's plenty of cool moments and angles 
 to be seen while climbing a decrepit tower, swinging from vines and leaping across gaping chasms. 
 As said before, if you've ever played a single one of Lara's adventures, this will feel natural 
 to you.
  
  The only area where the game seems to stumble is the combat: It's very much Gears of War (not a 
 bad thing by any stretch) , and is pretty simple: Take cover, shoot, duck down, shoot again. Often 
 the battles are intense and exhilirating, but too frequently I felt overwhelmed and frustrated. 
 Aiming can be a pain, and at times hit detection seemed to be a little off. Expect to die. A lot. 
 But this can also be said for the platforming elements as well.
  
  However a frustrating combat systems is by no means a game-breaker. The game does more things right 
 than it does wrong. While it's short (taking less than 10 hours on normal mode) , you'll enjoy the 
 adventure, and once it's over will be looking forward to future entries in the series.
  
  A must-have for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  PS3 hasn't had a lot of AAA titles lately, now that has changed. Not only does this game live up 
 to the hype, it surpasses it in spades. This is the first game i feel uses the PS3's power as a graphical 
 showcase. The whole game looks great from the jungles, to the animations, to even the simplist room. 
 The attention to detail is clearly there.
  Gameplay is solid as well. From the cover system, to the "Tomb Raider" type of climbing and jumping, it 
 all controls well and the game is very addictive.
  If you have a PS3, this is a must have. The only downfall really is the short length, but there's 
 lots of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Frist the story on Drake s is Great it keeps you in the Game Big time. The shoot outs are Great 
 i think the AI does a good job the enemy moves around hides at times charges at you so just great 
 on that. the Graphics are great has Great cut scene s in the game. Characters look great and the 
 controlls are great the jumping in the game comes off smooth and easy thank GOD best controlls 
 in a game in my view. i dont see how gamespot gave Uncharted only a 8.0 so much more then a 8.0 
 score. heck you go up river on a jetski ride in a jeep and have a shoot out in the jeep. even a 
 germen sub in the game. plus the game is long so you feel like you got your money worth. at this 
 point i think Uncharted will be my pick for the Game of the year i had that much fun with Drake 
 . thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game is too short. The story suffers from the length of the game a bit at the 
 end and could have used another hour or two to flesh out some of the backstory when it comes to 
 the main character and prominent supporting cast. The combat and the gameplay were good but nothing 
 you haven't seen before.
  
  Graphics: Nothing to complain about here. I played on a 1080P and 780P set and couldn't tell a 
 whole lot of difference. A lot of work went into the mocap and it shows. Drakes animations are 
 lifelike and the cutscenes are theatre quality. There is a distinct sheen to the characters faces 
 that makes them look like they are glowing but that isn't too distracting.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty standard stuff with an RE4 and Gears of War type targeting and cover system. The 
 waves of enemies are extremely smart when it comes to working as a team and makes the game the 
 right amount of difficult. The platforming elements weren't too difficult that it took away from 
 the story but there were some parts that you had to be careful with.
  
  Story: They pretty much wrap everything up rather nicely but there are some motives and background 
 story that I would like to see explained maybe in a prequel or something.
  
  I would've liked to played just a little longer but Drake's Fortune is definitely the best thing 
 to come out on the PS3 since launch. Here's hoping that they create a sequel that expands on the 
 good parts of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiljas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of the few games that immerses you in the story from the start. The Characters 
 are likable and the Voice acting is wonderful. Although I have not found myself out right laughing 
 I do get a little grin on my face when Drake or one of his cohorts delivers a well placed line. 
 
  
  Graphics in the game are beautiful, bright and colorful. I have caught myself looking out over 
 the islands and other areas when I am not getting attacked or smoothly moving threw a puzzle. The 
 lighting is some of the best I have seen in a game to date. This is the graphical show piece that 
 the PS3 has needed to start to silence all the nay sayers.
  
  The sounds in the game are amazing. Not only have I found the voice acting to be top notch. But 
 all the ambient sounds, musical score and what not, add to the feel of what naughty dog was trying 
 to do. You feel like your in the middle of the jungle or at an ancient ruin. When Shoot one of 
 the guns specifically the Shotgun, You almost feel like you just shot a real one. it all just helps 
 absorb you into the game.
  
  Game play is fun and addictive. I do have some issues with some of the control. Maybe it is because 
 I am so use to games like tomb raider or also Currently assassins creed where I have the run button 
 and when I am not pushing it I will not go off the ledge. luckily I have only had this issue on 
 some of the short drops and could quickly climb up again. But that is a small complaint in an otherwise 
 very well done control system.
  
  Some Reviewers have complained about the endless amounts of pirates. But I have found it interesting 
 Because the enemy AI is smart enough to not always come charging at you but will hide and take 
 cover, do diffrent things to make you change positions like throwing a grenade. They will flank 
 you and try to surround you. and although Head shots can be easy at times it does not take away 
 from the challenge that comes up with each area.
  
  Also the reward system is great for all those that want to do the 100% and gives some great prizes. 
 It is very Xbox live like in it's point system but that is not a bad thing at all.
  
  To finish up I just want to say this is a must play for all PS3 owners. Buy it, rent it or borrow 
 it. This is a game that is well worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cperez22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, from the moment U pop it in this game will real U into its world and it'll 
 be hard to let go to turn the Tv off. Its kinda like tomb raider but the puzzles are easier and 
 the gun fights are bigger and longer. The visuals have no equal, be it characters or scenery, the 
 controles are tight and the story is intergrated seamlessly into the gameplay... U just never get 
 bored. There are lots of extras unlocked for finding the treasures and earning your medals. The 
 only week link is the freaking jet ski parts... 
  Buy this game its that damn good!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  When I first saw previews for this game I quickly dismissed it as another tomb raider rip-off. 
 As I saw more and more of this game I became more interested. Once the demo came out I was hooked 
 and decided I was buying this game. Well, was it worth it you ask? DEFINITELY!!!
  
  This game pits you as Nathan Drake, a descendant of Sir Francis Drake who was a treasure hunter. 
 You're looking for the statue of El Dorado and encounter modern day pirates who are also looking 
 for this treasure and want you out of the way. 
  
  The combat system works very effectively. Aiming is very precise and fluid. You can carry two weapons 
 at a time, one pistol type and one rifle type. You can also carry up to 4 grenades. This works 
 very well and keeps the game balanced. When you run out of ammo or if you're feeling dangerous, 
 you can use melee combat to attack your enemies. The combat system works very well and has many 
 different animations to keep things fresh.
  
  The platforming elements are also very enjoyable. You jump cliffs, rock climb, balance across ledges, 
 etc. Most of these parts are straightforward and I would have liked a bit more of a challenge in 
 these parts to make more of a sense of accomplishment. Also, the puzzles in the game are not very 
 difficult.
  
  The story of the game feels like an Indiana Jones movie. It is fast-paced with terrific voice-acting. 
 I actually found myself anxious for the next cut scene. I can't remember the last time, if ever, 
 I found myself thinking that. The story remains great and consistent right through the very end.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are also incredible in the game. Many times you'll pause and stop to take 
 in your environment. The jungle sounds sound great and even reloading your weapon sounds different 
 depending on the weapon, all of which sound accurate.
  
  The only real complaints I can make about the game are that it's just a tad too short (took me 
 about 9 hrs to beat and I thoroughly explored) , and that it's completely linear. As mentioned before, 
 more difficult puzzles and platforming would have been nice. These are minor complaints but are 
 enough to warrant a 9/10 rather than a 9.5/10. 
  
  All in all, if you own a PS3 you MUST play this game. I'm already looking forward to a sequel to 
 this one. This truly is a game that shines and is a great example of what the PS3 can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablusx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is a much needed shot in the arm to the line of games that the PS3 has. This is one of 
 the games that while it is not difficult to veterans of these kinds of platforms they will have 
 a good time playing through to get the bonuses. Beginners to this genre should consider this a 
 good entry and most should be able to start off right at normal play. The graphics in this game 
 are some of the best on the PS3. The rich jungle setting seams alive and nice little environmental 
 touches such as shooting down a small tree, dirt flying when hit hard enough and some destructible 
 environments help this game be immersible. The controls are solid for this game and respond well 
 to most environments. The only problem may come when you are trying to hide against a particular 
 surface due to either sticking to the wrong one or that you can not move from one wall to next 
 at corners without removing and re-sticking your character. The only complaint that I have about 
 this game is that it is too short. I finished this game in about 14 hours due to spending most 
 of my time running around finding the 60 gold pieces and trying to do the special kills for the 
 rewards. Most people will be able to finish it sooner depending on how much of the bonus material 
 they want to get or ignore. As I said in the beginning Uncharted is a great game for any PS3 owner 
 and should defiantly be on their must own list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrostman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Awesome game . it was so good i just couldn't put it down. At first, from what i herd about the 
 reviews, i was worried about it being to short, but it was just perfect. I didn't get that incomplete 
 feeling when it ended. I was satisfied. I was FULL. I can't believe i finnished it in one go, i 
 usually don't do for games. But, the story, the characters and the game play just perfect. Well 
 maybe the girl could have been a little bit cuter... nah, she was alright. She was badass unlike 
 some other heroins.
  
  The game was like being in a movie, it was like Indiana Jones/Resident Evil/ 007... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Udsen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drakes Fortune is a new game from Naughty Dog, the same studio who developed the Crash 
 Bandicoot series on the original Playstation. A great thing about Uncharted if you're a Crash fan 
 is that you'll notice some mechanics that they implemented in the old games and carried it over 
 to Uncharted. Needlessly to say, Naughty Dog have taken a mature approach to the next generation, 
 and they have done so rather well. 
  
  In Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, you follow the story of Nathan Drake, ancestor to Sir Francis Drake, 
 on a mission to discover El Dorado. Along with Nathan are Elena and Sullivan ("Sully") . While playing, 
 it's hard to not relate to the characters. They're presented as every day people, and because of 
 this the story just sucks you in. It's hard to like a story if you can't immerse yourself in it, 
 and Uncharted does everything right in that aspect. You start the game on a boat opening the coffin 
 of Sir Francis Drake, in which Nathan finds Francis' journal, with many images of things you encounter 
 in the game, and that also assist you in solving puzzles. Basically, an instruction book of what 
 to do to find El Dorado. You're quickly put into action with guns, guns, and more... guns.
  
  Throughout the game, Nathan will travel by foot, watercraft, and jeep. This is a nice variety 
 to have because it not only keeps things fresh, it's pretty fun. The game play mechanics are very 
 good, and it boasts a nice cover system "stop n' pop" type of game play, however it seems like 
 it's been done before, and really isn't anything different. This doesn't mean it's bad, but veteran 
 third person shooter fans may not find Uncharted as impressive as it is. You'll solve puzzles in 
 the game as well, but they'll offer no real challenge to seasoned players. 
  
  The difficulty in Uncharted varies. At some points the game seems too easy, but generally speaking, 
 it can end up being frustrating. The AI is fantastic and you'll get a sense of accomplishment once 
 you finally take down that last guy. However, while Uncharted can be difficult at times, the length 
 is still pretty short. It'll run 8-10 hours, and honestly feel more like a movie than a long, time 
 occupying game. 
  
  To say Uncharted looks good visually is an understatement. Uncharted is one of the most beautiful 
 games to date and the lush green, blue, and yellow tropical colors really make it a gem to look 
 at. The frame rate is nice, the cut scenes are breathtaking, and the water is unbelievably realistic. 
 It's the little things Uncharted: Drakes Fortune does that separates itself from the pack.
  
  While disappointingly short, and not very different in terms of game play, Uncharted: Drakes 
 Fortune is an amazing game that any PS3 owner should experience. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard that naughty dog was making a new game i instantly became excited because along 
 with insomniac, naughty dog is one of my favorite video game makers. Naughty dog seems to be on 
 a roll, after their famous and sucessful jak and daxter series, they cracked out another gem. That 
 gem's name was Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. Now let me begin by saying that as soon as you pop the 
 disc in and start playing, you realize something very quickly... the graphics are completly awesome. 
 This game is one of the best looking games i have ever seen, now don't get me wrong, its not the 
 best graphics i have ever seen, but from a first generation ps3 game, it matches most 2nd generation 
 xbox 360, pc, and other ps3 games that look fantastic. The jungle looks incredible, and the small 
 details that go into it are amazing. You have to play the game to understand what i mean by details, 
 and not just great looking environments, but small touches like individual puddles that accumulate 
 from the rain, or drakes clothes getting wet and dripping when he gets out of water, or the bits 
 of small shrapnel that fly off an exploding barrel, or drakes flinching when bullets ping off the 
 wall near him, or when drake goes back to taking cover he's rarely in the same stance. it's small 
 touches like these that add effect to the game, and there are many more than the few i listed. 
 The people look just as good as the environment, and not only do they look detailed and realistic, 
 but they even have realistic personalities which brings me to the story. The story is great, the 
 whole game is like a big motion picture and you won't want to stop playing until the credits roll. 
 The story seems just like a classic action adventure movie ( ala indiana jones) where drake is 
 a treasure hunter searching for the lost treasure of eldorado with their only lead being a book 
 left by Nathan (drakes) great ancestor who knew where eldorado was. He searches for the treasure 
 with his partner scully, and get mixed up with a female, some badguys, and some other bad guys. 
 The story is very good and i will not spoil it for you. naughty dog tried to make the characters 
 likable and more human, and it shows. Doing this made the game feel like a movie rather than a 
 game. Drake and every other character speaks like a real person would speak instead of the usual 
 video game character talk that would have you sayingno real person talks like that". for example: 
 when drake is by himself and your controlling him around the jungle, he doesn't say cliche stuff 
 likeo i better duck for cover before i get shot" no instead he says stuff likeo sh*t here 
 they come" or, you've gotta be kidding me!" this really immerses you into the game. The gameplay 
 and controls are also top notch on top of graphics and story. There is a few platforming spots 
 in the game (swing on a rope, climb, jump) but it's done very well, you will never die a cheap 
 death platforming unless you mess up yourself. also the gunplay is both familiar and fun. The gun 
 play controls feel alot like gears of wars gun play except in this game you can switch shoulders 
 to meet your needs instead of always looking over one shoulder. the weapons look great, feel great, and 
 are varied and fun to use. There are also some vehicle moments in the game which give you a break 
 from the shooting and platforming and the vehicles all control very well (especially the boat) 
 the enemy AI is some of the smartest AI around. The AI will try to trap you, flank you, draw you 
 out, use team work, and they almost never stay in the same spot waiting for you to go to the side 
 to shoot them in the head. for example: 3 of the enemies walked toward me while i was behind cover, 
 the two on the outside both had shot guns and waited for the third guy to throw a grenade near 
 me, forcing me to jump out in front of the 2 guys with the shot guns or get blown to bits. now 
 thats smart. The sound is also something worth noting. as you would expect, guns sound like guns, 
 explosions sound like explosions, and the voice acting is outrageous, it's hard to find better 
 voice acting in a game than this, add that to surround sound and that only add's to the movie feel 
 experience. the only drawback's to the game may be it's length which will last a person around 
 7-8 hours the first time through, but there are achivments, and ulike the useless XB360 acheivments 
 that don't do anything but add numbers to a pointless score, the acheivments in this game gives 
 you extra plau modes and characters to play as, and so much more. try playing black and white mode 
 on the hardest difficulty, or go through the game with unlimited ammo as a different character, 
 or change the costumes of your enemies to something less serious and funny. Also note there is 
 no multiplayer in this game ( maybe the sequel) but i bet you already have 50'000 multiplayer games 
 anyways, and a multiplayer mode would detract from it's movie like feel. Uncharted: Drakes Fortune 
 is a gem amoung video games, and should be purchased without hesitation. forget the reviews ( even 
 though they are good) forget what your friends say, just get this game and you won't regret playing 
 one of the best adventures ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Machine99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a one of a kind and a must have. A very good story-mode and combating makes it what 
 it is. The only flaw is that it has no real replay value. You can only go back and find hidden 
 treasures you must find and once you are done that there is practically nothing else to accomplish. 
 For these reasons I give this game an 8.5/10 and hope to see a sequel. This game would have been 
 even better if it had bonus missions or... iunno something interesting that makes it even longer 
 to beat. If it had these "extra qualities" this game would have gotten a better score on GS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dndmn422
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've seen for PS3 yet. Naughty Dog really nailed it, as the blends many different 
 types of genres together to form an awesome gaming experience. The graphics are beautiful, and 
 motions are fluid and believeable. The voice acting is great, and the storyline is solid. Some 
 weird twists make it confusing at times, but this can be forgiven when other aspects of the game 
 are taken into account. There are alot of unlockables, and gunfights can be rather long and annoying, 
 but also rewarding. This was a great game that was evry underrated, possibly because of other high 
 profile games being released at the same time, but certainly from what I've seen, this tops them 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I went into this game not expecting a whole lot, and I was proven totally wrong. The story is really 
 well written and the gameplay is seamless with the cutscenes that further the story. The game looks 
 incredible also. All of the jungle and ruins landscapes look absolutely real. The character models 
 look great as well. The voice acting is actually really cool, and the game has a sort of movie 
 like feel to it. It is highly addictive too. The first day that I bought it, I stayed up until 
 4 in the morning playing it. There are a couple of bad things about the control scheme, like sometimes 
 when you try to duck behind cover, it doesnt work so well, but other than that, the control is 
 pretty awesome. And the problems arent nearly enough to make it not worth playing. I sugguest everyone 
 check out this highly engrossing and great looking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  If you wanna play a game , go ahead buy one .
  If you wanna play the god of games , go ahead for Uncharted : Drake's Fortune .
  This game gonna 
 be in my mind and memories all the time . I played this game and end itfinished itin one 
 day without stops or rests and it took me 11 hours to finish it . I end it up withEasy Mode 
:P . I want to play it again with theHard Modeand then , theCrushing Mode.
  So many different ways to unlock clothes , videos , artworks , rendering effects and more ......
 
  You can find all the genres in this game . ( Adventure , Love , Comedy , Action and Horror ) . 
 
  ( A story like never before . A graphics like what your real eyes can see on your HDTV . Music 
 could kill the boring in the game and I love it very much ) .
  Of course I'm waiting for ( Uncharted II ) . Its will be my happiest moment in all the time to 
 hear about ( Uncharted II)
  If I could write more , I won't be done until forever to say how good is this game .
  
  
 
  Final Score :10 / 10
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insideous_rex
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Like many others, I was expecting a lot from this game, and it definitely delivered. It's a shame 
 that people feel the need to compare this game to Tomb Raider because I can safely say that Lara 
 Croft's adventures have NEVER come close to the awesomeness that is Uncharted.
  
  To start with the obvious, the game is freaking gorgeous. The jungle is lush, the water is clear 
 and reflective and the way that the sun illuminates the surroundings during the different times 
 of the day is just stunning. The textures are great and Drake moves very fluently, not to mention 
 that it has some of the best animation I've seen to date. I would definitely say that this has 
 got to be the best looking console game out right now (yes, I have Gears Heavenly Sword, and Bioshock) .
 
  
  The controls are tight and responsive. The shoot and cover system works just as well as it does 
 in Gears and the platforming elements are intuitive, and don't require perfect timing. While this 
 makes some of the jumps look unrealistic, it makes the game play more enjoyable.
  
  As for the story, it's nothing new. You'll be able to see most (but not all) of the twists coming 
 a mile away, but that doesn't make it any less believable or enjoyable. The characters are lovable, 
 and the voice acting is top notch. On top of that, the story is well paced and has a satisfying 
 conclusion.
  
  As for the length of the game, it took me about 12 hours to complete, but I was taking my time 
 and looking around for treasure. I suppose it could be completed in 8 hours, but that's definitely 
 on the fast side. The great thing is that you really will want to play through more than once, 
 and the game is challenging enough to keep you engaged.
  
  Forget the reviews and forget the hype, this is an AAA production all around and should not be 
 missed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games for the PS3.... but there is one problem which i'll get to shortly. First 
 the good stuff. The graphics and story are fantastic. Its Indiana jones meets tomb raider but way 
 better than tomb raider in my opinion. The action is constant and fun. The gameplay and cuts scenes 
 blend in nicely. This is one of those games that really shows off the potential of the the playstation 
 3. Its really like playing through an action movie. Once you start playing its hard to walk away 
 from it. 
  
  Now here is the one issue i have with this game. Its too damn short!!! Now a days, it seems most 
 action games are only about 6-10 hours (heavenly sword, COD4 for example) . Really, these games 
 should be lasting 12 hours in my opinion at least. So far, Ive completed 88% of Uncharted in 7 
 hours so i'll probably complete it around the 8 hours mark. Its worth a buy in my opinion BUT you 
 might want to trying playing it on a harder level to make it last longer. Otherwise, renting it 
 for a week would be enough for those who just want to beat the game and move on to the next one. 
 Either way, its worth playing regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  From all the Playstation 3 games I've played, I must say that Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is probably 
 the best. In graphics, there is no doubt, these are the greatest so far on the PS3 console or against 
 the 360 console. On top of devestating graphics, the gameplay is full of 22 chapters including 
 somewhat hard puzzles, exploration of highly detailed forest or cave enviroments, or most importantly, 
 insane action packed moments filling the player up with tons of momentum. Plus, there is a great 
 replay value to the game. You can choose which chapter of the game to play, choose up to four difficulties 
 of easy, medium, hard or expert, explore for secret hidden treasures, reshoot and get headshots 
 on enemies or kill them melee style with many different combos, or earn medal points which will 
 earn you secret rewards. Anyway you put it, Uncharted is definetely a great mix of several gaming 
 aspects to make you want to buy it or at least rent it. Although, I didn't mention the storyline, 
 it is good, don't worry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted Drakes Fortune is by far one of my favorite games ever made, its simply amazing, with 
 the best graphics ever seen, highly addictive gameplay, fantastic story line, and incredible acting, 
 this game is simply a must buy in general.
  
  Story
  You are Nathan Drake, looking for a treasure of an ancestor Francis Drake, you have to partners 
 Victor Sullivan and Elena Fisher. Victor, or "Sully" To Nate is his buisness partner and friend, 
 while Elena is his secret love interest and a girl looking for a story. The story Plays out perfectly 
 when you play the game, and to not spoil anything, i would just say, the treasure Truly is CURSED. 
 The Acting is amazing, i would believe it was live action if my eyes were closed and hadn't already 
 known is was a game.
  
  Graphics
  Put it this way, THE BEST GRAPHICS OF ANY GAME ON ANY SYSTEM, This game truly shows the power of 
 the playstation 3. The environments are life like and the characters move like human beings and 
 not like digital creations, and if you watch the "making of uncharted", you'll see why.
  
  Gameplay
  Of course, a game isn't great without great gameplay, and Uncharted delivers here as 
 well, i know alot of people are saying it rips off Gears of War, but they need to just think for 
 a minute, just because the game uses a cover system doesn't mean that its ripping off gears, rainbow 
 six vegas has a cover system, and people didn't accuse of that. The platforming element is also 
 executed perfectly.
  
  Overall this game is pretty much perfect, i have not near explained everything that i can here, 
 but its simple, BUY THIS GAME, you won't be disapointed, its the best PS3 game by far, and great 
 thing that its exclusive, becasue the PS3 needed it, thank you Naughty Dog.
  
  To see my video Review Of Uncharted, check out my profile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellz666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Uncharted: Drake's Fortune as I was looking for some PS3-only games, as I buy everything 
 for XBOX360 if I have a choice. I started playing and immediately got a real feel for the adventure 
 that begins right from the start. 
  
  The game looks amazing graphically, in fact, the PS3 shines thoroughly here in the way it creates 
 exact shadows, and matches the characters mouths to the voices so you can almost read their lips. 
 When Nathan takes a swim, his clothes darken and get wet and change appearance to show it. When 
 Nathan gets out of the water, the clothes remain visibly wet. Not important at all, but an incredible 
 bit of attention to detail. The old ruins explored in the beginning are gorgeously crafted and 
 you can really feel the deep, dank, musty feel that they have. In the lavish jungle, the trees, 
 plants and everything on screen keep an amazing frame rate and the visual pleasure that this game 
 creates is utterly everything the PS3 is all about.
  
  I haven't played through the game yet, so I'm a bit unfamiliar with all of the levels. The ones 
 I have seen are not terribly long, so I don't think the game will take terribly long to finish. 
 I hope that I am wrong, as I'd love to get further lost in the game play and story line that gets 
 established right from the jump off. So far there have been traps to avoid, puzzles to solve and 
 pirates to shoot at. I get a real Indiana Jones feel to the story. The game play has had me climb 
 levels, swim distances, find treasures, swing on vines and all out become an adventurer, which 
 makes the game feel a bit like Pitfall if it had been made twenty five years later. 
  
  Overall, I can only recommend this game so far. It's been an amazing journey and I've only just 
 begun it. I'm usually much more biased towards my 360, but in this case the PS3 has been used perfectly 
 to compliment what I consider one of this year's great games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goliath98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Well. I've just completed Uncharted: Drake's Fortune and I have to say that this is one beautiful 
 game with increadible graphics, great sound, good voice acting, a lot of action, constant shooting, 
 great explosions and well created invirements that have a very natural appeal that just looks fantastic 
 and interacts well with your charector. I found that the gun sounds weren't to great considering 
 that all the pistols seem to sound very alike. One of the things that I found great about this 
 game is that the regular gameplay and the cutsceens have the same graphics unlike previous games 
 where you would see great textures and great lighting in the cutsceens and when you'd start playing 
 again, the beatiful visuals and lighting seem to disapear.
  
  Their was only one issue with this game that really bothered me once I finished this game. The 
 thing is that this game has the ability to suck you in and make you want to play for hours at a 
 time and I was really not looking foward to seeing the ending because it's such a great game and 
 I really did not want it to end.
  
  I haven't restarted the game yet but I wouldn't mind playing it again since it was really great 
 the first time. The game is defenitly worth every single penny. 
  
  If only the game were longuer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for "Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, maybe too high. I put any problems and 
 expectations I had for the game firmly in the lap of the Sony PR machine. First off, I should know 
 by now that when Sony says this game is gonna change the way we play video games forever, I should 
 know that Sony is blowing smoke up my but, they have done it before, and they will do it again. 
 I LOVE the Tomb Raider series, on the harder settings, they are perfect games, and maybe I shouldn't 
 have played TR Anniversary right before Uncharted but I didn't expect such a blatant rip-off, and 
 they didn't even rip off some of the more interesting traits of TR, just some of the controls and 
 general vibe of the game, but it just never, for me, seems to get off the ground. It just repetitiously 
 plods along (looking great I might add) and doesn't have the same tensions or pacing of TR. When 
 the bad guys finally come, if your playing on a harder setting, the bad guys can quickly make old 
 news of the hero. Another thing that is really starting to bother me about ALL PS3 games is the 
 "POP" of the images and the painfully shiny, well, everything. . . the trees are just as shiny 
 as the water and the water is just as shiny as our hero. Come on guys, it's been a year lose the 
 furniture polish sheen on "EVERYTHING" ....... All in all, a pleasant experience, they need more 
 games like this, with a bit more variety in locations and background. So I had a good time, and 
 you will too, unless of coarse you hate TR, then avoid this game at any cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Uncharted , is simply a wonderful game, U cant go wrong with this game, ITs just a game that u cant 
 sayIT SUCKS LIKE HELL"
  
  
  The story in Uncharted is wonderful, u get to play a cool dude exploring beautiful places , and 
 wonderful enviroments, and also it lasts pretty long ( i thnk 16 hrs, is decent) The combat system 
 is ok, but it might be a bit shabby, but it cant ruin the games look .The enviroments ar SO beautiful, Uncharted 
 may be the most beautiful game next to Ratchet and Clank, and Heavenly sword. The gameplay is totaly 
 fantastic , like i wrote before Its becaus of the enviroment.
  
  
  The game last long, The level disagin is well made, Beautiful graphics , There ar so much things 
 u wanna do , that i just cant name them.
  
  Overall it may be the greatest game, yet. But i kinda ov doubt that it deserves 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Lets get to the point, this game rocks. The graphics are amazing, in terms of texture work this 
 game is without a doubt the next benchmark in console gaming. Marry this stunning visuals with 
 a dynamic mix of gun play and user friendly platforming, along with an engaging story line and 
 you'll have a game that play out like a virtual 10 hours Indiana Jones movie. 
  
  The only issue is the lack of cliff hanger gun play. For the most part you'll do most of your gun 
 fights with pirates and hired goons in some relatively safe grounds. In a tombs, courtyards, ruins 
 and such. It would be nice to battle it out with the bad guys on a crumbling bridge or a precarious 
 perch, to be exact I would've love something similar to the Indiana Jones rope bridge scene. 
 
  
  Despite this very minor flaw Uncharted is still a knock out game. One which will not equaled in 
 it's genre for until the next game in this franchise. This game is what Edios was trying for in 
 all those lack luster Tomb Raider sequels. A huge congrats to Naughty Dog for finally nailing the 
 magic formula for the next-gen console. No doubt the makers of Tomb Raider will now clone Uncharted 
 for all it's worth.
  
  If you own a PS3, you owe it to yourself to play this landmark tittle. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghetto45
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game I was in aww. hot graphic. good gameplay. why does it seem that every ps3 
 game that gamespot reviews its never a 9.0. there thinking if its not on xbox 360 gamespot is not 
 giving a good score. this game is higher then a 8.0 if it had master chief as the main character 
 they would give a 10.0 to bad that halo 3 sucks!!
  thats why I got rid of my xbox for ps3 its much better. and in 3- 4 years from now they won't have 
 to make a ps4 cuz it can last for 10+ years thanks to bluray! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  uncharted was a game i thought 2 be an average action game. it turned out i was wrong, very wrong. 
 uncharted is close 2 being 1 of the best ps3 games out there.
  
  gamplay: stunning. very fun but the firefights could get annoying. every thing else about it was 
 great. it was adventury and actiony. it was worth 60$ even though i just traded games in for it. 
 the gameplay is just so great and i cant think of anything else 2 say about it. A for gameplay
 
  
  graphics: stunning and shows that ps3 graphics r better than 360 graphics. it beats bioshocks graphics 
 by a mile. the jungle textures r great. A+ for graphics
  
  sound: jungle noises and gunshots sounded very real. A for sound
  
  value: u will play this 
 game a couple time through but the campahgin is long so u will play it for another year or so. 
 B+ for value
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffross31
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Very addicting game with great graphics that pulls you into the game world, only complaint is at 
 times it the difficulty seams to change from overly easy to hair pulling hard. The puzzles are 
 not complicated at all; they are in the most part mapped out for you with distinct road signs for 
 the most part. Furthermore if you do get into a situation that you can't figure out what to do 
 the hints button icon flashes. On the difficult side there are very brief moments when you are 
 not fighting or shooting it out with countless amounts of enemies on screen. Just when think you 
 are free to explore for a few moments outcome another round of enemies. The graphics are bright 
 and vibrant with open world real life environments. At points of the game you just had to stop 
 and look around at the scenery. I would recommend this game to anyone that ever played this type 
 of adventure game on the line of Tomb Raider but with a story line that makes it hard to put the 
 controller down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dony11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Pirates who want to kill you dont carry around a full clip, so on average after killing a section 
 full of pirates in an Indonesian jungle you'd be lucky to have enough bullets to kill the next 
 few. The game suffers from the BIOSHOCK stingy bullet syndrome so youre left with taking cover 
 and conserving bullets. 
  
  With Nathan Drake having probably killed 100 + guys during the entire duration of the game and 
 doing so with such confidence, the charecter is nonetheless a wuss. I'd expect some dude that coherent 
 with a weapon and not having any quams in using it to be a tough ass, especially if he can hang 
 from a ledge and jump upwards towards another ledge with barely any strain. NaughtyDog has got 
 to do something with this charecter in the next game. 
  
  Other than the bullets and the wimpy charecter and the sometime near impossible grenade toss, its 
 a great game, which is perhaps the best PS3 exclusive game up to date.
  
  Games like this really put shame to so many, this drake is detailed; the charecter movement is 
 fluid, the physics are good, the gun play is good and the graphics on my 46" LCD make this game 
 9.0. 
  
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  First in foremost, I was really drawn into the character of Drake. The graphics are truly the most 
 amazing I have seen so far on the PS3. This is especially true for the water and atmospheric scenes 
 of the game. This game has similar gameplay features to Gears of War for the 360. The ducking from 
 cover around walls and the item selection modes are very similar. The game can be somewhat hard 
 in firefights, but honestly, I enjoy playing games with somewhat of a challenge. I also liked the 
 fact that your cover can be destroyed if you stay behind it too long. Puzzles seemed somewhat challenging 
 as well and the use of the Sixaxis controller's motion sensors seemed to fit well with the game. 
 Finding relics and treasure throughout the game also plays well into the plot. Thowing grenades 
 seemed somewhat of a chore, but was still fun. This is a must buy game, one of those which is good 
 for someone who doesnt have a game collection or is looking for a title which harnesses the power 
 of the PS3. I often found myself getting shot up because of the nice visuals in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy4life54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Finally a solid PS3 only game. If you like first person shooters and rare storylines, then you'll 
 love this game. Based on fighting modern day pirates in a search for lost treasure, you'll find 
 yourself jumping around ancient buildings, shooting pirates, riding jet ski's, and just all out 
 pwning face in this fun filled 3rd person shooter. 
  
  Although the game is extremely short, for most it'll be less than 10 hours, it makes up for it 
 with stunning graphics, speedy frame rates and wicked awesome shooting style. You'll find yourself 
 getting a lot more head shots in usually with this steady handed shooter. Strategy plays a key 
 as well sometimes as you'll be forced to cover behind rocks and ancient relics in order to fight 
 off waves of pirates at a time, while at the same time trying to defend yourself from rushing shotgun 
 wielders. If that doesn't float your boat, there are 60 treasures hidden around the game for you 
 to find, as you find them in increments of 10 you'll earn game rewards. There really is no use 
 for the game rewards, its sort of like the achievement system for the xbox, it just makes you feel 
 good.
  
  I wouldn't buy it unless you like playing through games numerous times, I myself beat it the day 
 I rented it, however I do find myself getting urges to play it again, this time on a more challenging 
 level. There are four levels of difficulty, ranging from Beginner to Crushing. I played on normal 
 and it was still quite challenging, so if you like a tough to beat game, this is it for you.
  
  Anyways, definitely a must play. If you own a ps3 play this game, or else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light_Jak723
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely incredible. I knew NaughtyDog would come through with a kickass game but 
 this is just incredible. Every aspect of the game was incredibly thought out and its really noticeable. 
 The surprises just keep comin at you. You won't feel bored even for a second. There are plenty 
 of unlockables and secrets to keep you busy for a while, even if the story is a little short. I 
 beat it in about 9-10 hours on easy mode. It's fairly challenging. I'm currently trying on normal 
 as well as trying to unlock everything. My advice? If you are a fan of ND's games, you must get 
 this game. It is simply incredible. No other word can describe it.
  
  
  NAUGHTYDOG  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Good game over all. Story is good. Gameplay is great. Graphics are purdy. Loving the cover system 
 in this game. Has slight glicthes but over all its very very good. The character animations are 
 also very good. Only complaint I have is wouldnt of hurt to have more of a variety of guns, and 
 dual weild capabilities but those things didnt keep me from playing this game till the end. You 
 are going to platform alot in this game so if u are not a fan of the Prince of Persia franchise 
 or Assassins Creed, I wouldnt recommend this game to ya. If you are a fan u wont be mad you got 
 this game. Sony needs to put more games like this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latinbro1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME DOES NOT HAVE UNEVEN GAMEPLAY!
  
  Let me get the bad out of the way first. 1) You will see some texture popping. 2) You will fall 
 at times trying to make a jump or two. 3) .Jetski portion felt a little bland but still fun. 4) 
 regular pistol feels slightly more powerful than it should.
  
  On to the rest:
  Amazing does not really do justice to this title. It is a very story driven, action packed, and 
 sense-tingling experience. Story: The game starts out with a typical treasure hunt that goes wrong. 
 You'll find yourself trying avoid getting killed while unraveling the mystery surrounding Sir. 
 Drake's hidden treasure. You have some people that accompany you in your mission. For the details 
 you'll have to play the game.
  
  Gameplay: A platformer/shooter with some simple puzzle that fit perfectly with the environment 
 and storyline (those looking for challenging brain twister may need to look elsewhere) . Jumping 
 from pillar to pillar, wall to wall, or vine to vine is a ton of fun. The game uses a cover system 
 ala Killswithc/Gears of War and it works great. You can only carry two weapons at a time and grab 
 those from your enemies, providing you with some strategy as to how to use the weapons. Oh, and 
 it has some melay attacks. My favorite? Diving in between an enemies leg and knocking them out 
 in the process... and snapping necks when sneaking up on them.
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous and detailed. Character movement and facial expressions are superb. You'll see 
 your enemies shoot at you in so many ways (from behind walls, diving to the ground, gunning straight 
 for you, etc) . Your character has this realism to him. He doesn't make every jump perfectly, he 
 shows frightened expressions with explosions, reacts to bullets passing by, feels fluid when aiming 
 or running, etc. The environment are vibrent/colorful and dark and eerie when in caverns or in 
 doors. The lighting and shaodws in this game are so impressive.
  
  Sound: dialog is outstanding. The story all throughout. It is not a play and wait for a cut-scene 
 to explain (everything is happening as you go) . Naturally occurring! That's the best way I can 
 describe the story thanks to the dialog present. The music really immerses you in the game. it 
 blends in perfectly with the goings of the game and never feels like it is interrupted or intrusive. 
 Overall: Uncharted will take you an estimate of 9hrs to finish but the pacing of the story and 
 the game elements feel just right for its length. The game has simplistic game mechanics that as 
 a whole really provide an amazing and unforgettable experience. Mystery, plot twists, and likable 
 characters make this game have a lasting appeal. Add to it treasure, unlockables, awards, and different 
 difficulty levels to test your abilities, you would be doing yourself a disservice not owning this 
 one! GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect. The graphics are amazing and the little things like your clothes being 
 soaked when you come out of the water makes it enen more believable. Game play is great and there 
 are enough ways of atacking your enemy that it stays fun. There is an interesting storyline that 
 will make you actually want to watch the cut-scenes and keeps you guessing throughout the game. 
 In the menu there is a bonuses option that shows you the treasures you have found, medals you have 
 earned (for completing specific tasks, and unlockable content that you earn by winning the medals) . 
 There are "Hidden Medals" in the game that turn out to be get a certain # of kills with each gun 
 or completing the game on different difficulty levels. The only problem with this game is that 
 it isn't long enough. It takes about 10 hrs. and that seems fine untill you play and really get 
 into, then it flies by like nothing. THIS IS A MUST BUY FOR PS3 OWNERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJesse
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  What a great game! Some may call it a Tomb Raider rip off, but by that logic Halo is a Doom rip 
 off. The controls are spot on, the sound is great, AMAZING graphics, and a very cool movie like 
 story. The dialogue is a little cheesy sometimes, but it works in the context of the game. The 
 puzzles are very intuitive, not too hard, and not too easy. Combat is well done and is like a "puzzle" 
 also. A must have have game . FYI- i have been a 360 and Wii owner since launch dates. I recently 
 bought my PS3 for no game in particular, just to have one and the blu ray. This game made the purchase 
 worth it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Pros
  + Excellent Production values all throughout
  + Cinematic feel matched by few
  + Unbelievable animations for the characters
  + Game-play is just fun and addicting
  
  Cons
 
  -Some of the gunfights can be a bit frustrating courtesy of endless waves of smart enemies
  - The cover system can sometimes doom you rather than save you
  
  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 is Naughty Dog's first foray unto the PS3 hardware and one of the most anticipated titles for the 
 system. Often referred to as "Tomb Raider meets Gears of War", Uncharted makes a name for itself 
 with its easy to pick up game-play, likeable cast of characters and incredible production values, 
 making this easily one of the best games for this holiday season, as well as the best game the 
 PS3 has to offer yet.
  
  In Uncharted, you'll assume the role of Nathan Drake, treasure hunter extraordinaire and a supposed 
 descendant of 16th century legend Sir Francis Drake. It seems Nathan has discovered Drake's lost 
 diary, which in true adventure story fashion, holds the clue to finding El Dorado. So is up to 
 Nathan, sassy and tough as nail TV reporter Elena Fisher and old pal, the suave yet trouble magnet 
 Victor Sullivan to uncover the secrets of the mythical treasure. Of course, it wouldn't be a memorable 
 pulp adventure without some ill-nature group going after the same treasure with more than just 
 questionable intentions, providing for lots of chases, explosions and gunfights for Nathan and 
 co to deal with.
  
  Though not original in its premise, Uncharted certainly delivers up on its promises, offering a 
 complete and cohesive package that is beautiful to look at, a marvel to listen to and just plain 
 fun to play. There really isn't anything bad to say about Uncharted other that is not very long. 
 But at around eight hours, the amazing campaign throws enough action; puzzle solving and vehicle 
 chases that you'll be more than satisfied. It also helps that the story, while having a few clichs 
 here and there, is highly entertaining and very well written. Nathan's wit and sense of humor is 
 sure to get at least a chuckle out of most serious gamers, and his constant bickering with Elena 
 is highly amusing as well. Of course, there is a certain amount seriousness to the tale as a whole 
 and it has its share of dramatic moments along with its own urgencies, but its often lighthearted 
 tone is a very welcome change to the more gritty and violent stories we are getting now at days.
 
  
  The entire game is divided into two main sections, plat forming and gunfights, often times one 
 following the other or vice versa, but are overall very well-pace all throughout. The platform 
 sections of the game tend to be pretty straightforward and often times downright easy, but every 
 jump comes with an awe factor. The camera tends to give you the best vantage points and very rarely 
 will you wonder where exactly your next jump should be aimed at. Along with the jumps, there are 
 some occasional puzzles here and there to spice things up. These aren't very tough and most of 
 the times, Drake's journal gives you the answer to them anyway. This is not entirely bad, as it 
 keeps the game moving at a quick pace, but players looking for some substance in their puzzle sections 
 might walk out a little disappointed.
  
  The other portions of Uncharted are the shootouts. These tend to take place in fairly open areas, 
 giving enough cover points for you and your enemies to maneuver around. These are often times exhilarating 
 and just plain fun, since most shootouts require some different approaches using the overall same 
 strategies. The enemies, though their appearances to every shootout are scripted, are smart enough 
 to move between the different vantage points and are surprisingly good flankers and grenade throwers, 
 even on the default difficulty. In fact, Uncharted is a pretty tough game on the regular setting 
 anyway, as most shootouts, particularly towards the end, tend to throw wave after wave of pirates 
 and mercenaries, so you'll be dying pretty often. It is a good thing that the game has plenty of 
 checkpoints, as some players might find the amount of dying and retrying frustrating. It doesn't 
 help that Drake can't take much fire before kicking the can, while enemies take at least three 
 hits before going down, unless you score a headshot. The cover system employed by the game is very 
 good, but sometimes you might find yourself attaching to surfaces in a way that you did not intend, 
 which can result in you getting killed. These instances aren't very common, but when they do happen, 
 it can be a bit annoying. 
  
  There are also some vehicle sequences; one where you'll be manning a truck turret while Elena races 
 through the forest and others will have you driving a jet sky while Elena provides cover fire. 
 While these aren't mind blowing, they still break up the action nicely and are very fun too, especially 
 when you have to brave your way up a roaring river. The game also features four difficulty settings, 
 sixty treasures to find and one thousand medal points for players to obtain by achieving different 
 criteria's. The more points you rack up, the more unlockables you'll uncover, and there are plenty, 
 so even with a relatively short campaign, there is tons to do in Uncharted. 
  
  Graphically, Uncharted is as much of a technical success as it is artistic. In fact, words cannot 
 describe the beauty that Uncharted is. Never have forests, rivers and ancient ruins looked as good. 
 The quality of the graphic engine is such, that some backgrounds almost look photo-realistic. There 
 are some texture pop in and clipping here and there, but you really have to look for them in order 
 to notice it. The characters look just as good, be it heroes or enemies. Sometimes they seem to 
 have a certain kind of plastic look to them, but feel natural overall. Kudos to Naughty Dog on 
 their animation engine however, as characters in Uncharted animate in such a way that sometimes 
 it'll be hard to differentiate from the real thing. From Nate's flailing in mid-air after a dangerous 
 jump to his covering his head as bullets whistle, never have animations looked this natural. This 
 achievement is shared by the game's facial expressions as well.
  
  Sound wise; Uncharted hits it high, with a bombastic soundtrack that fits every situation just 
 right. Guns and explosions are of equal caliber, packing the punch that you would expect them to. 
 The voice acting in the game is also top-notch with each character sounding just right. The actors 
 do an excellent job at portraying the emotions of each character and are always a delight to listen 
 to. The script is fairly well written as well, so is nice to see that everything worked out nicely 
 in the final product.
  
  In the end, Uncharted is an action packed adventure that is a blast to play and will be in your 
 memory for a while to come. Even with its small blemishes, this is one ride you definitely shouldn't 
 miss this holiday season.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avelblue
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is an absolutely beautiful game from it lightly stylized characters to its breathtaking 
 vistas, it is abso-effin'-lutely an awesome site to behold. I don't need to tell you this since 
 the screen caps, videos and other reviews have most likely already pounded this into your skull 
 many times over. The game is a great venture for Naughty Dog and certainly solidifies them as one 
 of (if not the) best developers that Sony has.
  
  Visually the game is stunning and though there are visual glitches -- most noticeably texture popping -- it 
 has great vision and feels, as it should. A breathtaking 'action movie' sort of feel that carries 
 throughout the game quite efficiently. The animation is certainly the strongpoint of the visuals 
 and here Naughty Dog does not disappoint. The characters and the environment move about rather 
 gracefully. There are only very minor instances of wonky animation.
  
  Game play is somewhat an amalgam of other tried and true models. The platforming feels like a tuned 
 Prince of Persia (cliff grabs and rope swings included) and the gunplay feels like a slowed down 
 Gears of War (cover is plentiful and necessary) . It may feel derivative, but it feels right for 
 this game though in the third quarter of the game much of the tried and true is thrown out the 
 window in an unfortunate twist. A bit of stealth play would have been nice as well since sometimes 
 the enemies are a bit too perceptive...
  
  The sound is almost completely perfect including properly timed fade ins and outs during combat 
 and cut scenes, but it had a few glitches where action would be followed by an out-of-sync sound 
 effect. Seldom did this occur, but when you're close to nirvana it doesn't take much to take a 
 tumble.
  
  The story for the most part is standard action flick sort of fare, but the key difference is the 
 characters. Uncharted simply has a great core of characters to work with. Drake plays out for the 
 most part perfectly as he seems to grow a bit into his role although mood swings between nervous 
 and courageous do happenit would have been nice to have a bit more reluctance so the guy could 
 ease into the action her mold. Elena plays the surprising female love-interest role spot on. She's 
 quirky and likable, but with a mysterious spot that sadly never really plays itself out. Sully 
 is the most standard and possibly the most amusing member of the heroes. Once you hear him, you'll 
 know about what to expect. On the other side of the alignment wheel, most of the key enemies are 
 standard bad guy save for Raja, whom actually appeared to have history, but this path too has gone 
 unused. The plot itself moves along at a reasonable clip and the separation into chapters gives 
 the player a sense of accomplishment as well as foreboding with some well-chosen titles.
  
  Visuals: 9 (beautiful, but with some unfortunate shortcomings/glitches)
  Sound: 9.5 (perfectly 
 realized musical score and usage, minor hitches)
  Gameplay: 8.5 (fun, though not particularly inventive)
  Story: 9 (perfect action-adventure script, 
 pacing and characters, some unexplored territory)
  
  Overall: 9 (the best PS3 game to date)
  
  Naughty Dog has created yet another great franchise 
 and if their press is accurate, this sequel shall not disappoint.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Flesh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay I picked up Assasins Creed and Uncharted on the same day. I've played through uncharted several 
 times while hardly putting any effort into assasins creed at all.
  
  Lets start out with the enemy AI. There are a lot of things to like about this game but this is 
 by far the thing that stands out the most. The enemy will flank you, will drop back for better 
 cover, will kamikazi advance on you. This was very refreshing since enemies have been little more 
 than bullet catchers in videogames since.... forever. However I don't really like the shooting from 
 cover thing........ yeah it's more realistic but it feels like I'm playing whack-a-mole... how could 
 GoW be so great if that's all there was to it.? A lot of people bitch about how the AI is too hard..... screw 
 them... the people that bitch about shit like that wear velcro shoes cause laces "are too hard"
 
  
  I'd like to move on to the graphics......... I don't care what people say about AC Uncharted has 
 it beat. And it's not just in shaders, poly counts, or any other hoopla. It's in the nuances, the 
 partialy wet clothes, the jestures and stance depending on health, the grass moving as you move 
 through it. When I watch drake walk it actually looks like he's walking not just moving his legs 
 while moving. Sound... ehh it's sound........
  
  If I have one bitch it is the near total lack of puzzles and what puzzles there are are mind numbingly 
 easy the platforming wasn't all that hard either. Another bitch I have is the shortness of the 
 game. This has actually been my bitch about games since the turn of the millenium. I remember back 
 in the day when controllers had two buttons, you had to blow on your game before you put it in the 
 console, when a game would keep you busy for a week, now I plow through them in one or two sittings. 
 I think game companies are starting to depend on replay value too much instead of content.
  
  As pretty, and fun, and cool as this game is it's length is what drags it down in my score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Man, was this game ever awesome! From start to finish, there was nothing that ever made me want 
 to put it down. In fact, there was a whole lot that kept me playing it through to the end. Simply 
 put, Uncharted is an incredible game that in the end, just feel right. It's a whole lot of fun! 
 It seems a near perfect combination of story and gameplay and has a feel of polish and balance 
 that are simply exemplary.
  
  To try to pick out one thing that stands out about Uncharted simply isn't possible. The entire 
 game exudes quality and it's the combination of all of these parts that make it outstanding. The 
 gameplay never feels too difficult or too easy. The platforming aspects of the game are forgiving 
 when they need to be, the puzzles are logical and the combat is extremely satisfying. This combination 
 really works out well and the transition between one style to the next is seamless and fluid. 
 
  
  The cover system made famous by Gears of War works really well in Uncharted's environments. With 
 tons of pillars, boxes, crates, ledges and walls to hide behind and duck under, emulating what 
 Gears accomplished is a no-brainer. Yes, it's been done before, but it never feels like a ripoff 
 or like it gets old in Uncharted. Just when you may be getting frustrated with a wave of pirates, 
 you shoot a barrel to clear out the last three and find yourself quickly thrust into a bit of platforming 
 or puzzle solving. On a few occasions you get to try your skill at using various vehicles. Piloting 
 a Sea-Doo upstream while shooting pirates and avoiding explosive barrels was particularly rewarding. 
 While many of the weapons you'll find in the game are similar, I never really found any of them 
 to be useless. I had my favourites (I mean, who doesn't love picking up and firing off a sniper 
 rifle?) , but as the game went on I found myself just picking up whatever was laying around and 
 wreaking havoc.
  
  The sound in Uncharted is fantastic. The ambient sounds, the voice acting and the score are all 
 top notch. They do as audio is supposed to do and provide a solid layer to the game without being 
 overbearing or transparent. Guns sound like guns should sound in a video game. The score is something 
 that would be just as at home in a Hollywood blockbuster as it is here in a video game. There are 
 tons of little details that you'll find yourself appreciative of it as you play through the game. 
 My favourite is by far what you hear after a grenade or rocket explodes near you. The familiarity 
 of a high pitch ringing drowning out the rest of the sounds around you took me back to standing 
 a couple of feet too close to a speaker at a night club and waking up the next morning with a splitting 
 headache. It's a natural attention to detail that really just works.
  
  Graphically, i wasn't in love with Uncharted when i first started playing it. I'd previously played 
 the demo and knew what I was getting in to, but it wasn't until i'd run through the first few chapters 
 that they began to grow on me. The driving force behind Uncharted is story and when I'd acquired 
 the mindset that this was a comic adventure the sharp colours and defined images became immediately 
 more acceptable and logical as a graphical choice, rather that going for the photo-realistic look. 
 The look of the game totally mirrors an adventure series straight out of a comic book. Beyond how 
 things appear visually though, the real kicker is the animation. The way that Nathan doubles up 
 stairs or shuffles sideways down them are all nice touches that feel natural and well though out.
 
  
  Overall, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a complete package and every aspect of the game comes together 
 to provide an awesome gaming experience. Taking the best from previously released games and adding 
 a few twists of their own, Naughty Dog has put together the finest PS3 exclusive to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlinedaddy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Stunning graphics, startling motion capture, immersive in depth gameplay.
  Just like a big budget movie only you're controlling the star character's every move. Best part 
 of all you'll keep coming back for more, because it is so much fun to play. Kudos NAUGHTY DOG Sony 
 must be proud to have this as an exclusive! Amazingly I've heard no one congratulate NAUGHTY DOG 
 on some of the most startlingly sophisticated AI ever experienced in a game.
  
  
  To: GAMESPOT I think you need some new critics because this game deserves nothing less than a 8.9, 
 and yes I love Assassins Creed but this game is no less great. And yes I understand this game is 
 short but it's so much fun to play just like a great movie you'll want to play it again.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted, Drake's Fortune has many pluses and a few minuses, depending on your gaming experience:
 
  
  Combat: Abundant, and for me (I'm more of an action-RPG player than a first-person shooter player) 
 very, very difficult. The enemy AI isn't great, and it makes up for that by having large swarms 
 of bad guys with unlimited ammo. For FPS players, the aim-n-shoot method will probably be fine. 
 For someone that's not used to heavy combat real-time shooters, it's tough to master.
  
  Story: Pretty generic "Indiana Jones" storyline (looking for "long lost" Aztec gold in Central 
 America, racing to beat the bad guys there, etc...) but ties the levels together well, and provides 
 some very nice looking/sounding scenery.
  
  Characters: Again, quite generic, but likable and good enough to drive the story.
  
  Graphics: 
 Best on the PS3? Quite possibly. Scenery, character animations, etc. all look fantastic. The character 
 lip-sync in cut scenes is best-of-breed, and the in-game character animation is fluid and excellent.
 
  
  Sound/music: Very good... nice use of stereo/surround, very good voice acting (though a little 
 hokey and cliche' for enemies) , very good cinematic score pieces throughout.
  
  Overall, Uncharted is extremely well done, and highly recommended for experienced action adventure 
 gamers. Those looking for a deep story-driven game with light-mid level combat, look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Uncharted is one of those games that mesmerizes you from start to finish. The graphics are the 
 best I've ever seen in a next gen title to date. The gameplay keeps you going and causes you to 
 forget just how much time has passed since your started playing. 
  
  Every element of the game is beautiful and the detail is stunning. Even when Drake steps on the 
 bodies of enemies his foot actually rests on them instead of clipping into their bodies. Cut scene 
 graphics are equal to the in game graphics and Drake's clothing even gets darker when he gets wet, 
 just to give you an idea on the graphic power displayed in this title.
  
  There are treasures to collect throughout the game, which unlocks specials from behind the scenes 
 videos to special in-game skins for Drake. The adventure takes you on a wild ride where jumping, 
 swinging, puzzle solving, shooting, and hand-to-hand are some of the things you get involved in 
 to survive on the crazy island. You also have Elena there from time to time, a hot reporter who 
 actually fights along side you and gets you out of a tough spot or 2. 
  
  The story is very smooth as it flows from one chapter to the next. I highly recommend this title 
 for anyone into action adventure games. Uncharted won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamber303
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I just got the game and played for 4 hours straight. I have to say that it is a superb title with 
 no flaws.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the sound is very good as well. The story will keep you playing without 
 getting board. I would replay the game again and again once I finish it.
  
  The idea of adventure, simple puzzle solving and gunfighting put together is nice.
  
  It feels 
 like if you are in control of the main actor in amovie.
  
  The enemies are not hard to kill. I like the idea of how enemies hurt at the exact spot you shoot 
 them (unless you use a grenade or the shotgun in close range) they just fly a few feet back and 
 fall on the ground.
  
  shooting exploding barrels also is a nice touch to it.
  
  The jeep chase and the water jet boat is also very good.
  
  This is a must for your library.
 
  
  I can only imagine how part2 (if ever) will be.
  Naughty dog did a good job here.
  
  bravo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: god_of_shawn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The graphics is awesome, the whole gameplay plays and looks real, i can say it's 1 of the most 
 realistic game i had ever played. Drake's clothes gets wet when he touches the water, he breathes 
 hard when he is taking the cover. It's a Masterpeice. 
  
  As for the difficulty, i think is just nice, as you can change it to easy, i don't get it why GS's 
 reviewer said that it's too hard. Well, don't believe him, just get the game and you will be happy 
 with your purchase. 
  
  For me i will give
  
  Graphics 9.5
  Story 9.0
  Gameplay 10
  Sound 9
  Lasting Appeal 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlow0678
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game came as a surprise. I was to busy tracking Assassin's Creed to notice its quiet appearance 
 on shelves. Unfortunatley, I saw it in Best Buy before the game rental place. This game is quite 
 beautiful and graphically amazing, but the jungle setting quickly becomes old. The ruins all look 
 the same, despit how beautiful they are. The game is actually very repetive. All that happens is 
 jumping and shooting. The shooting aspect is fun (and quite like Gears of War) , but some of the 
 fights become so long and hard, you just want to quit. Also, the sheer number of pirates (several 
 thousand-ish) makes the gun fighting seem awkward. The storyline is cliche, yet good, and the characters 
 are perhaps the best part of the game. The sarcastic banter between Drake and his comrades is hilarious 
 (yet the language should give this game an M rating) and their personalities are most definetly 
 fortified. The music is also very good. The game is okay for the most part, despite the highly 
 obnoxious collection aspect that was included. It could keep the common perfectionist scanning 
 over an area several times to find a oeice of the colloectible treasure. Despite this game's amazing 
 graphics and characters, the repetition of gameplay and jungle setting quickly become annoying 
 and obnoxious. The only reason to play through this repetitive game completely is to unravel the 
 movie-like story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twowheeltroy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't usually take the time to review a game, BUT..... I feel I need to let the crew at Naughty 
 Dog know just how long I have been waiting for a game like this.
  
  I was mostly looking forward to Assassin's Creed. You know "the game" that was finally going to 
 make my PS3 purchase worth while. After playing Assassin's I still just don't get the high scores?? 
 Great visuals but where's the combat? wheres the flow? Why do I have to keep doing mindless task 
 over and over and for what?
  
  For me it's all about game play. That's why I play games, for the game play. Visuals are also important 
 but the game must have flow and substance and yes actually FUN game play. Where Assassin's falls 
 short, Uncharted kicks it into high gear. 
  
  Not only did they make a game that is visually stunning but also one that's actually FUN and challenging. 
 The story is told beautfully with a balanced mix of cutscene's to gameplay. I just never get tired 
 to blasting through enemies. The puzzles/climbing are a nice break from the shooting action and 
 make you have to stop and put the thinking cap on for a few moments. 
  
  This game should stand as an example what other game makers should strive to accomplish. 
  
 
  Thanks Naughty Dog for a truely remarkable showpeace!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallterror
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is in short the best looking most fun game out there right now. Overall 
 the game looks absolutely stunning. Every single part of the game is amazing. Every level is amazing 
 the flames look amazing the explosions are awesome. The only reason i throw grenades is to see 
 the explosion. The game is also pretty difficult which is a good thing because it makes the game 
 longer. It's not too hard though. The gun fights are really fun but you will have to do some more 
 than once because they can be quite hard. The only negative to the game is that it can be a little 
 aggravating if you can't figure out where to go next or you keep dieing in a gun fight but the 
 game saves automatically very frequently so you won't have to go too far back if you die. The AI 
 in the game is pretty good which it should be considering there is usually only about 15 people 
 tops on the screen at one time. the game is also really long for the genre. i have been playing 
 on hard for 3.5 hours straight and have only gotten through about a quarter of the game.
  
  If you have a PS3 there is no reason you should not buy this game and a ton of reasons you definitely 
 should.
  
  Gears has got nothin on Uncharted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AIH_PSP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has it all. Graphics, story, and gameplay.
  
  The graphics in this game are truly outstanding and look better than Crysis at some times. For 
 example, when you swim in water and come out, Drake actually looks like he got wet and his shirt 
 actually wrinkles as he walks just like it would in real life. The levels are also realistic and 
 are lush, big and, vibrant. It truly gives the player the feeling of being in a movie. 
  
  In Uncharted, you play as Nathan Drake, a man looking for the El Dorado treasure. On the way, you 
 run into a few problems and that's where the plot twists.
  
  This game is a mix of an action game, a puzzle game, a 3rd person shooter, and a platformer. It 
 incorporates different ideas that were successful in other games and draws them all together. Some 
 people call this game a mix between Tomb Raider and Gears of War.
  
  Overall, this game is outstanding and is a must-have if you are a PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solomonemich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted was absolutely amazing and that is why I gave it a 9.5. I have never really played a 
 game that made me feel a part of a movie as this one has. The graphics were life-like, the dialogue 
 was witty, the action was amazing and regardless of the firefight sequences where enemies literally 
 threw themselves off cliffs to get at me, I was thoroughly entertained. I played it once through 
 in normal and now I think I'm ready to go back and play it in hard just for the fun of it. Its 
 that good! As the gamespot reviewer said, this game is truly Indiana Jones meets National Treasure 
 meets Gears of War. In summary I have to say, this is a truly awesome game that any action adventure 
 fan must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  What can i say ... amazing ,fantastic and lot of fun 
  I've been waiting for this game and thank god it didnt disppoint me 
  the graphics r the best 
 i ve seen in any game until now .this game encourage u to play even if u r tired or want to go 
 to sleep u just cant stop thinking of it .. many weapons and many scenes that will impress u from 
 the first time u start playing.
  
  Now with this game out and many still to come its difficult to find a game that will be as good 
 as this one except one game i cant say its name but u all the name of it main character its SNEACK.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Gamespot robbed "Drake" giving it only an 8.0 rating. Truth be told, the game does borrow a lot 
 from Tomb Raider, but more than borrowing it improves more than anything. "Uncharted" makes the 
 Tomb Raider series seem like little girl games. While the action/combat at times may be a little 
 tough, it doesn't at all feel too tough, kinda just right. As far as the puzzle solving; am I the 
 only one who doesn't like coming to a point in a game where you just wind up turning off the damn 
 machine cause you can't figure out where to go next? The puzzle solving isn't hard here at all, 
 things move along smoothly & it's actually fun rather than frustrating. "Uncharted-Drakes Fortune" 
 absolutely deserves nothing less than a 9.0, I myself would rate it higher. If you own a PS3, this 
 is the first absolutely must own exclusive PS3 title. This is by far the prettiest next gen title 
 that I've seen so far & I own all 3 systems. Run, don't walk & add this game to your collection, 
 & lets all hope that this will be Sony's next big franchise!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irongoat9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Presentation: This game plays and acts out like a movie. The exact kind of movie I would love to 
 watch and buy the DVD. The cut scenes are well done and not to obtrussive and the environments 
 looks FANTASTIC. I thought Ratchet and Clank looked good..... umm this out does it. Best looking 
 game on the system. The characters models look GREAT and the animation is top notch.
  Gameplay: What this game does is take the best parts of both games and merges them. I don't do 
 the adventure games to well because inevitably I get stuck at some level, my ADD kicks in and I 
 move on. Not once did this game loose my interest. Not once. The hand to hand combat is fantastic 
 - there are even different combos you can do. Headshots are relatively easy to pull off (thank 
 goodness) and the climbing is fun/intuitive. The enemy AI is pretty spot on. They use cover, try 
 to flank you... and are ultra aggressive.
  Controls: Easy/fun/intuitive. AND - the sixaxis use is kept to a bear minimum. What more can you 
 want?
  Story: Cliched and typical - Yes. Good? Heck yeah. Says alot when you know what's coming and still 
 go along for the ride. The voice acting is very well done too.
  
  DO NOT hesitate to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lestat_1_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  The comparisons are unavoidable, Naughty Dog's new game feels part Prince of Persia for it's platforming 
 and part Tomb Raider for its snappy lines and treasure hunting. 
  You play the part of Nathan Drake, treasure hunter/Sir Drake's wanna-be descendant who has been 
 hired by Elena Fisher, a filmmaker, for a bit of, you guessed it, treasure hunting. I don't need 
 to go too deep into details. You've read the reviews, if you happen to stumble here then it's just 
 for a bit of encouraging. 
  The presentation is superb, with above average writing, and top notch voice acting. Nothing less 
 could be expected of Naughty Dog. From the moment you are thrown in the game, it all feels very 
 well put together, the action is intense, very movie like, aided by a Hollywood level soundtrack. 
 The characters interact well with one another and Nathan is a competent hero. Naughty Dog could 
 have taken the easy way out of this, but they made sure to separate their protagonist from the 
 rest of the pack. 
  After all this "glitter" talk, what about the meat of the game? The gameplay consists of cover 
 and shoot. You learn this right at the beginning of the game, it is all fairly simplistic: Press 
 O for cover, L1 for aiming and R1 for shooting. Enemies will outnumber you, and can seem pretty 
 smart. They take cover, shoot randomly, but when they do, they open themselves up completely and 
 it's just a matter of aiming at their heads or laying out a couple of bullets on them. Sometimes 
 though, it will feel as though enemies can take quite a few bullets before hitting the dust. I 
 guess it's only fair, because so can Nathan. After your character is hit a good number of times, 
 the screen will turn black and white and you will hear the sound of a heart beat indicating that 
 you are close to death. If you feel lucky you can run and gun as well. The price you'll play for 
 mindless shooting is no crosshair and your shots will mostly miss their intended targets. You can 
 only carry three things at once. A pistol, a larger gun such as a machine gun, shotgun, grenade 
 launcher, sniper rifle and finally a grenade. The reloading is done through either pressing up 
 on the digital pad or R2. As you progress through the game you will have to make better use of 
 cover, and understand enemy behavior (they will come out of cover COMPLETELY, shoot without a care 
 in the world) indicating that it's time to plant a bullet in their noggins. You will be rewarded 
 for certain achievements (hence my comparison to XBOX 360 achievements) such as certain number 
 of headshots or kills with a weapon and finding little treasures scattered throughout stages. The 
 other interesting aspect of combat is getting up close and personal. Up close battles last only 
 a few seconds, it's for a bit of flash, it feels rewarding but it will only happen on few instances. 
 If an enemy manages to creep on you, you will press square to pummel him, Nathan will perform a 
 couple of punches, and if you remember to press triangle at the right moment, your character will 
 finish off his assailant. But if there are other enemies shooting at you, they will continue to 
 fire as you fight hand to hand, and manage shoot "oh so perfectly" on you and not their friend 
 trying to murder you. Also finding bullets will never be a problem since enemies drop them when 
 they die and you press triangle to pick them up. There is little use for the sixaxis motion detection 
 and what is there feels like afterthoughts. You can throw grenades or shake the controller to push 
 off enemies. 
  The platforming is a lot of fun, but you've done it before especially if you're a veteran of Prince 
 of Persia and the new Tomb Raider who unsympathetically rips it off too. The Prince is much more 
 agile and can do inhuman acrobatics and Nathan, instead, lives in a world of gravity and you feel 
 it. This is no deterrent to the experience. You will be jumping from ledges, where one miss means 
 death, and you will miscalculate your jumps quite a few times. Press X to make your character jump, 
 or grab on to a ledge and pull himself up. The animations in Uncharted are great, your character 
 will protect his head as shots are passing by him, jump over rocks, and I particularly liked the 
 fact that Nathan does not simply float through stairs. You actually feel the action of going up 
 and down on them. 
  There are other types action sequences where you will be riding on a jeep, or on a PWC. It's all 
 a bit of a diversion from the constant gunning and it feels great. 
  I must admit that I did not really like the turn of events in the story, but I guess it's because 
 they are taking inspiration from movies such as Indiana Jones or whatnot. 
  Overall, Naughty Dog's Uncharted: Drake's fortune is a bit of a surprise amongst so many blockbuster 
 titles, it does so many things competently and its ensemble makes a great packaging worth the price 
 of admission. It should not be missed by anyone who owns a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelemhuma
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Let me first say I rarely feel compelled to write a review. That said I have been following the 
 development of this game for a while now. The game caught my eye because there are no games like 
 it fist off its an adventure title. Developers quit making these games for the most part. Secondly 
 the developer who is made this title has made nothing but awesome titles. This title is supposedly 
 supposed to take full advantage of PS3 being programed to take advantage of all six available cores 
 of the Cell processor and it shows. first off there are no load times game runs seamlessly. Want 
 visuals that you dream about? You got it. HDR lighting abound jungle feels like a living breathing 
 place game play looks better than most cinematics you see in games. Want action? You got it. Don't 
 listen to other reviews about combat being frustrating I personally had a blast with combat enemy's 
 are challenging will try to outflank your position. I love the range of action in this title from 
 running and gunning to beating the crap out of someone with hand to hand combat. I personally felt 
 like I was in a Indiana Jones movie going to find some great lost treasure. No other game has made 
 me feel that way. You want adventure? You got it! Again im telling you this game has it all again 
 with visuals very believable. The Storyline and acting are terrific. The puzzles are fun without 
 being mind numbing. So what are you waiting for people are you crazy? Quit reading this review 
 and go buy this game! and if you don't own a PS3 go buy one and buy this game! Im telling you its 
 that good! best time I have had in a video game in long time if not the best and yes I own Halo 
 3. So put on your hat Dr Jones you got a treasure to find!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclutter
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  This game is the best PS3 game yet. I disagree with Gamespots review. The story does not seem underdeveloped. 
 In fact it has an awesome story line that includes real history with a slight tweak to it. The 
 graphics are beautiful and I felt that I was a true part of the game. The controls are top notch 
 and respond like they should. The six axis incorporation played out to be an intricate part of 
 this game. I played this game straight through and loved every minute of it. Wish it would have 
 been a longer game but the thought of part two already being brainstormed satisfies me. Kudos to 
 Naughty Dog for a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingdutchdog
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why people get so upset with Gamespot's reviews. They are usually on the money. 
 Picked up the game today and although it is a looker, the play after an hour or two gets very tedious. 
 
  The biggest problem is, it is so linear that any form of exploration is negated by invisible walls. 
 You know pretty well throughout the entire game which way Naughty Dog wants you to go. Conveniently 
 placed explosive barrels are placed at every critical point on your journey and you become well 
 aware that if you don't shoot these barrels you ain't goin' nowhere fast.
  
  Once the lustre of the visuals fades so does the gameplay ... It plays almost like a FPS disguised 
 in a third person view ... run, shoot, run some more, shoot some more and on and on it goes.
  
  Rent it and finish it in 7-10 hours and you will have had some fun. Personally I don't think 
 it as an outstanding game as some of the PS3 fanboys seem to rant about. I think 8.0 is just about 
 as much as anyone should give it realistically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElfChampionz12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is a beautiful game from start to finish, once again however Gamespot dissapoints me 
 with there score, but honestly do not listen to them, this game truly is AAA and PS3's long needed 
 killer app, a must buy for anyone with a PS3!.... as long as your over the age of 14 lol
  
  btw youll get around 10-12 hours out of single-player NOT including the treasures to be found and 
 the medals to unlock....... truly an amazing game from start to finish, youll encounter few bosses 
 but that doesnt matter as the game also has an melee system with combos, usually a 3 hit combo 
 kills a pirate type dude but sometimes you can run up fast and youll plant a one hit kill which 
 are very entertaining to watch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAIV07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Drake's Fortune is an alright game but with outstanding next gen graphics. The storyline on it 
 is alright but some parts of the game boreds me. Don't know where to go and where to hide and all 
 of that. When you shoot the enemies is so realistic. The graphics and advancements in the texture 
 and background of the game makes it look and play good. Welll the gamplay is okay but after a while 
 in the game, it gets boring. But it is fun shooting enemies a see the blood on the people. Well 
 with it's alright gameplay I still recommend this to every PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mason-McGlasson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty upset with gamespots review again... They knock 2 points off of one of the best looking, 
 playing, and over all outstanding game. Where as some of these other games like halo same old story, 
 not as good graphics, and game is too short/too easy. They complaining that there are too many 
 bad guys? I played on hard first time through and ya died a few times but just took cover and planned 
 out a strategy the second time to take these guys out. No real problems here at all.
  
  Then they review games like Ratchet and Clank saying its too easy... lol
  
  Ok well just goes 
 to show when other sites have review both these games 9-9.5 out of 10 that this site is pretty 
 biased and their reviewing isnt done evenly compared with other titles.
  
  For any of you that liked Tomb Raider... this is the game that tomb raider should have always been, 
 and hopefully the next one will be. (some things from both games could be added to make one killer 
 tomb explorer) .
  
  This game is not a 10 as there are some things this game still needs.
  
  Ability to crouch not just roll... ability to swim underwater (exploring underwater) ... more 
 control over character as in ability to turn on and off flash lights... little stuff like that.
 
  
  Game took me around 10-12hours on hard...
  
  There is also plent of secrets and extra features to unlock in this game too keep people playing. 
 Not only that the jet-ski mission are insane and show off some of the true power of ps3. I have 
 never seen a game look and play this good ever!
  
  quanloco
  lol at your review cause the framerate is smooth 99% of the game, you review two worlds for 360 
 a 9 out of 10 LMFAO and the graphics are top notch (better than anything available on 360 bro so 
 quit dreaming)
  
  there was another reviewer that wasnt bashing the ps3 but said sony only has 2 exclusive killer 
 apps... wrong
  
  Here is my reviews of the games next to them
  I've played them all and if
  
  NA means i havent played no review
  
  SONY-All Exclusive 
 and Published by SONY
  Resistance: 8.5/10 (Very Good)
  Warhawk: 9/10 (Extremely Fun)
  Heavenly Sword: 9/10 (Short)
  Uncharted: 9.5/10 (Outstanding)
  Ratchet and Clank: 9/10 (Outstanding)
 
  Motostorm: 7/10 (Lacking)
  
  MICROSOFT-All Exclusive Published by MICROSOFT
  Halo 3: 8/10 (Over Hyped)
  Gears of War: 9/10 (Outstanding)
  Forza: 2 7.5/10 (Same Old)
  
 Kameo: 7/10 (Decent)
  Project Gotham 3/4: NA/NA
  Viva Pinata: N/A (LOL)
  
  ACE COMBAT, BIOSHOCK, and LOST PLANET are not on this list as they are not microsoft exclusives 
 and Lost Planet is confirmed for PS3, BIOSHOCK is rumored to be coming to ps3, Ace Combat originated 
 on PS and is a timed exclusive for microsoft (rumored) .
  
  Third Party Quality has already caught up to/passed 360 third party quality ie Call of Duty 4/Assassins 
 Creed/Dirt on a much harder system to develop for.
  
  Sony has either passed or at least has as many exclusive games as microsoft.
  
  Atm not as 
 many third party games (not exclusives) as microsoft doesnt have that many exclusives either
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: futurehobo300
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted is no doubt one of the greatest games of the year. Naughty Dog has just gone up to the 
 top of my list as one of my favorite developers because of this game. It is just amazing what they 
 have done with this game. Let me break it down into 4 parts:
  
  Game play-Shooters have never been my strong point. Im ok, leaning towards bad and its upsetting 
 during FPS and TPS, but that is not the case in this one. The controls are so fluid, its relatively 
 easy for me actually kick but in the game, even though most of the time i still get my but kicked, 
 jeje. The platforming part of the game is also just great.
  
  Graphics-Best looking console game out right now
  
  Story-Its like watching a really good movie, 
 i mean, you really can gat into it sometimes and you always want to find out what happens next.
 
  
  Fun factor-I'm planning on replaying this game over and over for a while, lets just leave it at 
 that.
  
  Simply put this game is just amazing, if you haven't gotten it yet, then what are you waiting for? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrtman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Naughty Dog is known for making games with flawless controls and constantly pushing the technical 
 limits of every console they're programming for. In the case of limits, Uncharted isn't doing anything 
 to make the PS3 break a sweat (Uncharted uses only 30% of the system's power) but that doesn't 
 mean Uncharted disappoints in terms of graphics, AI, water effects, etc. Uncharted is hands down 
 the best looking console game on the market, bar none.
  
  But graphics don't make a game good; gameplay is what you're putting down 60 bucks for, and Uncharted's 
 gameplay is absolutely amazing in its perfection. Your first playthrough should be on hard, as 
 this difficulty setting is where enemy AI really shines. Your foes don't just sit in one spot and 
 fire blindly, they anticipate your moves and work together to keep your attention in one direction 
 while a smaller group moves around to attack you from another.
  
  The storyline, animations, voice acting and dialog are spot on perfect as well, and there will 
 be times during cut scenes when you'll forget you're playing a game and be startled when the scene 
 ends and goes back to gameplay.
  
  This is THE game you've been waiting not only on the PS3 but for any system. If you don't own a 
 PS3, buy one; this game is worth more than the price of admission, and you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexsvs2001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  
  Great atmosphere bring this game to the forefront of PS3 development.
  Action is intense and can be frustrating, shooting your enemies more than three times in the chest 
 seems a little overdone. The lush jungles give a nice touch to the overall experience with great 
 music to give that adventure/indiana jones type feeling. Just wish they could increase the effectiveness 
 of your weapons, but other than that no gripes. Controls are easy to manage, although the siaxis 
 use to throw the grenades is somewhat annoying. If your a PS3 owner you should get this game, as 
 this clearly demonstrates the current and future potential of the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbt711
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When you start to play Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, you find yourself asking questions right off 
 the bat: Is this another "style over substance" title for the Playstation 3 following in the not 
 so epic footprints of Heavenly Sword? Haven't I seen this game before, only it was called Prince 
 of Persia, or before that when it was called Tomb Raider? Wait, I don't get it - is this a platformer, 
 a third person shooter, or an action adventure game? Will this game simply make the year of owning 
 a PS3 finally worth it? These questions will all be answered, without spoiling any of the game 
 for you.
  
  Graphics - 9.5/10 - I will start with the .5 that's missing, since you are wondering, why not just 
 give it a 10? Screen tearing is an issue here. Screen tearing is when the refresh rate of the monitor 
 is limiting the frames per second put out by the graphics processor, which results in lines which 
 look like glitches every couple frames when the two don't line up. The game does have minor screen 
 tearing issues, but 90% of the world's population would never even notice, so it only takes away 
 .5 - other than this problem, this graphics are amazing. This game is the most gorgeous example 
 of what the next generation console is capable of to date. Real time lighting effects from shadows 
 of trees blowing in the wind, to blinding glares while walking out of dimly lit ruins hi-light 
 Naughty Dog's ambitious take on this jungle based game. You won't believe your eyes when your character, 
 Drake goes from cut-scene to game-play without losing any detail at all. If you ever wanted to 
 show off your PS3 and HDTV, this game will do that and more. 
  
  Sound - 10/10 - This game plays like a motion picture, and with that said - it delivers the high 
 caliber score you would expect from a blockbuster movie. The voice acting is unparalleled in the 
 video game world to date, and the effects of gunfire, grenades at your feet, and hundreds of other 
 seemingly big movie special effects are pulled off flawlessly in this game. It is stamped with 
 the Dolby Digital and DTS surround sound seals of approval, so try not to jump when you are flanked.
 
  
  Controls - 10/10 - People that spend all their time playing First Person Shooters (FPS) will complain 
 this games shooting is too hard, but these people are spoiled by the industry standard aim assist 
 for consoles. Even Halo has it, but not this game, making it harder than you are used to to get 
 that head shot. But you will adjust and by the end of the game, you will be a king of all your 
 games with aim assist. Drake will be able to jump platform to platform with little effort, grabbing 
 on with one hand or two, or a knee if comes to it. You won't have trouble taking cover for intense 
 gun battles, or dodging falling rocks and traps with the God of War like prompts that control Drake's 
 cat like reflexes. This takes the industry standard third person shooter controls of Gears of War 
 and builds upon it with a never before seen platformer scheme that lets you take on the world at 
 any angle with little or no camera manipulation to line your next move up. You will also find yourself 
 controlling a Jet Ski, firing a machine gun off the back of a jeep, and even shooting at the mercenaries 
 while hanging from cliffs, vines, and church windows. These controls take a little more time to 
 feel comfortable with, but you will have no trouble with just a few minutes experimenting. The 
 Six Axis controls are also used in this game to manipulate Drake's balance while walking over fallen 
 logs, and to judge the loft Drake puts on his grenade throws - both of which put your hands and 
 arms smack dab in the middle of the adventure.
  
  Replay Value - 9/10 - Medals and Rewards hi-light the great replay value of this game. They take 
 a new approach to X Box live's achievements, and instead of just showing off what you've done in 
 a game, you actually can unlock new features, and game play modifications that will keep you coming 
 back over and over. And what good what a treasure hunter be without finding hidden treasures along 
 the way... these will also net you medal points and unlock tons and tons of rewards. The lack of 
 multi-player loses the game 1 point for replay value, but it says a lot that it doesn't take off 
 more than that. You will find yourself playing this game several times.
  
  Gaming Experience - 10/10 - This section is is a combination of game-play and story, since Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune, did just that - combined story and game-play. You will not just play Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune - you will experience it. The story is intense, heart felt, action packed, and 
 epic. Take the entire Indiana Jones Movie Collection, and watch it in one sitting, only this time 
 - pick up a wireless controller, and tell Dr. Jones where to go, who to save, what treasure to 
 find, when to duck, and when to shoot. The acting matches the graphics, on a level never before 
 achieved in video games. Expressions are now rendered, with sweat, tears, and blood dripping off 
 an unshaven face. The artificial intelligence of your allies and enemies is mind boggling. Even 
 while you try to find the perfect cover, and take aim at your foe's head, you will notice they 
 have all taken cover, and just ducked your intended head shot. This game is difficult, but will 
 leave you so much more satisfied walking away alive from each gun fight. Hardcore gamers will enjoy 
 the challenge on the more difficult setting, and more casual gamers will have no problem on easy 
 and will marvel at how many incredible obstacles they got Drake through thanks to the easiest platforming 
 system to date. No loading screens, breath taking surroundings, unyielding action and adventure 
 at every turn make this not just a third person shooter, or a platformer, or some action adventure 
 game. This is a cinematic game-play experience that very rarely comes along and isn't limited to 
 any genre. The only thing you won't like about the game-play is you won't be able to eat popcorn 
 and shoot your 9mm at the same time, at least not without practice.
  
  Overall - 9/10 - This game loses points to the casual gamer since it will frustrate you to no end. 
 It is a hard game. Play it on Easy, and stay behind cover, and you might not ever die to bullets. 
 Some parts require the game to help you out with HINTs triggered by the L2 button, and some gun 
 battles are so epic you won't remember how long ago you started shooting bad guys while wondering 
 where all your ammo went. This and the lack of multi player are the only downfalls of this game. 
 No one has really tackled a third person online multi-player with great success yet, and this game 
 had that opportunity. But perhaps that will change if a game like Metal Gear Online from MGS4 has 
 success with online third person shooting next year. Then the sequel to this game can follow in 
 its foot steps. These short comings keep the game from being perfect, but if you own a Playstation 
 3, this game needs to be in your collection. You will not regret it when the credits roll and you 
 think to yourself... wow.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  A game such as Uncharted deserves a special review.
  
  PART 1 - The Graphics: As we all know, Naughty Dog is great with graphics, and this game without 
 a doubt shows what the PS3 can really do. The frame rate is great, the characters look real, the 
 personalitys are wonderful and everything is just flat out great! 9.7/10
  
  PART 2 - The Voice Acting: It's simply amazing! The guys at Naughty Dog really know who and what 
 they want! All the voices fit the characters perfectly! It's possibly perfect! 10/10
  
  PART 3 - The Gameplay: What is a game without good gameplay? You can expect great gameplay from 
 Uncharted because the controls are basically the same as the Jak games... only better of course. 
 You will probably get addicting to running and gunning because it's FUN! 10/10
  
  PART 4 - The Story: It has a really good story with great characters and twists! And, *SPOILER 
 ALERT!* at some point you'll be freaked out by the spanish who have been turned into creapy beasts 
 that will rip you up! And you're bound to be so freaked out that you're afraid to continue on and 
 find out what's going to pop out at you! 10/10
  
  PART 5 - The Humor: The game is very funny and you'll probably be crackin' up at some of the stuff 
 that they're aloud to say without getting an M rating! Plus at some point (When Nathan is in prison) 
 you'll be crackin' up like crazy! 9.8/10
  
  Pros: Great graphics. Great gameplay. Very funny. It will freak you out. Lot's of variety. Ton's 
 of unlockables give the game extra replay value. 4 difficultys to choose from. Running and Gunning 
 is fun. Kneet characters. 22 chapters. Brutal, but not overdoing it. Great soundtrack. Outstanding 
 voice acting. 
  
  Cons: It has to end at some point. Some small graphical glitches (Not really worth mentioning) .
 
  
  The best game I've ever played! And you're bound to love it too. Worth the wait for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thraxx8195
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game should be a 10. It offers solid game play. There is a good mix of action, strategy and 
 puzzles. The cinematics aid in immersing the player in a deep story. The graphics are amazing and 
 are on par with Crysis. Its nice to see Naughty Dog putting out a nice title like this, I have 
 to commend them on a job well done. Aside from all the hype some of the other titles have been 
 generating this year, this is one of those sleeper titles that has to be seen. Upon starting the 
 game I was totally blown away by the life like animation. The characters actually appeared to have 
 emotion in there expressions. The controls are simple and after playing for about 30 minutes I 
 found the gun fight sequences to be very wild but fun. If you your looking to purchase a good game 
 this season get this one its worth the money. From start to finish this game delivers. How the 
 critic review gave this what they did I don't understand, perhaps they play more games then the 
 rest of us, or perhaps there a bit over critical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiryu3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  By far this is the best game out this gen hands down.
  What could I add that hasn't already been said. This game first off DOESN'T NEED NO STINKING ONLINE 
 OR LEADERBOARD!!!
  
  Now that that is out of the way to the review. 
  Graphics 10
  Story 10
  Design 10
  Replay Value 10
  
  Folks this is a must buy for any PS3 owners. This 
 game is just like when Gears of War launched. It showed off what the system could do. This is exactly 
 what Uncharted does for the PS3 and it is a great game as well.
  
  First off the game has no loading screens and streams the experience the entire time. There is 
 no CG everything is in-game video with the game's engine. Videos merge into gameplay fluently. 
 
  
  The attention to detail is amazing. Nathan flinches like any average guy would do if a grenade 
 appears at his feet. He isn't some  type that has 
 been won into the ground. You try and go trigger happy in this game you will be shot down with 
 the quickness.
  
  Contrary to what the idiots say. This game has tons of replay value mainly because the game is 
 good just like Gears has good replay value because you enjoy the experience. Just like a good movie.
 
  
  If you take your time like I did this game on normal for me took about 14 hours to beat. After 
 that there is a hard level and a crushing level of difficulty that can only be unlocked after you 
 beat it on hard with achievements and 60 treasures to be found.
  
  Again, this is a must buy for anyone with a PS3 and if there is anyone wanting a good reason to 
 get a PS3, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is it.
  
  My 2 cents.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is definitely one of the best games I've played for my PS3, if not the 
 best. It has a story that plays like a Hollywood movie, following the star character, direct descendant 
 of Sir Francis Drake, Nathan Drake, as he goes on a quest for lost treasures. This game has action 
 that rivals that of some of todays most popular shooter/action games. With a small, but by no means 
 lacking arsenal available to you, the action rarely slows down.
  
  When it does slow down though, It's usually to do one of the many environmental obstacles/puzzles. 
 While these are usually relatively short sequences, and by no means difficult, they can prove to 
 deadly if you are careless with where you jump. Often times I found myself taking a moment to survey 
 my surroundings, looking for the next hand hold. All in all though, these are usually nice short 
 breaks from the stop-and-pop shooting in the game.
  
  The shooting is easily one of the main elements in the game, as you will probably spend about 75% 
 of your time hiding behind things and shooting at bad guys. That or using your hand-full of various 
 Hollywood-esque Mle attacks to dispatch the foes. While this is quite fun, and doesn't get dull, 
 there is a minor lack of diversity in the bad guys. There are maybe 6-10 different skins for the 
 bad guys in the first part of the game, and each of them typically has the same weapon, For instance, 
 the guys with red shirts, and beige cowboy hats all use the grenade launchers. And the big, muscular 
 guys always have shotguns.
  
  Later in the game is a different story, but at the risk of spoiling it for you, I'll not talk about 
 that.
  
  The graphics in this game are easily the best I've seen on any console to date. This is the only 
 game to ever make me actually stop for a moment, and say "wow.. that is beautiful...". The scenery, 
 backdrops, and lighting in this game all make for simply breathtaking areas. But this doesn't come 
 without taking its toll on the game. Minor screen tears, and texture pop-in are commonplace in 
 this game. While it may be an annoyance to some, most people (myself included) probably won't mind 
 much, as the game keeps you focused on the action most of the time. The only time these issues 
 are noticeable are in cutscenes, and the time in-between shooting portions.
  
  Length wise, the first play through will probably take you in the midst of 7-10 hours, depending 
 on your skill level, and what difficulty you're on. Difficulty is something that plays a large 
 roll in this game as well. On normal difficulty, I found that, later in the game, I was dying quite 
 a bit, and found the game actually rather challenging. I would imagine Hard, and Crushing (unlocked 
 after you beat Hard mode) are quite challenging, even for the seasoned FPS/shooter vets. And if 
 it's not, you can unlock "fast mode", which speeds everything up, consequently making the game 
 exponentially more difficult.
  
  Speaking of unlocking things, Uncharted has two types of "collectibles". There are "treasures", 
 which are scattered throughout the game, only noticeable as a blinking "shine" in the environment. 
 Usually secluded in nooks and crannies around the levels, there are usually a few on each level, 
 60 total, each nets you points when collected. The other "collectible" is the medals. You can earn 
 medals for different feats in game, such as killing a certain amount of bad guys with certain guns, 
 or getting so many headshots, or Mle kills, all of which usually giving anywhere between 10-50 
 points.
  
  There are quite a few unlockables in the game, warranting at least a second play-through to get 
 the majority, if not all of them. So you could say this came could potentially last you 16 hours 
 plus, depending on how many times you play through it. Completionists will have a hay day.
  
  In Conclusion, Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is a healthy, solid action/platforming title that 
 not only delivers with its Hollywood style story, and high-action moves and shooting, but also 
 has a decent amount of replay, which is common amongst platforming titles. It would definitely 
 be a shame if you miss out on this title. My opinion? Worth full price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Gaming recently have been criticised by many reviewers for the lack of innovation and the lack 
 of new stuff. Unfortunately or fortunately, Uncharted falls into this category, for it does not 
 offer anything new or revolutionary. However, it combines all the well known elements refine it 
 and remove almost all the annoyances you've encountered in games in this genre. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The core mechanics of the game are a blend of Tomb Raider, Metal Gear Solid and 
 Gears of War. This is quite a mixture but its mostly an adoption of various elements from these 
 games. The puzzles in the game is very straight forward and there is rarely a time or occasion 
 where you are stuck. And if by some chance that you are, the hint system would aid you in your 
 time of need and is always there to prevent any frustration from being puzzled stumped. Some folks 
 may view this as a bad thing but, the reality is puzzles are only fun the first time true and after 
 the first run its nothing but an annoyance. Because of this, the puzzles in the game are light 
 and trouble free.
  
  The lack of "hardcore" puzzles places more focus on platform jumping and climbing with heavy combat. 
 The platforming in this game is almost perfect and rarely would you be frustrated by poor controls 
 or camera placement. The guns fights are fun and fast pace. The game is geared to different types 
 of gamer tactics which are the run and gun folks, the stealth folks, the melee folks and the shoot 
 and take cover folks. For the average player, it would be a mixture of the above depending on the 
 situation. The battles are quite entertaining due to the great AI. 
  
  Melee is responsive and is very rewarding when executed correctly. While the moves are limited, 
 they are just enough to get the job done and prevent it from being grossly repetitive and uninteresting. 
 There is a certain level of pleasure in punching the hell out of an enemy.
  
  The enemies can duck, hide, dodge, take cover and dynamically react to your aggression. They are 
 not blind and can see you just like you can see them. I was even surprised when they react to seeing 
 dead comrades. In addition to that, they can be interrupted by your gunfire. Example : if they 
 are about to throw a grenade and are shot, the grenade falls out of their hands causing them to 
 grenade themselves.
  
  The overall pacing of the game is well done and quite enjoyable. Some games crash and burn because 
 of horrendous camera angles. Thank fully Naughty Dog care about the sanity of gamers and developed 
 and planed a camera system that is near flawless. The camera is either controlled entirely by the 
 gamer like in a FPS or is fixed in the most optimum or logical position for the situation.
  
  Graphics
  This game simply is a beauty to look at. The animation is fluid. The environments 
 are detail due to the rich texturing and art direction. All of the levels are very believable and 
 skillfully made to bring the environments alive. The addition of motion blur and depth of field; 
 while may be nauseating at first, is easy on the eyes for quick movements. 
  
  Some folks have encountered screen tearing but, its my belief that this can be related to the PS3 
 behaving differently on different TV sets for I have not encountered this problem but others have.
 
  
  There are also moments where the textures are not loaded and the low resolution textures are still 
 visible. This occurs very rarely and does not affect the graphical fidelity of the game. 
  
  Sound
  Simply amazing. Its just as great as the visual presentation. The voice acting is 
 believable for its sounds right. The music adds to the excitement during combat and non combat, 
 in addition to completing the overall look and feel of the environments.
  
  Story
  I honestly don't believe any ordinary person would be disappointed with the storyline. Its entertaining 
 and quite fulfilling.
  
  
  Conclusion
  In the end, this is simply the best adventure game that has been released this gen and is the best 
 in its genre. It a ride that every PS3 owner who is an adventure gamer should take. With no loading 
 times after the initial load and the seamless transition from one adventure to another adventure 
 makes the game nothing but a continuous well paced adventure that must be experience. While the 
 game may not be revolutionary or innovative it is high concentration of refine and generally annoyance 
 free gameplay that makes its shines above the rest and a worthy buy. Couple this with great unlockables 
 further seals the worthiness of a being a must buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MSJeed
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game. Do yourself a favor. 
  
  Voice acting is better than anything I've played before. Animations are fluid and life-like, and 
 the script is natural with just the right amount of profanity (not too much to make it vulgar, 
 but enough so that the characters aren't yelling DARNIT! when they're in trouble. Story is interesting 
 with plenty of turns. Combat is fun and fluid, with easy shooting, either in aiming mode or from 
 the hip, and melee combat feels natural once you stop spamming buttons. Platforming is obviously 
 from a developer who knows what they're doing. VERY FEW missteps caused by the controls (e. g. you 
 don't need to be running in the same direction for an eternity before the game lets you jump in 
 the direction you want) . Climbing everything around you feels, and especially looks natural. Drake 
 stumbles and slips like a normal human (though his jumping ability is, to say the least, a little 
 stronger) and he even flinches when bullets wizz by his head. The most life-like and engrossing 
 cinematic gaming experience I have ever encountered, with varied and perfectly complex shooting, 
 driving, and platforming. One of the best games of my life.
  
  Please, please, please, don't overlook this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baconbits3425
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutely amazing. from the amazing graphics and character modeling to the fast paced 
 adventure and great story, this game has it all. You play as Nathan Drake, a modern day treausre 
 hunter searching for El Dorado, along with his friend, Sullivan. along the way you meet Elena, 
 a young woman with a TV show about history. The game places you in the Amazon rainforest to start, 
 and right at the beginning, pirates board your boat. the game introduces you to the combat mechanics, 
 with very easy and accessible controls, along with the games melee combat system. besides the visual, 
 this is where the game really shines. by going up to an enemy and pressing square, triangle, square, 
 Drake will perform a lethal melee move that instantly kills the enemy. there are dozens of these 
 moves, some of them really amazing to watch. another place where this game shines is the cover 
 system, similar to Gears of War. pressing the circle button can either make you dive or get into 
 cover, and you can blindfire, throw grenades, or roll out from cover. now Drake is not an expert 
 with weapons, so melee combat is the easiest way to dispatch an enemy. the environment is also 
 beautifulyl modeled, and when there is an explosin, the plume of smoke from it will float slowly 
 upward, and it truly is great to watch. 
  
  the platforming controls are very well done, and easy. you can shoot eneies and throw grenades 
 at them while hanging. the controls are very easy: X to jump, left stick to choose the direction 
 to jump, circle to drop down. simple enough.
  
  this truely is an amazing game. from the way drake's shirt wrinkles while walking and the way his 
 clothes get wet and eventually dry out, right down to the facial animations, are absolutely spot-on. 
 
  
  the story is absolutely amazing, like a great summer adventure flick, and i ofund myself eating 
 popcorn while playing through it. the story can be completed in about 10 hours, give or take a 
 little. it takes you from the amazon to a u-boat in a river to all around a spanish colony on an 
 island, al in search of El Dorado, and there is even a part where you man a turret on the back 
 of a jeep and can shoot grenades and take down trees to smash enemy ATVs. There is also a ton of 
 unlockable content for finding in-game treasures and completing medals to unlock rewards.
  
  so all in al, this game is an absolutely perfect shooter, with great controls, combat, and 
 story. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfactor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Uncharted was one of those games that I had a feeling would be great, but allowed it to be overshadowed 
 by a fellow pre-Thanksgiving game Assassin's Creed. That was a BIG mistake. Yes Assassin's Creed 
 had some things going for it; style, beauty, and the ability to kill folks with knives, but what 
 it lacked was (in my opinion) a riveting story, likable characters, and insanely fun game play. 
 Luckily Uncharted has these elements in spades. Drake is the modern day Indiana Jones or He-Croft. 
 He jumps off of ledges, shoots bad guys, and make being dirty and grimy look cool. But enough of 
 all that. How's the game? In a word... Awesome! Like I've said, the first thing you come to enjoy 
 is the characters. The voice acting is top notch and you are immediately thrust into a game that 
 feels like a Hollywood movie. And the game is action packed and flows swiftly. No more squaring 
 off before a long jump as you were forced to do with Lara Croft, no, you just run up to a ledge 
 and hurl yourself off. And don't worry... Drake will make it. And what a great concept. If you have 
 little need to worry about killing your hero, the more inclined you will be to just keep the game 
 going. I still have nightmares the first time I threw Lara from a ledge... swan dive... splat!!! 
 
  
  Aside from searching for the lost treasure of El Dorado, I will not indulge in too much of the 
 story. You owe it to yourself to pick this game up. So if you are contemplating Assassin's Creed 
 or Uncharted, I will say without a doubt Uncharted. Assassin's Creed is a renter... please take 
 my word for it. I spent 70 bucks on the LE version and took it back 3 days later. Uncharted: Drakes 
 Fortune is the way to go!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pielover666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Ever since 1996, Naughtydog has been making system selling games for the Playstation and Playstation 
 2. With the Crash Bandicoot and Jak franchises under their belt, every PS3 owner waited with the 
 utmost anticipation for their next production. Well, it was worth the wait, because Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune is the type of game that will bring, not only the PS3, but gaming as a whole to 
 the next level.
  
  The only bad thing that can be said about Uncharted is the fact that the story is rather short, 
 and it lacks multiplayer. However, these two things are HARDLY an issue. Given that there are several 
 artifacts and costumes able to be opened, you'll want to play this game again if only to unlock 
 these extras. However, the main reason that you'll want to play this game again is because it's 
 just THAT good. The story draws you in from the opening title to the final scene, and it flows 
 well between gameplay and cutscene. The characters are very realistic, not only because their models 
 look spectacular, but also because they seem just like real people.
  
  Nathan Drake, main character, is an aesthetically pleasing young man claiming to be a descendant 
 to Sir Francis Drake. With the help of television personality, Elena Fisher, he discovers the lost 
 casket of Francis Drake. They're soon attacked by miscreant pirates, and saved by Drake's friend, 
 Sully, who is getting too old for the whole treasure hunt thing, but will always lighten the mood 
 with innuendo and one-liners.
  
  And that's just the beginning. These characters feed off of each other so much, that the story 
 not only seems believable, but REAL. Plus, the gameplay is just spectacular. It is the PERFECT 
 mix of shooting, combat, and platforming. When you're not punching pirates off of ships, or blasting 
 an enemy in the face with a pilfered AK-47, you'll be jumping along ledges and on top of lost, 
 decayed ruins. And, unlike in the similar Tomb Raider games, you don't have to go through meaningless 
 trial and error to get the jump off. The game is meant to be seen as a fast-paced, action style 
 movie/game, and it works. If your jump is a little misaligned, Nate will swing around on one arm, 
 and gain his composure before continuing. It's little things like that which make this game more 
 fast-paced. If I had to waste half a n hour trying to get one jump right, it would really ruin 
 the flow to this game, and that's why it's length isn't a problem.
  
  All in all, this is one spectacular game, and if you own a PS3, not buying it would be a huge mistake. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpepper420
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  There have been a few games recently that I was really looking forward to only to find that when 
 they were finally released, they didn't live up to my expectations. For instance; Assassin's Creed, 
 Stranglehold, and Folklore. All of these games disappointed me on some level. After playing the 
 demo for Uncharted, I couldn't wait to get the full game. FINALLY!!!! I have a game I've looked 
 forward to for quite some time that lives up to my expectations and then some. Assassin's Creed 
 comes close to this game in the graphics department, but Uncharted is hands down the most gorgeous 
 video game I have ever seen. The lighting effects and the water are stunning. Even little things 
 like the way Nate reaches and grabs a door frame while walking through add to the realistic body 
 movement of the characters. Not only is this game a feast for the eyes, with the DTS surround track 
 turned on, this is the best sounding game I've ever heard. If you have a PS3, you MUST get this 
 game. If you don't have a PS3, go buy one and then get this game. I guarantee you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmpepper23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  FUN FACTOR:
  This game is everything you want in a game. It has great gameplay that is solid and very fun with 
 the melee combos. The graphics are amazing and the best I have seen on a console to this day. The 
 sound is amazing as well. The voice acting is superb, and the storytelling is good. The combat 
 in this game is a blast. The gun battles are extremely intense. There is plenty of platforming 
 and puzzles in the game. Throughout the game, when you play there will be a lot of moments the 
 make you say WOW and leave you in awe. The mix between combat, platforming, and puzzles is done 
 very well. The game moves along at a good pace and keeps you on your toes wanting for more.
  
  GAME PLAY:
  The game play is solid. The shooting is accurate and sharp. There are is good 
 variety of guns. The gun battles are extremely fun and intense. The fighting is really fun especially 
 with the different combos. The platforming is fun as well. It never gets too hard, but it is still 
 very satisfying making you're way through places that seem impassable. The puzzle aren't too complicated, 
 but they will make you think somewhat. What this game does so well is mix it all together. The 
 game has a great flow to it and keeps a fast pace that has you wanting more.
  
  GRAPHICS: 
  Best on any console today. The environments are overwhelming. The physics are really 
 good. People have said this game doesn't impress them as far as graphics go because they just assume 
 people laud he graphics because it has a beautiful jungle setting, but this game has several levels 
 that take place in dark eerie settings such as the catacombs or inside the U-boat and they all 
 look amazing as well. I love the art design. This game has the best cinematic scenes on any game 
 ever be it PC or console.
  
  SOUND: 
  The soundtrack for this game is brilliant. The music and sound effects bring this game together. 
 The game is so immersing due to the great soundtrack.
  **minor spoiler**The last couple of levels when you fight new enemy, the music in the background 
 is creepy and eerie gives this game the feel of a survival horror game, and I loved that.**minor 
 spoiler** The voice acting is amazing. PS3 games keep amazing me with great voice acting. HS and 
 Folklore both had great voice acting, but I have to say I think Uncharted has done it the best. 
 
  
  OVERALL:
  If you own a PS3 and don't have this game, then you need to get it. This by far is the most fun 
 game the PS3 has to offer atm. It does so many different things and does them so well. BUY THIS 
 GAME AND ENJOY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phate999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I have had my PS3 since last January (that is going on 10.5 months) . Uncharted is the 3rd.... that's 
 right....3rd game I have played on the system to date. Why? Because I have a 360 too. And, in the 
 same time span, I have played a litany of games that I loved on that system: Gears of War, Oblivion 
 (also on PS3) , Dead Rising, Crashdown, Saint's Row, Two Worlds, and Prey just to name a few. And 
 now the system has Halo 3 and BioShock to add to it's exclusive games bandwagon list. What does 
 the PS3 have? Resistance (which was the first game I played on this system) and NOTHING ELSE: exclusive 
 to the system that is. Also nothing exclusive that is worth buying. Well, this is until now....
 
  
  ... Uncharted: Drake's Fortune restored my faith in Sony and the PS3. The game really is amazing 
 enough to hold up the the 360's empressive lineup. The forests and ancient ruins that you play 
 through during the game are absolutely bedazzling!!!! It probably has the most impressive scenery 
 in a game that I have seen yet, on both systems! That is impressive since I have played Oblivion 
 and Gears already. But Uncharted also has a very intriguing storyline that seems to draw you into 
 the game even more, almost like a movie at times. The gameplay is equally fun and amazing. Ememies 
 respond to any place you shoot them as well as fall back and dodge or duck if you miss them. This 
 makes the gunfighting scenes come to life. There is a lot of jumping and lot of cases where if 
 you miss a ledge, you will instanly fall to your death. However, there are convienient checkpoints 
 before each major jump or sequence of hangs, ropes, and jumps that you will have to get passed 
 to move on. These are crazy, but they let will finally let you breathe once you reach the end, 
 lol. Also, you don't have a health meter. As you get hit, your screen will slowly fade to black 
 and white until you die. But if you get out of fire for a few seconds, you will see clearly once 
 again. I actually like this because the game is designed for you to take on fire. If you had a 
 health-bar, you would be popping potions like crazy, lol. Instead, you can just stick yourself 
 to some cover and stay low for a few, much like in Gears of War. The only reason that I did not 
 give this game a perfect 10, is because of the spans of time where you use the same weapons over 
 and over again. There should have been an upgrade system similar to the one in Resident Evil 4 
 to complete the awesomeness of this game. But I guess they wanted to keep this part realistic. 
 For you can only hold 1 pistol-type, 1 rifle-type, and 4 grenades at a time. Looking past this 
 small fault, and you still have a very awesome game! As I was playing the beginning, I kept saying 
 to myself, "Wow... wow.... wow...." And I think that this is what makes and impressive game impressive. 
 If you have a PS3, you should have Uncharted. Period. 
  
  I am so glad that I can begin to use my PS3 for something other than a DVD player now... the last 
 game I played on it was in March, I think. I hope we begin to see a lot more titles like this on 
 the PS3 so that they can keep me calm about dishing out $650 for the thing. So far, even with Uncharted 
 and Resistance, two games are just not enough... and I don't feel that the system was worth the 
 woney yet... hurry up game makers!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckethead24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  unchared kick's ass i love the art ,ppl must buy PS3 for that game it is Amazing" This Is The Chosen 
 One That Has Awakened The Sleeping Dragon. Best game on the PS3 hands down! gets a 10, out of 10, 
 it gives you such a rush. While look at environment I feel absolutely relaxing and yet, stunning 
 by it! Uncharted not just has beautiful next-gen graphic, but it also has a twist, very interested 
 storyline. The controller is easy and it works perfectly well with the sixasix. I like how we can 
 run and jump and climb the cliff, in some of this type game, very often when we control the character, 
 is very easy to over run or fall off from the edge or an object. But I feel Uncharted's control 
 is just right. In the game there're also fair amount of different type weapons for us to use. It 
 has great action, adventure and puzzle elements in it. It'll easily grab your attention and your 
 love for this game. It is a game that meets it's expectation. I give this game 10! and it definitely 
 is the PS3 game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  No im not going to review this game based on demo, i just got it before the original release date! 
 
  
  Uncharted: Drakes fortune story is full of twists, its like watching a movie. So believable, emotional 
 and lifelike characters, making this game so enjoyable. This is graphically the best game on ps3 
 to date. Superb animation, highly detailed environment, dynamic shadow, lighting system, interactive 
 world. Unbelievable Voice acting. Yes this is finally it, it gives you a reason to buy ps3 if you 
 havent already. AI is great with enemies constantly holding you on your toes, and making you to 
 improvise. The Killer franchise the Ps3 deserves. Gameplay is like something between Tomb raider 
 and Gears of war. Almost makes the best use of sixaxis functionality. I just cant give it below 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rusty123_jimihe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Lets just say that Uncharted has been by far my favorite action adventure in a long time... if not 
 my FAVORITE action adventure! This game packs the goods in graphics, fun gameplay, several twists 
 including one that will make you !@#$ your pants! Its simply fun, and a must have for current PS3 
 owners, and if you don't have a PS3, punch someone you know that has one and go out and buy Uncharted! 
 The game was fun, and honestly... regardless of the fact the there's only a story keeping you going, 
 it was sooo fun that I had to come back and play it again! It only took me 7hrs and 55mintues to 
 beat the game on Normal, but it was and still is the best 8hrs I've had in a game in a long time! 
 If your REALLY REALLY REALLY looking for a game the truly emerges you into the experience of a 
 great movie like story, go out and by this freaking game! No regrets... trust me!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericblue21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  While look at environment I feel absolutely relaxing and yet, stunning by it! Uncharted not just 
 has beautiful next-gen graphic, but it also has a twist, very interested storyline. The controller 
 is easy and it works perfectly well with the sixasix. I like how we can run and jump and climb 
 the cliff, in some of this type game, very often when we control the character, is very easy to 
 over run or fall off from the edge or an object. But I feel Uncharted's control is just right. 
 In the game there're also fair amount of different type weapons for us to use. It has great action, 
 adventure and puzzle elements in it. It'll easily grab your attention and your love for this game. 
 It is a game that meets it's expectation. I give this game 10! and it definitely is the PS3 game 
 of the year!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Uncharted: Drake's Fortune does so many things well and with such charm and flair that for a while, 
 you'll begin to wonder if you're really holding a Sony SIXAXIS in your hands. After all, that controller 
 has never really manipulated any worthwhile on-screen characters in its first year of existence, 
 nor has the PS3 system itself spun a disc that churns out so much good-natured fun. 
  
  This, of course, was to be expected from the folks at Naughty Dog, who have a such keen sense of 
 what the modern gamer wants: equal parts style and substance, without feeling overburdened by complex 
 controls, and a story that moves along crisply and with enough quality to pass for a cinematic 
 production. Uncharted does everything well, and frankly, it's almost good enough to make you forget 
 just how mediocre the PS3 game library has been to this point. That would've taken a miracle, though, 
 so in fairness, Uncharted is at least the kind of game that can really push hardware sales this 
 holiday season and get some momentum for the struggling console.
  
  What's impressive about the game is that it moves along so swiftly and has such varied inspiration. 
 That jungle setting and all those gun-toting baddies in the trees has a little bit of Far Cry to 
 it, while the third-person perspective and the high adventure concept brings about memories of 
 the early Tomb Raider games. Ducking out from cover looks to be a mix of Gears of War and Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas. Tightroping along logs and climbing walls with Nate Drake will even remind you of some 
 of the acrobatic feats you performed as Kratos in the God of War games.
  
  But shockingly, the game never feels Derivative. The high-quality cinematics and excellent voice 
 acting give the game a unique feel and make the adventure a pulse-pounding, grin-inducing romp, 
 even if some of the puzzles are kind of mundane and the gunplay tends to get stale on occasion. 
 Honestly, the "repetitive" criticism is one that can be made of any game these days, and to Uncharted's 
 credit, it draws you in so well that you never truly feel the urge to put the controller down and 
 say, "Enough with these damn pirates already." 
  
  This is the kind of game that the PS3 has sorely needed for the past 12 months, and only Warhawk, 
 Heavenly Sword, and Resistance: Fall of Man seemed to have the right moxie. But Uncharted takes 
 all the best elements of games and carves its own niche: this is a game with a flavor all its own, 
 a real throwback of sorts, and it has all the makings of being a killer franchise for this generation 
 and beyond. Uncharted: Drake's Fortune is "next-gen" in every way except one -- its cheeky, unabashed, 
 and simple desire to give the player enjoyment -- and that "last-gen" ideology is the kind of thing 
 that many new games frustratingly lack. 
  
  It's easily the best game of 2007 for the console, and an absolute treat for PS3 owners who've 
 looked far and wide for a reason to stop using the device as a Blu-Ray player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EightBitWarrior
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Fun: 8.0
  
  Let's get this right out of the way. Uncharted's story and cutscenes are phenomenal. Everything 
 within them is presented with absolute excellence, and will have you impatiently wanting to see 
 it through right away. You might even pull a one sitting play-through on your first go because 
 of this. I did, it's that good. Within the main gameplay mechanics however, there are a few sizeable 
 warts that will hamper the fun factor you have during the game.
  
  The most notable shortcoming Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has comes from the enemy AI. During the 
 first half of the game, you'll think to yourself "Wow, these guys are no push overs. Naughty Dog 
 did a great job with this." During the second half of the game you'll go "What in the heck? This 
 is RIDICULOUS." The cheapness to be seen is the level of where I wanted to stop playing no matter 
 how badly I wanted to see the story through; however I didn't. This is on the normal difficulty 
 by the way.
  
  Along with that cheap AI, which ultimately creates a double whammy of frustration, is the very 
 rigid cover system. It works fine most of the time, but when you are in need of doing some quick 
 maneuvering, this is when things get ugly. You'll often find yourself rollinh around trying to 
 dodge enemy fire and get a better vantage point, only to be thwarted by magnetically sticking to 
 any cover near by (roll and cover are the same button, circle) . This can be extremely frustrating 
 when fighting some of the more advanced enemies, and has gotten me killed a plethora of times. 
 This could have been easily prevented by coupling the cover button with the jump button (ala Gears 
 of War) .
  
  On to my two final gripes, which I will attack in this same paragraph. First off, there is just 
 too, too much platforming. I knew what kind of game I was getting into, but this game just goes 
 EXTREMELY overboard with the cheesiness of the mechanic (used in too much repetition, anyway) , 
 and this is coming from a game that will only last you about 8 hours. On to my second part of this 
 complaint, is the fact that this game is trying to tackle a believability factor that of a blockbuster 
 movie, and some of the things it does are just jarring. You'll find yourself traversing ridiculous 
 sections of platforms, only to find an aggrevating placement of your pirate adversaries at every 
 bend (even if it makes completely no sense) . Oh yeah, and did I mention I hope you enjoy fighting 
 these enemies, because you will... A LOT.
  
  Oh, and for a bonus along with that, it can be said that the majority of the weapons found in the 
 game are practically useless. All the pistols feel and sound the same, along with the rifles, shotguns, 
 etc. The best part about it all is that you could get away with playing 90% of the game with nothing 
 but your regular old pistol because it always only takes 1 headshot or about 3 body shots to kill. 
 What a downer.
  
  There are some positives with the gameplay though, right? Yes. The fact that you actually feel 
 like you're on this great adventure is very prevalant and unrivaled by any game this year. There 
 are also some great battle scenes sprinkled along the way that will have you go "Oh heck yeah!" 
 when certain things happen, or "Oh crap!". Also, a few of the puzzles and platforming sections 
 are pretty clever. It does start to get a bit stale before the end though because there is just 
 SO much of that stuff. Naughty Dog however did put a great amount of polish into the product, as 
 the game is still quite fun to play.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  For the most part, the graphics are drop dead gorgeous and will make any high definition television 
 setup sing with beauty. There are quite a few occasions where you'll see the framerate get a bit 
 low, and there is some mild screen tearing, however.
  
  The characters are modeled and animated gloriously, especially shown in the cutscenes which are 
 all rendered in the game engine and also acted amazingly, might I add.
  
  All in all the graphics are top shelf this year however, and sit right up there along with games 
 such as BioShock and Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  
  Sound gets major points for the excellent voice cast featured throughout the game. Naughty Dog 
 must have worked tirelessly to get just the right performers to accompany their cast. Not a single 
 voice feels out of place. It must be noted however that there were a few sound glitches that showed 
 up while I was playing, such as a staticy effect one time a character was talking in the game, 
 and a loss of music (which is pretty good I might add) for a second. Very, very minor and rare, 
 though.
  
  The other part of the sound category that I'd like to touch on is the weapon sounds. The pistol (s) 
 sound great and about how you would expect them too, but the rifles... oh man the rifles, do they 
 ever sound pathetic. Never have I had such an odd look on my face when I've fired an AK-47 in a 
 game. What a disappointment.
  
  Replayability: 6.0
  
  No real reason to go back and play the game again, other than just wanting to see those great cutscenes 
 again, or see the story play out again at a future date. The repetitive nature of the platforming 
 and cheap AI will likely scare you away from another playthrough on anything but easy, but it must 
 be noted that there are lots of "awards" and "treasures" that you can unlock that do give the replayability 
 some length. They're basically Uncharted's take on Xbox Live achievement points on the PlayStation 
 3 with their game. Basically you complete some task, such as getting 50 headshots or getting 50 
 blind-fire shots and you'll unlock a "reward". As for the treasures, collecting these is completely 
 optional and will help you unlock some bonus content within the game.
  
  The game is short at only 8 hours, and quite linear, so there's not going to be much bringing you 
 back to play the game. If you're an achievement addict though, you might spent some extra time 
 doing so.
  
  Overall Average: 8.0
  
  While the story is awesome and full of twists and turns, Uncharted is also filled with shortcomings 
 and frustrations. The game is still quite enjoyable to play, and is a recommended play through, 
 but it won't keep you occupied too long for your $60. I would still suggest a purchase of the game 
 because it is quite an experience to have in your library of games, filled with plenty of wow moments. 
 At the very least, it serves as a great graphical showpiece to put your setup and PlayStation 3 
 system to the test. Cheers to Naughty Dog for taking a risk on a new franchise, and here's to hoping 
 they tie up the loose ends on their next game and blow us away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Picture a beautiful land back in the crusade ages where sword and steel is all that existed. And 
 then picture a total open world environment like earth you can walk and explore and then blend 
 it up with totally modified better splinter cell game you stir this in one big pot and you get 
 assassins creed one of the best stealth action games delivered to the ps3.
  
  Graphics: 8.6 out of 10 - while the graphics are luscious and great and give you a great feel of 
 realism they could of been a lot better specially due to the power of the PS3 they could of been 
 optimized better, but they are still a great touch to a great game. In some cases there is a bit 
 of anti-aliasing issues with the shadows and models but nothing that will ruin your gaming experience.
 
  
  Game Play: 9.3 out of 10 - if you played a game like splinter cell this is the type of game play 
 you will experience accept you are in a grand theft auto type of free world with splinter cell 
 abilities, climbing any obstacle any building. You can run around this world and pretty much have 
 the feeling you can conquer any thing in so many ways this game is truly a unique experience. But 
 there has been reports of freezes and fps lock ups the game play is sharp and is fun but not perfect 
 and stable to a level where it can be called flawless.
  
  Sound: 9.4 out of 10 - now there aren't any complains about the sound where they are very realistic 
 and give you a great realistic experience. There is not many complaints accept they are not perfect 
 they could have even been better but what we are given is truly great with a nice touch and great 
 experience.
  
  Story: 9.6 out of 10 - Out of all the categories in this game the story stands out the most it 
 has a unbelievable twist and builds a lot of suspense and mystery that not many games can deliver 
 to the extent that assassins creed has. Although you may find it a little confusing and hard to 
 follow it's an experience in gaming you won't see much and probably won't forget.
  
  Fun Factor: 8.8 out 10 - while the game is great and delivers a lot of things you wouldn't see 
 in a video game it also has a great fun factor that will make you say cool sweet awesome and will 
 flat out make you not want to put that controller down for anything. This is the case in assassins 
 creed for the first half of the game while the game is fun it does get repetitive after a long 
 while of straight gaming but the story makes up for this as you want to know what happens in the 
 end.
  
  Overall 9.2 out of 10 - The game delivers a new electrifying experience that you wont get from 
 many titles it has solid game play over par graphics a nice story and great sound to go along with 
 a snappy fun factor in my opinion this game is worth a buy and you should pick it up you wont regret 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  You are Nathan Drake. You are in search of the 400 year old coffin of desendant Sir Francis Drake 
 where the clue to the fabled El Dorado treasure lies. You are accompanied by a female named Elena 
 who works for a network which funded this adventure so she could film the discovery and air it 
 on TV. Of course what seemed to be a nice little adventure has quickly turned in to a disaster. 
 It seems you arent the only one looking for this treasure and they will stop at nothing to keep 
 you from getting it first.......
  
  Graphics - 10
  
  Easily the best looking game the PS3 has seen. The textures are so realistic and the shadows are 
 perfect. The lighting effects are top notch and you can really see how powerful the PS3 is by this 
 game. The PS3 runs the game with flawless performance with no pop ups or tearing. 
  
  Sound - 9.5
  
  You can hear every little thing there is to hear in this game. A single bird 
 in the distance to crickets and flies. You can hear waves hitting the rocks and rocks crumbliing 
 from explosions. Up tempo music will play when something big is going to happen and gets your heart 
 racing setting the mood for excitement.
  
  Gameplay - 9.75
  
  Set in 3rd person the game feels like Tomb Raider. Once draw your weapon and prepare for battle 
 your jump in to a Gears of War over the shoulder view. The controls are all spot on and very comfortable 
 button layouts. The game is extremely hard when set to the highest difficulty. You better be a 
 patient player to get through that setting.
  There are also medals and treasures to get in the game. Medals are givin like achievements. 10 
 headshot kills gets you a medal, 50 kills gets you another. Secrets are unlocked by collection 
 hidden treasures throughout the game. There are 60 total to find.
  
  Overall - 9.75
  
  If there was ever a must have game for the PS3 then this is it. Great story, great controls, great 
 graphics, and lots of play time to complete the game. There really isnt anything bad I can say 
 about this game. All I can say is: "Its about damn time the PS3 released an outstanding exclusive!" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  In case you dont know (maby your a blind zombie) Uncharted is a third person shooter/ action adventure 
 from the greatest game company ever Naughty dog. (the makers of crash and jak) 
  
  The protaganist , Nate Drake, is searching for Sir Francis Drakes lost treasure. Along the way 
 he fights hoards of pirates and mercs in ridiculous numbers. It controls like Gears. (though diffrent 
 as run'n gun is far more use full) looks like Heavenly Sword. brings up memorys of National Treasure 
 and Indiana Jones, all while maintaining that Naughty dog charm. 
  The gameplay is well done. Battles are crazy fun. take cover and shoot blind or aimed. killing 
 ppl with blind fire is fun and usefull. jumping is a large part of gameplay. As just press x and 
 while going towards another "platform" and drake fluidly jumps across. its fun enough and adds 
 diversity to gameplay, but it takes no effort and needs to be refined. I played it on normal it 
 was easy at first, but as i went along enemys became smarter faster stronger to the point where 
 i cant even imagine crushing mode. it feels much easier the second time through 
  
  Graphicly its amazing although you cant see ppls pores all their movements look moves look surprisingly 
 real.
  The story is good like i said it reminds me of National treasure and indiana jones, and has a few 
 twists to take it away from the happy go lucky indana jones clone it started as. 
  Replayablity: Very high there are plenty of unlockables and a whole 4th difficulty thats needs 
 unlocking (Crushing, im not sure its too far from imposible) 
  
  PROs: Fun gameplay, tight controls, diverse gameplay, intense firefights
  great graphics, realistic 
 movement, interesting story, unlockables
  
  CONs: Most of the time you're with a partner yet theres no co-op which would be nice to have. Clumsy 
 player deaths, feels a bit to familer
  
  Short story: Its nice to see a game that advances gaming. This is a most own for ps3 owners (i 
 guess you could rent it if then buy it cheap later if you're cheap ) and maby worth buying a ps3 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo a week ago I couldn't wait to get my hands on this game. The Tomb Raider 
 like game with Gears of War cover system baby is born and it can only be found on the PS3. This 
 game has best all the other games released this year on the PS3. If you don't buy this game for 
 your system, than you're missing out on something special.
  
  The game starts you off on a boat, opening up a treasure that was found some where off the coast 
 from panama and naughty dog doesn't take any time for you to rest it puts you in a combat mode 
 3 minutes into the game. The first level of the game looks totally amazing. The animation and graphics 
 have to be the best so far this year from the previous released PS3 games. I love how the game 
 which the pacing in the game you go from one level finding pirates to another level just exploring 
 an entire level with your AI friend. The platforming and puzzle solving in the game are both fun 
 and clever. 
  
  The game has 4 different difficulty levels one that wasn't available in the demo was crushing I 
 just can imagine how difficult this game could get. The game could be a little challenge in the 
 normal difficulty but the game could be forgiving at times because it savings right after a difficult 
 battle. 
  
  There's no multiplayer but there's a lot of different items to unlock in the game while exploring. 
 Also there are treasures and rewards within the game that will make you go back and get some of 
 these treasures to unlock clothes for Nathan Drake who is the character you'll be playing in the 
 game. Like I said before if you own a PS3, you shouldn't definitely have this game in your collection. 
 This has to be the best work done on the system to date. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I was not thinking this game was going to come out this week... so I had my hopes for next week... 
 but when I saw it today at TARGET... I had to pc it up... and I have been playing for about 6 hours 
 now.... THIS is a great game! I am enjoying the game, story, and Drake's ONE LINERS. 
  
  I finished the game in two days... it had my attention from the very moment the game started. Very 
 few games do that. I would have tto say this is a MUST BUY if you own a PS3.
  
  A wonderful story... great sound effects.... and man this is a BEAUTIFUL game. The music puts you 
 into this game like a blockbuster movie.
  
  I enjoy a game that has a good story... yes we may have seen some of the things in Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune, but Naughty Dog did a GREAT job of brining it to the PS3. Playing this game will make 
 you smile and be glad you are a PS3 owner.
  
  I had a friend come over and we just watched all the cinematics from the game... he thought it 
 was amazing... and he never even saw the game play at all...
  
  I will NOT spoil the ending or anything in the game... just enjoy your adventure.
  
  Whatever 
 your doing... STOP... and GO get this game... YOU will thank me 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
