-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Tournament 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/unrealtournament2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exhilarating shooting action.
 A number of high-quality modes to choose from, including the intense warfare mode.
 Great map design encourages early, exciting action.
 Fantastic visuals that generally run at a consistently smooth frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some occasional performance and lag issues.
 User-created content options not yet implemented.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,708 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Dec 11, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unreal Tournament 3 serves up yet another helping of the tight, thrilling gameplay the series is 
 known for. 

  The Unreal franchise has had a comfortable home on the PC for many years. On the other hand, Unreal 
 Tournament 3 is the first game from the franchise to hit a Sony console since the original Unreal 
 Tournament landed on the PlayStation 2 in 2000. PlayStation 3 owners will be thrilled to hear that 
 this version of UT3 is for the most part everything the PC version was when it was released in 
 November. Aside from some online hiccups, it is fast, furious, and fun to play, and never fails 
 to impress from a visual perspective. As a result, it stands up favorably against the other strong 
 multiplayer shooters available on the platform.  

           The series' latest feature: aliens on surfboards.      

  There are a number of good 
 ways to play Unreal Tournament 3. If you are new to the series, you'll probably want to start with 
 the campaign. Rather than the traditional single-player mode you're used to, you'll fight against 
 computer opponents in a series of matches that are bundled into an inconsequential story and basically 
 meant to prepare you for the online portion of the game. You can also play against bots on the 
 multiplayer maps, though the meat of the experience is found online, where you can compete against 
 up to 15 others. There are several modes available: traditional deathmatch and team deathmatch; 
 a one-on-one deathmatch mode called duel; capture the flag, with and without vehicles; and warfare 
 mode, in which two teams compete to destroy each other's power core. From a content perspective, 
 the PlayStation 3 version is identical to its PC counterpart. For more information on what that 
 gameplay entails, you should read our  PC review  of Unreal Tournament 3.  

  Of course, there are some technical differences between the two versions, despite the fact that 
 the gameplay experience is essentially the same. On the visual side of things, the PS3 version 
 looks absolutely fantastic and features high-quality character and weapon models, detailed textures, 
 and great lighting and shadow effects. As a rule, it runs at a fairly speedy clip throughout, with 
 some occasional slowdown only when there are a lot of effects onscreen at a given time, though 
 it doesn't happen enough to be annoying. For the most part, our online matches tended to be free 
 of frustrating lag, provided that we chose servers with a low ping. However, this wasn't always 
 the case. Even in dedicated servers, we encountered moments of noticeable lag. Likewise, even when 
 things were running smoothly, we often found that there were noticeable delays when cycling through 
 weapons. This was not common, and most matches were smooth, hitch-free experiences, but it's an 
 issue worth noting -- particularly when there are rather few servers available at any given moment. 
 The game supports voice chat as well, and we used both USB and Bluetooth headsets with no noticeable 
 problems.  

  You should also note that you can play with a mouse and keyboard on the PS3, which works reasonably 
 well, though these controls don't feel as responsive here as they do on the PC. Thankfully, the 
 Sixaxis controller does a great job of keeping up, and the control mappings are intuitive. You 
 can also choose to filter out games that allow mouse and keyboard controls, so you needn't worry 
 about those players having an unfair advantage in a given match. There is also room for modders 
 and map makers to create downloadable maps, though the tools to create PS3 content have yet to 
 be released, so there isn't any user-created content available as of this writing.  

  What's most impressive about Unreal Tournament 3 on the PS3 is how at-home it feels on the platform. 
 The visuals look great and keep up splendidly, and the action is intense and satisfying. Even with 
 such fantastic options as Warhawk and Call of Duty 4 at your disposal, UT3 is worth a purchase 
 for anyone who likes to shoot guns in video games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (170 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Unreal Tournament Franchise, and when I found out Unreal Tournament 3 (formely 
 Unreal Tournament 2007) was coming out I was extremely Excited, I checked the website all the time, 
 watched gameplay videos and trailers, I was pumped!
  
  Now that the game has been out for over a year, I can give my review and explain to you just why 
 this game is so great.
  
  
  
  STORY: let me just get this out of the way now, alot of people bit***d about the story in the game, 
 people who have probably never layed a finger on the old UT games.... UT3 is NOT a story based 
 game, Jesus CHRIST, I have seen so many complaints about UT3's Story. Yes, I too would have preferred 
 a Tournament ladder like the old UT games to be honest with you but Epic TRIED to implement a story 
 into UT3 because they noticed that not many people went online with the old UT games, Ok? thank 
 you...
  
  You play as Reaper "James Hawkings" (That's his real name if you read the manual) who's clan has 
 basically been destroyed by the Krall and Necris, You and your comrades, Jester, Othello and Bishop 
 are called into a war against the necris on a quest for revenge against Akasha, The Necris Leader.
 
  
  Now, the story in the game is alright, but it's basically a tutorial to get you familiar with the 
 weapons, vehicles, gametypes etc. The reason people complained is because you basically play Multiplayer 
 the entire time like CTF, BUT Epic did a good job of covering it up and making it seem like a story, 
 
  
  (FLaGS are known as Field Lattice Generators for example which power the enemies respawners in 
 CTF)
  
  now the objective in single player is to Destroy the enemies respawners so they CANNOT respawn 
 anymore, if you do this you win. 
  
  To do this you must partake in Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Vehicle Capture the Flag and Warfare 
 matches, all you need to do is win, I will go into more detail on these game modes later on, but 
 yes, the story is fine, but if you want to play UT3, keep in mind that it's a multiplayer based 
 game, however even if you don't have online you can still have alot of fun with it due to the campaign 
 and Instant Action which I will go into detail on more later.
  
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS: The Graphics are Simply Beautiful... what can I say? if you haven't played the game just 
 go and watch a gameplay video in HD and you'll be blown away, honestly this is one of the best 
 looking games I have ever played, everything is detailed to the max, Alot of the levels have sort 
 of a japanese style look to them combined with the alien look and it's all jaw dropping visually, 
 lighting is brilliant, Character models look great, physics are great, the water in the game also 
 looks absolutely stunning, so yeah what can I say? it looks Fu****g awesome!!!
  
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is another one of the main areas in the game where UT3 really does shine, The 
 gameplay is the same as the first Unreal Tournament, which is actually quite refreshing considering 
 how much shooters have changed over the years, take COD4 for example, a great game which goes for 
 a more realistic approach, UT3 does the opposite, the game is very unrealistic but not in a bad 
 way at all.
  
  There are a bunch of weapons to choose from including old returning favourites such as the Shock 
 Rifle, a Purple Laser rifle pulsing with energy, the Enforcer and Impact Hammer also make their 
 return, There are many weapons too choose from in the game each with their own unique abilities, 
 each weapon also has an alternate fire as well as a primary fire, giving alot more Variety.
  
  There are also returning vehicles from UT2004 including the Scorpion Buggy and Goliath Tank, 
 but there are now a new faction which are the Necris Vehicles, very squid like, dark, alien vehicles 
 which almost seem alive at times, some can climb up walls even!
  
  One of my favourite vehicles on the necris team is the Darkwalker, which is basically the necris's 
 Tank, think of the tri pod off War of the Worlds, yeah you get the picture lol, A huge Tri Pod 
 with the ability to Shoot Lava hot laser beams decimating any enemy in it's path, as well as the 
 ability to knock people off their feet with a deadly shreak, it's simply kick a**
  
  I could go on and on about the gameplay in UT3 because honestly there is just SO much content in 
 the game and so much to do, with over 40 maps included with the game you're bound to have some 
 fun with it, plus the Titan pack was released recently on the PS3 and PC versions of UT3, this 
 includes over 20 new maps, new character models, Mutators Etc. all FOR FREE!!!
  
  Mutators are basically game enhancers that you can add, for example, you can make low gravity so 
 people can jump higher and float, you know, stuff like that.
  
  Instant Action is an awesome mode in which you can play on any game mode you want and any map in 
 that mode.
  (there is also a downloadable game mode called AlloverDM which allows you to play DM on ANY map)
 
  But you play with Bots, so even if you do not have online, you can still enjoy UT3 offline.
  
  
  
  SOUND: The sound in the game is great, everything sounds as it should from the blast 
 of a rocket launcher to the stomping sound of a darkwalker, the voice acting in the single player 
 campaign is also great and the music is very well done.
  
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Now this is what UT is really about, the multiplayer is fast, action packed, and very 
 thrilling, the modes available to you are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Vehicle 
 Capture the Flag (Which is CTF with vehicles, obviously) Duel, and Warfare (and two others with 
 the Titan Pack, Greed and Betrayal) 
  
  The two modes in the game that shine for me are Vehicle CTF and Warfare, both these modes include 
 very big maps, you also receive hoverboards in these modes, yes hoverboards people, in order to 
 get around the battlefield faster. You can grapple onto friendly vehicles, you can even grapple 
 onto FLYING vehicles! 
  
  The only bad thing about them is that one ounce of damage and you'll fall off your hoverboard and 
 be immobile for a few seconds, leaving you open to damage.
  
  Warfare is basically a connect the dots kind of mode, there are two teams, red and blue, each team 
 has a power core and you must capture nodes across the battlefield in order to link them up to 
 the opposite teams power core, allowing you to destory their power core and win the match, some 
 of the warfare maps in the game are huge and look very impressive visually.
  
  
  
  
  REPLAY VALUE: what can I say? Unreal Tournament 3 is jam packed with content and with tonnes of 
 User created content available for the PC and PS3 versions of UT3, there really isn't any problem 
 in this department, There's so much stuff to do in this game and so much available to download, 
 You will probably get bored of the game for a while eventually as it can get repetitive, but then 
 you'll likely want to go back and play it again, it's definitely worth playing at least once especially 
 if you like FPS games!
  
  
  
  CONCLUSION: Unreal Tournament 3 is a great game no doubt, it is not perfect however which is why 
 I did not give it a perfect score, It can be quite glitchy, and the lag in the online really annoys 
 me sometimes, but all in all, it's a very fun game that you should try out ;D
  
  
  Lokizarro
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megacherv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  At first I was unsure whether to get this. I'd heard mixed reviews all over the place, some saying 
 it's good, some saying that it's monotonous, others criticising it altogether. I decided that I'd 
 try it since I'd just got re-excited about modding the game (that's why I get most of my PC games: 
 the mods) . I can tell you that that's not the only brilliant thing about this game.
  
  Let me warn you now that if you are the sort of FPS gamer that demands utter realism from a game 
 (e. g. CoD4; CoD: WaW) you probably won't enjoy this. This is for the fans of the original Quake 
 and Unreal games; most notably Quake III: Arena. I myself absolutely love the old-style PC FPS 
 games, where realism is abandoned and the aim of the game is to destroy everything in the game 
 that moves and isn't you. Lovers of that type of FPS will definitely enjoy this game.
  
  Obviously there are the standard old-FPS game modes; Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and CTF; but there 
 is also Vehicle CTF and Duel. You can probably guess the objective of those modes. There is a single-player 
 campaign; Instant Action mode (like Skirmish) and there is Multiplayer (no local multiplayer for 
 PS3, which I'm slightly disappointed at) . It's incredibly simple yet brilliant if all you want 
 to do is say 'Get screwed' to CoD's obsessive attachment to realism and just shoot the crap out 
 of everything. It's even brilliant to look at with the graphic quality being of a very high standard.
 
  
  Now, here's my review of the aforementioned mods. This is one of the games best features in my 
 opinion. The amount of mods that can be made is endless. Even if you find a mod that's for the 
 PC version, if you have the PC version and the PS3 tools, you can 'cook' it for use with the PS3 
 version. Even then, the number of maps, character models and mutators available is enough to satisfy 
 you. One of my personal favourites is UT2D, which is you're not familiar, turns the game into a 
 Metal Slug-esque shooter, albeit the controls are a bit fiddly. There's also the Action-Cam mod 
 for the Gears of War fans out there, although the controls aren't changed; there's the Shipment 
 map from CoD4; you can even (you've probably seen this before) play as the Master Chief from the 
 Halo series (don't worry, Microsoft are fine with this) . The downside for 360 users is that the 
 modding isn't as wide-open for them, as (I think) Microsoft won't allow it. No matter, get the 
 PC version instead if that's what you're wanting although the 360 version does have local multiplayer)
 
  
  To sum up my thoughts:-
  
  - Unrealistic but in a good way
  - Good choice of weapons
  - Modding ensures boredom never happens
  - Old-Style for the original 
 Quake+Unreal fans (does Quake better than Quake Wars does)
  
  Highly Recommended
  
  Recommended Mods:-
  - UT2D
  - Super Mario Bros. map for UT2D
  - Master Chief model
  - Action 
 Cam mutator
  - Gibalicious Mutator
  - TVG Mutator Pack
  
  NOTE: This game cannot be a rip-off, Unreal is one of the oldest FPS series' out there, so other 
 games should really be considered as ripping off Unreal. The only game UNreal could've ripped off 
 of is the original Quake series.
  
  Also, to people who bought this expecting something like Gears of War, the clue is in the name. 
 Jesus Christ...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pop_can
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any of the other unreal tournament games, not the ones on the consoles, but 
 the origional, PC versions of the game will immedietly feel right at home in this game. Unreal 
 3 is the newest instalment of the Unreal franchise and it brings in the best from its predicessors. 
 Fast paced gameplay, great weapons, great maps, fun gametypes, and user created content all make 
 this game one of the best. The story mode feels kind of like they simply added it on near the end 
 of development, but fans of the origional unreal games know that the story isn't the best part 
 of the game, its the multiplayer. Playing with either bots or people this game is amazing fun. 
 The bots show an above average of intelligence, using secret ways and weapons to provide an amazingly 
 fun experience, and with about 7 or so difficulty settings from novice to godlike (literally) , 
 anyone can find that right amount of challenge from the bots. Even if playing with bots is fun, 
 nothing compares to playing with people. The online play is a lot like the instant action (bot 
 matches) but with the benifit of playing with actual people. And with the addition of user created 
 content ranging from maps to gametypes to new characters and even a mod that allows you to play 
 in 3rd person like in Gears of War. Even famous video game characters have been made like Snake 
 from Metal Gear Solid, Master Chief from Halo, and even many Gears of War characters. What really 
 makes this game stand out is its fast paced gameplay. It is one of the classics, lots of weapons, 
 lots of enemies, and an objective. Just grab a weapon and fire away. The controls are tight and 
 responsive, and even if you don't like them, you can change them to be whatever you want. And if 
 a standard PS3 controller doesn't work for you, the game is fully compatable with a USB mouse and 
 keyboard. This game is a definant must buy for the PS3 if you don't already own it for the PC.
 
  
  What other game lets Snake and Master Chief fight to the death in a map made of legos? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetsofrage89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very good graphics, Some fun weapons, Beautiful cutscenes (what few there are) , Love using 
 the hover board.
  
  The Bad: Campaign mode is just playing the the same modes over & over again, Basically the same 
 weapons as the first Unreal Tournament, Really no story to this game at all.
  
  Unreal Tournament is in no way at all a bad game. It has beautiful graphics, some interesting level 
 designs, plus you can blow your enemy to pieces over & over again. But this only lasts for so long 
 after you will eventually get bored. There aren't very many game modes to choose from. Plus at 
 the beginning of the game you think that you will have the pleasure of enjoying a fun story based 
 on the very brutal & beautiful opening cutscene. But all you do in campaign mode is play the same 
 3 game types over & over & over again. Although the inclusion of vehicles isn't a bad idea, some 
 of them are a pain to drive. But using your handy hover board is a fun way to get around. It'll 
 make you feel like Marty McFly from "Back To The Future". Overall if you love hover boards, nice 
 graphics, & constantly blowing the crap out of your opponents then by all means this game is for 
 you. But for all others looking for a good story with some shooting on the side, there are plenty 
 of other shooters on the market that would better suit you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimanchee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I have UT: GOTY Edition and UT2004, and I have played UT3. I thought it was lots of fun.
  
  The graphics are really amazing, even if it is a bit like Gears of War, and the multiplayer is 
 lots of fun. There is a great variety of vehicles, and I like all of them. The Hoverboard actually 
 works very nicely, and lots of fun to ride along things with. There might not be a lot of multiplayer 
 on the PS3, but the servers you do find have lots of people and are always enjoyable. There are 
 lots of fun maps, but I was disappointed when I found that there was no Faces. Faces is the greatest 
 CTF map ever made.
  
  However, the campaign was quite confusing. The concept of them using respawners in battles sounded 
 a bit corny, but nicely executed. I don't like the fact that they removed the Skarrji (or however 
 you spell it) and replaced them with the slave versions of them. I also didn't like the fact that 
 they removed several weapons from the original games. 
  
  So overall, Unreal Tournament 3 is a great game, but not as good as the others. I personally like 
 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariojak1984
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  THis game kicks ass. I can't say much more.
  
  But I will. First off, I have to say one warning: those looking for a campaign will not find it 
 here. The "campaign" is simply a tutorial for the online. It is no more than Warhawk: an online, 
 multiplayer frag fest.
  
  But it is an incredible fragfest, probably the best ive ever played. The graphics are mind blowingly 
 detailed and rarely drop in frame rate, even during high action online scenes. The cutscenes, while 
 part of the tutorial style campaign, are incredible, filled with photorealistic backgrounds and 
 excellent character models. The sound follows suit and makes weapons, which by the way look great, 
 sound devastating.
  
  THe connection is awesome. On my wireless connection, matches started after only about a minute, 
 3 minutes tops. The battles were frenetic fast and fun, and each mode, which include deathmatch, 
 teamdeathmatch, capture the flag, warfare, and others all work well, and the gameplay is EXTREMELY 
 rewarding. There is also a mild characcter creation element that is small, but fun for the most 
 part. YOur character appears to other players in online.
  
  In all, UT3 is a fantastic fps. It is not fair to give it a perfect score considering the other 
 incredible fps games out their with good online and a good campaign, rather than just incredible 
 online, but the online in UT3 is so mind blowing that it still merits a 9 out 10 by my and many 
 others' standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJFMBEN
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  when I bought UT3 i was soo exited bout the mods and all of that stuff so i got all of this and 
 waht after 20 mins it got soooo boring.. ok UT3 is agame witch is only good for multiplayer but 
 in the multiplayer mod all the time u do the same things.. after 20 mins itll get very boring, 
 the single player mode is just the same as the multiplayer u do the same thing its like the same 
 matches only with bots instead of players.. I reallly enjoyed that game for the 1st 20 mins i was 
 like wow great graphics great gameplay Awesome weapons!@ but in the end i was bahh i dont want 
 to play this anymore... i trully regreat that i played 100$ for this thing.. if any 11 is from 
 israel tel-aviv call me if u want this game for 100  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament III is one of those titles that more than suits its purpose, but won't appeal 
 to the gaming community as a whole. This is because the game is intended to predominantly be an 
 online title where you're trying to out-twitch the next guy and collect as many frags as possible. 
 It is not intended to have an in-depth campaign or engaging story, so don't come searching here 
 for anything of the like.
  
  In fact, the story is the weakest part of the game, as the gameplay is nothing more than simulated 
 on-line matches. And while you are treated to some really nice cut-scenes before, after, and in-between 
 the game's five chapters courtesy of the Unreal Engine, those same cut-scenes are short and lack 
 any real depth. 
  
  It does do a beautiful job of preparing you for the online battles you're about to face, however, 
 and you will find that you're very familiar with the game's maps and controls by the time the campaign 
 is completed. This feature helps make sure you at least stand a fighting chance when you step out 
 onto the battlefield, and helps with the nasty learning curve that most twitch games have.
  
  Moving on to the basics, Epic Games has everything in hand with this one, as they should. Whether 
 you're discussing the game's fantastic graphics, incredible physics, or amazing sound, you're left 
 wanting for nothing. The only issues I experienced actually took place offline, where the frame-rate 
 took an incredible drop for no apparent reason. This happened infrequently, however, and cleared 
 itself up quickly.
  
  One area where they went above and beyond with Unreal Tournament III was with the controls. The 
 PS3 version actually features mouse and keyboard support, which was a huge step forward for this 
 game as it gives you more accuracy. It's especially noticeable as the game is incredibly fast-paced, 
 and it's unfortunate that 360 owners were left out of the loop this time. The gamepad is their 
 only control option.
  
  Online play is virtually lag free and will provide you with hours of entertainment, especially 
 considering the bevy of modes available including Warfare, Capture the Flag, and Deathmatch (to 
 name a few) . But what's even more impressive are the maps you'll be playing on. Some of them are 
 not only expansive, but they're also designed in such a way that players on opposing teams will 
 still find each other for battle. Epic games' attention to detail in this regard truly stands out 
 as one of its high points, and they even provide you the ability to edit and share your maps with 
 others when you finally tire of them.
  
  Overall, the game is simply fantastic thanks to it's incredible online gameplay and many options 
 available, and I highly recommend it for any twitch gamer. But again, don't come here looking for 
 kind of single-player experience, as this title just wasn't designed for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_EdgE999
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Of all the game I've played thus far on my PS3, this one was the most exciting. I played Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 till my fingers bled, true story (ask if you want) .
  I waited and waited for this game to come out, content with epic's decision to make it what they 
 felt was Unreal. My only regret about this game is the people that bought it expecting Gears of 
 War, without knowing ANYTHING about UT. 
  
  People complained and complained about the single player, but all the people who played the previous 
 games knew EXACTLY what to expect. That is pure and utter destruction, eye popping mayhem and lots 
 of flak shells. The single player is exactly the same as UT2K4, but the new multiplayer is a thing 
 of beauty. Turning a corner and coming face-to-face with a snarling beast in glaring detail always 
 makes me jump. (and instantly hit the trigger) 
  
  The new onslaught or "Warfare" as its now called was well thought out, with the introduction of 
 "Orbs" to make for plausible comebacks even in dire circumstances. The new VCTF is awsome too, 
 it was available in UT2K4, but it wasnt popular, they've refined it and made it what it should 
 always have been. 
  
  To me, its all to clear that if you buy this game, ensure you have a steady hand, a thirst for 
 glory, and the resolve to keep fighting even when your opponents whoop your butt. There's alot 
 of skilled players in this game who know what theyre doing and have done it before in the Unreal 
 world. I'll be waiting online with my flak cannon, come get some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolGam3rKiiD
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I gave this give this game a 6.5 b/c its not even that fun. All you do is those tournaments where 
 you have to shoot people just to earn points. That is what I saw so far. I had look at the trailer 
 and they made it look so good but when I played it I saw horrible graphics for game play and good 
 graphics for the cut scenes. That had changed my whole opinion for the game. The graphics for that 
 game looked like it was for ps2 or xbox because it sure did not look like it should have been for 
 ps3. The game was kind of fun in the beginning but when I had noticed that all you do is stay in 
 tournament the whole time and you dont get like one chance to free roam else where so that kinda 
 made it a bit more boring. Comment this to let me know if you thing this game deserves a higher 
 grade then what I gave it (6.5) because I would like to know what is the reason that this game 
 should be getting scores around 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8_F1r3
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Unreal is a fast paced game with few flaws the only thing I dont like is the time it takes to switch 
 weapons. This games online is amazing and it's not hard to find good players either. Each map has 
 it's own story so it draws you into the game more plus it's out on all the platforms even though 
 I would get the PS3 version.
  The story on this game is ok it's a plus compared to the Multiplayer this game is a great first 
 person shooter until Killzone 2 comes out so i would hope that if you don't have it by now than 
 you should get it and just fall in love by your man str8_F1r3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well when i bought the game I knew that the campaign was only bots playing team death 
 match and capture the flag. I thought it wouldn't matter because I'm all about online. Well the 
 online isnt much better.
  
  Positives: Graphics are very impressive. Ability to download endless maps via internet. PS3 version 
 has option of keyboard and mouse controls.
  
  Negatives: The Campaign may as well not exist. I tried to go through on easy just to say i beat 
 the game but i couldnt put myself through such a horrible game. The online has virtually no stats 
 tracking. No medals. Nothing. The online may as well not exist.
  
  Final Thoughts: This game had a lot of potential but all in all it fell short in every category. 
 I wonder if EA had a part of this game lol
  
  Rent or Buy??
  Just dont bother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dansteve
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  when i first got this game i figured it would be similar to gears of war, and it was but the bad 
 thing about this game is it kick off looking bad ass but once you get into the campaign its the 
 same as playing online, but online is more fun cause its with actual ppl. the single player mode 
 was a total let down for me the A. I. it stupid they don't help you that much and all it is death 
 match and capture the flag?? i could do that on the online and with better support. graphics are 
 great but the game gets repetitive very fast since that's all you do. i mean come on you play the 
 enemys capture the flag, thats a lame campaign. the game is fast first person shooter thats get 
 fun and will have you wanting more, but the poor A. I. and repetitive of playing the sames kinda 
 levels get old even faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudpick
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Now the xbox 360 version has been released and comes with split screen and new levels and stuff 
 i don't see why they made it exclusive for a year to the PS3. After all they were going to ruin 
 it like that. The game offline quickly becomes boring, campaing mode is not solid, neither interesting 
 and becomes like always the same. Bots are so stupid and easy to kill. The userinterface is like 
 a boot to the head...
  The only reason i heard this game was good was online, now that i have it i realize it was a total 
 rip-off, really laggy online, too hard to find a right game with no lag because of the stupid PING, 
 so that sucks too, also gets boring pretty fast with no vehicles in deathmatchs. For talking with 
 other people with you headset is even worse, you have to press a key and they communication is 
 really bad, there is 0 support from midway. 
  So sincerily don't waste your money, there are many many other better games than this, i gave it 
 a 6 out of 10 cause i was too nice but compared to other games like halo it deserves a 3 top.
 
  
  So to MIDWAY, come on, you got to be serious. Exclusive UT3 for a year to the PS3, now you blow 
 it this way, so until you release some good games like Gears of War for the PS3 or add some more 
 features to this game. I'M NOT BUYING ANY OF YOUR PRODUCTS, AND I HOPE YOU READER SUPPORT ME! LETS 
 MAKE THIS CHANGE HAPPEN,
  
  thanks for your time guys, peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  So, unreal 3, one of the finest FPS games i ve ever played... many people say its not as good as 
 unreal gold.. unreal tournament GOTY or the more recent ones 2003 or 2004.
  
  Ok i have to say unreal tournament 2004 its my favourite not only because its great fun but beacuse 
 of its countless feauters and levels it has to offer.
  unreal 3 is not less and has a lot on display... great player customization, awesome level designs.. 
 fantastic feeling of action, shooting experience thats quite remarkable comparing to other popular 
 games such as resitance.
  But theres just something wrong among all this apparently perfect combo. Im talking about the "catchy/addictive 
 factor"... which this game actually lacks and its predecessors definitely had. I mean, i remmember 
 playing unreal tournament GOTY and spending hours and hours without realising what the time was... 
 but now.. altough unreal 3 is supirior in almost all the aspects i dont get involved in the action 
 as easy as in the other unreals.
  Thats a pity cause this game is really cool, i admire the effort made to design those beautiful 
 worlds , vehicles and weapons spread troughout the universe of unreal... but theres something missing.
 
  
  Anyways., that doesnt mean its still a great game. Its for sure, one of the best of its style and 
 probably the best of its kind.
  
  I almost forgot the downloable packs and stuff via playstation network. Very nice maps ;)
  
 
  I think this game deserves an awesome score, but it will never reach 10 just because of the lack 
 of that "invisible addictive touch".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If there is only one PS3 FPS i would play now until the end of time, its Unreal Tournament 3. I 
 remember playing the original and being amazed at it, so, when i heard a UT3 was coming out for 
 the PS3 and other consoles, i was so excited, i s@$& my pants!!!!! Yes, literally, s@& came out 
 my ass and i rocketed through the roof!!!!!! PS3 and unreal tournament: it was 2 of my most favorite 
 things in the whole world coming together, i heard it was good, i bought it and i was amazed!!!!
 
  
  Onto the actual game now. The graphics are unbelievable: everything is very highly detailed, the 
 effects are amazing: when you see that water effect, you will tell they spent a lot of time on 
 this game.
  
  Gameplay is also quite good too, theres a campaign mode which basically warms you up for multiplayer, 
 theres instant action where you fight against bots, but i believe, and a lot of people will probably 
 agree with me, that the true power of UT3s gameplay, lies in its multiplayer.
  
  All the classic game modes are back like deathmatch, team DM, capture the flag and duel plus 2 
 more modes like vehicle CTF with these huge maps, it practically like CTF but with vehicles: you 
 got tanks, hoverboards and even something that looks like one of those tripods from the "war of 
 the worlds" remake (the one with Tom Cruise) . Then theres also a new one called warfare, where 
 you link up nodes to your enemys base and destroy their energy core thing.
  
  The sound: just awesome, The weapon/vehicle sounds sound very realistic, the voice acting... what 
 can i say? IT`S AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  If your a FPS fan, and you happen to own a 360, a PS3 or a PC capable of supporting this game, 
 i highly recomend Unreal Tournament 3.
  
  Final score:
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  
  Gameplay: 5/5
  
  sound: 5/5
  
  Entertainment: 5/5
  
  Overall: 20/20
  
  P. S. If 
 you still doubt my review: it was made by Epic Games, and they also made Gears of War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shraylo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Back in 1999, Unreal Tournament for the PC was released. It was hailed as one of the greatest first-person 
 shooters of all time. While UT 2003 was a let-down for fans, it's updated graphics and multiplayer 
 were something to be excited about. UT 2004 was basically a remake of UT 2003, except with many 
 more maps, and more game options, including Onslaught, which has been used in multiplayer aspects 
 in games such as Ratchet and Clank, Battlefield 2, and many more.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 (and in its early stages of development, Unreal Tournament 2007) is the successor 
 to Unreal Tournament 2004. It features a huge graphics update, and provides a solid gameplay experience 
 all around, from single-player to multiplayer. However, the tacked-on story to the single-player 
 campaign is totally unforgettable, and in my personal opinion, detracts a little bit from the overall 
 experience.
  
  There is much fun to be had in UT3. The game is very fast-paced. You don't have time to plot out 
 your next strategy. In this tournament, it's kill or be killed. I had a lot of fun blasting away 
 at bots, but if you can find someone to play online, it's also a lot of fun. Unless you find a 
 die-hard UT fan... words of advice if that happens: prepare to be raped. Unless of course, you're 
 a die-hard UT fan yourself, in which case, you probably own this game, so why are you reading the 
 review?
  
  The graphics are very shiny. You will notice some problems with the UT Engine, as with all UT games, 
 as I'm told. Sometimes, at the beginning of each match, you will see the graphics as bland and 
 lifeless, then all the high-res textures will pop in. This does not hinder the game play experience, 
 it's just... weird. You think in the 8 years since UT1 they could have fixed this problem, but I 
 guess not. 
  
  The sounds are great. I recommend buying a surround sound system for your TV. You really feel like 
 you are in a battle arena, blasting your enemy to bits when you can hear shots coming from behind 
 you, or in front, or wherever. A definite add on to the overall experience, but if not, the game 
 still sounds great.
  
  This game is great, from the great single-player, and multi-player, to the graphics and sounds. 
 You won't find another game like it. I do have a few complaints about it though, and they are big 
 enough to make it not deserving of a 9.0 or higher. My first complaint is about the story. 
  In UT2004, the whole tournament was this: you create a team, you fight your team, you play matches 
 in which you earn credits to buy new team members and become more skilled. However, in UT3, it's 
 this guy named Reaper. OK, looks like the Gears of War guy, seems pretty cool. Except he's fighting 
 to kill this monster-lady thing, that killed his family, or his people, or something. I don't care, 
 it's forgettable. 
  This isn't Unreal 3. This is Unreal Tournament 3. 
  It's like Epic Games said "Hey, screw the tournament. Let's just make a potential Unreal 3, tack 
 it on to the campaign mode, and make them play through some random tournament battles!" You think 
 it would be easier just to incorporate the system from UT2004. I don't know. Some people probably 
 like it. I don't.
  
  Another complaint I have is that they aren't enough maps. UT 2004 had tons of maps. This has... a 
 few. Plus two more DLC maps including the infamous Facing Worlds. Yay.
  
  The online is near dead, and there is no offline 2-player split screen. The 360 has 2 player split 
 screen, and we have modded maps. Which is cool, but I would rather play with my friend who is sitting 
 beside me than download and waste my bandwidth on user-created maps that I may never use again.
 
  
  Well, I'm done complaining. To sum it up: if you like people being blown to pieces, futuristic 
 settings, beautiful graphics, and user-created content, or if you are a die-hard UT fan, pick this 
 one up. It's definitely a fun game, but don't expect anything from the story. Oh yeah, and good 
 luck finding some people to play with online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemBoys46290
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  well it was what i expected unreal pretty much like the other ones except with a so so story. no 
 co-op mode what am i sayin its only one player which is stupid but i guess they fixed that for 
 xbox but it has a few more bugs go figure its got a couple new weapons and the characters are new 
 they look pretty good graphics wise but the main guy looks like the main guy from gears of war. 
 bothgams were made by epic studios so. war fare mode is new to the game its ok but playin with 
 the ai on anything but easy and you got to do everything by your self which can get frustrating 
 and annoying because the enemy ai seems to be much more proficient and out number you in players. 
 oh and a tip any time in campaign mode you get two choices for stages to play pick the second one 
 usually unlocks a character for only play. most of these do but not all of them. i lied everything 
 about the game except i could play with a buddy sitting on my couch only online and that sucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RYAN_121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  honestly in my view i LOVED THIS GAME 
  before i got this , i was a little sketchy on the idea due to a previous unreal game with terrible 
 controls 
  HOWEVER... the controls in this game are perfect so don't worry
  id give this game a and easy 9.0 +
  mainly because ive never seen a game with such creativity 
 on weapons , maps , characters , vehicles and even sound effects (which is rare)
  
  VEHICLES!
  
  vehicles are a MASSIVE effect in this game from the hover-board to the 
  GIGANTIC 
 DARKWALKER 
  axon cicada
  axon goliath
  axon hellbender
  axon leviathan
  axon manta
  Axon paladin
  axon raptor
  axon scorpion
  axon spma
  necris darkwalker
 
  necris fury
  necris nemesis
  necris nightshade
  necris scavenger
  necris viper
  
  
  which eliminates anything in its path with a single touch 
  i felt a massive adrenalin rush 
 with fear and ... ok just fear fighting these things 
  online .
  kind of like the walkers off war of the worlds they shoot two beams of burning light and stand 
 on three legs...
  
  
  
  WEAPONS...
  every weapon is different in this game which is essential to find your unique
  type of weapons 
 and go all out , from:
  the enforcer
  Bio rifle
  impact hammer
  shock rifle
  link gun
  flak cannon
  stinger mini-gun
  rocket launcher
  sniper rifle
  longbow avril
 
  redeemer
  translocator
  
  this may not seem like a lot but in the long run , Its all ya need...
  
  CHARACTERS 
  this 
 is my favorite part you can actually select your race out of 4 
  then type 
  then fiddle around with your amour till you look awesome 
  
  also there are mods which can 
 be easily placed into the game 
  (don't worry its perfectly fine to add mods , one of the games many features
  is adding mods)
 
  you can play as 
  
  Master chief (halo)
  Spawn (comics)
  crysis
  marcus fenix (gears of war)
  locusts (gears of war) 
  and many more...
  
  al in all... i 
 love this game and its A DEFINITE MUST 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevbew63
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  When I picked this game up I was pretty excited about it. I had watched some gameplay videos and 
 stuff so I thought it was going to be pretty cool. It was for a few minutes, until I realized that 
 everyone runs around like crazy shooting at any and everything. Complete run and gun craziness 
 is not what I consider fun. Total letdown in that department. That's how it is in deathmatch.... 
 team deathmatch is another story - its just boring and slow.
  
  Aiming in UT3 sucks. If you ask me, aiming should not be something that's hard to get used to. 
 You can't even zoom your weapon for better aim like most shooters. That's pretty stupid.
  
  I don't feel like wasting any more time explaining why this game is bad. It just is. And for all 
 you guys that think it rocks, I wish I could get that much enjoyment out of something like this... 
 I would be a much happier gamer. Its the worst PS3 purchase I've made so far and I sold it without 
 hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  It's the middle of the summer. You're bored. You've spent a month just sitting in your living room 
 watching VHS movies and playing your favorite single player game over and over. This day, you feel 
 that you want to try something different. You search through your game collection, tossing aside 
 all of these games that you've played several times, and are done with. Do you know what you need? 
 You need to be killed.
  
  By a by an enforcer, stinger minigun, flak cannon, or a rocket launcher. Perhaps you need to be 
 run over by a hoverboard. Or maybe you're lucky enough to be flattened and mutilated by an impact 
 hammer.
  
  Unreal Tournament III is the equivalent of taking a bath in blood and bullets and explosions. It's 
 a first person shooter from Epic Games, and it's a way to spill some red drink all over the place. 
 It is easily the most brutal first person game I have ever laid my eyes on. Blood is spilled convincingly 
 in a sexified manner. Does that make the game any better than it is? Perhaps. One thing's for sure: 
 Unreal Tournament III is one hell of a thrill ride. It brings to the table addictive multiplayer, 
 something everyone enjoys just a little more than performing surgery on living beings.
  
  There are several multiplayer modes online, which support up to 12 players. Epic has implemented 
 intelligent AI controlled bots to fill the empty space, so there is always 12 players in a game. 
 There's the standard Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch (My personal favorite. There's nothing like going 
 on your own.) , but there are a few team based game modes as well, like Capture the Flag and Warfare.
 
  
  The Xbox 360 version of the game supports 2 player split screen for online and off, something that 
 the Ps3 version misses out on. However, the Ps3 and PC versions have user created mods, something 
 the 360 version misses out on. The 3 versions are near identical in a lot of ways, with the PC 
 getting the slight edge due to the availability of a mouse and keyboard. The Ps3 version has this 
 option, too, but you'd have to purchase it.
  
  As a single player game, there is a solo campaign that you can go through. The protagonist looks 
 exactly like Marcus Fenix from Gears of War. His story is about revenge on an alien race that killed 
 his family. The story is nothing special, other than an excuse to go to places and kill aliens. 
 When the word "respawner" is used, then you know the developer didn't intend the story to count. 
 And it doesn't.
  
  The single player game is roughly 4 hours, which isn't bad, as it's mostly practice for online. 
 The levels are the same ones from multiplayer. If this is your first UT game, as it was my first, 
 then the single player game is a great place to start off. The story isn't captivating at all, 
 and finishing it won't be a priority on your list.
  
  Unreal is a very speedy first person shooter formula. Players move at increased speeds, and it 
 goes well with the level designs, which are mostly just a series of room or squared connected by 
 a series of narrow hallways. You're going to need high reflexes, as your reaction time needs to 
 be to the split seconds, if even. I'll set the scene for you, as this is what most of your encounters 
 will be:
  
  - You spawn
  
  -You see a weapon on the floor, a flak cannon
  
  -You go and pick it up
  
  -You turn down the hallway
  
  -After 2 seconds, there is an opponent 
 coming up the steps at the end of the hall
  
  That will happen several times during each match. The player with the best aim, reflexes, and fastest 
 trigger finger will survive.
  
  This makes the game seem very shallow, but it's much more complex than it seems on paper. When 
 you first enter an online match, it's surprising how fast everything moves, how intense the action 
 is, and how steep the learning curve is.
  
  Truth is, there is no other shooter that has this amount of polish at the speed and type of game 
 that this plays. Every mechanic plays out well, and is a total blast to play. If this seems like 
 your type of thing, then you are in for months of playing online that you will love. One would 
 do best to compare it to laser tag. Who doesn't love laser tag?
  
  Weapons are all varied and balanced well. You always start off with an automatic pistol, but you 
 can find weapon pickups scattered throughout a level. Speed is essential here, too, considering 
 that if you are caught with a poor weapon by somebody with a rocket launcher. You are PWn3D lulz. 
 Finding out which weapons are most effective at certain situations is essential, but easy to pick 
 up on. The weapons all have alternate fires, which brings variety. They all look incredible, with 
 unique effects and splash damage. They are all sci-fi guns that are really fun to shoot.
  
  The best weapon in the game, however, isn't a gun. It is the impact hammer, your form of melee. 
 Pressing the right face button pulls this sucker out, and holding down the fire button revs it 
 up. It looks completely harmless at first, but when you press it against an opponent, the results 
 are awesome. One second, they'll be running away, the next, they are gone. Blood is all over the 
 gun, the walls, your arms, and the camera. Yes, that's right, the camera. The first time you do 
 this to someone, your draw will hit the floor. It is possibly the most awesome thing in the history 
 in videogaming.
  
  From a presentation standpoint, Unreal fairs extremely well. It runs on the Unreal 3 Engine, and 
 the game is made by Epic, so you know what to expect. The game looks identical to Gears of War, 
 which looked incredible. There are a few upgrades on texture work, but the art is similar, and 
 the main character is essentially Marcus Fenix. If you want reference to the best looking level, 
 look at Deimos, a space station above a planet. If you gaze out long enough before you are murdered, 
 it looks incredible. UT3 is one of the best looking games this generation, hands down. The game 
 runs well even online, and spare a few texture pop ins, it's outstanding.
  
  The soundtrack is very good with really cool spacey bass heavy tunes. Voice work is done well, 
 even with the taunts you can select to have your character say. Guns sound pretty average, but 
 they sound clear. The soundtrack is what saves the day here. The work done is superb.
  
  If you are looking for an epic (no pun intended) single player game, wait for Fallout 3, or go 
 back and play GTA IV. If it's mindless fun and possibly endless online you seek, look no further. 
 The core gameplay might be too fast or difficult for some, but if you get the controls down, the 
 game is a blast. Even if you suck, take a look at it. Unlike other shooters, this is about gameplay, 
 not stats. When's the last time you played laser tag and cared whether or not you come in first? 
 If you've never played laser tag, why haven't you ever played laser tag? Unreal Tournament III 
 is a prime example of a fun game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  UT3 is revolutionary in my oppinion... it's fast paced, has the best online multiplayer i've ever 
 seen, and packs a punch when it comes to mods!
  
  As you proboably know, the unreal tournament series hasnt really had good graphics... or cutscenes... 
 or story... but this game changes all of that! its story is about a group of militias who are trying 
 to stop an invasion from the necris. right there: that is a plot. in the story there are also a 
 few HD cutscenes that are REALLY well done because of the highquality of the unreal engine and 
 the PS3's graphics. two in one punch!
  
  now that you have a basic view of UT3's overall gameplay, here is the review:
  
  graphics:9.7 
 because of minor chopiness and the frame problem that happens when too many frames are displayed 
 at the same time.
  
  gameplay:10!!! ABSOLUTELLY FLAWLESS MULTIPLAYER! HOURS ON END OF THIS MASTERPIECE!!!!
  
  sound:9.9 
 not far from perfect, but has a bit of a glitch that makes the sound come out of one speaker if 
 you have a bose sound system...
  
  pickups: 10 i like the weapon and health drops... but thats about it. its score cant and will not 
 be brought down because of that though...
  
  misc: 9.9.9 good but has one flaw... enviorments can kill you if you get too close to a moving 
 wall... SPLAT
  
  violence:100!!!! this game is so fast paced, you can kill 100 people in one minute if your bunched 
 at their base
  
  humor:10 comentary on some of the missions can make you throw down your controller and luagh! you 
 can even taunt your enemies with movfes such as "hoolahoop" or "hipthrust"... ROFL!!!
  
  is this a good game for kids?
  NO
  why?
  because blood splats everywhere if you hit the enemy 
 wit a rocket or run him or her over. and its so violent...
  
  OVERALL SCORE:9.999 to the infinate power because of its small flaws...
  
  i REALLY recomend 
 you get this game becaus eyou can actually MOD it! you can put the locusts or marcus from GOW, 
 or the master chief! the ,master chief is even better designed than the one for halo 3!
  
  
  BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 3 is a game that i was curious about due to the fact that my friends have always 
 held it in such high regards and i must say when i decided to play a previous unreal tournament 
 i found that in that day and age of the first baby steps i took into the online arena i found it 
 to be a blast, but in todays day and age of top quality online shooters and online games in general, 
 unreal tournament 3 finds itself lacking.
  
  Good points first, the graphics are top notch stuff and the character models to look bulky and 
 awesome to be frank, and the depth of customizations for the online mode are deep and you can pull 
 off a really good look for your online avatar, not to mention the guns in this game are also very 
 cool and varied.
  
  The issues are many though, the actual game play feels really dated when compared to games like 
 COD 4 and team fortress, there was a time when running and shooting was the idea of FPS, but these 
 days i like a bit more depth for my money when it comes to online because that theory becomes very 
 old, very quickly and you cant help but not want to play on to the next round! and the single player 
 story line might as well not exist because to call it involving is as massive over-statement and 
 gets repetitive very quickly.
  
  All in all i did not want to play this game for more than 3 hours and traded it back in, if your 
 a fan of the previous chapters then i'm sure you will find some fund in this game, however if you 
 are not a fan then this is not a good point to join the franchise, pick up call of duty 4 instead! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Weapons, vehicles And FPS are my Kind of FPS the online is great the game is great the weapons are 
 cool the vehicles are even cooler the main problem is the controls First Of Analog stick is very 
 annoying cause the game has this thing that keeps the character moving controlling the Vehicles 
 its like Battlefield BC its not the right way to drive Transport on the Ps3 or 360 e. g BFBC You 
 Press L1 to Drive and you press L2 to reverse or press x to drive but its R2 and L2 You Kinda Hate 
 it when u get it wrong this is all i can say but its a good game i need more word so don't read 
 the rest blah good game blah blah blah blah Blah blah blha blah blah blah blah blah good game buy 
 it yep Blah blah blah Gamespot plz remove this 100 word thing make it 50 unreal words lalalala 
 If you are read the rest plz stop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  unreal tournament 3 for the playstation 3 is a pretty good sci-fi first person shooter. the graphics 
 are just amazing. the game just looks really great, the color and everything are put together just 
 fine. and if your looking for a game with lots of blood and gore. then unreal tournament 3 is the 
 perfect video game for you. i was so amazed when i watched the first movie in this game. it was 
 pretty hardcore. there are pleanty of game modes. multiplayer is very good. i have not played on-line 
 yet. but im pretty sure it would kick some ass. pleanty of guns for you to choose from. rocket 
 launcher of course the best. and you get a hoverboard and you can link to other vehicles if you 
 want to catch a ride. or carry the flag to your base. because you can't enter a vehicle while your 
 holding the flag. speaking of vehicles. there alot that you can drive or fly. the story mode is 
 pretty good also. this game is really fun. it really doesnt get boring. this game you should buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1177
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is way more fun, and i mean way more fun to the millionth degree of fun and i mean to 
 the zillionth degree of fun when its compared to halo three, well thats my humble opinion sorry 
 to say that guys but this game is just fragging fun to the max. this game is so fast and furious, 
 the most intense and fastest first person shooter i have ever played in my life, it lives up to 
 its predecessor unreal tournament 2004. this is a must get and you must get this game for your 
 ps3 if you have one. i dont know how this game got a 8.5 this game deserves a 9 or even more. epic 
 didn't commercialize this game much so it didn't sell as much as the top games like call of duty 
 4 or even that game halo 3 which in my opinion, unreal is way better then it. from the makers of 
 gears of war to this. wooow unreal engine will be in my books of gaming for sure. 
  advice: beware before u buy this game, its addicting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  UK PS3 owners have finally got their trigger-fingers on Unreal Tournament 3 just over three months 
 after the game was first released on PC and well over two months after the game was released on 
 the PS3 in the US. The wait has been a long one - some would say too long. But it's here now, and 
 there are big questions that demand to be answered - has it been worth the wait and will UT3 keep 
 PS3-owning FPS fans happy as they wait for Resistance 2 and Killzone 2? The answer is a resounding 
 yes and yes.
  
  The DarkWalker, Warfare and the Stinger. That's why you should buy Unreal Tournament 3, Epic's 
 fourth game in its premier twitch FPS series. It's certainly the best Unreal Tournament game in 
 years, but those expecting a complete revamp will be sorely disappointed. The philosophy, clearly, 
 is on getting back to UT's roots, like a kind of fusion between the original UT and UT 2004. You've 
 still got the Flak Cannon, the Bio Gun and the Shock Rifle, but the Shield gun has been replaced 
 by the Impact Hammer and fan favourite tool of destruction the Stinger mini gun, which sprays light 
 blue crystals at unlucky enemies, triumphantly makes a reappearance.
  
  The number of game types has been reduced and refined. There are now six ways to play UT3 - deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch and duel, as well as capture the flag, vehicle capture the flag and new game mode 
 Warfare, which replaces Onslaught, and instantly rises to the top of my favourite UT3 game mode 
 list. Focusing on capturing nodes, 8-12 player Warfare adds orbs to the mix, which can deal massive 
 damage to enemy nodes as well as repair your own. Unexpected momentum changes are now a grim reality 
 of any Warfare match, and, as a result, are much more fun.
  
  This won't mean much to you if you're new to the series. Quick heads up then - the Unreal Tournament 
 games have been going for near enough a decade now, and have always been hugely popular with FPS 
 fans. They've always been a lot faster than console shooters too, focusing on instinctive eagle-eyed 
 sniping and quick-fingered dodging over the more considered, slower-paced play of, say, the Halo 
 series. Indeed, watching professional Unreal Tournament players show off their mad skills is a 
 bit like watching some crazed gamer cyborg, such is the jaw-dropping nature of what they're doing. 
 But the skill required to compete with most UT players online has perhaps hindered the series' 
 mass market appeal. It has always been somewhat of a hardcore FPS.
  
  Which is something Epic has clearly thought about with the latest iteration. The hoverboard switches 
 you to a third-person view of your character, who will now be speeding about the battlefield like 
 some bastardised steroid-infused Marty McFly. It's pretty useful for capture the flag matches, 
 as it allows you to move about a lot quicker than on foot. But it can often feel like a blessing 
 in disguise. If you're hit while on the hoverboard you're knocked off and vulnerable for a couple 
 of seconds. Sitting duck time.
  
  Back to the DarkWalker then, one of a series of excellent new vehicles belonging to new evil alien 
 race the Necris. When you're not in it, you're in fear of it. It looms ominously in the distance, 
 sweeping particle lasers at any and all who get in the way. Think the horrifying Tripods from H. G. 
 Wells' science fiction classic The War of the Worlds spliced with a tarantula. But when you're 
 in it, you kind of feel like a god, perched as you are high above everything, slowly bringing about 
 death to anyone foolish enough to get close. It's sweet stuff.
  
  This is where Epic has made the greatest strides - with the vehicles. The Fury, another Necris 
 vehicle, brings to mind those squid things from cult sci-fi film The Matrix. The Scavenger is less 
 unique, but very useful for quickly running over infantry, and the Necris tank the Nemesis feels 
 a bit like using a nuclear bomb to crack a nut. The first thing I did was jump straight into a 
 VCTF match and try out as many of the new vehicles as possible. And the old classics, like the 
 Mantra, are still as blood-splatteringly satisfying as before.
  
  One of UT3's most thrilling moments is carving up unsuspecting on-foot enemies with quick moving 
 vehicles - ROAD RAGE FTW! Another imperious vehicle is the aptly named Leviathan, a slow-moving 
 tank with an absolutely devastating cannon. Firing it means instant death for anyone even remotely 
 close to its area of impact, and the sound effect from the cannon charging and then blasting is 
 something every sci-fi fan needs to hear. Apart from Xbox 360 behemoth Halo 3 I can't think of 
 another online FPS with better mechanical harbingers of doom.
  
  Epic has employed a very subtle but very important tweak to how UT3 feels to play. It's less floaty 
 than UT 2003 and UT 2004, and plays with a heightened sense of gravity. The double side steps, 
 double jumps and wall dodges are all still there, but it feels a tiny bit slower - especially on 
 PS3. UT has always been known for its super fast twitch gameplay, and it still remains very fast, 
 but UT3 on PlayStation 3 feels noticeably slower than the PC version.
  
  Rather than being a result of any technical shortcomings of the console, this has been done to 
 make the game more accessible to console gamers. A controller still isn't nearly as good for speed 
 and reaction aiming as a mouse, so we're happy the change has been made. Hardcore UT fans may moan, 
 but they'll probably be playing the PC game anyway. If nothing else, Epic is doing all it can from 
 within the confines of the UT series to open its doors to a new audience.
  
  Given the problems the Unreal Engine 3 has had on the PlayStation 3 you'd be forgiven for having 
 a few doubts of the visual quality of this PC to console port, but there's nothing to worry about. 
 UT3 really is a stunning-looking game that's only really equalled on the PS3 by stunning action 
 game Uncharted. Indeed, it's Epic's best-looking game yet, better even than Gears of War, as the 
 developer's head honcho Mark Rein told me.
  
  Although the PS3 version doesn't look quite as superb as the PC game running on high-end machine, 
 it's a remarkably good effort by Epic. The texture detail is outstanding and the frame rate runs 
 beautifully smooth most of the time. On an HD TV the Gothic, war-torn meaty marine art direction 
 really shines and the game as a whole makes a mockery of the sub-par Unreal Engine 3 games the 
 PS3 has suffered over the past year.
  
  The single-player campaign - the most fleshed out the UT series has seen - is simply a series of 
 battles with bots tied together by Gears of War-esque in-game cut-scenes - and won't keep anyone's 
 attention for too long. It does, however, provide a solid training ground for newcomers to the 
 series not brave enough to go straight online. It's the multiplayer that'll keep you coming back 
 though, and thanks to the ability to use PC-made mods in the PS3 game you'll always have new maps 
 to play if people are making them. It's also worth pointing out that this is one area where the 
 PS3 could have a big upper hand over the forthcoming Xbox 360 game - the ability to use mods on 
 the 360 is currently up in the air.
  
  Gamers wondering if they're going to have to sit through a lengthy install before playing can rest 
 easy as UT3 only forces you to install a small amount of data - a process that takes less than 
 a minute. An optional, lengthier install reduces load times even further, but we found the load 
 times to be more than acceptable with the default install. If you want a more PC-like experience 
 you can use a USB keyboard and mouse, and you can choose to not play against those players if you 
 feel they'll going to have an unfair advantage. Lastly, the server list actually shows the ping 
 of the game, meaning you can get a good idea of the lag you're going to experience without having 
 to rely on a vague set of Network strength bars.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 for the PlayStation 3 is a stunning looking, slick and polished FPS that every 
 competitive PS3 gamer should add to their collection. It's difficult to see how UT can unleash 
 itself from the shackles of its genre though. Should Epic even bother? Should we commend them for 
 sticking to their guns and not pandering completely to a mainstream audience by revamping the game? 
 It's great fun of course, and UT3 has done nothing that will put off fans of the genre. Question 
 is: is it going to keep you captivated until the likes of Killzone 2 and Resistance 2 arrive? We 
 think so.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Looks stunning.
  - Nicely tuned for console gaming.
  - Mod support.
  
 
  
  The bad:
  
  - Single-player isn't great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Unreal and Unreal Tournament are two of the most well known and highly respected arena-based first 
 person shooters out there. Fast approaching its tenth anniversary, there's no doubt that Unreal's 
 spin-off, Unreal Tournament, is perhaps the prime contributor to the series' success. I can't begin 
 to count the amount of hours I've poured into Unreal Tournament across every capable PC I've owned. 
 Four years ago, it wasn't uncommon for me to end my day with a three hour online session, sometimes 
 with friends and family, other times with a bunch of guys from a forum I frequent. Unreal Tournament 
 has brought me tons of amusement. Unfortunately, I'd found Unreal Tournament 2003 to be a bit of 
 a downfall, but thankfully its 2004 follow-up (UT2004) fixed much of what plagued 2003. And while 
 UT2004 was great, it didn't really feel like the original. Ahh, and that's where Unreal Tournament 
 III comes along. Just like the Unreal Tournament games before, UTIII features a Campaign to embark 
 on. There is a full-fledged story, complete with voice acting and cut-scenes. The cutscenes, and 
 all, sort of make you feel as if the combat you're about to engage in will be progressive (like 
 Halo or Resistance) , as opposed to arena-based. That isn't the case, obviously, as each "mission" 
 is just a different match type with varying objectives. The story also makes it a point to dress 
 up your missions by pointing out that respawning is a form of technology that is carried around 
 by the combatant, and that a respawner isn't infinite and can be drained. Similar explanations 
 are given for flag capturing and such, as well. To wrap things up, if you can't tell by now, Unreal 
 Tournament III is a blockbuster hit. It's exactly what we were hoping for it to be; a brilliantly 
 executed arena-based first-person shooter, with a plethora of depth, speed, and a virtually infinite 
 scope on replay value. User-created content will drive this game and its online community for years 
 to come, just as it has on the PC. It is visually stunning to behold, with superb texture detail 
 everywhere you look. It allows for mouse and keyboard gameplay, and features a sublime online facet. 
 Unreal Tournament III is the pinnacle of first-person shooters. Others: take note. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Before you dive into Unreal Tournament 3, you should realize that this game doesn't have a deep 
 online stat system, or a very deep story mode. That aside this was quite a fun game.
  
  Gameplay- Unreal is a very fast shooter similar to timesplitters in that regard. The action is 
 beautifully chaotic, with a ton of blood and gore. There are around ten weapons if I remember correctly 
 and that might seem like a small number, but they are very fun to use and have their own unique 
 strength and weaknesses. The single player experience is basically the fundamental gameplay with 
 a uninspired story tacked on. You are either taking a base, or just killing people in team deathmatch. 
 Yes, all of the same modes that are in the multitplayer, but they still are worth a playthrough 
 because of the relatively easy difficulty, and the AI aren't all that bad. The single player is 
 pretty short but you can choose certain missions to take over others. The multiplayer is where 
 the game really shines. There's a decent amount of players of the PS3 and the coolest part is that 
 people can add their own maps they've created. This makes for some interesting levels, including 
 bathrooms, bedrooms, and other obtuse environments made with legos that make you laugh. The action 
 is fast as I said, and it really is just plain old shootin fun. It's worth a rent or buy by now. 
 
  
  Graphics- This is the unreal engine as you know, so its one of the best looking games around, even 
 now. The facial expressions are the top in the business and everything pops with color. The framerate 
 is also very smooth. My only complaint is that you might run into the occasional blurry texture 
 or glitch, but other than that, it is a superb looking game.
  
  Sound- the sound on the other hand isn't up to par. The voice acting is not the best and is kind 
 of a joke in spots. The music was obviously not memorable because i can't think of any tune. 
 
  
  Value-The splitscreen, single player, and the online make for a good length and at the price it's 
 at today, it's worth a buy. The only thing that would mar this value is that lackluster single 
 player campaign and the lack of online stats. 
  
  Unreal entertained me for a couple weeks very intensely. The only reason I stopped is that I got 
 assassins creed, and at the price it's at now, I wouldn't say no to somebody buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is all around a bloody, gory, swearing battle. There is a story mode, but not only can 
 you do it on hard mode or on any other difficulty, but you can also do story mode online which 
 means that you can get help from people online. There are many guns and maps on the multiplayer 
 game that you can use. There are also many veichles in the game at whcih you can ride on. You can 
 choose which clan you want to be (sorry i don't know the options) . But i do know that i am a robot 
 in the game. You have the option to give orders in the game such as Attack, Defend, Kill Him. You 
 can also do many taunts as well, but for different clans they're different. There are also many 
 different game modes that you can play in. You also have your own hoverboard that you can ride 
 on, i believe you click and hold Square do do this. many games could last up to 1-99 hours if the 
 host set up the game options to be that. Or it can just be 5 minutes if chosen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  The unreal tounement series has been known as fast paced., and it lives up the the expectations. 
 it has a great game if you like games like quake 1-3.
  
  Good: Graphics look great, it looks stunning on full specs. Will keep you entertianed for hours. 
 The game is still bloody and fast, you have to jump, dodge and run, then shoot, run over and blow 
 up everyone in your path. The gameplay is still smooth yet rough because of the sheer speed of 
 the game. Multiplayer is great, the new mode makes it seem fresh for atleast a few weeks to months, 
 depending. most of the wepons feel powerful and all are good and looks good as you exploded, imploded, 
 cut though or just fill them with alien like bullets.
  
  Bad: The story is one of the stupidest, dumbiest and unoriganl in a game. The ending can be seen 
 from the very start. the guns still dont need reloading (depend on self prefrence, it could be 
 good or bad) AI sometimes act stupid as all hell, walking infront of your LOF (line of fire) and 
 sometimes just walks past you until you start shooting at them first. 
  
  Unreal tournemet 3 is the ebst in the series no doubt, but it still has a few bugs that all the 
 games had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  when it comes to this game there really is not an equal out there for the ps3 at this time. the 
 game offers a great story mode and the online is amazing. the online is as addicting as tetris 
 and halo. on top of that you are not just playing with sony playstation opponents. you are also 
 playing with the pc people. so there will always be blood that needs to be spilled. if you are 
 a fan of quake three and unreal then this is a must have for all first person shooters out there. 
 if you dont have online..... then get it. if you cant for one reason or another you can create 
 matches with bots and set there difficulty to your personal skill level. the graphics are amazing, 
 and there is no lagging that i have seen at any time. this will be one we will be playing online 
 for years to come like world of warcraft. also not to mention when the xbox360 version is released 
 we will also be playing against them online as well so eventually you will have ps3, pc and 360 
 blowing up the hell out of eachother. a must buy for any gamer, no if ands or buts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 6
Date: May 25, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I really expected more from this. I have never played an unreal tornament game before so never 
 knew really what to expect. All this game is really about is its multiplayer. The campaign is basically 
 just training you for online play.
  Before I bought this game I looked at the artwork. I expected to be totally different. It can be 
 extremely difficult at times if you have made the wrong mistakes in the campaign. There is a big 
 selection of vehicles which can be quite fun. In a multiplayer game it makes you feel invincible 
 destroying things in a giant darkwalker.
  Apart from driving vehicles I don't really understand what else is good about the game. This was 
 clearly just meant to be played on a computer and not a Playstation 3.
  In my opinion I reccomend avoiding this game. You could rent it or get it when it falls into the 
 bargain bin... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainpett
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The ps3 version of the game is the same as the pc version. It has great graphics, and superb lighting. 
 Unreal tournament 3 even has a storyline with cinematics, the story is cood but a little short. The 
 singel player mode of the game looks the same as multiplayer only difrence between the two modes 
 is that in online you gan play with other ps3 users. You gan costomise the online play as u please 
 (download mods, maps , mutators, characters, weapons , create ur own) its a realy great game with 
 loads of mods awailable for online download now. i defanetly reguest to biy this game if ur into 
 any kind of shooters. only problem with this game is that it gan lag sometimes Online. you gan play 
 this game with mouse and keyboard, you dont need the offical playstation keyboard and mouse, yust 
 insert any kind that has usb cable. Im using Logitech bluetooth mouse and keyboard witch work perfectly 
 - smooth and fast. Online there are many options Deathmach, team deathmach, capture the flag, warfare, 
 breach and so on. You gan also download costom game types from the internet, so far i haw downloaded 
 modes : Mutant - one is mutant with extra strenght and speed whyle the others try to kill him, 
 the one ho kills him becomes the mutant. Multible teams -there are more then two teams playeng 
 aganst eech other. 2d Deathmach with 2d maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeymoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  After playing Unreal Championship 2 on Xbox, I thought that it was a pretty damn good game. So 
 when Unreal Tournament 3 came out I thought I really had to get it for my dusty ps3. 
  I'm pretty impressed by the graphics- dare I say I personally think they're better than Uncharted's. 
 If you're a graphics geek, you will be amazed by the amount of detail on screen (even if you play 
 it on a 21" standard TV like me XD) .
  The sound is also top notch- you will really get the feeling you're playing in a sci-fi movie after 
 hearing laser beams fly past your head and giant Darkwalkers crushing the floor beneath them.
 
  Speaking of Darkwalkers, this must be the best vehicle ever made- forget any of Halo's vehicles, 
 UT3's vehicles are some of the best I have ever seen or imagined of in my dreams. Imagine this, 
 you're at the enemies base trying to take it over, then suddenly a giant H. G. Well's-esque Tripod 
 (called Darkwalkers) appears over the horizon. You were on the attack but suddenly all of your 
 teammates and you are running for your lives until the Darkwalker has caught up with all of your 
 team and just massacres you all in one giant sweep with it's laser beam. Unreal.
  The weapons are also brilliant, each has it's own secondary fire. Apparently you can use different 
 combinations of primary and secondary fire to see what happens. These sorts of things are which 
 I think make UT3 the best of it's kind. 
  If I have any complaints with the game, it would be that the game is quite arcadey compared to 
 new 'modern' games. Personally though I like the arcade style more than the intense realism of 
 games like Call Of Duty 4 but I know some people absolutely hate the 'arcade' style of some FPS's 
 like the Unreal Tournament series and the Timesplitters series.
  So overall, because of 360 fanboys who feel the need to display their love for the 'Chief', I'm 
 giving this game a 3.4 out of 10. 
  ........ OK just kidding. I'll give this game a healthy 9.5 out of 10. 
  
  Note: No 360 fanboys 
 were harmed during the making of this review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I have gotten UT3, the only thing that I look forward too, was the online gaming. Playing 
 the story mode was not what I expected. Knowing that the game was basically a multiplayer game 
 it didn't stop me from getting UT3. The way the developers of UT3 made the scenery was great. Some 
 levels where beautiful and huge to run around with, but other levels where small and not entertaining 
 as people can imagine from the developers. The game play is great and I have nothing to say about 
 it, but dying for no reason, annoying. The game has 3 online modes, Quick start, Join, and Host 
 a game. Troublesome sometimes, but takes some time getting use to the format. UT3 is a good game 
 but needs some improvement, only a little though. The story mode has 4 methods to choose while 
 playing UT3 story line. For a beginner choosing normal would be okay, but moving to the higher 
 levels is a bit challenging. At first it is easy to defeat bots, which are CPU based figures, but 
 moving to online and playing against real people is a huge change. Learn quickly so people wont 
 thing you're a nOOb. That's how I started out. Soon winning is just a breeze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pzone77
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  I Bought this game because someone told me that it wasnt just for multiplayers but aso had a single 
 player story mode. 
  I was seriouly disappointed how weakly they tried to integrate the obvious multiplayer map and 
 even the multiplayer game play (red vs blue) into a story mode. Trying to tie in some kind of story 
 why you should kill the same four computer AI players over and over eventually gaining a total 
 score of ___ kills, just doesnt work or have any believability. 
  Im not bashing the game completely because im sure those multiplayer people who love to play 'capture 
 the flag' or "the first to kill you or your team 30 times wins" thing may be awesome. But buyer 
 beware, if you, like me want to play solo, through a story (or at least somewhat believable story) 
 ooh and not have the very same enemies you just killed spawning over and over out of know where 
 than you may want to skip over this game. I wish I was properly warned. I will definitely recommend... 
 no 'suggest' it to my friends who like the whole multiplayer-set open map- thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3
  This sequel was the first of the series that I was playing and I was expecting a lot from it because 
 of all the trailers and images. But when I tried it, I was ''Okay...''. To be honest, I thought 
 it was going to be a kind of Gears of War, because I was an idiot. XD I've decided then to give 
 it a chance and then I like it for a while...
  
  The story is... There is like No story or if there is one, I didn't understand it, even if I didn't 
 finish the game. The only thing that you have to do is mini-games, mini-games and mini-games that 
 is Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and more. This is the only story with a couple 
 of cutscenes that are well done when you've done a bunch of missions.
  The graphics like I said are well done and at some points in the cutscenes, incredible. When you 
 play too, its pretty well done and you can see the textures that were done in a precision that 
 isn't put in many games that should be. The sounds are a bit weard. Even if you got an optical 
 cable and plenty of subwoofers, the sound will still be weard. But! The little comments when you 
 kill many enemies in a row are funny. I got to admit.
  The online mode is okay, I've seen bether. At some point it will be really good but you'll get 
 annoyed like the whole game if you're not addicted to the game.
  The customizing system for your online character is really good and well done and deserves to be 
 look at it. You'll have to unlock peaces for new equipments and skins. Using the vehicles too is 
 quite fun. You'll get more of them by going further in the game.
  
  If a few words, Unreal Tournament is a good game that should be try by and deserves a chance, because 
 it is not the best game on he market. It can't be compared to incredible online games, like Call 
 of Duty 4 and many others. The game will become repetitive after a while but some will still appreciate 
 it. Thanks for reading and hope you agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is the latest in the award-winning series by Epic Games. This time round, UT3 
 provides a cool campaign as well as it's signature network capabilities, which are just as frantic 
 as they used to be. However, there are some major flaws in the game and these can somewhat distract 
 you from what is a really polished game.
  
  To story goes... well, the story doesn't really go anywhere. It begins with your home colony being 
 attacked by the vicious Krill, a race of horrible creatures. The community flees and you start 
 up a mercenary group called Ronin. You and your mates then try and stamp out the Krill once and 
 for all. Then things get complicated.... exceedingly complicated. After only a few missions, the 
 plot spirals out of control with mentions of Liandri, Necris, Tirydium, Hyporium, Axon, Princesses 
 and a whole universe full of different species that you can barely even keep up with. 
  
  The hopeless story is made even worst by the fact that almost nothing is communicated to you. There 
 are only five cutscenes across the remarkably long campaign, and the descriptions of the missions 
 which are given to you before each match are no help at all. The story is just an excuse for what 
 is essentially an  after another.
  
  On the other hand, the graphics are just superb. On a HD TV, UT3 becomes a gorgeous game which 
 succeeds in bringing it's outrageously good-looking futuristic worlds to life. Ratchet and Clank 
 Future had a cartoony feel to it, but UT3 presents a darker, grittier version of a modern utopia, 
 or a dystopia. Everything runs pretty smoothly in terms of frame rate, too.
  
  The gameplay is also top-notch. On top of the well polished and reliable Deathmatch and Capture 
 the Flag modes, an all-new mode has been included in UT3. It's called Warfare, and although it 
 may seem complex the first time you try it, you'll become addicted to it when you learn the basics. 
 I won't detail what Warfare is, however I foresee you spending many an hour conquering battlefield 
 after battlefield in this great mode.
  
  The weapons are as awesome as ever, and the each have their own unique attributes which will comfort 
 each type of gamer. Snipers will drool over the cool new rifle, heavy weapons experts will love 
 the new and improved Rocket Launcher, and the other more reliable weapons are sure to enjoy the 
 most 'softcore' gamer. Pickups are still available, and you'll find handy ones like the UDamage 
 (increased damage) , Invisibility and heaps of others. Sadly, the lack of grenades may peeve people 
 off, however this loss is managed with adding additional secondary fire buttons to all weapons. 
 
  
  And now for the outstanding online gameplay, which thankfully hasn't changed much, however some 
 things have gone for the worst. All modes from single-player are available here, as well as most 
 of the maps and weapons. You can even customise your character here. Cool new additions include 
 news, friends and personal updates which will help you into the online social community. If it 
 wasn't for the next flaw, the online mode would be nigh on perfect:
  
  Sure, UT3 has amazing graphics and lightning-fast gameplay, however this shouldn't be a problem 
 to deter the online 'framerate'. But it does. Significantly. UT3's online games come with some 
 serious, serious lag. I was playing a Warfare match and my Rocket Launcher was shooting half-a-second 
 after I pressed the trigger. This may not seem like much, however in a game as quick as UT3, every 
 moment counts. 
  
  You can die, respawn, shoot and die in a matter of seconds, and when your weapons don't respond 
 until a while after you tell them to, you are gonna miss out big time. Because I live in Australia, 
 I'm not sure if this effected my time, however I would seriously urge you to only buy this game 
 if you have a good connection.
  
  Another minor point to make is that in Campaign, your AI teammates may not be as clever as you'd 
 expect. They may have the Flag, and just run around in circles. You can't steal the Flag off them, 
 so sometimes you'll be waiting for minutes on end, hoping they would finally head to your base. 
 Apart from this, the unnecessarily complicated plot and large amounts of lag, UT3 is a ball of 
 fun. The combination of awesome weapons, vehicles and environments you discover in the game creates 
 an experience like no other, and the visuals are just outstanding. If you're a die-hard online 
 person, you need online. If not? Well, there's always UT4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  At first i hated this game and thought i should of brought a different one because i found it really 
 fast and really spammy and mental. Then after a few hours of gameplay i realized tis game was great. 
 I got use to the speed and it wasnt really that mental.
  
  This game is good because the vecheils and the guns are cool. Also the play dead ability is really 
 cool though a little wasted as it dosnt work against bots well. Online always seems to be a bit 
 empty and i find it really laggy but that might just be my net. The guns are cool and have primary 
 and secondry fire which can be used for many things. The physics are great and the blood is sweet. 
 Theres nothing quite like getting a head shot and watching the enemys head explode to a guy shouting 
 HEAD SHOT.
  
  The Story line is good and its basiclly just doing stuff like TDM and CTF and Warzone where you 
 need to capture nodes in a certain order to attack the enemys core. You can also make your choose 
 and customise a character for instant action and online play. 
  
  Overall i really like this game now and i would recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most intense online shooters on the market. This game has a lot going for 
 it it has innovative features like supporting mods on a console game and having mouse and Keyboard 
 support. the online system works very well and is one of the best I've seen. having Players vote 
 for the next map you play. Also having Bots mixed in with real players to fill in any empty spaces 
 if someone quits is a good idea. 
  
  The graphics are great and the frame rate is smooth. No matter how many people are playing the 
 game just keeps going. the only problem is that on my older 1080i T. V. the picture is fuzzy but 
 on my new 1080p T. V. though it is downscaled to 720p, the game is beautiful. 
  
  The Campaign mode is not what it's cracked up to be it merely a dressed up version of the game 
 against bots, but the cool thing is you can play online Co-op with your friends which is fun. 
 
  
  One problem not a problem with the game but the community, is that nobody wears a headset to talk 
 to. I put on my headset and no one is talking it makes for a more boring online experience. Though 
 not the games fault.
  
  Over all this is a fast paced highly addictive online shooter. that has a good Co-Op mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  I bought my PS3 with UT3 . When I first started the game, I immediately installed it on the harddisk 
 (around 2 gig) and tried the multiplayer . You can't deny the incredible graphics this game offers 
 . Never before have multiplayer maps looked so gorgeous . Yes, the Unreal 3 engine has the texture 
 pop-in, but it goes really fast in this game, brought by Epic studios itself . Multiplayer is fast 
 and I havn't noticed much lag so far . Maps are loaded really fast and I can't say enough about 
 the beautiful environments that look more like art instead of just being maps . When things gets 
 really hectic, the frame rate can drop a little, but it hardly disturbes the experience . Like 
 the previous game, UT2004, this game has dozens of vehicles to aid you during some of the game 
 types , and every one of them has incredible detail . Its an absolute joy to drive, fly , hover 
 or dodge (more on that later) them around the battlefield . 
  UT has always been a game about fast, intense action and UT3 doesn't reinvent the rules . The characters 
 however move with less speed than before and feel "heavier" , like UT cousin Gears of War's patriots 
 did . Big maps have the "hoverboard" your character can use , to make up for the speed-issues . 
 You can't fire any weapon though while using the hoverboard so watch out !! Looking around is as 
 hectic as ever and works remarkly well with the PS3 controller, not my favorite piece of equipment 
 for FPS though . Players who prefer mouse and keyboard can do so, and you can choose whether or 
 not they are allowed in your game . Vehicles take a little while to learn moving around, especially 
 the models on wheels . It's a pitty that the environments are indestructable and a shame that the 
 incredibly big Leviathan tank simply stops when hitting something as a tree . 
  The game offers multiple game modes like Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and Vehicle 
 capture the flag and Duel (player vs player . Nothing new or special, you'll think, which is correct 
 . But to compensate there's the warfare mode , another game mode where you'll move around big maps 
 capturing key points and progressing towards the enemy base and destroying their power core in 
 the process . This mode isn't new for UT2004 veterans (it's actually an exact copy of onslaught 
 with a few new features) but newcomers to the series will find an incredible addictive game mode 
 with warfare . 
  The real stars are the vehicles you can use in the Vehicle capture the flag and warfare modes . 
 Many have multiple seats, functions and weapons to have fun with . Some are a true sight to behold, 
 like the Tripod and Leviathan . Frags are counting up really fast when you're in control of these 
 beauties . 
  The number of maps are another great point to the game, I counted 53 maps , varieties not included 
 !! 
  Also worth mentioning is the ability to load user created content like maps and characters , but 
 also mods to the game itself . One game, I was playing third person gears of war style instead 
 of first person with the Master Chief himself !! I also encountered Samus Aran, the famous nintendo 
 bounty hunter, jumping around like a frog !! 
  Time for a final conclusion . UT3 is a technical achievement in itself . It doesn't bring much 
 new to veterans of previous instalments , but newbies can discover why this franchise has rallied 
 such a big fanbase over the course of years . The game is fast, intense and simply breathtaking 
 to behold . It is the game to showcase the PS3's power . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Epic does a lot of great games but this one didn't reach my hope. This game is pretty much just 
 for online. Campaign I thought would be interesting but it's literally just training for the online 
 battles. Fans of Resistance who arelooking for something might like this game since it's fast gameplay 
 and run & gun action is the whole foundation of this game. 
  
  Graphics: Less then Resistance and your hand and gun do sometimes get foggy like in Gears of War.
 
  
  Story: If you've played Gears of War don't play this campaign, it's just a cheesey knock off of 
 the Gears campaign.
  
  Online Play: Online is a mad house it's so chaotic you'll say wow. The really disappointing part 
 of the online is that it doesn't use the PS3 servers to the max and so it only allows up to 16 
 online. It can be hard to find enough people to play a certain game. You have to give them an applause 
 since they give you so many maps and a decent number of weapons with two firing modes.
  
  Overall: For online I give it a 9.25/10
  For Story : 7/10
  Gameplay: 8.75/10
  Graphics: 8/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HypnoticDj321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the most fun, fast paced game i have played so far.
  
  The Multiplayer is absolutley amazing.
  
  If you are wondering wether to buy this game for 
 a console or a pc, due to the fact that on the pc is easier to control (fps are easier using mouse 
 and keyboard-fact) dont worry, its great on a console, there isnt as much aim needed compared to 
 cod4, as weapons in this game are unique and very powerful.
  
  So the controller is great aswell, buy this game for the ps3!! so i can whoop your ass online =D
 
  
  Unreal Tournament 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournement is a REALLY great game , with some great graphics, atmosphere and Gameplay. And 
 you wont belive if this game real or not .
  
  
  So the story is pretty cool , and its kind long. the traditional single-player mode you're used 
 to, you'll fight against computer opponents in a series of matches that are bundled into an inconsequential 
 story and basically meant to prepare you for the online portion of the game. You can also play 
 against bots on the multiplayer maps, though the meat of the experience is found online, its still 
 fun.
  
  
  The explosions are simply extrodinary. So goes for the graphics and atmoshpere. All shooting is fun 
 , + it ads some good atmoshere. Graphics are something to look at. Shooting is fun , aspecialy with 
 al thoses specifects. aThe multiplayer wor, ks sharply as you can imagin. For multiplayer it rocks 
 and so does the gameplay is aint half bad
  
  
  The game is fun , it is defintly A REALLY amazing tournement ,BELIEVE IT!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  i play cod4 a lot, and thats really my first foray into online multiplayer, so its difficult for 
 me to review a game like this thats really way different without comparing it- but ill do it anyway 
 for you cod4 fans not ready to play this
  
  
  this is a more old school style fps multiplay game- crouching, crawling, camping, sneaking, using 
 different grenades, and calling in air support lol, is not gonna happen here- instead, you get 
 old school straight forward easy controlls and very cool weapons, and your dropped in and let the 
 mayhem begin. but dont let that fool into thinking any idiot can play this. shooting can be very 
 difficult against someone who knows what theyre doing- its a much different experience than a realistic 
 war game-
  
  
  the graphics are cool, visuals that could only be found in videogames- super videogamish looking- 
 no photorealism here (i really dont get all the buzz over the unreal engine?!) but this a cool 
 ass graphics- just look fun. 
  
  the maps are excellent and provide awesome gameplay. 
  
  the vehicles are my favorite aspect, anything from crazy alien looking hovering motorcycles 
 to massive walking tripods remenicent of war of the worlds are very very satisfying and super fun 
 to drive. this game works best with team- though deah matches are fun and insane. 
  
  the maps are also cool because theyre are all very unique from one another- such as the one where 
 a dust storm totally messes up gameplay by totally limiting your view- but you can learn to use 
 things like this to your advantage which make things even more intense. 
  
  this, to me, is simply and old-school hardcore gamers fps multiplayer- i recomend it to anyone 
 who likes their videogames to look like videogames and to be totally cool and imaginative- not 
 super realistic and too many controls and options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Despite having been a serious gamer for more years than I care to remember these last couple of 
 weeks have been my first experience of online gaming and as such have always resisted the Unreal 
 series.
  This has now all changed as I am online on PS3 and 360 and have to say Unreal is blowing me away 
 at present. It is highly addictive, graphically excellent and the gameplay is brill. My only fault 
 with the game at present would be the apparently useless Bio weapon, WHAT IS THE POINT OF IT!! 
 Yes, it will kill eventually but I find even the default pistol a far superior weapon.
  Many a time in a Deathmatch I have allowed myself to get killed because I am admiring the water 
 effects, the sublime reflections in places are the best I have seen and I can't think of a game 
 which beats this graphically in my opinion. Some may equal it though.
  I have not bothered finishing the single player campaign yet but must before I progress past Deathmatchs 
 online, what I have seen of the single player (maybe half) it is adequate as a training mode for 
 online but would have disappointed me if I had still been an offline player. That was reason for 
 not buying it sooner as I had read enough reviews to know what to expect. I can see this online 
 provides value for money.
  I would be prepared to concede a little bias as I have no real experience of online games until 
 this, a minor deep into the excellent Halo 3 and CoD 4. This has been my initiation into the world 
 of online and as such I may be giving a slightly higher appraisal than if I had more experience, 
 however I do believe THIS GAME ROCKS, BIG STYLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcr33px
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Well. with all of the Unreal tournaments, lets get the facts straight, Pc versions are better, 
 but with the Ps3, and xbox versions of unreal tournament out it let other people play that certain 
 game, and thats a good thing, i think everyone should @ least try this game, If you have a HDTV 
 your in luck, the grapics in this game are 5/5.
  
  
  
  Graphics- Well. hands down, this game probably has the best grapics out to date, honestly, even 
 if you have a standard tv. the visuals will most likely still blow you away, but, if you have a 
 HDTV your in for a huge treat, and i mean the whole cake, i have a htdv, and this game is great 
 for graphics
  
  Storyline-Well.. the story line isn; t that good, i think they should have kept the game just for 
 multiplayer, but more people would be intersted in s good multiplayer game with a storyline, but 
 they could have made it alot better , all it really is , is a bunch of CTF. TDM , but they; ll give 
 you reassons why your doing it. 
  
  overall-, Graphics 5/5 Storyline 1/5 Online 3/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Being a refugee from the PC world is a difficult thing, but for mostly financial reasons I have 
 forsaken the wild, wild west of mods, over clocking and buying more ram for the stable and easy 
 world of consoles. While it is nice to not have to buy a new video card every year there is one 
 specific item that I have missed more then anything else: mouse and keyboard controls. There can 
 be little argument about 'if' mouse and keyboard are superior to a controller for shooters, the 
 only argument is 'how much,' and even then lots will suffice. Imagine my surprise when Epic and 
 Sony decided that they would allow Unreal Tournament 3 to be played correctly on a console (something 
 that Microsoft will not) . It was for this reason alone that I played it, and I am very glad I did.
 
  
  Unreal has had a dodgy history on consoles. Unreal Tournament came out on PS2 right after launch 
 at it was terrible. Unreal Championship was an approximation of the PC game for the Xbox, but it 
 was okay at best. Unreal II also came out for Xbox, but that game wasn't much to speak of in the 
 first place, and the transition to console did it no favors. The hurdle has never been graphics 
 or content, but control. UT is fast. Really fast. To fast for a gamepad, and slowing things down 
 to where it is controllable on a thumb stick breaks the game. UT 3 is all about running (or driving, 
 or flying) around a level with your hair on fire while shooting and being shot at. The PS3 port 
 of the PC version is the first to finally get it all right.
  
  UT 3 on the PS3 looks as good and runs as well as the game on any monster PC. There is an option 
 to install a fair amount of the game on the PS3 hard drive which cuts the load times down significantly. 
 All the levels and game types from the PC are here as well; nothing has been cut content wise. 
 The one thing that has been downsized in the transition is the player limit. It was 32 on the PC 
 and is only 16 on the PS3. On the small maps this is not a problem, but the big vehicle capture 
 the flag and warfare maps it can get a bit empty. UT is all about the action, and as soon as the 
 action wanes and things slow done the games few warts begin to show.
  
  UT 3 suffers from the same texture pop in the Mass Effect does, though it is limited to the first 
 few seconds on a level and then never reappears. It also looks a heck of a lot like Gears of War. 
 This is not surprising (Epic loves their bald space marines) but dingy industrial areas tend to 
 blend together after a while. The outdoor levels are a welcome change, and are where the best parts 
 of the game take place anyway. Death match is just no frills shooting; fun for a while, but without 
 any sort of reward system (CoD4) there is little reason to continue there other the pwning controller 
 using noobs, and even this abuse is curtailed by sever settings that can disallow keyboard and 
 mouse. Vehicle capture the flag and warfare (the replacement for onslaught from 2004) are much 
 better. They reward both teamwork and individual skill, and the vehicles are both abundant and 
 varied enough to keep things interesting and fun.
  
  In the past the PC gaming community has produced almost limitless content for UT. Mods like jailbreak 
 coupled with new mutators and levels kept UT 2004 fresh for years. The PS3 does support user made 
 PC levels, sort of. As of writing this review new levels cannot be download directly through the 
 PS3, instead they have to be stored on a thumb drive and moved over. No big deal, thumb drives 
 are so cheap they come in cereal boxes. The other, much more significant problem is that user made 
 levels can't actually be used on the PS3 yet. They have to be 'cooked' with some code from Sony 
 that is not available to the general public yet. Epic has remedied this by choosing a few good 
 levels and taking the steps to make them work. This entire process needs to be streamlined for 
 the game to have any legs. 
  
  What UT 3 gains over games like Halo and Call of Duty in pure speed and game play it looses in 
 depth. Without a steady stream of new content to keep it fresh it will get old, and this is not 
 helped by it's lack of single player content or player advancement. Shooting bots is not fun, even 
 with shiny cut scenes between levels. Unreal Tournament 3 is a purely multiplayer game, one that 
 requires practice, skill, and the willingness to use more then your thumbs to control the action. 
 It is the best of its kind: a balls out shooter. Now somebody with a decent connection host a low 
 grav  instagib game with juiced speed so I can shoot you in the face. Twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 isn't in fact the third game in the series, it's actually the 4th  and it 
 also came out on the PC late last year. So does this make the PS3 version UT4.5? Maybe I'm thinking 
 too hard about this.
  
  Anyway, there are plenty of online game modes to try out in this one and, just like on the PC as 
 well, a new single player campaign if you want a bit of story and don't just want to run around 
 playing with lasers and firing Redeemers at each other's bottoms. Game modes vary from Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Vehicle Capture The Flag, Warfare and Duel. The latter modes 
 being objective based and capturing certain nodes around the arena so you can get access to and 
 destroy your opposing team's core and 1 and 1 combat.
  
  However, in the single player game, if you're expecting a seamless single-player experience where 
 you travel from A to B to C in a continuous adventure, think again. In essence it's still arena 
 combat, just linked together with some story and reasons to be fighting in those arenas instead 
 of just being given a menu screen with a list of objectives.
  
  The plot's pretty basic, you're team of humans defending against an alien invasion from a race 
 called the Necris. You play a geezer called Reaper, and fight to the death with your sister Jester 
 and your wing man Othello. They look like they missed the boat to be in Gears of War so made their 
 own game instead. It's so similar in looks you'll be forgiven for thinking that you booted up the 
 wrong console when you first get into the campaign.
  
  Once you're in, as you'd expect from an Unreal Tournament game, the action's fast and furious. 
 All the colours are a bit washed out and grey and textures take some time to load in but it zips 
 along at a cracking pace, even though from the first-person perspective you'd think you jumped 
 into the body of a Munchkin. The low perspective in this game does take a bit of getting used to. 
 If of course you want to speed up load times and have those textures available right away you can 
 install the game to the hard drive in the settings menu. Matt's handy hint of the day.
  
  Online is also incredibly smooth and not as jerky or difficult to connect to servers I expected 
 it to be. You just pick your server (best to go for the lowest ping you can) and connect to the 
 game of your choice  you can also just quick connect if you want instant action. I tried that 
 and immediately ended up in a classic map called Deck 16 which I know like the back of my hand, 
 and immediately finished in the top 5 out of 20 players. Usually if you connect online to an FPS 
 you get owned the first time so that made a very nice change.
  
  Vehicles aren't a new concept in Unreal games but you also have a hoverboard to use in this one 
 so you can go all Marty McFly, only a lot more deadly. As far as the guns go, they're all almost 
 exactly the same as before, only with a facelift to make them look a bit more chunky and 'real' 
 if that's actually possible, and there's a cool new effect which slows down time in a certain radius 
 like people are moving through treacle. Cool stuff!
  Also, to help you navigate some handy arrows show you the way to your next objective in campaign 
 mode which helps a lot - you don't have to follow the path it tells you but if you're new to the 
 game you'll find it a great help.
  
  In all, there's a lot to do here. You can plough through the single player campaign, jump into 
 some instant action with some bots and of course take on real people round the world in the multiplayer 
 mode. AND it's worth mentioning you can play this over a LAN if you do have some mates who don't 
 mind bringing over their PS3s and TVs to your gaff. Good luck there.
  
  This is possibly the best online shooter yet for the PS3 so it has to get an excellent 8 out of 
 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  UT3 has the most fun and addictive multiplayer ive ever played. In my opinion it has better multiplayer 
 than call of duty 4 and halo 3's multiplayer combined. But thats really it. The multiplayer is really 
 the only good thing to play in this game. So if you cant get PS3 live to work, this wont really 
 be a good game for you.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing it looks like gears of war but now your in first person. 
 they really are amazing. The phsysics of this game however are on the bad side.
  
  the game types of this game are very fun to play. vehicle ctf is very fun because you get to drive 
 awesome vehicles into the enemys base and get their flag. its very addictive. the waepons are great 
 and fun to use. and you can customize your guy to look really really bad ass! the maps in this 
 game are incredible and theirs tons of them that dont get old. overall this is a great online game 
 that ps3 owners should definetly buy if they can get their online to work.
  
  The Good:
  *awesome maps *really really bloody and gorey *amazing graphics and visuals *hoverboard is really 
 cool *vehicles are really amazing *multiplayer is super fun.
  
  The Bad
  *Campaign is pointless*withought online its no fun *physics are bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  First off the SP in this is just plain stupid, If you don't have online don't even bother. The 
 SP is so bad becouse there is barely a story. In the begging it starts out good with a good movie 
 and great tutorials, But then I realized it's only multi player modes being played off-line with 
 little undetailed video clips in between them So the SP totally bombs in this game.
  
  The online MP is your real reason for buying this game it's fast fun and a whole lota blood. If 
 your in a vehicles it's really satisfying running people over or jumping your vehicles landing 
 on them and guts spill out every where. The tank is very pwerfull but hard to controll the turret 
 on the tank where another player can get in operate is pretty much useless unless the driver is 
 asleep. If your comanding the turret you will get more assists then kills and deaths put together. 
 Alot of the other vehicles have the same weaponary on them which is really anoying. Every vehicles 
 and every weapon has an alternative fire, wheater it's zooming in or a more powerfull attack it's 
 a good addition. Players can make custom matches and pretty change anything they want. The powerups 
 are a bit cildish and not really usefull seeing they only last 40 seconds or so. UT3 might be the 
 best installment in the UT series but dosen't make it a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game can be a lot of fun, I like it a lot, and there's a lot of good reasons to pick it up. 
 
  
  There's one big reason to not pick it up.
  
  This game has no purpose. The campaign is just a slew of levels from the multiplayer with some 
 cinemas between to give the impression of a cohesive single player mode. In actuality you could 
 never play the single player and not miss anything.
  
  Online is where you're really going to have fun. The action is fast paced and brought to life with 
 gorgeous visuals. But again, what I found was that there's no reward/level/development system in 
 play. Are there some unlockables? You know I think there might be, but obviously nothing to write 
 home about. It just seems like after match after match after match you find yourself thinking "ok... 
 what did all this get me?" 
  
  I guess I'm one of those people that approaches games almost like a job to complete and if there's 
 no point in continuing to play to finish the task at hand I'm going to lose interest pretty quick. 
 I guess what it comes down to is that I want to "get 'er done" and there's nothing to get done 
 in this game except kill some fools. 
  
  Still, I do find myself popping it in and enjoying an hour or two of online mayhem now and again 
 so I can't say it isn't worth the price of admission. I guess it just makes me jealous of my brother's 
 360 & gears of war. Great multiplayer and incredible single player combined to make that such a 
 great game. Great multiplayer action of UT3 makes... a pretty ok game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  UTIII will make you be one of the best players of FPS in the world, because it is easy to play ,easy 
 to pick up and did i have already sayd that is easy to play?
  The graphics are perfect, the sound is perfect (its great to listen your friends saying Sun of a 
 bi*** hahahaha) , the fun of kill an alien never ends, when you replay the game you will think that 
 youre playing the game for the first time.
  In game you have a lot of guns like a bio-rifle, a triple rocket launcher a link gun, a deadly rocket 
 launcher that can fire remote control missels, a sniper rifle and a lot of others. You have some 
 gadgets to like the jump boots, a slow down shield, the hoverboard, a gun that when you fire with 
 the R1 you can transport to it with the L1.
  You can play a deathmatch, team deathmatch, catch the flag, node mode and others. It cant be played 
 with 2 players in your house but the caimpaign can be played online.
  For finishing the game is very cool and you have to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly fun! From its amazingly well-done multiplayer development to its superb 
 graphics and sharp control, Unreal Tournament 3 is one of the year's best and most enjoyable games. 
 It has all sorts of fun and addictive values to it that make it shine. I may have only rented this 
 game, but to any who has an extra $60 to spare, you should spare yourself the pain and finally 
 buy this game! Its single player may be more preparation for the multiplayer than anything else, 
 but there's nothing wrong with that. To those who are new to the series could easily get confused 
 at first, but a couple minutes later, everything will just click. Like you didn't need to even 
 play the other 2 games to understand this one. Have at it and enjoy one unreal experience filled 
 with all the blood and action any violence craver would gladly except. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  ok, wow this is my favorites game for the ps3 because its purely based on "run and gun" and some 
 people are thinking about buying it. and you should! piece of advice this is not two player my brother 
 and i thought it was but its not : (........... so don't think it is
  
  graphics:9/10
  sometimes they get a little messed up such as your arms are all blurry but they clear after 10 
 seconds.
  
  game play:9.5/10 amazing!
  
  online:3/10
  only bad thing no one ever plays online there are only like 20 servers but that might change.... and 
 the limit is kinda bad 16 people? and half the maps you need mods.........
  
  guns ships and cars: 9/10
  we now have more power! guns same old same old, but now they look different! and 
 where's the maylay? but now we have ships! cars etc. fire power in those things own!
  
  overall: 9.5/10 i recommend this game to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodwin24
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. Not gr8 but good. I bought this after being told it wasn't like every FPS 
 around right now. Which is true, however the campaign mode is weak. There is no real story and 
 it plays as though you are playing multiplayer rather than a campaign. This is a game for online 
 play with a huge amount of modes to play in. Graphically it might of been better too. I mean it 
 is good but when the game plays as fast as it does its hard to distinguish your ass from your elbow. 
 Weapons are gr8, they make the game a big blast. So to do the vehicles with a large choice to mince 
 your opponent. All in all though this is a good online shooter with lots of games styles to choose 
 from. If however you want a FPS that has both a decent campaign mode as well as a big online mode 
 go for resistance fall of man if you hav not already got it, which i imagine you have any way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  From what gamespot has told you about the unreal games is utter bull twang!
  All you do is shoot move shoot and move over and over again which gets more annoying than being 
 locked in a room with a episode of out of the question on loop. The offline is basicaly only online 
 with Computers than a guy on the other side of the world with no interesting story, it looses its 
 effect after 20 minutes of playing. then there is online, 5 game modes on 8 maps is not much of 
 a multiplayer including the fact that since there is no ranking what so ever it looses its appeal 
 like chapel corby. all in all its just an 80 dollar coaster, tell the misses to sit your beer on 
 it next time she tells you to use a coaster. so if anything the creators should be walked out behind 
 the chemical shed and shot for releasing this monstrosity onto the world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tknuth55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Have you found yourself glued to your copies of Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 for these past months? 
 Can't seem to break the hypnotic trance they have on you? Have you forgotten what it's like to 
 play other genre games? Want me to stop asking questions? Then this game is for you.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 is a slick and fast shooter that keeps you alert and ready... at all times. 
 This is a bit different from other games that have a much slower pace. I'm sure some out there 
 at this point are swearing that they wish they could slow down this game or that just a teeny bit, 
 but believe me, after playing this game for a couple hours and you'll receive a whole new definition 
 of fast. The game's unique speed adds to its overall quality, offering a fresh breath from the 
 mundane shooter.
  
  The graphics in this game are sharp and dark. The game utilizes the Unreal Engine 3 to the max, 
 giving crisp and smooth play, except for a minor snag here and there, but these are mainly an inconvenience 
 you have to sit and think about after playing the game to remember if they even happened at all. 
 The game sports a feel similar to that of Gears of War, and don't say its a knock-off because it's 
 actually made by the same developer.
  
  The sound in this quick world adds to the thrill it provides. A fast score and killer effects make 
 the world all the more real. There's also in-game snips that give crucial in-game information and 
 they are surprisingly accurate and helpful, so playing this game at 2 A. M. with the sound on mute 
 isn't going to help you much, so be sure to let your parents or spouse know that this is an important 
 moment for you.
  
  A small drawback to the games is the campaign, or I guess, the lack of. It has a storyline in there 
 about a rough and tough gang of bad-ass shooters... similar to Gears of War, and how they travel 
 around their planet, seeking revenge on the Necris... or something like that. All it is there for 
 is to give you a fun and innovative way of introducing all the multiplayer modes and maps so you're 
 ready for when the online comes. Don't have your PS3 or PC hooked up to a fast connection, or one 
 at all? Don't sweat, this game features a killer bot system, bringing me back to the days of 007 
 and Perfect Dark on the N64... oh how I miss those days.
  
  A must-have... unless you're not into first person shooters. In that case.... buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is similar to Unreal Tournament 2004 in some of the ways. Why? What's different? 
 We let's see. A lot, and i mean a lot of new vehicles, maps and more.
  
  Gameplay - It feel a little bit different from Unreal Tournament 2004. It seems to be pretty crazy 
 when you get online for some action. You have to get use to the game specially if you use controller. 
 But when you get use to the game changing weapons quick, running away from rockets you will pwn 
 people i promise. Also this game includes bunch of different game type modes. Capture the flag, 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch and more.
  
  Graphics - Yeah it's kind of amazing what a concole can do. When i first played i thought it was 
 pretty amazing for ps3. Of course it's not as good as on PC but still pretty close. The animation 
 in the game (animation - when someone talks in the story mode) is incredible.
  
  Maps - Well maps are well made with great lightning. Every map has lots of objects on it. It makes 
 it be a good thing because it's easier to jump away from bullet sometimes (rockets) lol. There 
 aren't really a lot of places to snipe from. But this game isn't really made for sniping. Other 
 then that the maps are great.
  
  Vehicles - There are bunch of new vehicles. Tanks, board, something like a SUV but really isn't, 
 something on the legs and more it's just hard to explain. You have to see for your self.
  
  Overall - I recommend this game if you're into something that's a fast paste game. Shoot and run. 
 Kind of like counter strike but the gameplay is faster and a lot more crazier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Don't think that this game is as good as the one eight years ago. But it IS as exciting as the 
 first one. You take place as a soldier of the Ronin team. You are one of the few survivors of the 
 great alien attack. War is going on in between the Ronin and the Necris. They are bad guys with 
 no mercy and they are very intelligent and powerful. 
  In the campaign mode, you are Reaper; a sort of Marcus Fenix in red. 
  You have capture the flag, 
 deathmatch, and the all new warfare mode which is very exciting. You can customize your character, 
 which is very fun and very simple and easy. In the other mode, you can choose which kind of game 
 you want and which team is your opponent.
  The multiplayer is very fun. the only thing missing in this game is co-op mode which would of been 
 much more exciting. Briefly, I recommend this game to anyone who like the first UT and to anyone 
 with a ps3 or a pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivendidoom
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  As for the Unreal Universe, the game has always been rooted toward coop and not campaign. Obviously 
 the creators of the unreal series where the ones that made gears, but let those expectations push 
 you into expecting more gears for this instalment.
  
  Sure, the game has its moments of "oh sure, why can he do that and i cant?!" or "I pressed fire 
 not secondary!" but out of all these incantations of who's fault is who's for what ever reason, 
 Unreal steels multiplayer because of its grand "nodes" multiplayer type. This is a part of multiplayer 
 as well as campaign but the difference is difficutly on A. I versus a real person. The A. I. can 
 be very forgiing, but sometimes, the A. I can become super human and take on a whole other role.... i. e 
 kill you every second, and out school you in flag captures. But even though this happans mainly 
 for the killing sessions, U. T. III still is a quite enjoyable game.
  
  With the campaign not handing much over on story end, this game actually promotes its multiplayer 
 way over its capmaign. Everytime you start getting further and further in the campaign... you still 
 are waiting for that grand finale ending... holding on the edge of your seat in hopes of being blown 
 away.... but every cutscene seems to just sit you back down and put a year old uncooked steak in 
 your lap as the smell reaches into your nostrils. When the ending coems, your are left with a more 
 puzzling confusion than any other game ending out side this genre. Your are left asking "thats 
 it?" and "there has to be more!", but if your like me you were pry saying...."WELL AINT THAT B*LLSH*T!!!" 
 
  
  Sound is superb and crisp, although on some loading screens you hear the dialogue skip while its 
 loading, or some explosions just don't pulsate through the speakers like they should. Still the 
 blasting apart enemies sounds as crisp and clean as it looks like. Guns fire the appropriate sounds 
 and even the enemy sounds when you shoot them. Some times the A. I on the campaign though will play 
 the same taunt over and over until your bleeding from the ears.... so just turn that off.
  
  Graphics are amazing and the controls handle like they should. some players might need to adjust 
 their controls here and there to go with their playstyle but other than that the controls are solid.
 
  
  Over all this game deserves a 6.5 for attempt, but because the PS3 and the PC have the mods that 
 only a few have made only bumps this game a little for replay value.... just.... dont play the campaign 
 again... its more than just torture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  In UTIII there is a single player campaign with somewhat of a narrative to it, it isn't exactly 
 spellbinding and is quite easily forgettable. The single-player mode has you trump through various 
 Deathmatches, Capture the Flags and other battle modes with which veteran UT players will be very 
 familiar with in what is basically an effort to get you ready to play online.
  
  The characters, textures, maps and graphics in general are really quite good and it seems to be 
 an almost perfect port of the PC version, and with the ability to download mods onto the PS3 further 
 bridges the gap between the PC and console counterparts.
  
  The maps are quite decent for the type of shooter Unreal is and encourages the fast-paced action 
 that has become trademarked with the name. And with the aforementioned ability to download user-created 
 content, the variety is almost endless.
  
  The sound in UTIII is pretty decent, but the voice acting isn't the greatest. However, as I suggested 
 before the single-player campaign isn't going to be the main bulk of the game for the vast majority 
 of gamers.
  
  The online multiplayer game is where most people will spend most of their time and for one good 
 reason - it can be really enjoyable. However, one noticeable downside to the options available 
 online is the lack of new game modes. There is the Warfare mode, but it feels just like a small 
 revamp to the old Onslaught mode and that's about it aside from the old classics like Deathmatch 
 and Capture the Flag.
  
  The weapons are, in their own respect, very satisfying to use. There's a decent variety of them 
 to choose from and with each possessing an alternate firing mode, it makes exploding your online 
 mates to pieces all the more fulfilling. However, this is another area where UTIII fails to bring 
 anything new to the series.
  
  The only big addition to the gameplay in UTIII is the array of new vehicles at your disposal in 
 certain game types, some of which are enjoyable to use. The alien models are the more intriguing 
 of the variations and have a somewhat unique feel to them, giving the game something which other 
 current online shooters are missing.
  
  Another small addition to the gameplay options, is the possibility to use a mouse and keyboard 
 on the PS3. However, these controls are slightly more sluggish than the responsive counterparts 
 on the PC version. Also, if control-pad users want to avoid crossing paths with those using mouse/keyboard 
 combinations for fear of being handicapped, it is possible to filter keyboard/mouse users out in 
 the option menu.
  
  All-in-all, while the single player mode alone is pretty dull, the online experience is fairly 
 decent and runs virtually lag-free. However, the short-comings arrive in the form of repetition 
 of the game modes, the weaponry and the overall feel from earlier installments in the series (especially 
 UT2004) . I believe more variety, a deeper online mode and a feeling of moving forward (in more 
 than just graphical splendor) is needed here if it is to receive a higher rating.
  
  In itself, UTIII is a reflex-demanding, pulse-pounding shooter and is generally a good game and 
 I recommend it to those who haven't played an Unreal game and fans of the online FPS genre. It 
 just wasn't for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angerbunny
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Conan gets lots of Flak for being derivative of God of War.
  The characters in UT3 look like they stepped off the set to Gears of War.
  
  You can't blame 
 them, and it's just an aesthetic, but... Hey, if people are going to make comparisons like that 
 to conan, I don't see why they shouldn't apply to all things. 
  
  I mean, it looks so much like Gears that I'm surprised you didn't get a chainsaw gun thing.
  
 
  But it's responsive, and addictive to play. 
  
  I love the game modes, although the hoverboards seem kinda... cheesy. 
  
  And where the hell 
 has the Razor-Jack gone? What the hell? Best weapon ever. Where has it gone? And I don't mean the 
 one with the alternate fire exploding on impact. I mean the original Razorjack. I want it back. 
 I want discs bouncing down corridors. Banking off walls. 
  
  But really, that's the only real complaint.
  
  The soundtrack isn't all that impressive.
 
  But I like making my own character up and playing that in online frag-fests.
  
  It's kind of disappointing to see that nothing has really changed about the series, though. Most 
 people will go for Rockets. Or the Flak Cannon. And, of course, the shock rifle.
  
  So, even with updated 'Gears of War' graphics and some new options, overall I still feel like I'm 
 playing UT. Trying to hop away from rocketeers and Shock-splodey nastiness. 
  
  The new Vehicles and different modes of play are nice. But nothing substantially different as far 
 as I can tell.
  
  But, in that kind of 'security blanket' kinda way, it's undeniably UT.
  
  I give it an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay... Unreal Tournament 3. It was always the best 1st person shooter ever. But now Resistance 
 and Halo came... And it struggled a litle bit. After counterattacking with Gears of War, Unreal 
 Tournament 3, its 1st person version came out for the PS3. And may I say, it crashed whatever was 
 in front of it. Awesome, really, really, awesome game.
  
  As I'm not that huge fan of 1st person shooters, I was kinda disappointed after this wasn't available 
 in 3rd person like Unreal Championship 2. That was the best Unreal game in the saga. But then I 
 heard the news... The official mod Action Cam which is even a better camera angle than Championship's. 
 Man, was I happy.
  
  This game is a normal 1st person shooter, should I say, a really good one by the way. But as a 
 THIRD person shooter... it just kicks ass, lemme tell you why. It's not like it's bad in first 
 person. But it's different... In third person you have more like an intense feeling, because you 
 can see more stuff. A more realistic vision indeed. Then again, you're still seeing your character 
 from behind.
  
  This is a lot like John Woo's Stranglehold. It has acrobatic movements, no reloading and man, it's 
 really fast paced. Also, you see fast paced 1st person shooters everywhere now. Killzone, (no not 
 halo or resistance) The Darkness, Call of Duty 2, 3 and 4... Well you get the picture. But what 
 about fast paced 3rd person shooters?!
  
  Let's make a list:
  Stranglehold.
  Uhh...
  ?
  
  So yeah. This is a great addition to that list.
  
  Oh, and online. Great. Don't need 
 it. What do you need online for if you can do a deathmatch with bots in a lagless way and you can't 
 talk in a match? It's the same freaking thing. Only difference is that you can play with another 
 awesome mod in offline: Kills Slow Time. That's cool. And Action Cam, which is rare to find in 
 an online match. Online is buggy also. Kinda disappointing...
  
  Well that's all I have to say. If you think I'm spoiling 3rd person shooters, you're right. I'm 
 a big fan. My games are: Stranglehold, Unreal Tournament 3, Warhawk, Lost Planet, soon I'll have 
 Dark Sector, Eight Days... if I had a 360, Gears of War.
  
  Great game. Buy it and download the mods. And by mods I mean action cam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooltechie
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Firstly the game is very fun, the AI opponents can be challenging on the higher difficulty levels, 
 and due to the large amount of maps it's hard to get bored. There are some truly legendary maps 
 in UT3, for instance sand storm; taking a very simple idea of two parallel area and one corridor 
 connection and turning it into an amazing level. The weapons are greatly balanced; if you know 
 how to use your weapon you have just as much power as anyone else who knowns how to use theirs, 
 this balancing makes the game much more fun, and allows new players to get right into the game. 
 The game is also loaded with secrets, or more so hidden area from which you can get better weapons 
 or snipe, this adds a whole exploration element or feel to the game, as there are still the good 
 old areas that you run into by mistake, and are amazed by. The campaign is relatively fun; the 
 story is a bit lacking, but it is hard to get a story into a game like UT3, however on the higher 
 difficulties the AI performance is enough to make the game fun, as well as getting you used to 
 all the levels, I personally considered as a bit of training. All in all it has great levels, weapons, 
 secrets and vehicles, worth playing if you want a good, fast paced, multiplayer, but if you want 
 a solid singleplayer don't go with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  i grew up playing the unreal series on PC.... religiously. I still remember playing the first game 
 and being completely blown away, kept my interest for years. Now many many moons have passed, updated 
 versions have been released over the course.... yet, why does it feel like I'm playing the same 
 game over and over again? The single player portion is as simplified as things can get, basically 
 acting as a tutorial to learn the basic mechanics. The multiplayer is where the game is supposed 
 to shine, but for me just feels average. Years ago the multiplayer felt innovative and exciting, 
 but with the release of so many FPS games and revolutions to online play, Unreal T 3 hasn't expanded 
 as much as i'd like. Now, this isn't to say everyone will feel the same... i'm sure tons will love 
 the game and thats awesome. But for me, the whole game feels like i've been there and done that.... way 
 too many times. I would have appreciated some really cool new guns, but the all feel too similar. 
 The level design for a lot of the online maps are decent but i didn't really care for any particular 
 ones. The nice addition of MODS, especially for the console community is very neat and i was introduced 
 to some interesting matches (especially the third person prospective) . The graphics are good, but 
 no where near as nice as Gears of War in my honest opinion. It's definitely worth a try, especially 
 for newcomers to the series... but people like myself who grew up and played Unreal for many years 
 now, especially with the recycled FPS genre on the market... you may feel like you've played this 
 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-son05
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Having had my ps3 fro 6-7 months now and buying no games, when my xbox decided to die and go the 
 ms to be fixed it thoug i'd get something to play on mi ps2. Having played unreal t 2 and being 
 a great fan of gears of war i thought i'ds give this game ago, and man i am uninpressed. For one 
 the graphics no way near as nice and crisp as gears, and sound is pathetic.
  campian is just one match after another and was realy exspection more of a story to follow. online 
 play is fast packed and fun, no w this is where it starts to shine ..... with hover bord's tanks 
 and allsorts of odd sh*t. lots of levels and play modes keep you going. one anouying thing is there 
 few peeps with comm's . small customisation to characters to. I will say i dont think this game 
 is worth paying 40+ for as it basicly a multi player game, alike to warhawk. I can see it coming 
 out for 30 on 360 when it is later released and thats a little better. i also can say that this 
 does show that ps3 seems to be more about the media functions rarther than games.
  
  so 8/10 i say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck02623
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I really really really wanted to like this game. I've owned all of the UT's since this game, and 
 I was excited to buy this one as well. The game's loading times are surprisingly quick. On a side 
 note, it's interesting to me that the load times seem to be exactly the same whether you have "installed" 
 the game or not.
  
  The combat is vintage Unreal Tournament. Quick-paced, full of gun spamming, jumping, dodging and 
 weaving. The weapons look good and they're fun to use.
  
  There are several modes and a ton of maps. It was also nice to see that they actually put some 
 effort into the single player campaign.
  
  UT3's fatal flaw is it's sound. The sound on this game is absolutely horrendous. I have never played 
 a game on a next gen console with sound this horrible. The explosions sound like they were recorded 
 from a cell phone speaker, and I have a 5.1 digital surround sound system. EXTREMELY rarely during 
 the game does any sound at all come out of anything other than my center speaker, and even then 
 it's just the announcer.
  
  It's a shame, because the sound is the only flaw in UT3, but unfortunately it's enough of a flaw 
 to ruin the entire game. This game is mediocre at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  It's hard to know what to compare this too: Call Of Duty 4, the PS3s best and most popular first 
 person shooter, or Timesplitters, possibly my favourite game of all time. So I'll compare with 
 both!
  
  COD4 vs. UT3
  
  The first thing to point out, is that these games are completely different. Yes, they may both 
 be first person shooters, but the similarities really stop there.
  
  In Call Of Duty, you tend to plan your kills. There are many ways to kill someone, and it's a very 
 realistic, tactical, war environment.
  Unreal Tournament, is, how shall I put it.... the complete opposite, You don't have time to plan 
 your kills, and if you try to, you're dead. It's all about firing upon seeing an enemy. Shoot first, 
 ask questions later.
  Althought both games have very fast gameplay in certain parts, Unreal Tournament is a faster, slicker, 
 and more arcade styled game. That isn't to say the it's better than Call Of Duty. I'm not trying 
 to say that. Neither am I trying to say that Call Of Duty is better. They're just very different.
 
  
  
  
  TimeSplitters vs. UT3
  
  Yeah, I know this also is an odd thing to do. Comparing a PS3 game with a PS2 game, but the thing 
 to remember is that TimeSplitters were the best first person shooters available for one single 
 reason. It relied on deathmatches.
  
  Yes, they did try to integrate a story into the later TimeSplitters games, but it was the arcadey 
 challenge and arcade modes that really brought so many people to the series.
  This idea is in Unreal Tournament. The game just feels like an arcade game. You can pick the game 
 up, and just start playing it. Yes, the action is faster than TimeSplitters, and you don't have 
 as many characters, or weapons, but this is made up for in the gameplay.
  I still play TimeSplitters. Often. It's about the only PS2 game I play on a regular basis, and 
 that's because it was, and still is, the best first person shooter I've ever played. And although 
 Unreal Tournament is good, I can't let it take away TimeSplitters crown.
  
  
  
  Now the main review:
  
  There are three ways to play UT3.
  
  Firstly, there's the storyline. 
 It isn't really much of a storyline. More of a story, based around a series of Team Deathmatches 
 etc. This however works well, and you can enjoy it easily.
  
  Next, there's Instant Action, which lets you set up custom games, with a choice of many game types, 
 levels, and other settings. This is where perhaps my favourite part of the game comes in.
  There's a thing called Mutators. These are similar to things you see in other games, such as low 
 gravity, and infinite ammo, but they add another level to the gameplay.
  
  Next, there's online, which is similar to Instant Action, but, erm, online, so it is much faster, 
 and much more fun.
  
  
  As mentioned above, there are many different ways to play the game. For example, choosing the space 
 station level, which is a very clever level, changing from low gravity to normal gravity, depending 
 on where you are, is completely different to some of the street levels.
  
  Vehicles are also well integrated into the gameplay, and are evened out, so the better vehicles 
 are slower, etc. This pattern is similar for weapons. The most powerful weapons have a slower reload 
 speed, or less accuracy, making it an extremely well balanced game.
  
  
  Finally, and this has to be mentioned, there are user created mods available, and for those clever 
 people out there, you can make your own. There are user created levels, weapons, game modes, muatators 
 (such as third person view, hoverboard always available, and jet packs) . All this equals hours 
 and hours of gameplay. You can find these mods at http://www. ut3mod. com/
  
  I serously suggest this game to anyone. The only thing that it's lacking is split screen, but I 
 am assured that that will be brought out as a patch soon enough... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Basicly, with Unreal Tournament III the main attraction is the Multiplayer.
  I have never known such a fast-paced game ever! When you run, you run fast, belive me!
  
  Also, 
 on some online games, you can keep pressing jump and you can almost fly! Anyway, ill go onto how 
 good it is now.
  
  You start off, you can have a Campaign. I don't really understand it though, it seems to just be 
 You .vs Bot in Campaign, so its good for starters in the game, but gets a bit easy once you have 
 gotten better.
  
  Then theres another mode where you choose a game-type, (deathmatch the best :P) and the map, then 
 select the number of bots you want to play against, and their level (novice being the lowest lvl, 
 godlike being the highest!!) . This helps you get ready for the online multiplayer because you can 
 just choose the level you want them to be and then start fighting! Aswell, even with bots, its 
 excelent!
  
  But the online multiplayer is the BEST! you can have Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Duel, Capture 
 the Flag, Warfare and even one with tanks and flying... things! Its just amazing the multiplayer. 
 Wherever you look theres more and more people attacking you!
  
  But the graphics, yeah their ok, but not pushing the PS3 to its maximum or anything.
  
  Anyway, 
 other than that, EXCELENT. BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hodges_3_5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  wow. in a bad way! This game feels like a reallllly old instead of a new generation game! The online 
 play was fun, but it wasn't fun enough to cover up the wanna be campaign. The campaign is just 
 simple online games such as capture the flag, search and destroy, and base catching. This was a 
 real snore fest. All they did was change the people you were playing and the type of game. That 
 got really boring after about 5 times. You pretty much have to do all of the killing yourself, 
 or you'll lose. There are a total of about 4 cut scenes in the whole game, which tells you how 
 much story there is to it. I was really surprised to see the hi score from gamespot. The story 
 was that his arm was blown off, which wasn't very exciting. 
  
  I would recommend this game to people who like to play online type games.... as the story mode. 
 Sorry that this game wasn't for me. One positive from this game was the type of guns. One was a 
 poison shooter that shot poison and slowly killed the enemy. Thats... about.... it.
  
  Action-7
  Intensity-6
  Replay Value-2
  Graphics-7
  Sounds-6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nasty_butler_9
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Wicked graphics, unique weapons, and a wide variety of vehicles to mow your opponents down with, 
 all used in possibly the worst way ever.
  
  This game is close to truly sucking balls. The worst controls for a FPS, the dumbest story line, 
 and would probably run on the N64. No that last part was a joke, but it doesn't do a whole lot 
 for the PS3, and really isn't worth adding to your collection.
  
  On a good note, it has decent graphics, lots of variety as far as maps, weapons, and vehicles go. 
 
  
  Online is the worst I've seen in a console, it's hard to get into a game because you join usually 
 half-way through it, and usually you spawn, die, spawn, die, spawn, die, and no I don't just suck, 
 I usually destroy online, but well they have a campers pointing a sniper at your head the second 
 you spawn, you really feel like taking a dump on your PS3 and throwing it at Epic Games.
  
  All in all, this game has wicked graphics, amazing variety, but to be honest. Epic Games, Epically 
 Fails (see what I did there?) at just about everything else, sorry Unreal, I won't be playing you 
 for a while, not until my COD 4 disk snaps in two.
  
  Hope I helped! ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckoch87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Epic Games Unreal Tournament series is probably best known for it's ultra-violent fast-paced in 
 your face action. The original Unreal Tournament was a masterpiece. It was fresh, bold, innovative, 
 and unlike anything ever seen before with the exception of Tribes. Unreal Tournament 2003 was better 
 than its predecessor in almost every way with remarkable graphics, over the top physics, and fantastic 
 online gameplay. Soon after Unreal Tournament 2004 was released, building significantly on the 
 variation of levels and gameplay types. A slew of new gameplay types were added as well as more 
 characters than you can shake a stick at. Vehicular combat was also integrated and worked fantastically 
 well with no rivals save Tribes 2 and the Halo series. Now we are given Unreal Tournament III. 
 The graphics are wonderful but suffer from delayed texture loading at the beginning of every match. 
 The textures take a few seconds to load when you begin a new match. This is a shame given the graphical 
 proficiency of Epic's previous games. This, however, can be forgiven as the game suffers from almost 
 no frame-rate issues. Once the textures pop up they are there for the duration of the match with 
 no noticeable issues. The gameplay is the same great tight action the series is known for. On the 
 negative side of things, the levels are smaller and support fewer players than seen in 2003 and 
 2004. It would be understandable if the console versions of the game were slightly different due 
 to capabilities limiting the size of the levels, but the PC version is identical to both the PS3 
 and Xbox 360 versions. It might be personal preference but I enjoyed the large scale battles with 
 32 players available in 2003 and 2004. Unreal Tournament III seems stripped down. The physics are 
 also more realistic, which, in my opinion, is a terrible thing. In 2004, if you shot a guy with 
 a rocket launcher he'd fly half-way across the screen exploding into a mist of blood and guts. 
 Whip out the Redeemer and incinerate every player on the map! That was cool! In Unreal Tournament 
 III, if you shoot a guy with a rocket launcher, he'll fly back a few feet and flop over. The characters 
 have been given more "weight" and therefore act more realistically when killed. But guys, Unreal 
 Tournament is supposed to be fake, let's keep things outrageous! Vehicles aren't worth mentioning 
 in detail. There is a fair variety of them but they're not particularly exciting if you've played 
 Tribes or Halo. The Necris vehicles look pretty cool but control horribly and the other vehicles 
 are run-of-the-mill Unreal. Nothing we haven't seen in previous games. Single player, to be blunt, 
 sucks. Epic promised us a deeper more story-driven campaign but failed to deliver anything better 
 than what was in any other Unreal Tournament. The only difference is the addition of more cutscenes, 
 dialog, mission goals, and a main character that looks an awful lot like Marcus from Gears or War. 
 But it's forgivable due to the fact that it's almost impossible to create an engaging single-player 
 portion to a game that is simply meant to have no story and be played online with real people. 
 It was a nice try though. The multiplayer is mediocre mainly because there's never anyone online 
 and you'll be thrown into the same game over and over again. People seem to like the same levels. 
 Also, nobody ever works together so the team aspects of the game are pointless. If you want the 
 hardcore bloodbath that was Unreal Tournament, pick up a copy of Unreal Tournament 2004, or the 
 original Unreal Tournament. Don't spend your hard-earned cash on this game. The $60 simply isn't 
 worth the mileage you'll get from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament III:
  ---
  Excellent multiplayer, combined with a decent story line makes Unreal Tournament ... Unreal.
 
  ---
  Note: This Review May Contain Spoilers
  ---
  
  Story: 7/10
  Aliens raid city, people get pissed, aliens get owned. The usual story line was used in Unreal 
 Tournament. Then why did Unreal get a seven? I gave Unreal a seven in story because of the attachment 
 the game makes between you and your squad. Needless to say, beat the story, unlock all of your 
 stuff and move straight into the multiplayer.
  
  Music / Sounds: 9/10
  I had to add sounds because I don't really notice the music in Unreal most of the time, but I DID 
 notice the sounds of stuff splattering all over the walls. The sounds of the weapons going off 
 matched the what the guns looked like.
  
  Graphics: 11/10
  Amazing, I wish I had time to stop and really admire the graphics, but there really isn't that 
 time; but when you get time to notice the graphics, they really are nice... when you get the time. 
 The weapons look really nice, from the enforcer to the Redeemer.
  
  Gameplay: 11/10
  Gameplay is AMAZING in this game, the single player against bots is fun and a good way to kill 
 time; but it is in multiplayer where Unreal shines. The online play adds to replay value, and makes 
 this game worth buying. I would go as far as to say, this is one of the best online games for Ps3 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andralo3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Alot of FPS fans will poo-poo UT3 since during the period since it's inception shooter games have 
 become a little more duck and cover. But Unreal 3 is a nice change of pace with an all-out frag-fest 
 with a nice amount of Wes Craven-esque gore. The campaign mode is OK but feels thrown together 
 and may as well be training for the real sweet spot of the game: Multiplayer. Again, this is where 
 UT has always shined in it's ability to deliver speedy heated barrel action. While the mods aren't 
 quite available yet for the console versions, this is a nice get-your-bloodlust-fix disc to pop 
 in and let the cannon fire spay with glee. Hardcore devotees of FPS may enjoy Resistance of COD4, 
 but this about speed, fragging, and more fragging. And after you're done with that, why not frag 
 a lil' more?? Get the picture. The graphics are glorious, ad the one thing missing from this to 
 make it a repetitive must play are the customizations that one only hopes are on the way. After 
 a couple of hours playing as one of the gung-ho intergalactic mercenaries online, you feel a certain 
 tingle of Ah-nuld the Governator in his more respectable Terminator days coursing up your spine. 
 It's OK, we won't tell anybody. Grab your bio-rifle and handheld tactical nuclear device and gut 
 anything that moves. Not much strategy to this one, but Nobunaga's Ambition can wait 'till after 
 you have wiped off your own drool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azngamer202
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Alot of FPS fans will poo-poo UT3 since during the period since it's inception shooter games have 
 become a little more duck and cover. But Unreal 3 is a nice change of pace with an all-out frag-fest 
 with a nice amount of Wes Craven-esque gore. The campaign mode is OK but feels thrown together 
 and may as well be training for the real sweet spot of the game: Multiplayer. Again, this is where 
 UT has always shined in it's ability to deliver speedy heated barrel action. While the mods aren't 
 quite available yet for the console versions, this is a nice get-your-bloodlust-fix disc to pop 
 in and let the cannon fire spay with glee. Hardcore devotees of FPS may enjoy Resistance of COD4, 
 but this about speed, fragging, and more fragging. And after you're done with that, why not frag 
 a lil' more?? Get the picture. The graphics are glorious, ad the one thing missing from this to 
 make it a repetitive must play are the customizations that one only hopes are on the way. After 
 a couple of hours playing as one of the gung-ho intergalactic mercenaries online, you feel a certain 
 tingle of Ah-nuld the Governator in his more respectable Terminator days coursing up your spine. 
 It's OK, we won't tell anybody. Grab your bio-rifle and handheld tactical nuclear device and gut 
 anything that moves. Not much strategy to this one, but Nobunaga's Ambition can wait 'till after 
 you have wiped off your own drool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It has a pretty good story but not nearly the best. But that can be made 
 up for with the fluent gameplay and awesome graphics. The online is the best part the maps are 
 awesome weapons are awesome. Characters and the costumzation is really welly done. This game is 
 an over all A+ but I would make sure you have live or ps3 online before you buy it because that 
 is easily the best part. ss sopa jspojpiahi a [o [ohovi isf o [ho [gf oirwh 8hr0f8hrs8ohfa8hsfoh o ushfh 
 idah oa aidh oa hao hoizisah diihodua ofdha o as ih h aoih dsh cnoiadf wan euwr p e re9 u9pequ 
 p9a a p9apuauef o peu prdddddddddd dddddddddd dddddddddddddddd ddddddd dddddd dddddddd
  kkkkk kkkkkkkkkk kkkkkkkkkk kkkkk kkkkkk ds d fwe fhwa u p9e9p ps9u ap pusa'p ep upu pau p9up'u 
 'pua'p pu pp p p pa p' pupeq9u p9ueurp ap pu9 epp9eau 'p9uap9 9p9uepru '9pau 9p9peur pjfpcja'pf 
 jposjgfvoc ipjew bdcvjd oiih do daip od od i ojn o ic o [aj b9d o vie vpoi o [i os 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgplatypus
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Being a long time fan of FPS games ( all the way back to rocking the very first wolfenstein) I 
 felt cheated by this new edition to the series, but I suppose I should have known better. If your 
 interested in playing this game at all, I'd consider it a rental at best. My reasons are as follows:
 
  
  1) The single player was a joke. If anyone is planning on buying this game and does not have internet 
 capabilities you've basically went ahead and wasted sixty dollars. CPU characters are sadly predictable 
 and the entire campaign is over in a very short amount of time. If you don't have the ability to 
 play online I would seriously consider not purchasing this game. I suppose this should come as 
 no surprise because Unreal tournament has functioned much the same in the past couple installments. 
 
  
  2) Re-hash frenzy! In my opinion there isn't enough material on this game to consider it a new 
 title! Sure, the graphics are stunning, there are a few new implemented game modes, and the vehicles 
 are OK, but there really isn't much difference between this title and it's predecessor. It kept 
 me captivated for a few hours, but there really isn't anything that wanted to keep me playing. 
 After the initial excitement I felt like I was playing Unreal II with updated graphics. Am I wrong? 
 Is there something I'm not seeing? Can we kill a dying horse yet? It's been dragged for far too 
 long. 
  
  3) Latency issues. Even if the game had more going for it, the networking was terrible when I had 
 played online. I have yet to come across another PSIII title that had such choppy lag. Often I 
 found a one to two second delay on my bullets firing. Maybe it's gotten better in the past month 
 but it never really changed. 
  
  If I am wrong, please let me know what I'm missing out on. I'm so glad I rented this game before 
 I actually went ahead and bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  UT3 is essentially a great online shooter with a single player campaign that is not intended to 
 keep you interested. When i played the single player i was surprised by just how much it resembled 
 a drawn out tutorial with a forgetable story. I got halfway (maybe) through before i said "screw 
 it bring on the multiplayer!". Let me just say even though it's a fun and adrenaline pumping online 
 experience, don't expect the deepness of COD4. The online ranking system sucks, theres no unlockables, 
 and its pretty much a all out go get'em shooter. What surprising is this sn't a bad thing. If i 
 wanted COD4 i'd play COD4. UT3 is an unbeatable experience that should be enjoyed by both new and 
 old fansof the series. However, buyer beware. $60 is a hefty price to pay for the online experience, 
 and it's amazing as to why the ps store doesn't pull a warhawk and offer it for $40 online only. 
 There is one exeption: Mods. I was dissapointed with the online at first until i downloadeda few 
 new maps, newgame modes, and mutators. These things instantly made me a happier person andi do 
 not regret the $60 payment. what i suggest is you get a wireless keyboard and mouse combo because 
 that makes the online player fatser, smoother, and easier. Overall give UT3 a rent at least. See 
 if the online is for you because if you'relike me (love playing fast, adrenaline pumping shooters 
 online) , than you should put UT3 on your "to buy" list (especially if there's a price drop) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hckeystar3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  i think that this is a definite got to get.. i think the online is amazing and the weapons on it 
 are awesome as well. i gave this a 9.5 because i think it is a great game. would i recommend this 
 game to everyone that likes fast paced games with a lot of action, o yes i would. so this is just 
 an all over great game. if you like having sweet maps that you can vote on which one you want to 
 play on, then this is the game for it. i love this game because it offers an awesome campaign and 
 and amazing fast paced online, it is maybe one of the best games out on the ps3 right now. even 
 though that some of the players on this game are amazing you will have to conquer to kill them. 
 there capture the flag is awesome. the sharpshooter, o where do i start, well it is madness and 
 team sharpshooter the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  As a long time veteran of Unreal Tournament 2004 and having played all the games in the Unreal 
 Anthology pack, I can honestly say, with bias or not, that the console version of the UT3 is one 
 heck of a disappointment. 
  
  First off, the problems. Many of them. Epic seems to have heavily invested in the modding capabilities 
 for the success of the PS3 version. Unfortunately, while glancing at the mod maps and new mutators, 
 a few weeks of playing UT3 gives me reason to believe that the game will not be able to stand on 
 its own. Put up a mod map on a server; hardly anyone is playing one. The laborious process of downloading 
 each custom modification off one's PC and installing it on the PS3 seems to distance people from 
 enjoying UT's real potential. This is done because downloading it right off the server on the PS3 
 will hog up bandwidth; this trouble really shows off UT's "Made for PC" background, as on the PC 
 you just have to download any mod from a server you're connecting. An annoying bug which lockups 
 your PS3 when connecting to certain servers further adds to the irritation. And if that was not 
 enough, most servers are plagued by lag, even the official Midway servers that are always running. 
 Non-dedicated user servers are by far the worst offenders in this aspect. 
  
  As any old-school first-person-shooter geek knows, UT's main badge of pride and honor has always 
 been its online component in addition to the mods. The single player missions are there for training. 
 Mentioned before in regards to mod-map servers, it appears that only a small handful of people 
 are on as well on regular stock-map servers. To elaborate, only one to three servers in each of 
 the game modes are full or even partially full. Servers that are somewhat filled on the Warfare 
 section don't even have map voting, less map-rotation. It really hurts to be playing Warfare-Avalanche 
 all day when there are numerous other scenarios to been enjoyed. We're not done with the problems. 
 
  
  The mic system in UT3 is simply god-awful. You have to press and hold a specific button , with 
 a precious split second delay that usually cuts off the first few words in your chat during gameplay. 
 This might work differently in the PC version, but not here on console. Added to that, you can't 
 tell who the **** is talking in your ear, as there isn't a symbol or note on the screen for identification. 
 What's worse is that NOBODY really uses a mic. Epic really should have given players an open mic 
 system. That is an honest-to-God truth. Sadly on console, playing UT3 on PS3 online reaps no benefit 
 other than fun. Things are sometimes different on console than on PC, as rewards and unlockables 
 for multiplayer are usually a big deal (Call of Duty 4 to Rainbow Six Vegas gives players something 
 to work for with unlockables) . Not to mention UT3 lacks split screen, a big core in console FPS 
 these days. Further, UT3 on PS3 online has no clan support (you can't put a distinguishable clan 
 tag) , only a small touch-up with friend support (you can follow a friend to a server easily) .
 
  
  Lastly (for the problems) , the modes packed in UT aren't truly phenomenal. Sure there is the classic 
 TDM, DM, CTF and the beloved Vehicle-CTF, but the absence of Invasion, fighting waves of AI monsters 
 as a group, is a eye-rolling one. UT2k4's Onslaught (think Battlefield 2) and Assault modes have 
 been merged into Warfare mode, disappointingly. Assault elements in the new mode are minimal. Only 
 one Warfare map really stands out as pure Assault, and that is Tank-Crossing. Apart from that, 
 most of Warfare is simply classic Onslaught with an orb-carrying element. 
  
  I wish to finish the review with positive criticism so as not to leave a completely bad impression, 
 and one thing almost any John Doe or Mary Sue can positively critique UT3 about is the mind-blowing 
 graphics. The graphics in UT3 is the best I've seen on any game out for the PS3. Epic really has 
 treated PS3 players well with all the eye-candy, including motion-blur and the fantastic details, 
 from the textures to the lighting. All of the stock maps, numbering in the dozens, are really well-made. 
 I can even go as far as calling the game a work of art, usurping that of works done by even the 
 best professional sci-fi artists. Everything looks masterfully done and beautiful, not cartoonish. 
 Another positive element is the frame rate, and it is almost a miracle Epic managed to make the 
 game look pretty and run smoothly at the same time.
  
  If you're into run/gun multiplayer games with vehicles, look no further. UT3's fast paced gameplay 
 and plentiful game content supersedes that of Call of Duty 4 and most console FPS. If you have 
 a nice desktop or laptop PC that can run PC UT3, stick with that as that is the superior version. 
 Everything else is comparable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerrythefunguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Yeah the Campaign suck mayjor balls but theres the beef part about this game is that this is the 
 first Console game to use Mods. I know you need the PC version with the Unreal Editor and a PS3 
 cooker. Just go to UT3MOD. com and there you can allready download about 30 freaking maps allready 
 that are made by Modders which is freaking sweet,. WHAT game can you say you can use Mods in a 
 Console game and also you can use a regular USB Keyboard and Mouse as your controller so shoot 
 what else can you ask for. I personally was a fan of UT99 and have it still intalled in my old 
 PC I havent played any other UT game ever since so this one is by far the best UT game compare 
 to the original one since i havent played UT2004 since i have crappy system that wont run back 
 then so this is my Game of the year for me and really hooked on it for all the maps and mods that 
 are appearing allmost every day in that site for free. What else can you as for and hell Mechanism 
 Eight is Remixed for this game so Im freaking completely sold. Allready someone made a Remake map 
 of Fractual from UT99 so this game owns in my opinion since I allready played the original and 
 yeah the characters look like Gears of War but the enviroments looks a hell of lot better then 
 Gears but to bad its so fast pace I cant stay still for 2 seconds or I would die.. its a Must buy 
 if you want a fast pace First person shooter Online. UT3 delievers it. FIRST CONSOLE GAME TO BE 
 ABLE TO USE KEYBOARD AND MOUSE nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  To be honest all prior Unreal console titles were lacking where the PC versions or PC related versions 
 were superior. For once a console title runs as good if not better then it's PC version. If your 
 a Unreal fan and really liked the series there is little chance you'll be let down in this 3rd 
 installment of Unreal. The PS3 version is well done and since there is no other comparison yet 
 with the 360 version I cant say whether or not one is better looking or running than the other, 
 however I recently picked up my PS3 and have no disappointment with Unreal Tournament 3 which in 
 turn makes me more happy with my PS3 purchase. I am a fan of Unreal and do believe that alot of 
 critics of this title are way off. I have no had this much fun with UT since the original UT on 
 the PC. You remember, when you would stay up all night getting Godlike on Faceing Worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Epic's classic franchise is back with Unreal Tournament 3 for the Playstation 3, but, unfortunately, 
 it's not all it's cracked up to be. The same great Unreal Tournament gameplay is intact and the 
 game has great potential, but all in all is pretty basic.
  
  STORY - You play as a guy named Reaper (his parents have strange ideas about what a good name is) , 
 a cliche bada** soldier with no personality, who, together with a whole bunch cliche bada** soldiers 
 with no personality, must stop a cliche alien invasion force. So, you get the point, it's all extremely 
 forgettable.
  GAMEPLAY - As always, Unreal Tournament 3 has singleplayer, and multiplayer modes. And as always, 
 avoid the singleplayer at all costs.
  Not only does the singleplayer have a horrible story mode that isn't interesting in any way, but 
 it also drags on forever. But, for those of you who might be interested, you can jump into you 
 regular Instant Action against some bots, or do the campaign mode, in which you go to different 
 preset battles. But, the singleplayer aspect of the game should really only be used as a tutorial, 
 or for some target practice, if you buy this game expecting a great singleplayer experience, you'd 
 be horribly wrong.
  But, thankfully, the multiplayer is great, if a bit basic. The same Unreal Tournament gameplay 
 is back, but it seems that the action in this one is much more fast-paced and frantic. A few new 
 great additions are the hoverboard, which you can access at any time, and the new Warfare mode, 
 which mixes Assault and Onslaught together. But, what's unfortunate about this Warfare mode is 
 that it completely replaces Assault and Onslaught, which were two of the best gametypes in the 
 series' history. My other gripe is that the game only supports 16 players, exactly half of what 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 supported. But, going back to the positives, this game has great maps, and 
 are either perfectly symmetrical or just amazingly cool (for example, one map features 4 or 5 COMPLETELY 
 different enviornments, with different texture pallets that you can warp in-between) and the new 
 Necris vehicles are sweet.
  As always, avoid the singleplayer, but the online is pretty great, though it has been dumbed down 
 from Unreal Tournament 2004's multiplayer.
  
  GRAPHICS - This game has amazing graphics, and for the first time proves that the Unreal 3 engine 
 can feature environments beyond just gritty inner-cities, but lush jungles, countryside, snowy 
 environments, etc. And the game maintains a great frame-rate (maybe 60 FPS) and never slows down. 
 One thing that I didn't like (or just perhaps don't like about the Unreal 3 engine as a whole) 
 is that bump-mapping, and normal-mapping is way overused, and you'll rarely see a texture or model 
 that's not covered with them.
  SOUND - The game's sound is pretty forgettable however. The music is pretty lame, the sound effects 
 repeat a lot (though they are pretty good quality) , and the voice-overs are bad (I even noticed 
 that the announcer was much less dramatic here.) But, the sound quality is good enough to make 
 this department fair overall.
  
  VALUE - The multiplayer could last you a long time, and the game's value is increased even more 
 thanks to Epic finding a way to bring user-created mods to the PS3, so expect lots of free maps, 
 game modes, models and gameplay mutators coming your way in the near future.
  
  TILT - Overall, Unreal Tournament 3 is good, but is pretty basic. The singleplayer is awful, but 
 the multiplayer is awesome, but a couple great game modes have been taken out (though the new maps 
 and vehicles are cool) and the sound department is pretty mediocre. But, the graphics are superb, 
 and thanks to mods, you could, potentially, be playing this game for a long time. Overall, Unreal 
 Tournament 3 is worth it if you are a fan of the series, or a fan of shooters looking for a game 
 with a great online component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  So here goes another UT series, and now it's one the playstation 3 with Mods available. It now 
 has became one of the highest replay value game on ps3 because of the user created contents. But 
 it does have it's flaws as well.
  
  Graphics: Totally superb, it uses unreal engine which make UT3 have one of the best graphics available. 
 Further more there's many options under video to enhance the gaming graphics further, i myself 
 set it to intense and is very satisfied. Also especially the cut-off scenes, they're one of the 
 best i've seen having played ps3 for a year.
  
  Sound: Above average i would call it, the gun sounds are loud enough and realistic, with things 
 like killing spree when u multikill. But till now i've yet to try my Headset, there's close to 
 0 ppl using that as well
  
  Gameplay: The same as The original UT series i would say, it has all the mods u can download, i 
 personally like the low gravity since it creates more chaos. The AI aren't perfect but they're 
 good, as good as human players since there ain't much difference when ppl don't use their Headset. 
 The bad here i have to say is the storyline gameplay, if u've played it u'll know why so i won't 
 say further.
  
  Pros:
  Fantastic graphics
  Lots of cooked mods for the ps3
  High replay value due to the mods
  Storyline is interesting, make for a next episode
  Variety 
 and interesting guns
  
  Cons:
  Online is laggy due to difference in region
  Not enough players online
  Storyline gameplay is a flunk
  
  Well, it's a must get IMO if 
 ur a First-person shooter fan. It's different in it's own way, only quake is similar against it. 
 Plenty of MODS to play online/offline. And graphics alone would "wow" you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is a first person shooter which uses the new unreal engine. So the visuals and 
 physics of this game is very good.
  
  Many gamers who played Unreal games should know that it is more fun playing it in multiplayer mode 
 where you can join strangers or friends to play with and against ,so its Single Story Campaign 
 is really lousy, in this case, UT3 introduce to gamers a storyline in the game, but that storyline 
 doesn't really affect the gameplay in single player mode because it just throws in maps and missions 
 that have zero connection to the gameplay. But that isn't to say the single player is bad, it is 
 fun and serves as a tutorial to beginners, but playing alone can be really frustrating when you 
 are playing Warfare mode because the A. I is quite stupid, so for example once you have connected 
 all nodes together, ALONE, the A. I for your team mates won't help much, they will run around here 
 and there causing the enemy to unlink the nodes and causes you to have to rejoin the nodes all 
 over again. But if you are playing multiplayer in campaign, it is much more fun because you know 
 that you teammates are doing their jobs rather than running aimlessly around the map.
  Multiplayer Deathmatch, Capture the Flag etc is fun, until you get killed around 20 times, as multiplayer 
 mode introduce you to other players, these other players are usually quite skilled at the game, so 
 chances of getting killed is very high if you are new to this game.
  
  The visuals in this game is awesome, it being in the PS3, it better be awesome. Everything from the 
 guns to the environment are very detailed, but one problem I faced was that the visuals don't get 
 detailed at the beginning and it takes some time for the PS3 to sharpen everything out, so for the 
 first few seconds when starting the game, it feels like you are playing in low resolution mode, but 
 laters it will return to it high detailed resolution.
  
  Sound quality is okay, except that I faced some sound problems like when there is a huge explosion, the 
 speaker will sound a bit static, but other than that the voice acting is good and the fast paced 
 music fits the game very well. 
  
  This game is a great game which offers great gameplay, but there are some technical issues here 
 and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamfaqs2gamfaqs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 was a phenomenal game that brought so much to the table. Though, this game 
 was like many other FPS's, I found myself in a completely different world. There were many aspects 
 of this game that I found intriguing like the graphics, gameplay, multiplayer and somewhat the 
 storyline. However, there was some disappointment. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Unreal Tournament 3 was all about the gameplay and without doubt it was one of 
 the best aspects of the game. Just like any other FPS, the game provided fast passed action that 
 had you craving for more. That's not even the best part. The best part of the game was that it 
 had features of an arcade game as you could practically jump into the game. What I mean, is that 
 you could start playing and you're already into the game, nothing like other games where it takes 
 ages to find any real action. In this game, you start playing and there's already guns being fired. 
 So for someone that just has a few minutes to spare and wants a game that doesn't take a lot of 
 time to get into this is the game for you. For everyone else, Unreal Tournament 3 is a great way 
 to take out your anger (Just don't break the controller!) . 
  
  Multiplayer 9.5/10: The multiplayer feature in Unreal Tournament 3 was fantastic. There's not one 
 word that can describe the multiplayer feature, there's many! Let it be spectacular, fun, amazing, 
 intense, you name it. Since multiplayer is closely related to split screen the major disappointment 
 in the game. Truth be told, I am disappointed to say that Unreal Tournament 3 is without a split 
 screen feature! For a game like this, there should be a split screen included. Unfortunately, the 
 developers did not have enough time to include one (don't you hate when games are rushed?) . Apparently 
 there should be a patch coming out in the near future 
  
  Graphics 9.0/10: Though, the game doesn't have amazing graphics, the graphics were pretty sweet 
 but not the best.
  
  Storyline 9.0: I found the story a little short, but its becoming a more common aspect in games 
 that mainly focus on multiplayer. In brief, the story consists of two teams, the Ronin and the 
 Necris who destroyed your home colony. You play as one of the Ronins and help them win the war. 
 
  
  Overall 9.5/10: Unreal Tournament 3 had appealing graphics, a fast gameplay that is always available 
 to your exposure and of course a massive online community. All these features lead to the reasons 
 why this game was phenomenal. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournement is a REALLY great game , with some great graphics, atmosphere and Gameplay. And 
 you wont belive if this game real or not .
  
  
  So the story is pretty cool , and its kind long. the traditional single-player mode you're used 
 to, you'll fight against computer opponents in a series of matches that are bundled into an inconsequential 
 story and basically meant to prepare you for the online portion of the game. You can also play 
 against bots on the multiplayer maps, though the meat of the experience is found online, its still 
 fun.
  
  
  The explosions are simply extrodinary. So goes for the graphics and atmoshpere. All shooting is fun 
 , + it ads some good atmoshere. Graphics are something to look at. Shooting is fun , aspecialy with 
 al thoses specifects. aThe multiplayer wor, ks sharply as you can imagin. For multiplayer it rocks 
 and so does the gameplay is aint half bad
  
  
  The game is fun , it is defintly A REALLY amazing tournement ,BELIEVE IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KS_Oblivion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is a great continuation to the series. I was very glad that this classic series 
 was comming back to a Sony console so I checked it out and was not dissapointed. Single player 
 mode has a good pace to it, the story line is just deep enough and i can bet that there will be 
 a Unreal Tournament 5 in some way considering the ending (Don't worry I won't spoil anything!) . 
 The characters can be funny and the action in the story itself very exciting. The "Instant Action" 
 mode is great to just jump into a favorite map with a few "bots" and maybe a mutator or two. The 
 bots difficulty you can set to challenge yourself or slaughter away. Moving on to the multiplayer, 
 you have lots to do here as well! You can make your own character according to the characters from 
 the storyline in single player then customize them. The friend system is nice and easy as you can 
 send friend invites in the game at the end of a match. While the surrounding people means many 
 different skill levels which equals intense, constantly changing multiplayer action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is a sci=fi first person shooter. For the PS3. The story actually evolves around 
 this group of people that were attacked by an alien race. now you play as some of the survivers 
 on a quest to get revenge. Also you wait to see justice served, or vengence, depends on your ponit 
 of view. 
  Good Things; the game has got pretty graphics, both the cut scenes and the real game. The action 
 is good, but kind of old school in a way. There are great weapons and vechicles to choose from. 
 The controls are pretty good also. You can follow your friends online from game to game and even 
 play the story mode with them, which is fun.
  Bad Things: The story gets old kind of fast, not much excitement or suprise, and not that many 
 cut scenes to explain the story and keep you interested. You also seem to do the same thing over 
 and over in the story mode. It gets boring quickly. Once you get bored , of course you go online 
 and find out that its not all you expected it to be either. You loose connection easy and its hard 
 to find a good server. You cant use a head set or blue tooth on line. That took a lot of fun out 
 of it. No replay value at all to me . and there is no split screen multi player. 
  OVER ALL: I was dissapointed in this game, I was so anxious to get this game, because this was 
 suppose to be the "godfather of online games", yeh well, this was sad. It has the feel that it 
 was rushed and cheaply made. If they do make another one, I will definetly rent it. Not worth the 
 money at all. I do not count this as one of the best PS3 games. I can think of ten off the top 
 of my head that are way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjarocklee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would have at least a great online experience, with new options for splitscreen 
 or multiplayer but to no surprize there was only good graphics. I thought this would be better 
 than 2004 or any previous version of unreal tournament and I was wrong... 
  Bad controls for controllers and buggy online play has made me given one of my favorite FPS series 
 a 7.5 considering i've spent 100 + on unreal Tournament 2004, (I loved the multiplayer and the 
 options for servers + mods) I checked the PC version but it also has less quality then a fan would 
 a expect. At best buy this game for the PC if you want to play online, single player is not worth 
 mentioning. 
  -Good points-
  Who doesn't like using a flak burst while watching it fly towards the enemy torso at point-blank 
 range? Although this game felt very uncomplete 
  it had many good points in the weapon designs. shooting a shock rifle still feels as fun as ever 
 and the new bio rifle looks much better. :) Graphics are the best part though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid0112
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be awesome according to all the hype it was getting. Now granted the 
 graphics are not bad - I will give it that much. The control options stink. I spent most of my 
 time in this game trying to figure which gun is under which gun menu since there is are two sub 
 menus that you select your guns from. Besides the issues I have with the poor console within the 
 game, I did not realize that the entire point of this game was capture the flag. 
  
  When this was advertised they should have advertised that this was a game that was designed to 
 be more of an online game. Instead, in the video previews before the release they made it seem 
 that there was a real story line to this game. 
  
  There seems to be little plot in the story of this game, and because I am not a huge online gamer 
 I am stuck with an expensive game of capture the flag that has fallen way short of my expectation 
 for the this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiner000
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  You've played this game before. Even if you've never played Unreal, you've stilled played this 
 game before. It is fun. Sometimes. But online seems to have issues, I've encountered noticeable 
 lag in every game, and unplayable lag about 25% of the time. And as an online game I think online 
 reliability would have been more of a priority.
  
  The gameplay is good. The major saving grace of the game is the fact that the fast paced futuristic 
 rocker launching style shooters aren't as overdone recently as military shooters and such. Since 
 playstation 3 doesn't have it's 'halo' this is the best you've got.
  
  Graphics. Well. It is playstation 3... so of course it looks nice. But as one of the newest games 
 released to date, I don't find it as great as some games that have been out a little longer. I 
 dont see this as a game that shows off what the new generation of games can do. Some playstation 
 3 games have just left me staring at certain things. (a perfect example is watching the sunrise 
 standing under a red-leaved tree in oblivion) . But unreal has not given me any of these moments.
 
  
  The main reason I got this game was simply to have variety in my online shooter library. And it 
 gives me that. But even though it's my newest game, I still find myself playing Call of Duty 4 
 and team fortress more frequently and for longer period. Which the fact that I was historically 
 an Unreal fan more so then the others should tell you something.
  
  Worth buying? How much do you like online shooters? How patient are you?
  
  Because even tho 
 the only value is the online, Maybe a 5 day rental would give you enough of the expericne you need.
 
  
  But for those of us that are addicted to online shooters, and want some variety in our gameplay. 
 Buy it, Play it, and I'll light you up with my always favored shooter weapon the flak cannon :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozberlin76
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Alot of FPS fans will poo-poo UT3 since during the period since it's inception shooter games have 
 become a little more duck and cover. But Unreal 3 is a nice change of pace with an all-out frag-fest 
 with a nice amount of Wes Craven-esque gore. The campaign mode is OK but feels thrown together 
 and may as well be training for the real sweet spot of the game: Multiplayer. Again, this is where 
 UT has always shined in it's ability to deliver speedy heated barrel action. While the mods aren't 
 quite available yet for the console versions, this is a nice get-your-bloodlust-fix disc to pop 
 in and let the cannon fire spay with glee. Hardcore devotees of FPS may enjoy Resistance of COD4, 
 but this about speed, fragging, and more fragging. And after you're done with that, why not frag 
 a lil' more?? Get the picture. The graphics are glorious, ad the one thing missing from this to 
 make it a repetitive must play are the customizations that one only hopes are on the way. After 
 a couple of hours playing as one of the gung-ho intergalactic mercenaries online, you feel a certain 
 tingle of Ah-nuld the Governator in his more respectable Terminator days coursing up your spine. 
 It's OK, we won't tell anybody. Grab your bio-rifle and handheld tactical nuclear device and gut 
 anything that moves. Not much strategy to this one, but Nobunaga's Ambition can wait 'till after 
 you have wiped off your own drool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceBolt77
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  UT3's unreal engine offers great textures, shading, and frame rate for the PC and PS3 alike. It 
 is surprisingly flexible in its ability to run on the "average" video card. Settings can easily 
 be tweaked to optimize performance while still maintaining an entertaining playing experience. 
 Now for the meat and potatoes. If you are the kind of gamer looking for an in-depth, immersive 
 single player campaign/story mode, UT3 is not the game for you. Single player campaign is stale 
 and stern. The average gamer will complete the story mode in approximately 10 hours. Clearly, the 
 focus is on the multiplayer aspect of this FPS. Multiplayer... About that... Normally Gamespot 
 is, for the most part, pretty accurate in its descriptions for the newest, latest greatest titles 
 for consoles and PC. One highly crucial detail that was somehow forgotten in its review, is there 
 is NO OFFLINE OR ONLINE SPLITSCREEN MULTIPLAYER. God it is annoyingly repetitive to type in caps, 
 and such mechanics would be frowned upon by my college professors; however, people need a clean 
 crisp outline, if for no other reason than to get on with their lives. The online multiplayer offers 
 a variety of types of death match/CTF action, both free-for-all and team play, but once again, 
 you CANNOT PLAY WITH YOUR FRIENDS in the same room. It is truly quite sad, in my opinion, in this 
 "Next Gen Era," that a company can actually fail to incorporate such a standardized feature. Whether 
 they were pressed for launch, short on funds, or just plain lazy or ignorant - I still find it 
 hard to believe how splitscreen could not be integrated into the game. As much as the game has 
 been recycled (virtually no new weapons, although there are great new vehicles and maps with stunning 
 visuals) , one would only assume they had enough time to creat a splitscreen mode. Multiplayer action 
 with your friends is more popular and fun than ever - especially in this day and age - and it pains 
 me to see a solid game be undermined by such an elementary flaw. Ultimately, if you are a gamer 
 who prefers to play alone, particularly in online play, then UT3 will be a fantastic game for you. 
 If you are the gamer that prefers to play with friends, in heated competition either online or 
 offline, I would not recommend this game to you. All in all, UT3 is almost, but not quite where 
 it should be, especially for a 60$ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The next installment to the Unreal Tournament series is even better than the last games! Here is 
 my review for the amazing Unreal Tournament 3!
  
  Story-9.1 The story is good, but not even close to as good as the multiplayer. Decent storyline 
 and pretty good voice acting make the story enjoyable.
  
  Graphics-10 The graphics are amazing!!! Other than a few glitches in the graphics, the graphics 
 are perfect. The character models look great and the enviorments are completely beautiful.
  
  Mult -Player-9.5 The multiplayer for UT 3 is just like the old ones with some new features. 
 Stll amazingly fun and lasting though. the online is still the best part of the game.
  
  Replay Value-9.7 You can play this game for years! Unless maybe you've played the heck out of the 
 other games.
  
  Overall-9.5 An awesome experience you must try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRXgamer93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Iight I dont know why this game got a 'good' reveiw it shouldve got and excellent. Nothing new 
 nothing, but somehow unreal feels fresh so epic good job on it. The campaign mode is just a little 
 sidewinder in the game, if u get bored on the multiplayer (which is unlikely if you are a tight 
 wad) but its O. K , and the cutscenes are amazing. Graphics over the top i own a Ps3 60 gb, my account 
 is elsniper93 on CoD4 and UT3 soo add me, and watch out cause i rarely miss. O and in suspense 
 the best way to capture the flag is to take a scorpion and ram it inside the builing iight peace 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  STORY
  This is probably the worst part of this game, the campaign. There really isn't any story, it's 
 just playing game modes such as, Team Deathmatch, CTF, Vehicle CTF, etc. against bots. Even though 
 the single player has no story, it can still keep you somewhat entertained. Score - 6.0
  
  GRAPHICS
  As you all know, he PS3 version of UT3 is a port of the PC game. While most port games 
 look awful, UT3 looks alright. The graphics are not great by any stretch of the imagination but 
 compared to other port games, these graphics are some of the best. Score - 7.0
  
  ONLINE
  This is by far the strongest part of UT3. So many different maps and game modes will keep you entertained 
 for plenty of hours. All the different guns are so cool and each one of them is so unique. Even 
 if you suck, this game will still be fun online. Score - 9.0
  
  Overall this game is good but if you're not really the online type, stay away from UT3. However, 
 if you're a guy who likes an arcade style shooting game with great online play, pick up this game. 
 Final Score - 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panman_Dan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This was my first UT game and I was looking forward to it. I heard it was the first in the series 
 to have a single player campaign, whoo! But, its hardly driven by any real story and feels like 
 it was slapped on, maybe 5 cutscenes that aren't very long. Campaign missions are your basic TDM, 
 CTF, Nodes, and Warfare game modes over and over again, as a I said before, the story felt tacked 
 on.
  
  The multiplayer and gameplay itself is good. Some maps are very large and feel like a larger amount 
 of people playing would be better, like 32 people as opposed to the 16 it allows. Even with the 
 addition of vehicles the larger maps they dont make up for much, other than coolness. Campaign 
 mode allows you to set your difficulty level, I chose Normal, not hard at all really, I couldn't 
 imagine easier modes. If you plan to play online and do well, practice, especially if you played 
 through campaign thinking online would be a cakewalk, its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGecKOo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, the multi-player seems like it has promise with user content but its online 
 experence is lacking. 
  
  If you are new to FPS's then this is the game for you. its basic control, run and gun stye, and 
 fast movement would be a great introduction for you to the FPS genre. but look for it used for 
 20 or 30 dollars or better yet rent it and judge for yourself.
  
  For everyone else that plays FPS's. This game in my opinon just seems to be alittle outdated even 
 with the "UNREAL ENGINE" 
  
  The graphics are arcadey but not bad . The playablity/game play is very simple, The guns are not 
 bad there is a limited selection to choose from and you do end up 90% of the time using a rocket 
 launcher online or a chain gun.
  
  Overall what it sums down to is another rehashed FPS not worthy of 60 buxs or even the self space 
 by your PS3. Paying for this game just shows the game publishers we will put up with another half 
 arse product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, granted, it looks pretty enough, . . . but that only takes you so far. This game hold my 
 attention for about 30 minutes at a clip, then I am ready to tear my own skin right off my bones. 
 They had a year to tweak the graphics from the time of Gears and while it's definitely "clean" 
 looking, Gears is the winner in the personality department, Gears also wins in the feel ,mood and 
 vibe department. Once I started Gears, I didn't want to put the game down, UT3, I can't wait to 
 stop playing, the lag doesn't help either. I guess if you only own a PS3 this would seem really 
 to be a great catch, but having all 3 consoles, it takes more than a pretty decent game to get me 
 going. Truth be told it's a nice looking capture the flag or tag, . but,. . no thanks, I was too 
 old for that when I was young, now I'm older and it's just intolerable. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is the third in a series of console and PC games that focus around team based 
 fact action combat. Although this is only the third game on console systems, it is a follow up 
 to 2004's game of the year, which was of course Unreal Tournament 2004. Unreal Tournament has shown 
 up on Microsoft's Xbox as both a first person shooter and third person action game, now it has 
 finally made its debut appearance on Sony's next gen system. Right off the bat you can tell that 
 the developers have worked many years on creating the detail that went into the game. From top 
 to bottom, the graphics are absolutely beautiful. 
  
  The gameplay, like many other Unreal games is fun and very fast-pace, utilizing group team based 
 gameplay to eliminate the other team or complete objectives. This year, there are some new multiplayer 
 modes in which corporation between team-members is a must, which in my opinion is very cool. One 
 thing to note, there is a single player campaign to this game but its lacking in story and interest 
 really, like UT2 , its just a series of CTF, Deathmatch, and TDM games along with a jagged plot 
 that really isn't all too interesting. If you don't use online play, I would suggest not buying 
 UT3 simply because there is no split screen gameplay at the moment and the single player portion 
 lacks the proper elements to be something special by itself. 
  
  Overall, Unreal Tournament 3 is a great addition to the playstation 3 list of games. If you have 
 online and like fast paced shooters then I suggest you pick this game up ASAP because its definitely 
 worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symbolkid88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Thats rite!!! I think this game is better than Halo. First of all, you get to be more than one 
 person in multiplayer, theres way more gore, for online play you can create custom players, theres 
 also a better varity of weapons, theres also better multiplayer game settings. Well, thats my opinion... whats 
 yours? Well anyway, other than being better than Halo, this game has a strong storyline. I mean 
 your fighting in a war.. whats not to love hahaha. Also, a few of the classic characters make an 
 apperance. Remember how I said that theres losta gore? Well... you get to blow your enemies appart... I 
 maen, whats not to love about that. Hmmm... I think that enough said. If you wanna find out for 
 yourself if this game is better than Halo, check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game was a rental for me, since I wasn't so sure on how much I'd enjoy it. I am a bit of a 
 graphics hog, which is what lead me to at least rent this game.
  
  Graphics wise this game sports the tune of Gears of War, I honestly don't think it looked better 
 or worse then Gears. So expect about the same thing, but on a MUCH larger scale of maps, and much 
 faster pace of action.
  
  Gameplay, the FPS feels solid and fast. Honestly, a tad to fast for my taste. But this is coming 
 from a guy that like Warhawk, Socom and Call of Duty 4. All slower aiming scenes. I just couldn't 
 get into the unrealness of how fast the game played.
  
  Single player is more of a training ground for MP, and seams really to be a waste of time.
  
 
  For a game bent on MP, it lacks in online mods if you ask me. And where's the ranking system? 
 Personally, Warhawk shadows this game in Rankings, and things to do online. But if your a FPS lover 
 at the purest form, which I'm not, you should love this game far more then I did.
  
  Note, it does share servers with the PC to play online with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illuyshin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  fun, sometimes confusing aat times, not really my kinda game but really good for the kinda of people 
 who like alien type creature shooting lol idk really how to say it. gr8 maps and gameplay little 
 weird graphics 0for my kind of games.9which of course can be changed to weirdo standards
  good normal controls but i r8 it a 8.5 out of 10 because it just brings you into a intense unreal 
 battle (of course by the name lol)
  
  single player is fun bbut i think if some1 is to play online you should have a little experience 
 on the other unreal tournements.
  
  i havent played it long cause it was my friends but right when you get in the game your amazed 
 as i was but it is not a game you get bored after a week of playing. i will probably buy it but 
 im having fun with call of duty4 then i think i will go for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Well, I picked up Unreal Tournament 3 about 1 week after launch. I must say that this is pretty 
 one sick game, I haven't played a Unreal Tournament game since they had one on the Sega Dreamcast 
 *WOW that was a long time ago*
  
  Now moving right along, I gotta say that the "Story" mode isn't all that, but UT fans already know 
 that it's not about the "Story" mode that makes this game worth wild. It's all about the online 
 play, so jumping right into online action.
  
  There is a good amount of people playing this game, It's still getting up their with Call of Duty 
 4, but give it some months and we'll see a great classic game. It's very fast and everything came 
 together when I jumped right back into the game, I never had so much fun playing this game. 
  
  Sound is good
  Graphics are pretty decent
  
  And to top it off, Rocket Launcher and Flak 
 Cannon ROCK!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Im not even going to go into how good this game looks, if youre a ps3 owner or just wish you were 
 than you know already. If youre a 360 fanboy than youre jealous. I myself got off the Multibillion 
 dollar Microsoft band wagon and got back to Sony after getting red lights 3 times.... thats right 
 not 3 red lights... red lights 3 times. Gears of War didnt look this good or play as smoothly.
 
  
  
  
  
  The controls feel right at home on the console they are very responsive. You also have the keyboard 
 and mouse control feature if you so desire though. And for those of you who dont want to compete 
 with those using that setup you have the option to turn them off as well.
  
  
  
  
  The single player campaign is basically just a rundown of what youll be doing online, Deathmatch 
 / CTF / Team Deathmatch / ..... But you can also go so far as to play out your campaign cooperatively 
 via online. The single player reminded me alot of Tribes Aerial Assault for the PS2. (if you never 
 played it go buy it now its only like $8 and super fun!)
  
  
  
  
  
  There isnt a giant leap as far as gameplay goes but the formula is tried and true and they didnt 
 hold back on the nonstop action ! Its very fun for me because I for one am new to the Unreal universe 
 and the graphics sucked me in but the fast paced shoot em up action blew me away.
  
  
  
  
  Kudos to Epic Games for making the graphics on this game a step above all others, even 
 PCs need super powerful graphics cards to stay on par with this PS3 title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  UTIII was the game I really wanted for Christmas... and I got it, so needless to say I was excited 
 to stick it in my PS3 and play it on my brand new HDTV. I began to play, and was impressed with 
 the graphics, and the fun, quick gameplay. And then I realized I was playing Deathmatch against 
 a bunch of bots. Really? Is this worth 60 bucks?
  
  Don't get me wrong. The online play is of course, awesome... but that's about it. The game has no 
 campaign mode, and the online play is fun, and yet boring, yet uninspired, and also disappointing. 
 I have mixed emotions about this game. It's good, do not get me wrong, but I'm not so sure if it's 
 worth the 60 bucks.
  
  In summation, if you like fun, fast, and furious online play, get UTIII. If you're looking for 
 more from a game, this might not be for you. I'll probably play this game for a month or two, and 
 then possibly return it, so check for mountain_duwe's used UTIII copy at a GameStop near you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmouth1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  UT2004 stays the best in the series. unreal 3 has offcourse much better graffics and all that but 
 its couple of years later. 
  though the grafics are really very well done. 
  in the series it doesnt realy matter for me if new stuff comes in, just give me an new tournament 
 in killing another. 
  they did well with some new stuff. like new machinery. like that darkwalker is very cool. 
  except 
 the new single player sucks big time
  it sucks that they have a story this time, a guy like me just wants an other tournament. 
  i 
 even didnt finish the single player champain, it was boring, didnt give me that tournament - feeling.
 
  the enemy AI is very well done
  the friendly AI is bad. tell a guy to attack but he keeps standing close to you. they should have 
 done better with the friendly AI, expecially with that new warfare gamemode.
  
  then we have the multiplayer, wich is fun all the time offcourse. like you would be expecting how 
 it is. its realy fun to play multi. so if youre playing a lot multiplayer, this game is a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcat888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Most people should know of the Unreal Tournament Series. They have always been high quality, run 
 and gun shooters. This game does not dissapoint. Either you hate this game or you love it.
  
  This is my first ever game review, so, it might be missing some main elements. First time for 
 everything!
  
  Graphics: This is probably the first thing that stands out. This is one of the best looking games 
 on the PS3 yet. Great lighting and effects! You know you are playing a next-gen game.
  
  Sound: Great quality! Each of the weapons have an unique sound. Each gun's sound also sounds like 
 it was made just for the gun. None of the gun's sound overpowered.
  
  Gameplay: Plays just like every other Unreal Tournament game. This may be a good or bad thing. 
 Fast paced and very Rambo style. The vehicles add an enirely new way and play the game. You can't 
 just shoot your way into the enemy's base, there is always a chance of getting blown to pieces 
 by a tank.
  
  In my opinion, do not buy this game if you just want to play off-line. This game has a campaign, 
 but it is basically you playing against bots in game levels. This is an online game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdgates
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game to be great. I wanted to play another great online shooter besides Resistance 
 but UT3 just doesn't deliver the experience I thought it would after so much development time.
 
  
  Yes, the graphics are very nice. There are a lot of different arena to play in. The bots are almost 
 fun to play against. It is a fun for about 8-10 hours and then quickly wears out it's welcome.
 
  
  I started with the campaign mode and it is great for getting back in the swing of the game and 
 learning some of the key arenas. But don't be fooled because there is no story here at all and 
 this mode should only be used for the previously mentioned warm-ups.
  
  Once I was back in the swing of the game I wanted to go online and this was by far the biggest 
 disappointment of the entire game. In UT3 you do get vehicles you can play with unlink in Resistance 
 it comes at the cost of online achievements, rankings, any smart game creation, or a system that 
 even really works. Getting into a game is a complete hit and miss undertaking as I got tons of 
 connection errors, games that were suddenly full or would enter a game to find it had one kill 
 left in the game. I tried making my own server and was never able to get more than 2 or 3 players 
 to join the game. It is beyond me why a game that is so completely geared for online play is so 
 bad at it and why there wasn't more time put into at least getting equal with what is offered by 
 games like Resistance. I only hope once they get the user generated content issues ironed out they 
 are able to put more structure into the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game i was like wow this is not what i expected. The first ones 
 were better at first but then i got the hang of the story mode and then played the online which 
 i expected to be amazing and well it was i got tired of it real quick though but then about 2 hours 
 later i just had to play and it was alot better the second time around. It is still the most chaotic 
 online in my mind ever and that is why i love the online. But absolutely now more aboout the story 
 it is a fun interesting story but it does sometimes get a little boring of playing just game types (deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, CTF, etc) the ai is great. and very responsive its near impossible to do a good sneak 
 up on one of them but sometimes they just turn illeterate and will just walk by you. But they did 
 have a new gametype added and it was just nonstop fun with it. It is called warfare and it so interesting 
 and fun. You have to link these nodes then there core is unprotected and you have to destroy it 
 and it is just crazy fun. so for anybody that doesnt have this you run out to the nearest eb games/gamestop 
 and buy it. If you dont enjoy it at first give it another chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kghadiri
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  I think gamespot is retarded for rating this game a 8.5 i think it shout of been at least a 9 to 
 a 9.5. Yes I agree it gets a little lag issues but that is always because of the game, it is mainly 
 the host of the games problem. this games is so fun I never get bored of it, with its fun hoverboard 
 tricks to playing the story mode with all your friends to help you. I was simply amazed of how 
 great this game was and I want to let you all know....
  IF YOU OWN A PS3 AND LIKE GUN GAMES THIS IS THE GAME FOR YOU!!!!
  
  -add me if you have UT3 
 and wanna play:
  ArmysFinest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinD102
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  to tell you the truth me and unreal have never been together but after this game i have became 
 a huge fan this game is jam packed with multiple levels and multiple game modes which continue 
 to excite the player day in and day out even the story mode has awesome cut scenes and because 
 of the gears of war graphics you already know what i am talking about from the awesome vehicles 
 to the awesome weapons this game stands out so try this and become addicted like i have. This game 
 is a great pickup especially because it is definitely the best shooter since resistance and i state 
 this claim boldly it is ever growing so be sure to expect updates along with new maps and other 
 great surprises that i know the developers have under their sleeve so do not forget to check this 
 game out because it is a great shooter for every fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbm1512
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  After playing Unreal III, I can honestly say that I can laugh at Halo's multiplayer (in some aspects) . 
 The pace at which the action occurs is unlike any other console experience. Being as ADHD as I 
 am, I seriously could not ask for more out of a game. Although it has its problems, they will all 
 be addressed in 1.1 If you like high energy, and highly absorbing games, then I recommend this 
 without a doubt. Oh and did I mention Epic is giving us the chance to develop for the PS3???? Who 
 else can say that. If your looking for a submersive single player experience, then look elsewhere, 
 but if you want to run and gun with your friends on expansive multiplayer maps and hella game modes, 
 then I don't know why your still reading this and not driving to best buy. Those of you who bail 
 on UT3 on the account that it reminds you of the previous games, shame on you for being hypocrites.*seeing 
 as halo 3 isn't much different than 2* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgert
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm a newcomer to the Unreal games so when I got UT3 on PS3 I didn't really know what to expect. 
 All in all I wasn't dissapointed but thought there were some issues. My biggest issue with the 
 game is the lack of splitscreen support. I have a Live and PSN account but I almost never go on 
 PSN due to a lack of PS3 owning friends. I was looking forward to getting some neighbors over and 
 playing team deathmatch. My other gripe which isn't an issue for most people is the way the games 
 played in general. It was quite a change going from Halo move speed to UT3's constant sprinting. 
 I am more inclined to like slower games but the controls are awesome on the PS3. Once I got into 
 the action I forgot the methodical pace of my other games. The singleplayer is a little weak with 
 just multiplayer matches but with bots but there are some well done cutscenes to split these sections 
 up. Basically if you don't have online for your console I wouldn't really reccomend it but if you 
 do it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  So, first off, let me say this game is FUN. Its never ending action, you die, your fighting within 
 seconds again. The gameplay is excellent, and the controls are superb. The graphics on this are 
 just amazing. Ive actually died quite a few times turning the corner to look at the graphics, its 
 just awesome. The sound, i thought, could be a little bit better. Some of the guns sound kind of 
 muzzled to me, but hey, it doesnt bother me too much. Now, my only 2 complaints about the game. 
 1, serious lag issues. dont tell me its my connection, its beyond fine, and i always enter a pretty 
 good server, and no matter what, the sound lags. every time. doesnt bother me that much, but seeing 
 my gun fire, and having to wait 2 seconds before i hear anything, can get kind of annoying. My 
 other complaint, is that the ranking system isnt there. To be an online based shooting game, where 
 are the ranks? I enjoy the customization, but what about, oh i dont know, unlockable customaztions? 
 I think it would be cool to show a different helmet or armor to show how high of a rank you are (if 
 there were ranks) . Overall, a very solid game, both offline and online, but the online needs to 
 fix the lag, seriously. I know the ranks wont come, but I think it wouldve been more worthwhile 
 while i play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Let start off by saying that I did indeed expect better but still not a letdown. It IS an online 
 based game so dont expect the story mode to be good. In fact the story mode is pathetic in this 
 game. The actual online action delivers alot while there are some issues. The first issue being 
 the dreaded LAG. Its not very frequent but still is annoying. The second issue being that the game 
 seems to crash often due to USer Created COntent. I was disappointed with this as I was really 
 looking forward to the mods. The third issue is the mics. Its so damn hard pressing right on the 
 dpad without getting shot right in the head. Another letdown is the character selection. There 
 are way to little characters to choose from especially compared to UT 2004.
  
  Apart from the flaws there is some great online action! The fast paced action still KIND OF exists 
 but not as much as the PC version. I found 2004 to be maybe a little better in terms of gameplay 
 but the new look and style of UT3 is still good. I have played this since 1999 and not much changes 
 has been made to the game. Which is a good thing. The HEADSHOT is still satisfying and the same 
 with the multiple kills. 
  
  Still awesome! A must buy for PS3
  I would give this game a 9 if the issues were fixed.
  As of now.. a 
  
  8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finly
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Though if you've played the other unreal games, and were good at them, this game poses no real 
 challenge, unless bots difficulty are turned up fairly high.
  
  But they did add a cool new feature, a hover board, which takes place for the translocater on vehicle 
 based matches, you always have it, and it can be pretty handy, though it takes some getting used 
 to.
  
  The weapons, which stay traditional to the unreal game, though no lightning gun, just snipers, 
 missing a few super weapons, but it still has AVRiL, and it has some cool effects.
  
  As far as modding goes, I got the (To my knowledge) only content available for PS3, and it works 
 pretty nice, thought it kinda confused me when i first tried to get it to work. I checked the forum 
 and supposedly people are working on different mutators and whatnot.
  
  The second and last new feature I'll mention is, ability to change the defualt characters, though 
 it doesn't go in depth, its still a neat little feature.
  
  The online works good as well, and I love the bots, though on the lowest difficulty they are the 
 DUMBEST bots I've ever seen, they'll run past you, and are pretty inaccurate. But theres a wide 
 range of difficulties for the bots to run on, and at least it gives you the chance to play offline 
 with bots.
  
  
  Overall this game is a great one, and anyone who loves fast paced, first person shooters, or anyone 
 who is a fan of the UT series, should probably look into getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, let me say I would love to see this game in mission-style format. Epic games, 
 of Gears of War game, would put out the best shooter in a long time, if not ever. 
  
  But instead we have a very good Unreal Tournament type of game. The graphics are outstanding and 
 the game play is fast. 
  
  Basically, you and your squad have to travel the galaxy in search of some crazy chick who destroyed 
 your home and killed a bunch of people. You find here by doing countless tournaments.
  
  Those are your basic team deathmatch, capture the flag and a warfare type that includes linking 
 nodes before destroying the enemy core. 
  
  I have to say that it does get a little repetitive and the node thing takes too long. But you forget 
 about that when the cool vehicles make their appearance and you see the awesome maps you're playing 
 on.
  
  That's the offline mode. Online is basically more of the same. Great graphics and intense game 
 play. 
  
  So grab your rocket launcher and head out. This game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judonwanit
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Take this from a person who's been playing FPS for quite a while now, Unreal Tournament 3 for the 
 Playstation 3 is a must have title. Although the Campaign mode might not attract you much due to 
 its lack of actual adventure, it still compels you with hardcore Tournament style shooting. The 
 bots are now accompanied with voices. They will more or less speak to you, although some Profanity 
 is involved it makes it that much more fun to enjoy. The weapons are great, but even with all these 
 fantastic weapons I tend to get most kills with the Enforcers (pistols) . Specially when I'm wielding 
 two. 
  
  With all this recent talk of the PS3 not having much buddy contact as its competitors, Unreal allows 
 you to message in-game to you're buddies who own Unreal as well as letting you follow them whenever 
 you please. Just press start while playing, and head over to the friends tab in the menu.
  To chat Press and hold right on the Directional pad, this is customizable.
  
  There are tons 
 of levels, and plenty more to come that are user created. At this time there are already 3 available 
 for download. The content is easily installed to the game by downloading, then unzipping it onto 
 the root any usb memory device. You could find them on Epic's website. 
  
  You could customize your online character with all sorts of body armor. Unreal tournament doesn't 
 bring character customization variety but the detail on the ones available are simply amazing.
 
  
  If you are not familiar with the type of game play Unreal offers then familiarize yourself first 
 by viewing videos on here. Many people could be turned off by how fast paced the gameplay is, but 
 indeed it is what makes the game so playable. At times you could go on killing 8+ people without 
 dying. And the commentators voice just edges you in harder to keep killing. KILL, DOUBLE KILL, MULTIKILL, ULTRAKILL!!!. 
 
  
  There are many game modes and game enhancers as well. With all the mods getting cooked, this is 
 a game that'll have plenty of replay value. 
  
  For my last words, get this game it 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has long been a series about intense, twitch reflex shooting action. The game 
 began as a standard Deathmatch, CTF, and Team Deathmatch offering. However ultimately the game 
 has evolved to include multiple gametypes including the new Warfare mode. Each iteration has delivered 
 upon the classic Unreal formula of lightning fast gameplay and Unreal Tournament 3 for the PS3 
 is no different.
  
  Unreal 3 features a short single player campaign and if you are not planning on taking the game 
 online try Call of Duty 4. In short, there is indeed a single player campaign with a brief backstory 
 and cutscenes to progress the story, but to progress you do not do missions in a way that you did 
 for Gears of War. Instead you participate in matches against computer controlled "bots." This is 
 essentially the same as playing online except there are computer controlled opponents instead of 
 human controlled.
  
  The multiplayer options are the core strength of the game. Overall Unreal 3 is not a better game 
 than its main competitor, Call of Duty 4, COD4s single player campaign trumps any other single 
 player experience this year (except God of War 2) and thus trumps Unreal 3 in an overall sense. 
 However if online gaming is your main thing, Unreal 3 will offer the most competitive FPS arena 
 on the PS3 right now.
  
  The controls are ultra quick, twitchy and require a great amount of skill and practice to truly 
 master. Jumping around hurling rockets at an opponent is not as easy as sight aiming and taking 
 potshots at a human opponent. In short Unreal offers a way for FPS enthusiasts to truly showcase 
 their superior skills. This game provides a much wider skill gap as far as a novice and a master 
 than a game such as Call of Duty. There is no room for error in this arena and you best be on your 
 A game if you expect to dominate the servers.
  
  Luckily controlling the action with a SIXAXIS is nearly as fluid as controlling with a keyboard 
 and mouse. While both options are availabe to use in the PS3 version, the SIXAXIS can compete with 
 your KB/M brothers. I have come out on the top of some of Midways KB/M enebaled servers many times 
 using my controller pad. If you feel it will provide an unfair advantage (especially with the lethal 
 in a masters hands Shock Rife) then you can filter out KBM games in your online search.
  
  Game modes are broken up into Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, Warfare, Campaign and Duel modes. 
 Warfare is a team based game featuring Unreals sickly awesome array of vehicles. Each beast comes 
 with a primary and secondary fire, same as the foot soldier weapons, and offers a menacing presense 
 such as the beastly DarkWalker. You must capture nodes in order to connect with the enemy primary 
 core. then destory it. Duel is a pretty interesting mode as well. It allows as many as 8 or so 
 players to join a game room. Then it is winner stays loser goes style gameplay with 1 on 1 battles. 
 The other game members then wait in line to get a shot at whoever won the previous match. It is 
 a pretty cool system and sets up some frantically intense 1 on 1 matches
  
  The weapons will be familiar to Tournament veterans. Your standard helping of pistol, link gun, 
 rocket launcher, flak cannon, etc. etc. are all available. Each featuring a secondary fire that 
 can deliver different results. The weapons are your tools of dismemberment and you can unleash 
 more carnage than a weekend in Fallujah with any one of the bad boys.
  
  The graphics are incredible. Epic again delivers a visual masterpiece with their Unreal 3 Engine, 
 also responsible for the excellent Gears of War. The action moves fluid and smooth, and I still 
 have yet to experience a hickup in the frame rate as others have reported. The animations, gib 
 effects, blood and carnage blossoms into a visual feast worth the price of admission.
  
  Finally there is the ability to download and import maps and custom mods for the game. Already, 
 two weeks after launch, Unreal has enjoyed 4 free maps that can be put onto a Zip Drive and saved 
 to your game. This opens up a huge area for console gamers to enjoy the same free downloadable 
 content their PC counterparts have enjoyed for years. Expect some extremely cool content to get 
 rolled out by this means in the future.
  
  The only flaw of Unreal is the menu system and online lobby system. You can easily find games in 
 the lobby and use custom filters to narrow your results. It does offer in game messaging and friends, 
 though not quite as intuitive as call of Duty's system. Also you can tag up with a friend and follow 
 them around as well. Leaderboards let those with enough skill showcase their stuff and characters 
 are also customizable. 
  
  Overall Unreal Tournament 3 is the online game to have for the PS3. I have Call of Duty 4 and Warhawk, 
 its two primary competitors, and I can assure you this is the creme de le creme. The amount of 
 skill required to master the game makes it a delight for competitive gamers seeking for a challenging 
 experience and you will undoubtedly get into some nail biter duel matches. Overall it is not the 
 best overall FPS for the system, that nod will go to Call of Duty 4 with its robust online offerings 
 and killer campaign. However if straight online combat is your dig, this game will satisfy on every 
 level.
  
  See you online - MadKernel87 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Severedangel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Gamespot. com is really starting to suck. Time and time again they knock the ps3 with crap like 
 unreal tournament has lag issues during gameplay. The system is an awesome system and I have never 
 had any lag with any of my ps3 games. As long as microsoft keeps giving gamespot free crap they 
 will of course favor their games. Look at the game Oblivion, xbox vs ps3 the game lags way more 
 on the 360. When you walk over a hill and there is a building on the other side the 360 version 
 shows it in pieces and slowly puts it together the closer you get. The PS3 version as you walk 
 over the hill the building can be seen as a whole. Gamespot is failing in many ways they no longer 
 rate games on what we want to know just on who pays them more. Hell they fire their critics when 
 they say the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournement is a REALLY great game , with some great graphics, atmosphere and Gameplay.
  
  
  So the story is pretty cool , and its kind long. the traditional single-player mode you're 
 used to, you'll fight against computer opponents in a series of matches that are bundled into an 
 inconsequential story and basically meant to prepare you for the online portion of the game. You 
 can also play against bots on the multiplayer maps, though the meat of the experience is found 
 online, its still fun.
  
  
  The explosions are simply extrodinary. So goes for the graphics and atmoshpere. All shooting is fun 
 , + it ads some good atmoshere. Graphics are something to look at. Shooting is fun , aspecialy with 
 al thoses specifects. aThe multiplayer wor, ks sharply as you can imagin. The gameplay is aint half 
 bad
  
  
  The game is fun , it is defintly A REALLY amazing tournement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  little has changed in terms of game play for unreal tournament. the first or ut99 was a great hit 
 and changed the world of online gaming for ever. just 4 year after, a ut was released ut2003, it 
 had improved graphic, but many content were removed. to make it better epic released ut 2004 a 
 year after, which was superb, improving upon the graphics of ut 99 and the game play of both. 
 
  
  this year epic has unleashed its best ut by far, unreal tournament 3! the amount of vehicles simply 
 took my breathe away, more than 15 unique vehicles to drive around. the dark walker (tripod robot) 
 is by far the best introduced in the sequel. all of the weapons been remodeled and several from 
 ut 99 have been reintroduced. some of the game modes like bombing run (my fav mode in ut 2004) and 
 other have been removed, but the new mode unreal warfare replace their fun with ease. the graphic 
 is outstanding, just like another directx 10 game. though the story line is poor, but who cares 
 when UT3 is an multilayer oriented game. the AI has been greatly improved. 
  with all this said, the best part is yet to be revealed, the brand new unreal ed, which allows 
 the production of mods, just like in ut 2004. moding is why pc games are at least 30% better than 
 console games.
  
  overall all great game! i would strongly recommand everyone to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  While this game is over all a solid game, it fails in several key areas. Considering it's a first 
 person shooter it should of had split-screen. The lack of split-screen hurts the game even more 
 so, because bots are implimented into the game. It has been a long time now since a FPS has used 
 bots. Even though UT3 uses them it only does so in single player which is a waste. Another issue 
 I have with the game is that it show's the lack of creative design the creators of GoW have. Two 
 of the characters in UT3 seem essentially ripped straight out of Gears of War into UT3. I'll let 
 you guess which two I'm talking about. The single player campaign was lack luster at best. The 
 story had a little tid bits of interest while the core of the story was unimaginative. The multiplayer 
 is truely this games saving grace, and yet that suffers due to no leaderboards. Aside from playing 
 multiplayer to play it they're is no other incentive. This game is a solid multiplayer experience, 
 but it may leave you feeling like you played another Gears of War with elements of UT3. With that 
 said, I'd say rent it, and make up your own mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furiousjester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  This game does take some getting used to but when you get used to it you'll love it. It's just 
 a fun game to play big maps cool weapons you can build your own character. There is a quick action 
 option so you can play warfare or ctf without going online this is nice because it gives you a 
 chance to use the vehicles without getting shot at as much as you would online it basically gives 
 you a chance to practice. The graphics are awesome don't listen to anyone who tells you they are 
 not. Only one problem I would have given this game a 10 but there is some serious lag online hope 
 they fix that. Over all I think this is a great game and if you own a PS3 you should pick it up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkybreakbts
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Lame.
  
  This game was in my stack of games for about 4 days. Until it was traded in for 1/2 its cost and 
 I feel like I got more than it should have been worth even for that.
  
  Reason: If you played UT3 back in the PC days and liked it, good. Keep playing it, because they 
 rewrapped it and put a new picture on the cover. Basically the same weapons, guys, amo... so on.
 
  
  Story line? what storyline, play bots in tournaments. Lame, make a story something like halo would 
 have made a HUGE difference in this boring sad attempt at a top video game.
  
  Graphics, pathetic. COD4 set a new standard for me these days, this didn't even come close with 
 its flat textures and raw looking levels.... again looks 6 years old.
  
  I traded it in for Ratchet and Clank for my GF and feel like a made a million dollar decision. 
 If you want the best FPS and want long online life game play, go with COD4. If you already have 
 that, dont waste your money, take your mom out to dinner instead, at least the food will be good.
 
  
  Worst buy this year. Big let down. Good hype sent me for a real spin to thinking most of you viewers 
 are too easy to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Ok, so i just got the game and first impressions... not so good. The controls and sound were a bit 
 sketchy and the graphics aren't great (but this is because i have a standard TV) But after playing 
 it for a while, i have deffinitly learned to love this game. The fast paced action deffinitly makes 
 things better, and, with instant respawn, the action, chaos and gore will just keep on coming and 
 coming. I gotta say, My first impression was deffinitly wrong.
  The arsenal of weapons are great and the vehicle selection is SPECTACULAR. The storyline is good 
 but the campaign could use a bit of sprucing up a bit. The Multiplayer and the access to instant 
 action is sooooooo good, I might go and play the game now once im done. So anyways, if you love 
 action, shooting and (of course) blowing people up into oblivion, this is a must have for the PS3 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  I'll admit I'm a bit dissilusioned by this Fall's gaming prospects. I've liked pretty much most 
 of what I played, from Bioshock and Halo 3, to Warhawk and Assassin's Creed, these were all great 
 games. Most have lived up to the hype, (Call of Duty 4, Skate.) but a few haven't. (Yeah I'm looking 
 at you Drake's Fortune. And Assassin's Creed.... should have been the greatest game of all time. 
 Just didn't get there. Almost. but nope.) 
  
  But I always kept Unreal Tournament 3 on my radar. First and foremost I'm a huge Gears of War fan. 
 And this company makes outstanding games. Great looking games. And best of all badass games. So 
 after trading in Drake's Fortune, (You won't be missed you clumsy bastard...) and reserving UT3 
 I waited for a review, or some piece of information that this computer port was actually as sweet 
 as it looked in screenshots. And then I picked it up wedensday of this week.... 
  
  First impressions: I stupidly played the single player campaign, and thought, "Gawdamnit, out of 
 the frying pan into the fire." (Meaning trading Drake's in for a game this poor wasn't much of 
 a deal.) I didn't like the weapons, hated the bot-battle campaign. Let's just say I didn't get 
 it, and I quickly assumed I'd been had. So then I popped in Call of Duty 4 to assuage some of the 
 grief of getting yet another piss-poor PS3 game. But all the while I'm thinking "This is the third 
 game in a series of successful games, and I didn't really play the online or see the vehicles yet..." 
 So I put it in, punched into a multi-player battle, (Capture the Flag with Vehicles.) and haven't 
 stopped playing Unreal 3 since that moment 48 hours ago. 
  
  There's so much I love about this title it would be hard to capture in a single review, and please 
 remember that this is my FIRST Unreal Tournament experience, I'm a newbie right, and maybe these 
 guys have been doing this great stuff all along. But first and foremost what these guys have done 
 is re-create the "classic" video game experience. And by that I mean they've created a video game 
 seemingly shallow at first glance, (Like Tekken 3, or Twisted Metal 2, and Black.) that has an 
 unprecedented level of depth and skill as any first person shooter before it. What I love about 
 this game is it feels, looks, and plays like the Mortal Kombat of first person shooters, and on 
 a primal level entertains just like that. But there's so much to this game, the weapons, the vehicles, 
 the amazing levels, (Easily the best looking, best designed multi-player levels I've ever seen 
 in any game before this. And yes Halo 3, you don't come close.) they all have this insane amount 
 of detail and depth to them. A rocket launcher isn't just a one button pony in this game. Vehicles 
 don't just have mounted weapons on them in this game. Some have blades that cut-down enemies like 
 lawn mowers. Some can be launched, kamikaze-style, into bases, people, vehicles, and detonated 
 like rockets... 
  
  What started out as a seemingly "ok" game has now become a video game that I know I can get better 
 at, where I don't know everything there is to know immediately about the nooks and crannies of 
 the game. And where I'm constantly in AWE of what I'm seeing, what I'm doing. what I'm playing. 
 Unreal Tournament 3 delivers the entire package, but the fantastic part about it is you have to 
 earn it. Players, serious players, are rewarded for their effort. The more you learn, the better 
 you get. 
  
  The last thing I wanted to mention is the graphics and online game modes. There's a ton here for 
 everybody, from one-on-one duels, to standard death match. From team deathmatch to a new game called 
 warfare. Warfare's like chess, it won't make sense the first couple hours you're playing it. But 
 here's another are where UT3 excels. A standard capture and hold the base game turns into something 
 much, much greater. It's the most strategic war game I think I've played in a multi-player arena. 
 And graphically... Seriously you need to see these levels, see these massive War of the World's 
 machines crawling across them firing at soldiers surfing across the world on hoverboards... This 
 game is pretty much amazing in the design and and graphics department. Everything looks awesome. 
 
  
  PS3 owners don't miss this game. Seriously. This belongs on the shelf right next to all those classic 
 Tekken fighting games, the Twisted Metal games, (The good ones.) and any video game that took hard 
 work and talent to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I admit this is my first foray into the Unreal Tournament series. The graphics on the PS3 were 
 good. And that's pretty much the good news for me. The gameplay was very fast as advertied, but 
 fast does not equal good. The online multiplayer had no skill needed whatsoever, just run around 
 as fast as possible and shoot. After spending too much time on Halo 3 and COD 4 multiplayer Unreal 
 Tournament seemed like a total joke. I'm sure this game is great for some, but if you need a bit 
 of strategy and challenge skip this game, or at the very least rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Frist off the Graphics are Great and the Voice acting is Great. But the one Player Mode is not 
 all that Great after a few hours of playing it gets kind of old. Sure some nice Vehicles in the 
 Game big big Tank some of the shoot outs are fun at frist. but Like i said after a few hours it 
 gets old red team fights blue team on and on it goes. And the online i am not a big player online 
 so that dont do me a lot of good. One thing Ut3 is no Gears of War not even close and i was hoping 
 for a better one player Game then Ut3 has to offer. Well i did rent this from Gamefly so it was 
 a fun week rent Game. Maybe rent it frist what i would say 64 bucks is a lot of cash for a game 
 that is not like Gears Of War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Everything you want when looking for a shooter, amazing graphics, greater selection of weapons 
 and maps, fun application of vehicles. But for a console it misses some of the things that have 
 made other previous shooters so great. The ability for split screen play, was hoping to have at 
 the minimum offline splitscreen. Another negative is there is no online ranking or incentive to 
 play or do well. There are no rewards and no upgrades. Was hoping this would be added seeing how 
 successful Call of Duty 4 did it. New maps and new vehicles and great graphics that keep the Unreal 
 Tournament series fun. But as far as features not much has changed from 2004.
  Overall there are alot of ways to play the game which will keep you entertained for hours on end. 
 Nice game to have in your collection and there is always the hope that they will have downloadable 
 content for split screen due to the high volume or requests and complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fgjnfgh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Whether you are a fan of the series or new you have to get it because it's 
 the best multiplayer game this year. 
  
  You can play offline and online. The campain mode is made to be played both on offline and online 
 and many of the ongline mode like deathmatch, team deathmatch, Flag, Warfare which is a new mode, 
 and Duel where you play 1-1 each turn and also this is a new mode.
  
  I'm one of those who uses a bad connection and lags in everygame (download 1400, upload, 230) but 
 I was surprised when I hosted some matches and I didn't experience any lag. Also what made me doubt 
 in this game is that I always say that the ps3 has a bad connection than my 360 , but it changed 
 from here from the moment I bought UT3. Also many people are playing this game so don't say ooh 
 ps3 has no online players.
  
  The graphics is amazing and very sharp and detailed. There is no lag in thre graphics or any kind 
 of error. If you played Gears of War you will notice that the graphics are similar but UT3 much 
 better because it's much faster. I downloaded the demo on my laptop and choose all the settings 
 on high and I got to say that the pc is sharper and detailed but believe it's not that different 
 and the colors of the demo was really washed out where the ps3 version has clearly better colors.
 
  
  Also, as we know Unreal Tournamnent gets alot of new down loadable contact I remember that from 
 UT2k4 for free DLC. I hope we'll see free DLC and I remember there was a plenty of DLC for UT2k4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  So, whats so great about this one?
  The game is so fast i actually broke a sweat playing it online. Im serious. 
  The weapons are 
 all amazing, all have plenty of ammo, dont waste time reloading, and all have a high fire rate. 
 Even the hero with the rocket can be taken down by a noob with a pistol. Thats one of the main 
 things i love about this game: weapon equality. This game also gives the most satisfying kill. 
 The sound effects, blood and gore, and the lack of effort it takes to raise your position makes 
 you feel hardcore to shoot someone.
  You can even customize your own character for online or offline. I like the big ripped monsters.
 
  Another fun thing about online is the little jig you can do afterwards. If you are the last person 
 to kill in the game (I dont think it applies to the Warfare mode) , the screen will show you and 
 you can dance to brag all over the other players. hahahah im the monster guy, like i said, and 
 every time i win its hilarious the monster smiles and starts thrusting his hips hhahahahaha
  Also... every weapon has a secondary fire that is usually reall helpful up close. If you time your 
 attack right, you can dominate with your eyes closed. 
  ANd people say the sniping SUX on this game: well lets face it, this game ain't for coward snipers, 
 but the sniper can give sweet one-two hit kills and I use it just like any other gun; i run around 
 with it.
  What else... oh yeah, they have tons of vehicles. Some are for speed, some for silence, all of them 
 are for bloody murder. I enjoy all the vehicles. But... everyone knows there is a rush for the vehicles 
 at the beginning of the game, right? And no one likes running far far away to the area, right? 
 So, yeah, you have a muthafricken hoverboard that goes at a decent rate of speed. Yeah, press square 
 and it pops out of nowhere for your delight. Its always sweet to use that thing. 
  Another thing that I love.... you know like say in Battlefield, like when you die, you have to wait 
 up to 14 seconds to respawn? Yeah, then there are always spawn campers.... it can be a pain in the 
 azz. On this game, as fast as you die, you come back up with the press of R1. No waiting.
  Somethin else; stuck on one level that has you mad? Set up your game as a Co-op game, and online 
 players will replace those crappy, worthless AI players.
  And by the way, if you are already a fellow UT3 player, add my psn: THE_TERRORIZER..... i dont have 
 a mic yet, im waiting until Christmas because my friend said he would get one for me. Nice kid, 
 he is.
  THIS IS A MANDATORY GAME FOR EVERY TRUE PS3 GAMER'S COLLECTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNForget
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game was thoroughly enjoyable at the outset, and I had originally given it a 9.0 rating. However, 
 about 2 months into the game (2 months after launch) I started noticing the game locking up my 
 PS3 intermittently.
  
  I thought nothing of it at the time, and chalked it up to an occasionally server issue. Well, the 
 freezing quickly grew into a huge unrelenting MONSTER. The bitter frustration of having the PS3 
 freeze up on you 5 or six times in a row (and all the wasted time that entails) is just indescribable! 
 It would go something like this: log into PSN, boot up UT3, choose a game, hard freeze, flip the 
 power switch in the back off then on, rinse and repeat. I've adjusted my score for the game accordingly 
 (to a 4.5 down from a 9.0 since you really only get half the game you were expecting) .
  
  If my conclusion sounds harsh, I can tell you there are countless people screaming for help on 
 Epic's forums to absolutely no avail (http://forums. epicgames. com) . Pleas for help in the form 
 of forum posts and PMs are largely ignored, with the official response being: "a patch is in the 
 works, no other information will be available until it's release, stop asking... your welcome". 
 At the time of this writing, the PC side has 2 patches, and the PS3 has NONE. I'm afraid at this 
 point, that the countless people that bought into this game are simply waiting in vein. I have 
 never encountered a software product so hideously broken both in game play and in user support. 
 AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getter_Robo
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  UT3 delivers, once again, it's usual shooting experience. Run around, pick up icons, spam your 
 weapon fire, kill the other guy while hopping all over the place. The action, while it boasts bunny 
 hopping fragfests, seemed very dated and unsatisfying. It was nothing more than any Quake game 
 has done, it was less fun than any Half-Life deathmatch game.
  
  Each time I used a weapon I never felt any power in my hands. I was going through the motions of 
 shooting and picking up icons The fact that you can carry about 8 weapons at a time really takes 
 the skill of having to shoot anyone precisely right out of the game. After playing war games where 
 precise hits and bullet management is key to survival, I quickly remembered to bank shots off walls, 
 bunnyhop shots at the ground, spam the rockets. Yawn! 
  
  The level designs were nothing really spectacular, however they do look very good. I've seen too 
 many moon base tube corridor levels, death chambers and the like to excite me and the multiplayer 
 online Node matches were the most boring experiences I have ever played. The Node maps are good 
 size but all that space with no action going on in between Nodes made each trip from node to node 
 like a car ride to your relatives homes during the holidays. Grandma's first, then Aunt's then 
 my Cousins. Remeber that when you were a kid? I could never get more than 6 people at a time between 
 2 teams combined. So it seems it's deathmatch or team deathmatch that everyone wanted to play.
 
  
  The single player campaign is an after thought, and UT has never been known for it's singleplayer, 
 but enough with the cheesy dialogue and lousy story. Could someone show initiative? At this day 
 and age of next gen gaming this feels like nothing special and nothing a PS2 or Xbox game could 
 do, or has already done, with less eye candy. 
  
  As a matter of fact, even if you have a low end PC, you can pick up all the other versions of UT, 
 Quake, Half-Life from years ago and have the same experience for less than $20.
  
  If you want to pick this up to have a quick break between games your already playing, for an hour 
 it will do the job. Other than that I couldn't think of playing this game full time.
  
  I give it props for the graphics though, but that's not saying much as we are in HD gaming using 
 high end consoles, this is expected by default.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  When I had heard about Unreal Tournament 3 coming out this year, i was happy. I thought it was 
 going to be an awesome game, and I was right I have to admit. When i first put it in, I knew Epic 
 had made something good. I started out and played a few levels of the campaign, which isn't bad 
 in its cut-scenes. My only complaint with the game is the story is just multi-player games basically, 
 with a story. Otherwise it's fun. Then, after playing a few levels, I went online, and that is 
 where the fun begins. If you've played any of the other unreal tournaments, you know it has great 
 online multi-player. This game continues that. With lots of familiar weapons, and some knew add-ons 
 to them, the online is great. All the modes that were in previous titles are here, and it's great 
 to play. The graphics on this game are unreal themselves, and the game play is awesome. You can 
 go play campaign, play a quick match against bots, play online against others in many games, or 
 play an online campaign. With tons of options, and lots of fun, Unreal Tournament 3 is a shooter 
 you don't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhghunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to slaughter everyone using a controller. 
  
  Perhaps a lot of PC gamers thought the same thing when they heard that Unreal Tournament 3 would 
 support mouse and keyboard on the PS3. I know I did. Plus, if you have a nice home theater set 
 up like surround sound, a 42 or bigger HDTV, etc., why not play Unreal Tournament on your PS3 and 
 forego the PC version this time around?
  
  Unfortunately, not everything in this PS3 version is how it was cracked up to be.
  
  Despite 
 the fact that you can use the mouse and keyboard for better control at a variety of sensitivities 
 and you can map nearly every key on your keyboard, Epic took the dodging feature (double-tap in 
 any direction) that was so prominent in the PC version completely out of the game. Despite the 
 fact that you will likely slaughter everyone using a controller if you're anywhere competent with 
 a mouse &amp; keyboard set up, those hosting games on their PS3, (which is the vast majority of 
 the servers out there) , can choose to block mouse &amp; keyboard users severely limiting your online 
 options. Despite the fact that the game looks and plays fairly close to the beautiful PC version, 
 the frame rate consistently dips below 30fps when making quick turns or when the action gets heated 
 throwing off your timing.
  
  Perhaps the biggest concern with the game early on, however, is not so much something Epic truly 
 has any control over, and that's how few online matches can be found. Call of Duty 4 or even Resistance 
 this is not. Perhaps the game is just too new and sitting under one too many Christmas trees, but 
 coming from the PC version where seeing more than 1,000 open servers and tens of thousands of players 
 online was the norm, to the PS3 version where seeing only roughly 5-15 servers open for some of 
 the more enjoyable modes like Warfare, or maybe 30-50 servers for the more popular modes Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch, is sickening. Now consider that of those servers only maybe half at best allow 
 mouse &amp; keyboard users, and of those only a few have suitable pings, you're left with basically 
 playing the campaign mode against the computer or waiting to get on one of the two or three packed 
 dedicated Midway servers per mode.
  
  In an effort to keep this review strictly focused on mouse &amp; keyboard users, and because I'd 
 rather not rehash the general comments that people with much more time on their hands have already 
 said about UT3, let me close by just saying that UT3, despite the many quibbles I have laid out 
 here, is still a fairly decent game and an important step in the right direction for consoles since 
 the developer gave gamers the choice of using other controller options not labeled SIXAXIS. However, 
 if you don't want to spend several minutes every time you want to find a suitable online match 
 and if you have the horse power to run UT3 on a PC, get the superior PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedhades
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  FIRST-PERSON SHOOTER HIGHLY RECOGNIZED YOU PLAY AS REAPER A MAN WHO IS BENT ON REVENGE TO DESTROY 
 ALL THE ONES WHO DESTROYED HIS COLONY; THE GAME TAKES YOU DEEPLY INTO THE WHOLE WAR AND THE TOURNAMENT 
 THAT GETS YOU CLOSER TO THE ONES WHO DESTROYED EVERYTHING YOU HAD THE NECRIS AN ALIEN RACE WITH 
 AN HIGHLY ASSASSIN INQUISITOR NAMED AKASHA .THE SINGLE CAMPAIGN TAKES YOU THROUGH THE STORY OF 
 THIS GAME BUT ITS MOSTLY JUST A TRAINING FOR THE REAL THING THATS WHEN YOU HOOK UP ONLINE AND PLAY 
 MULTI PLAYER THATS THE WHOLE DEAL OF THIS GAME ITS A HIGH END MULTI PLAYER GAME FOR THOSE WHO LIKE 
 NONSTOP ACTION FPS WITH THE WHOLE NEW WARFARE MODE AND WELL VEHICLES AND TANKS PLUS THE HOVER BOARD 
 ITS A GREAT GAME
  TAKES YOU DEEPLY TO THE MULTI PLAYER GAMING SYSTEM AND THE HARDCORE FPS GAMERS WILL LOVE IT ITS 
 A GREAT GAME WHICH I ADMIRE FOR ITS NONSTOP ACTION .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Well, how do i review another great addition to the unreal saga? I think it's fantastic, the giblets, 
 the weapons, and the wide assortment of vehicles to trash your opponents with. Simply wonderful 
 so great it could possibly bring a joy to your eyes when your opponent screams in agony as their 
 fiery death is at hand. Fast paced and splendid graphics give you a incredible ride. From start 
 to frag. The multiple modes of deathmatches, CFG's and dominions will never leave you bored. The 
 character customizer isn't incredibly in depth but gives enough options to allow you to create 
 your own personal appearance. Giving unreal's previous popularity and vulgarity this game keeps 
 with the good. And did a way with a little of the bad. I highly recommend this to anyone who enjoy's 
 FPS action and great online play. Recently receiving this gift from a friend for the upcoming season 
 i can solidly say this is a great gift for the gamer on your list. Xbox 360 and ps3 user's can 
 unite under this great title. And after the warm and joyous occasion... frag em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Flesh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Once again I've bought two games at once. Last time it was Assassin's Creed and Uncharted. This 
 time I bought Half-Life 2 Orange Box and Unreal Tournament 3. Without wasting anymore time let\\\'s 
 go through the list....
  
  Graphics: This game is absolutely stunning. This is by far the best looking game I have ever seen 
 on a console.... period. I did have a few instances of tearing during cut scenes (far far far more 
 than frame rate dips in Orange Box.) . Nothing major though. The detail on well... everything is 
 amazing.
  
  Story: It\\\'s weak. real weak. You have the cliche uber masculine men complete with cliche black 
 man and token chick. A decent story is a requirement this time around. If your gonna **** and moan 
 that games cost millions of dollars to make and your gonna jack up the price on me. Have a story.... something... as 
 soon as I saw the word Necris.... I thought of the evil army in chronnicles of Riddick 2...... the 
 Necrumonda... or some **** the story is full of predictable characters, intrigues, etc, etc...
 
  
  Game play: It\\\'s fun as hell, It takes me back to playing quake 3 sure it wasn't the best game 
 in the series but it was fun for the grab a gun and kill crap
  Although there are a few gripes here as well. Namely not enough people for the size of some maps. 
 Online play is fun on big maps when it\\\'s 16 vs 16... not sixteen total. On some of these maps 
 I could make it all the way to the enemies base without even seeing a foe. I don\\\'t know if the 
 graphics limited the number of people or what. it's shining gem is the ability to use mods..... I 
 loved mods when I used to PC game. It would stretch out the life of a game for years. I played 
 quake 2 until tribes came out. I still play homeworld and homeworld 2 mods. This is by attractive 
 thing about this game. I give this company mad props for giving something like this away rather 
 than screwing it up by trying to turn it into a revenue source.
  
  Learning curve and play time: It's a online only (might as well be) FPS how hard can it be. It's 
 fun until the simplicity wears off to be replaced with repetitiveness. Will change with mods.... hoopefully 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I have bought the UT3 game for my PS3 and I was able to Test the PC version. The PS3 Version has 
 got what it takes to be compared to the PC version. it's an amazing game that packs alot of content, 
 weapons, maps, and off coarse a very good multi player game. When I started the game I didn't like 
 the control because it thought it was kinda weird but after 20-30 min I was up and ready with it 
 and I couldn't complain cause I got lost in the amazing action. The cool thing is I still have 
 the ability to connect my keyboard and mouse to my PS3 and play with them but I didn't feel like 
 it cause I already got the controller and its cool to master something new. The single player in 
 the game is very well done, tons of missions, and they teach you alot about the game to prepare 
 you for the online content so that gets a positive feedback from me. The Graphics are amazing whether 
 you are playing full HD or normal TV. The Environments are very realistic. I was able to notice 
 small rocks flying as people fired rockets and it is very interactive. Multi Player is amazing 
 and there are tons of game types to choose from. It would be best to get familiar with the single 
 player before going into multi player because it will as I said before get you used to the game. 
 Music and Sound are amazing. I loved the music and the sound effects are very clear for every weapon 
 and everything you hit Alot of the things from UT 2004 were modified on and made better. Example 
 would be Onslaught mode which is now War Fare mode. You get to have things called orbs to help 
 you control Nodes faster and the hover board you get every time you play that mode is amazing once 
 you get to master it right.
  
  The small negative stuff I noticed were: 1) Takes a little while to get used to the controls 2) 
 It would be best to have a big screen TV to be able to see you enemies better from far away. 3) 
 There should have been a Zoom Button for the weapons like Call of Duty 4 ( Modern War Fare) so 
 u can see far and fire more accurately 4) The Map on the top left hand corner of the screen should 
 have been a bit clearer in order for me to see where I am. I was able to see my objectives but 
 myself as a tiny green dot it wasn't really effective over all the game is worth buying and especially 
 if you are a UT fan like me.
  It is an amazing game and there is nothing more to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is one famous franchise. Orginally, when you think about it, the first thing 
 that comes to my mind is PC. Mouse and Keyboard, 16 inch monitor, obsolete CPU but that ain't the 
 case when it comes to Unreal Tournament 3. It takes the consoles capabilties and puts them to the 
 test with positive results. Unreal Tournament 3 was intially scheduled for launch in November, 
 but a delay was annouced and the game was to launch in 08. But it went golden and was set back 
 to be launched December 11th. It was a moment of rejoice for PS3 owners in North America. But the 
 launch isnt the only thing to rejoice about, Unreal Tournament 3 has lightning , unprecendendted 
 weapons, unrivaled graphics and unsurpassed gameplay. GAMEPLAY
  
  Campaign: Lets get this out of the way first, the single player is not the reason your getting 
 this game. Its basically you are put on multiplayer maps with bots and you have to kill them followed 
 by cutscenes. The story is decent but the gameplay should have been modified to feel as if it is 
 single player. Your basically Reaper (who has alot of resemblence to Marcus Fenix from Gears of 
 War) a warrior whos out for revenge with his friends, because a group of aliens army lead by a 
 woman destroys their hometown. Decent, but again the way the gameplay is implemented here really 
 makes the single player a practice sessions for the multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer is what UT3 is all about. The game has 6 modes for online. Deathmatch, 
 T. Deathmatch, CTF, Vechile CTF, Duel and Warfare. Duel is basically where you go one of one while 
 players spectate the match waiting to face the winner fo the duel. While Warfare is a node based 
 mode where you have to defend, capture, destroy nodes. One of the main things that makes this game 
 a hit are the weapons. There simpy awesome and unique, each weapon has a different feeling to it 
 with alternate fire and basic fire for each one. Every weapon is lethal, meaning if you have a 
 rocket launcher while the other guy has a link gun, dont underestimate them cause they can give 
 you a couple of wacks and your out. All the weapons are designed differently with a science fiction 
 sense to them, you can even pull of combos using alt. and basic fire together for example the shock 
 rifle has a killer combo when you use alt. fire followed by the basic. You won't feel limited at 
 all with the weapons, theres enough to keep you busy. Then there are the maps, a ton of them. Each 
 map like the weapons is unique. Detailed to a high degree, each having there own features and sepcialty 
 for example Deimos is one map set in space, where gravity takes the hang of you, you can jump far 
 distances. There are also some sort of energy loops reaching from the top to the bottom, you can 
 use these to move to different levels, but they also slow time meaning if your in there, an enemy 
 can take you out before you can make a run for it. Vechiles are a great part of the game as well, 
 especially when your playing Warfare. They are of all sizes from single driver to two driver. Each 
 vechile like the weapons has a alt. and basic fire and even more deadly. Because of the fast paced 
 gameplay the game doesn't have depth or stradegy in Deathmatches and Team. You go in, get as many 
 kills as you can and die but thats what makes this game strong, the pace. Online doesn't have problems, 
 there is lag but it occurs rarely. Finding a match doesn't take long either, your given a number 
 of servers, all you have to do is connect. The game also has online coop up to 3 players. But the 
 game does not have offline splitscreen multiplayer which is really dissapointing considering how 
 the game is multiplayer oriented. But that won't stop you from liking multiplayer because UT3's 
 multiplayer experience is one of the best you can get on any system. VISUALS/GRAPICS
  
  All i know is that some sort of Unreal Engine was used for the visuals of the this game, and boy 
 does it work. The visuals are very impressive probably the best yet. They certainly exceed that 
 of Gears of War whether your playing multiplayer or your in a cut scene. The weapons, the vechiles, 
 the maps all have this science fiction look to them as well as there ammo. The cutscenes look really 
 good with the clothing and faces, you can see the scars and cuts even the wrinkles across the characters 
 faces and they look freakisly real. To sum it all up the visuals are simply awesome. CLOSING COMMENTS
 
  
  All in all, Unreal Tournament 3 is a great value. The fast paced gameplay, unique weapons, breathtaking 
 visuals, crazy maps and lethal vechiles all make the game a intense and mind blowing experience. 
 Though there is no splitscreen multiplayer and a very weak campaign the online makes you forget 
 the faults and it fairs very well. Those who have not played a UT game will find the game appealing 
 but those who prefer rpgs and action games on the slow or stradegy side will not like the fast 
 gameplay and will only feel annoyed. I recommend this game to any fps, shooter, action, or general 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo347
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game for the ps3 is freakin so damn fun its not even funny. This game is a little bit like 
 the game Quake. The graphics 4 this game is what i call next gen gaming experience. The vehicles 
 in this game are very high tech. i congratulate the makers of this game. This game is fast, this 
 game has next gen graphics, intense online play, good campaign, and etc. this game is so great, 
 like come on these games cannot have anymore better graphics b/c the ps3 holds the title for best 
 next gen gaming graphics. people hate on this game like Microsoft because it didn't come out for 
 their system yet. Microsoft has done so much crap to Playstation. they have makers of games delaying 
 the release for the ps3. i know their trick, their trying to do that so they can have more sells 
 for the 360 so they can get more money. that is such bull. this game is made for the ps3 and pc 
 not for the xbox360. if anybody wants to get their asses kicked in unreal my psn name is terminator347 
 so hit me up to get ur asses kicked. PS: Microsoft is full of cheats thats why their systems breakdown 
 because they cannot hold the power of the ps3  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bukkookkub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, I want to start by saying, that I did have a hard time giving this game a score below 
 a 9 rating. I think it easily has the potential to become a great game of substance and depth, 
 yet, feels a tad bit lacking in content right at the moment. But to no surprise, UT2K4 was not 
 the giant of content at its release, however it was a little easier to get away with 4 years ago. 
 The graphics are really nice, and detailed.. the framerate is very smooth, which is a huge plus 
 knowing Epic took it's time, and got the PS3's platform show it's not an inferior machine to the 
 X360. The action doesn't skip a beat while playing single player. At the time of this review, I 
 did notice a few minor lag issues (online) , but nothing people can't look past with a few updates 
 or patches i'm guessing, in the near future.
  
  Content wise, and story wise I do feel has came up a bit short in this latest UT installment. This 
 single player is just a bounce from game mode to game mode, trying to link together some sort of 
 story. While it's not particuarily bad (as there are some nice cinematics) , it can easily be forgotten. 
 Warfare is a balanced mulitplayer experience, and is a great addition or change to the Onslaught 
 formula, however a few new takes on previous modes, or another concept gametype, would have added 
 to the depth the franchise is known for....
  
  The reason I won't however, spend too much time on the negatives is because, as well all know.. 
 UT always has and had great user content. I have no doubt in my mind that over the next 4 years 
 this game will continue to grow and flourish. The PS3 will have this user created content appearing 
 on the console in the very near future, and the fact that Epic and Midway are making this possible, 
 is a huge, huge plus. At the time of this review I do state the game as stands deserves a 8.5, 
 however given another 6-8 months I have no doubt this game will be deserving of a 9.0-9.5. It's 
 the modders out there that bring this franchise to shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has been at the forefront of accessible, fast, and brutal first person combat 
 since the day it arrived on the scene in the late 90's. Raising the bar in terms of graphics, A. I., 
 and online multiplayer, UT was an instant classic. While primarily viewed as a pc game, UT has 
 had many successful appearances on consoles. Now ps3 owners get a chance to experience Unreal Tournament 
 3, the latest attempt by Epic to stay ahead of the pack in terms of games involving shooting people 
 to death. In truth, Unreal Tournament 3 has more in common with UT 2003 than the other games in 
 the series, in that it gives the game an impressive graphical overhaul, but plays it disappointingly 
 safe in terms of gameplay structure. Ironically, though, this works very well for UT 3 because 
 of the current shooter selection on the market right now; there really isn't anything out there 
 like UT 3 on the Wii, 360, or ps3, which makes its old school gameplay feel almost completely new 
 again. Almost.
  
  UT 3 basically plays like Quake 3 or UT did back in 1999... it is fast, hard, easy to pick up, 
 but mostly devoid of tactics. While there is a certain amount of strategy involved in fooling your 
 opponent as to which direction you were going, the game is largely about running fast and hoping 
 you pull the trigger first. Players looking for a Tom Clancy experience will absolutely hate UT 
 3, but adrenaline junkies will be in heaven due to the visceral nature of the gameplay.
  
  Let's get this cleared out of the way: this is a multiplayer shooter. Period. During the game's 
 development, Epic has claimed that the game also sports a fully featured single player mode... 
 but this is total falsehood. Basically, the single player campaign is nothing more than a series 
 of deathmatches with cutscenes explaining the reasons people respawn, why we need to capture the 
 FLaG , and so forth. Truly, it is lame, and I -for one- was really hoping Epic would provide a 
 true single player experience like they promised. In the end, it's about as fulfilling as playing 
 a fighting game against the computer. Not very fulfilling at all.
  
  At the very least, it does get you accustomed to the various gametypes, maps, and vehicles, and 
 it does so at a good pace. You'll learn the ins and outs of deathmatch, team deathmatch, CTF, vehicle 
 CTF, and warfare all at a clip that would be easily understood by even the greenest trainee. The 
 problem is that, for UT vets, there's nothing to see here. Even the new warfare mode is a very 
 slight variation of the onslaught mode from UT 2004. Players with lots of previous experience with 
 UT will probably want to play some instant action just to get accustomed to the new maps, and then 
 hop right online.
  
  Once you hop online though, the real fun begins. UT runs very smoothly over the game's servers, 
 and you'll never get stuck playing a match you didn't manually sign up for. There isn't any character 
 leveling like Call of Duty 4 or Rainbow Six, but the game actually fares better for it. This is 
 straight up find-a-server-and-join-it stuff... no booting because of rank or mic-usage, no clan 
 stat boosting, nothing. It's actually surprisingly fresh. While it takes a certain amount of the 
 addiction factor away, it adds it right back to the fun factor; this is a game you can pick up 
 and play for an hour or two and then put it right down and not worry about your comparison to other 
 players. What happens in a UT 3 match stays in that UT 3 match. It's surprisingly brilliant.
  
  Obviously, this game uses the Unreal Engine 3, and the ps3 handles the task pretty admirably, 
 albeit with a few hiccups. Every game that uses this engine seems to have problems loading detailed 
 textures in a timely fashion, so at the beginning of a match, you're basically going to be looking 
 at ps2 textures for about 15 seconds. Once everything starts going, the super sharp textures eventually 
 populate and it's fine, but it makes the game feel a bit unpolished. Also, the game doesn't look 
 quite as vivid as the screenshots will have you believe... it's fairly grainy, and on a standard 
 tv it doesn't look very good at all. Once you pop it to an HDTV, you'll see everything that's happening, 
 and it's technically very impressive. Truthfully though, Gears of War looked better, at least in 
 terms of character models... and it's a bit sad to see the game the engine is named after looking 
 a bit worse than other games that use the same tech. Still, it's got gorgeous lighting, razor sharp 
 textures, and it's most definitely a pretty game that won't leave you wondering why it's not on 
 ps2.
  
  The real addition to Unreal Tournament 3 that separates it from previous iterations is that of 
 the Necris vehicles. These are very alien vehicles that have special properties. The most exciting 
 of these is a total rip-off of the Tripod from War of the Worlds: the darkwalker. It towers above 
 players on the map and has a devastating laser that incinerates everything it touches. Also, it 
 has the ability to stun players close to it with its secondary attack, which is a sound-based attack 
 that stuns enemies within a certain radius. The vehicle can also crouch, so it makes driving the 
 darkwalker through valleys extra exciting, as you can hide behind hills and stand up to take enemies 
 by surprise and quickly exterminate your foes. Other vehicles are more standard, with tanks, flying 
 vehicles, and some cloaking abilities... but it all makes for a very fun experience. And thankfully 
 it's all balances very well so that even if you're on foot, you can take out any vehicle when properly 
 armed.
  
  That's another great thing about the UT 3 experience: it's superbly balanced. You can kill your 
 enemies with any of the guns in the game, it's all just a matter of what your play style is. You 
 can snipe, spray-and-pray, go up-close-and-personal, or take people out with the various vehicles. 
 It's really up to you, and it makes the game very accessible and exciting. You're not going to 
 see any of the moon-jumping Halo players here... your jump is more about distance than height, 
 and it generally won't save you when a well aimed rocket is coming your way. UT is simply about 
 precision and speed, and today that fact differentiates it from the competition.
  
  Unreal Tournament 3 is a very difficult game to score. On the one hand, it's a total Madden experience 
 in that it does nothing to the formula but slightly tightens it and makes it prettier. On the other 
 hand, though, the modern consoles have not really had this type of gameplay available to them. 
 Despite being formulaic, it feels very fresh compared to the Call of Duty/Halo/Ghost Recon-type 
 games... and players burned out on those games will probably find some good fun here.
  
  In the end, Unreal Tournament 3 is not mind blowing from any standpoint, but it presents itself 
 as a sharp, beautiful, and tight shooter with a clean focus on the pure adrenaline of the deathmatch. 
 Players looking for a slow and strategic game need not apply, but fans of the series and players 
 tired of the current shooter scene should absolutely play Unreal Tournament 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOOSEbeast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  unreal tournament 3 is a very good game in the fact that it does follow the last two quite nicely... 
 the graphics r sick and the story more is cool... multiplayer is basically halo and resistance 
 mixed together into one good shooting game... i did not like how u can not zoom in with anything 
 except the sniper rifle, i also thought that only one player can play offline is garbage... please 
 learn to put 4 players in a shooting game... this is not nintendo anymore... there is no reloading, 
 no regenerated health (except for health packs) ... i think the game play is a lil quick and needs 
 to slow down... people can just jet back and forth and if ur tryin to snipe them its no fun cuz 
 u always miss unless they r standing still... but other then those small things its a good game... 
 o yea another thing is that all campaign mode is resistance online, capture nodes and capture flags... 
 there is no real levels or objectives... which i thought brough the game down but yea its a good 
 game and graphics r sick and sound is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddskater828
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, but it has its flaws. There is no offline multiplayer so if you want to have 
 a fun game night with your friends, forget about it. Also there is online coop but there is no 
 offline coop. Where is the fun in that? The graphics are sic nasty and the gameplay is awesome, 
 but with the lack of offline multiplayer im really ticked off. Also, there is no ranking online 
 so you get bored after like a half hour, but since its so fun, youll probly be coming back for 
 more after u take a break. Hopefully epic will release a patch or mod that gives offline multiplayer/coop, 
 but until then, this amazing game seems a little unfinished, as it is BASED on multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WIREBLADE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  All I can say in this game is "Awesome and Amazing!" Its highly Addictive and cant stop playing 
 it! it really rocks! especially when your playing with full surround music and with HDTV! OMG! 
 The Graphix is unbelievable! Its a Must game for every First Person Shooter lover out There... 
 The Multiplayer Counts the most! even the Offline mode is really Awesome! i feel like im also playing 
 online! and that's what I've been looking for a game like Unreal Tournament 3... Thanks Epic for 
 making it first on PS3! Cant wait to play it also on Xbox 360... 10 out of 10 for this game! Now 
 I have the reason again to play my Playstation 3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmccarthy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Traditional Unreal Tournament play (chaotic, fast, run and gun) meets superior next gen graphics. 
 What more could you ask for? My favorite PS3 purchase so far. If you're looking for a long, drawn 
 out story, look elsewhere, this game is about instant action. Mutiplayer is where it's at and the 
 selection of huge maps is satisfying. Many complain about the lack of split screen but it doesn't 
 bother me. Once you realize all the other great things about the game, it's easy to forget. If 
 you are a fan of Unreal or want a fast paced, challenging run and gun game, this is the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalNess
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  como lo dije arriva este juego lo debes tener ya que es un juego que alimenta su sensacion de sangre 
 al matar a y descuartizar todo lo que se te ponga enfrente los graficos son d lujo no se comparan 
 y la jugabilidad esta del 100% asi que no lo duden y a comprarlo O.// y como las reseas de los 
 quele pongan una calificacion de menos de 9 es porque son unos maltidos ardidos porque no salio 
 para xbox no saben apresiar lo que es bueno y lo digo porque lei sus reseas de algunos que le 
 pusieron malas calificaciones asi que ya dejense de favoritizmos y hay que jugar y disfrutar de 
 lo que los desarrolladores de juegos nos preparan a nosotros los gamer's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silpheedpilot
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  There have been plenty of games that have been released in the past couple of years that try and 
 go back and hit the right spot in someone's heart by staying classic or just staying plain fun 
 and for me, and really any Unreal fan, UT3 happens to be that game.
  
  Taking the superior graphics that the Unreal Engine 3 can muster up and the addictive game play 
 from previous Unreal games UT3 hits the ground running with plenty of options.
  
  With the single player you play as a one man named Reaper, along with his motley crew, as you set 
 about avenging your home planet from a evil alien race known as a the Necris. Basically it's a 
 bunch of bot matches strung together nice and neat with some cut-scenes showing your progress. 
 Ultimately it's a forgettable romp that aims to accustom you to the weapons, layout of the maps, 
 the game types, and the over-all flow of the game.
  
  The multi player is the meat of this game and, generally, series.
  Taking the fight online, or 
 against bots is the name of the game in a multitude of standard game types like Deathmatch, Capture 
 the Flag, and Team Deathmatch along with the variant versions; Vehicle Capture the Flag, and the 
 UT2004 addition Warfare, where you aim to destroy the opposing teams power node by disabling it's 
 force field through capturing other scattered nodes.
  This game type seems to be the most team oriented, however, the other game types also prove very 
 team oriented at times, with the exception of Deathmatch.
  On top of the game types you can select mutators which, essentially, change the flow of battle 
 by either making time go slower, quicker, replacing all guns with sniper rifles, making heads large, 
 and generally turning things interesting if they aren't already.
  
  All the weaponry staples return such as the GES BioRifle which shoots out globs of radioactive 
 sludge that stay put until stepped on or fade away making it a particularly useful defensive weapon. 
 Other UT returns are the ASMD Shock Rifle whose main fire shoots a thin purple beam and it's alt 
 fire shoots a sphere of energy. When you shoot the sphere of energy with the beam it creates an 
 intense and destructive explosion. Also, favorites return like the minigun, Link Gun, and even 
 the Redeemer in all it's nuclear glory.
  
  The sounds of the game are great as well with each weapon having it's own distinct report as well 
 as each vehicle sounding different. The music is outstanding also, if you can hear it. Many homages 
 and remixes of previous songs make the soundtrack memorable.
  
  
  If you've played Unreal in the past decade or so then you know what to expect; a fast, frantic, 
 helluva time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basit_mc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Really good game but very less online servers with barely anyone playing... However, if you dont 
 look at that factor then the game is amazing, visuals are awesome and its very fun. Great maps 
 with good variety, weapons are awesome giving you a lot of ways to kill your enemy. Vehicles are 
 cool, but kind of hard to get use to controlling them. Recommend waiting for a while before buying 
 it though to see if the mulitplayer gets any better. That is if your buying it for online play. 
 Maybe renting it out before buying it would be a good idea to get a feel of how it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limitless_rage
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 3 is exactly what you would expect from those guys at Epic and the Unreal name. 
 Its a run 'n gun fragfest with unbelievable graphics. Now granted there are many shooters out there 
 with great graphics these days. Call of Duty 4, Bioshock, and Rainbow Six Vegas are perfect examples 
 of other titles that rival the visual quality of UT3. What separates UT3 from these other games 
 is the speed at which you are playing. With double jumps, hover-boards, translocators and so many 
 vehicles you may find it a bit overwhelming. Thankfully the control scheme is nice and simple. 
 Plus if you don't like the default configuration, there are also extra choices as well. If you 
 just don't like using a Sixaxis, you can switch over to keyboard and mouse.
  Unreal Tournament as always been about the multiplayer, however this time there is a fun, albeit 
 simple, set of multiplayer game types, filled with bots. While this may not be a single player 
 epic along the lines of Bioshock, it is surprisingly fun to play. You can also play this game in 
 co-op with other PS3 users. And with great CG to fill in the gaps in the story, it actually turns 
 into an enjoyable, although limited, offline experience. 
  Multiplayer is where this game sets itself above the competition. The game types are both fun and 
 challenging. My personal favorite game types are Warfare (a capture the node then attack the base 
 game type) and Deathmatch (duh!) , although there are plenty of options to choose from including 
 capture the flag and vehicle capture the flag (yeah thats right ... just like it sounds) .
  Unfortunately there are some issues with UT3. First and foremost getting into a game can be somewhat 
 confusing. When you try and find a quick match online it seems there is quite a bit of lag before 
 you actually get put into the match. Once you are in a match however, it seems to flow together 
 quite nicely with very few lag hickups. I would also liked to have seen a party system put into 
 place a la Halo.
  So even without a true campaign, and a few minor gripes about the online interface, I can safely 
 say that this is one great game. Great graphics and an awesome arsenal of weapons along with its 
 fun and fast gameplay make this a must have for PS3 shooter fans. But don't take my word for it 
 ... try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonleader33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The story line isnt great but hey it works. The gameplay on the other hand 
 is something that I have never seen before. This game has a wide range of weapons which all of 
 them have a primary and a secondary fire. The online is good fun as well. Only reason I gave it 
 an 8.5 was because the mic support is messed up right now. Half the time you cant hear anyone and 
 you have to hold right on the d-pad in order to talk. The other reason was the fact that the story 
 could of been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeerixsan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Epic does it again with another great game. The graphics I might add are the best I've seen to 
 date. Unfortunately UT3 is lacking in a few departments like some of the classics such as split 
 screen and assault it is still very fun and addicting. There is an online co-op for campaign mode 
 which is a nice touch but an offline split screen would have been nice. There is now quite a selection 
 of vehicles which are pretty fun to use. The only problem I've had is switching to motion control. 
 What is actually being controlled is the camera so it makes things complicated when trying to steer 
 the hoverboard. Other than that I see nothing wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peralta775
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  There are many games that are shallow out there, that do not provide much depth. Well this game 
 is one of them but it excels in what it does. Do not be expecting a terrific singe player game. 
 If you are expecting multiplayer that has been refined over years, then you have found it.
  
  I am a big multiplayer fan. Unless the single player is just unbelievable, I am hesitant to 
 buy it at full price. It offers great multiplayer with great graphics, and some more quirks that 
 may impress you.
  
  The graphics are insane. Think Gears of War but slightly better. The character models are very 
 detailed and have a crispness to them, far more than your bed sheets after your maid, I mean girlfriend, 
 has starched and ironed them. There is a lot going on with the characters and the levels look fantastic, 
 no qualms here.
  
  The gameplay is cool, don't be expecting something out of the ordinary. You have your typical everyday 
 FPS where nothing is out of the ordinary. If multiplayer is what you are looking for, then this 
 is what you are looking for.
  
  I own an Xbox 360 and a PS3, and I prefer the games usually on my Xbox 360. But if you own both 
 and are on the fence with what to get, go for the PS3 version hands down. Epic is offering mods 
 from the gaming community. Just go online with your computer or PS3, download and have you game 
 look for them. Well, at least that is how I think it works. Currently there is not much out there 
 as the community is still small, but b expecting more. Either way, user created content that is 
 FREE is much better than playing nickels and dimes with Microsoft. Go for the Sony version, you 
 will not go wrong. Also it doesn't hurt that you can play this game on your PS3 with a keyboard 
 and mouse. I have completely forgot how nice it is to have the responsiveness of a mouse and it 
 is a welcome to have the option to be able to use it. Microsofts version does not have support 
 for this type of input, or with the user created content.
  
  Basically you have 3 options, 4 if you have an Xbox 360. You can either 1) get UT3. 2) Not get 
 it and go have fun with your friends and increase your chances of getting an Urinary Tract Infection 
 or 3) Not get UT3 all together. If you have an Xbox 360, your only option is to either get it for 
 the PS3 or for the Xbox 360. You are getting your money worth with getting it for the PS3. And 
 besides, its already out for the PS3 and not for the Xbox 360. Go and get it NOW or risk losing 
 infecting your urethra and/or ureter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaSeBaLlKiD9874
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  this game should be 9 outta 10 on gamespot and an editor's choice. right now its too early for 
 gamespot ratings. this game is confusing at first but when you get used to the game it is VERY 
 addicting and it is hard to stop playing. single player is basically same as online. i give a 9.5 
 for the graphics and 9.0 for gameplay. this game shows what the ps3 can do but its not the full 
 potential. i cant wait for when the full potential is reached. right now this game is in my top 
 3 games (rainbow six vegas, and call of duty 4) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redse2000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazing graphics and truly show what Playstation 3 is capable of performing, equivalent 
 to the premium computer gaming system. Without spending several thousand dollars, you can play 
 this great game on Playstation 3 which is only less than 400 dollars and plus you don't have to 
 worry about configuring your video card and computer setups. Just plug and go! I wish all the other 
 games in future on Playstation 3 could benefit from the great technology of Unreal game engine. 
 
  
  If you don't have Playstation 3, you should get it now so you can enjoy the great game during the 
 holiday.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  It's also looking like one of the best FPS on the PS3 right next to Resistance and Call of Duty 
 4. If you're a new comer to the whole Unreal Tournament series don't worry because the single campaign 
 mode is nothing but a tutorial to help you how to play this game. 
  
  This is almost the perfect FPS for the PS3. It has over 6 different modes to play on and off line. 
 It has vehicles, off the wall weapons and very beautiful maps/ level designs. The whole single 
 player experience is a like multiplayer but with bots. Giving you an idea how the multiplayer games 
 will be like with humans. If you're a veteran in this series than there's no need to play the campaign 
 unless you're interested in the story. For those interested I will give you a preview.
  
  The story starts off your colony is been attacked by there's beasts called the Krall and they just 
 destroy your place. You were knocked out cold and your sister Jester and friend Othello come back 
 in time to save your life. You're taken under the wing of Malcolm. Malcolm is interested in you 
 and your team's talent so they take you to join forces to kill the Akasha and the Kralls who destroy 
 your world. The game has some great cutscenes and the story is alright. It's also a good way to 
 practice before you jump online. 
  
  The graphics in the game look gorgeous and the game play is addictive. It's like playing Halo 3 
 but on speed the game is so fast and fun is not even funny. Playing with friends will be a joy 
 to experience. The Multiplayer is up to 2 - 16 players online. Plus the PS3 owners get the joy 
 of having additional maps that have been created on the PC on to your PS3. And for those that own 
 the Dualshock3 controller like myself there is rumble support. 
  
  If you're a fan of FPS and are looking for a great looking game with addictive and fun gameplay 
 this is a game you must pick up for the PS3. I would even recommend this game to someone that's 
 never played a FPS before as well. With the easy to learn pick up and play tutorial included in 
 the single campaign mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Well to answer some questions it doesn't have split screen, rumble works so for those of you with 
 a dual shock 3 HOORAY. The lobby is awesome it's like the pc version you know. Join games, make 
 your own, blah blah blah there are dedicated servers. The single player is just like playing on 
 a map and doing objectives and stuff its kinda weird but its still good. I beat the single player 
 in 6 hours so I am guessing single player for average is gonna be around 5-8 hours depending on 
 skill level and difficulty settings. The graphics looks AWESOME!!!! I don't get why people are 
 having problems with it? There is no lag online and the maximum people is 16 small but STILL GREAT. 
 It doesn't requires teamwork on the ps3 online to get things done its all about beating the **** 
 outta each other. Unless its a objective mode like warfare or capture the flag . The great thing 
 about it is that bodies are flying everywhere, people are getting blown up, and gun fire is everywhere 
 trust me this is awesome.
  
  The weapons are nice and handy and any weapon you get is powerful. Any kind of gun will rip people 
 to shreds so I am guessing it just depends on what kind of weapon you prefer or how you wanna kill 
 someone. Meaning sniping em, shooting a globby circle like ball at them, or hey just blasting them 
 with a nice machine gun. (There is also this one gun that launches a missile and blows up like 
 a nuclear bomb wiping everyone out its awesome for kicking butt) In all there is about 12 different 
 types of weapons which is nice. The vehicles are all unique on their own way. If you wanna turn 
 into a ball and run someone over or fire up a sonar satellite and firing missiles down its all 
 your choice. I have played the multi player and I can tell you guys a tip, do not take cover what 
 you guys should do is get power ups and that will make your chances of getting owned less.
  
  Basically guys this game is perfect for anyone that loved resistance fall of man and wants 
 more to it. The single player is awesome and gets really interesting later on, in the beginning 
 its more of an intro but the story will get better. I suggest you all do buy this game because 
 its very addicting. So addicting I had to restrain myself from playing another hour or 2 so I can 
 get my homework done. Anyways this is my 2 cents and hopes this help for anyone still wondering 
 to buy it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  First off... this was a nice surprise for PS3 owners. When the word came out that HAZE was pushed 
 back, the word was that PS3 was not going to have a very good holiday and that it was going to 
 hurt Sony. A week later Unreal Tournament 3 went gold.
  
  If YOU own a PS3... this is a MUST for all owners, but GOOD luck finding it this season. I have 
 heard they are only making a very limited amount of them for the Holidays. I bought the last one 
 at Gamestop. So if you find it... BUY IT!
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  I know this game is going to get this alot... but it looks alot like GEARS of WAR. Beautiful! The 
 landscapes are very nice... the textures are very nice. I think the is still alot more this system 
 can do, but it is a good start. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  So far I have NOT come across any drop of framerate, and the controles are very nice. I think anyone 
 new to the series will be able to pick up and play. Single player is fun and is a good story.
 
  
  Sound 10/10
  The sound in this game is great. It really brings this game to life. The voice acting fits the 
 characters too. I hate playing a game and hearing a voice that DOES not fit the body of a character. 
 They did a great job casting and all the sounds work very well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Before Halo was crowned the FPS multiplayer king there was a game called "Unreal Tournament" which 
 released on the PC in 1999. The game was a huge success. The follow ups were "Unreal Tournament 
 2003, and Unreal Tournament 2004". Each game brought something new to the table which included: 
 Weapons, maps, and graphics. Well quickly after the enormous sales of UT2004, Epic Games announced 
 their newest installment "Unreal Tournament 2007". The graphics shown looked to be far away from 
 a reality, 3 years to be exact. Epic realised that there was a chance that the game was not going 
 to release in 2007 so they quickly changed the title to "Unreal Tournament 3". Luckily for us the 
 PS3 version was released today and I have my review all ready to go.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Not only is this the best looking Unreal game ever made, I think its the best looking PS3 game 
 ever made. No tearing, No framerate issues, Gorgeous landscapes and character models. Even the 
 lipsynch in the game is really good. The game really shows off the PS3's power.
  
  Sound 9.5/10
  
  The sound effects and music are as good as your ever going to get. The explosions 
 thunderous. The weapons each have a unique sound that separates them from the others. The announcers 
 voice is the same as always with him calling out head shots and killing streaks. However I am a 
 bit upset with the fact that I cant change the announcers voice this time. I always favored the 
 sexy female voice and the PS3 is limited to just the males voice.
  
  Gameplay 9.75/10
  
  One thing I noticed about the PC version was that the game movements were incredibly fast. 
 Too fast really. The PS3 version feels perfect and moves at the perfect speed. You can play the 
 game with your sixaxis controller or you can use a USB mouse and keyboard. I tested out my G15 
 keyboard and G5 mouse with this game I was very impressed with how fluid everything worked. I really 
 forgot I was playing this game on a PS3 and not my PC. Also there is a new Warfare game which introduces 
 orbs and cores. Control the orbs and destroy the cores. I dont want to explain much about it but 
 it definately raises the difficulty. Another thing I noticed was the AI. When you turn the difficulty 
 setting up the AI gets very hard to beat. Dont expect to win 20-0 against the bots in this game.
 
  
  Multiplayer 9.5/10
  
  I went and played a few matches online and I was very happy with what I seen. The framerates didnt 
 suffer one bit. With online stats and leaderboards I see this game being the PS3's new #1 online 
 game.
  
  Overall 9.75/10
  
  With superior graphics and fantastic single player and multiplayer modes, Unreal Tournament 3 gets 
 my "Must Purchase Award". Just remember that this game is directed more towards fast paced online 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthegamingman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  UT3 is a great game that steps up to the plate in a big way in the graphics department, but the 
 art style is an acquired taste however.
  
  I enjoyed the single-player component. Some will complain that its not that great, but compared 
 to the ladder system of previous installments, I welcome the effort put into actually creating 
 a story.
  
  This is the best multiplayer game to date on PS3, however, I am VERY disappointed in the lack of 
 splitscreen multiplayer on one PS3. One of the great things in games like this or Halo 3 is having 
 3 friends over and playing 2 to 4 player splitscreen multiplayer. It makes zero sense not including 
 this.
  
  I like the fact that UT3 includes AI controlled bots, which allows you to play UT3 against PS3 
 controlled enemies online and offline. This is a nice option for those that do not have Broadband 
 access to play online or if you just want to jump into a quick match or just messing around with 
 no intentions of playing until someone wins. 
  
  I am also disappointed that prior game modes of the franchise are missing here. Even though a new 
 Outstanding mode called Warfare makes its debut, I still feel that staple modes like the awesome 
 Assault or Bombing Run modes are solely lacking and could have really rounded this title out nicely.
 
  
  The new Necris vehicles are great and the hoverboard concept to eliminate the downtime by getting 
 back into the action from a distance is genious.
  
  Although this new entry in the UT universe takes a step forward on the visual front and with the 
 Warfare mode..... it takes two steps back by not including a splitscreen multiplayer option and 
 eliminating fan favorite modes like Assault and Bombing Run really hold UT3 back from achieving 
 the greatness that is UT2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbutta01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Finally another great game for the ps3 thats exclusive ( for the time being anyway) . I've always 
 been a quake fan multiplayer wise, and its been great to have that fast paced action back in the 
 game. Graphically this game is... well... for lack of better words Freakin amazing! Thank you HD. 
 I havent seen any framerate issues nor lag for that matter in the online portion. With so much 
 content its hard not to be fully satisfied. My only gripe is that this game doesnt have perks ( 
 and yes i know this isnt call of duty 4, its just wishfull thinking thats all) cant wait to see 
 some modding and playing some as well. For all those who read this send me a friend invite id like 
 to actually have some ppl on my friends list being this is really the first online game for my 
 ps3, its the same as my xbox tag too so hit me up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wormthps
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  If halo 3 Got a 9.5 this game should get a 10 no doubt. But i know all the xbox fanboys would go 
 crazy. This is the best first person shooter ive played and unlike halo 3 the graphics are good. 
 The offline Deathmatches is all i really need to get more then my moneys worth. I have yet to even 
 think about going online but i sure it will be a blast when i do. This Is how a fps game should 
 be. Game developers will be inspired by this game. Its Nothing but Great and very clever weapons, 
 levels, and vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I just bought this game about an hour ago and I must say I am extremely happy for the first time 
 with my PS3. Since the PS3's launch back in November of 06 the system has been plagued with horrible 
 delays and with the lack of great games. Well my friends that plague has ended at least for now 
 anyway because Unreal Tournement III (UT3) has saved us from the garbage that was every other game 
 the PS3 has. After playing this game for an hour it is clear to see why it was so important for 
 Sony to land this as an exclusive with the 360 version coming at an undisclosed date in the near 
 future. The game is simply gorgeous, this to me is the FIRST PS3 game to really TAP what the PS3 
 can do. The weapons are insanely good and the gameplay online is lightning fast and amazingly fun. 
 If you own a PS3 and cant afford another game I recommend trading in ALL your old PS3 games in 
 for UTIII. Because lets face it the game the PS3 and us all have been waiting for has arrived and 
 puts all the Trashware the PS3 has to shame. Go out now and buy Unreal Tournment III you wont be 
 sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  "I got the game this past friday and all i could say is holy smokes this looks really good in HD. 
 The graphics are outstanding and the gameplay although a little slower compared to the pc version 
 is still lots of fun to play. The community aspect is letting the pc gamers build new types of 
 enviroments and gameplay into the ps3 version. If you have the pc version you can mod just about 
 anything and send it over to the ps3 to play creating a new community between pc and the ps3. I 
 love the fast pace this game has. Must buy for the ps3 and a great game to have on the pc." 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
