-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/untoldlegendsdarkkingdom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the armor looks impressive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visuals are generally unimpressive.
 Online component is a ramshackle mess.
 Characters never change weapons.
 Combat gets boring before game is over.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 960 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Kingdom is an unremarkable hack-and-slash game whose most noteworthy feature seems to be that 
 it's coming out at the launch of the PS3. 

  While it's not uncommon to see console game franchises trickle down to the handheld market, it 
 rarely works the other way. Sony Online Entertainment's Untold Legends series has seen two entries 
 appear on the PlayStation Portable already, and now it makes its full-fledged console debut at 
 the launch of the PlayStation 3 with Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom. The role-playing elements are 
 lightweight, and while the combat can be flashy, it's also pretty uncomplicated. It can be fun 
 for a while, but monotony eventually sets in, and you find yourself wondering why this technically 
 modest game is on the PlayStation 3 in the first place.  

          It's up to you to stop the mad king of Dureth.     

  The titular Dark Kingdom is that 
 of Dureth, a fairly traditional high-fantasy realm filled with might, magic, swords, sorcery, and 
 so on. You serve Halaskar, the king of Dureth, as a member of the Dragon's Shade, an elite military 
 squad whose forces have been outside the kingdom's realm for some time now. You're told of rumors 
 that treachery is afoot in Dureth, and upon your return you find the kingdom in ruins and your 
 king corrupted by malevolent forces that must be fed by the suffering of humans. And so, the gauntlet 
 is laid -- you must uncover the source of the corruption, figure out where it draws its power from, 
 and destroy it. You'll meet a few interesting characters along the way, including the kingdom's 
 wicked archmage and a powerful and oddly sassy interdimensional spirit. Mostly, though, the cutscenes 
 concern themselves with scenes of the citizens of Dureth being slaughtered and tortured by the 
 king's demonic army. That these scenes of carnage are rendered rather mechanically takes some of 
 the edge off, but there's definitely a persistently dark tone at work.  

  Before you start your quest to save what remains of Dureth, you have to choose from three possible 
 heroes to play as. The warrior, the scout, and the mage are pretty standard fantasy archetypes, 
 though in practice, their abilities aren't too different. The characters have standard weak and 
 strong attacks that can be chained together into multihit combos, and they can also block and dodge 
 incoming attacks and throw enemies within grabbing range. All of this is executed rather traditionally 
 on the Sixaxis and makes no use of the controller's gyroscopic capabilities. Each character also 
 has access to a variety of powerful spells, though they can readily access only four of them at 
 a time. There are a few sequences where you'll have to solve puzzles or accompany other non-player 
 characters, but these moments can be counted on one hand, and the game's overall progression is 
 predictable. You'll both hack  and  slash your way through demons, fish monsters, golems, zombies, 
 and more demons in some pretty unsurprisingly dungeon-esque environments, including caves, abandoned 
 villages, ancient tombs, city sewers, and, of course, actual dungeons. Though there are some occasional 
 treasure chests to seek out, there are no branching paths, so your path to the end credits is a 
 straight shot.  

  The game does away with a few action RPG conventions and streamlines others, though the basic progression 
 is still familiar. Besting enemies will earn you experience points, and experience points earn 
 your character levels. With each level you're given two points that you can put toward health, 
 mana, attack power, magic power, melee defense, and spell defense, as well as a star that you can 
 put toward one of your magic spells. Defeated enemies will typically drop different-colored orbs 
 that will replenish your health and your mana, as well as "essence," which serves as the Dark Kingdom's 
 form of money. Enemies will also drop an occasional piece of armor, though with much less frequency 
 than they drop the orbs. What you won't find is any weaponry -- your character will use the same 
 basic weapon, as well as most of the same combo attacks, from beginning to end. Your weapons are 
 slotted, though, and you'll pick up a variety of gems that can imbue you with additional powers. 
 As a nice touch, most of the slots on your weapon can only accept gems of a certain shape, requiring 
 you to make a few tough choices along the way.  

  Gear lust is one of the more prominent driving forces in dungeon crawlers, and it's here that Dark 
 Kingdom comes up short. In some ways this keeps things moving -- if you find a piece of armor or 
 a gem that you don't need, you can instantly disenchant it, which transforms it directly into essence 
 and frees up your limited inventory space. In fact, the only places you'll ever need to stop at 
 are the regular checkpoints that seem to appear every few hundred yards, where you can buy new 
 gear and replenish all of your health and mana for a price. You can also pick up new armor here, 
 though you'll never find more than two pieces of armor in a particular category at any one time, 
 and the stock changes so slowly that you'll likely get your best pieces of armor from felled enemies 
 anyway. It's too bad that the armor, as cool as some of it can look, is so incredibly limited. 
 You'll regularly find that pieces of armor with different names and radically different effects 
 look identical on your character, limiting the joy of equipping new gear and seeing how it looks 
 on your increasingly badass adventurer.  

  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom should take a good dozen hours to get through, but the basic combat 
 becomes tiresome well before it's over. A second player on the same machine can jump in and out 
 at will, which can add a little excitement. There's also online play, but it's implemented quite 
 poorly. Up to four players can party up and play through the same campaign that you can play offline, 
 but there's no apparent connection between the two, which means any progress you make on your own 
 won't count online, and you have to use separate characters when playing online and offline. Oddly, 
 the game features support for the usually PC-centric Xfire application, which means you can log 
 into your existing Xfire account and send and receive messages from other Xfire users. It's an 
 extraneous feature, and it makes you wonder why SOE was able to wedge that into the game's online 
 component, yet there's no voice chat in the game whatsoever. There appear to be hooks in Dark Kingdom 
 for downloadable content, so it's possible that in the future the online component will be more 
 appealing, but as it stands it feels substandard at best.  

          Dark Kingdom is permeated with a sense of familiarity.     

  Whether you play Untold 
 Legends: Dark Kingdom on a regular TV or in the supported 720p HDTV resolution, it's tough to shake 
 the feeling that it started its life as a PlayStation 2 game. Sure, the characters sport a decent 
 amount of detail, the spell effects are pretty flashy, and there's a little bump-mapping on the 
 environment. Still, there's something stiff and canned about how enemies move, and the environments 
 are narrow and tightly partitioned. Despite its limited scope, the game also suffers from occasional 
 bouts of slowdown. The game sounds a bit better than it looks, with some decent battle cries and 
 a rousing orchestral score, but like much of the game, the sound is pretty generic.  

  Thus far, the Untold Legends series has been unable to ascend beyond fair-to-middling quality, 
 and Dark Kingdom does little to break precedent. At times it's a serviceable example of what an 
 action RPG is capable of, but it's certainly not impressive, and it makes for a poor showpiece 
 for the new PlayStation 3 hardware.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  
  
  The gameplay is so repetitive and simplistic. During combat the character animations are too stiff 
 although the moves are executed extremely fast to give a fast, frantic pace to battles.
  
  The puzzles are boring and you're forced to search aimlessly over huge areas for something. The 
 graphics are not next generation standard, they look washed out without enough color and objects 
 don't look sharp or detailed enough. The graphics are not polished enough.
  
  The levelling up system is just allocating points to certain stats, and you find armor instead of 
 buying it, and the variety in the armor is pretty good but eh the gameplay is so boring. The gameplay 
 doesn't feel too bad at first with the fast, paced battles but it eventually gets very monotonous 
 and the story doesn't keep you interested, and the dull visuals don't help the cause. The minor platforming 
 sections feel very rough and it's much tougher than it needs to be when you try to make simple 
 platforming jumps or when you're trying to move up steep terrain.
  
  Hell, even the mythological beasts in the game are boring, there is no dragons or any spectacular 
 looking creatures, just weird little flying creatures, and stupid looking skeleton things, and dull 
 looking rock monsters and they are used over and over again.
  
  The game is very average all round and your hard earned money should be spent elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicHat1
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  If a game can not get some of the basics right, everything else about it gets dragged down. Dark 
 Kingdoms suffers from this, sometimes the camera angle is awful and despite the ability to move 
 it, which I had to use often, it can't always be fixed to an acceptable level. The collision detection 
 system is erratic, frustrating when it gets it wrong, and if playing two player, it forgets the 
 second characters name though in fairness the other details are remembered perfectly.
  
  As a hack and slash, it can be repetitive as you face the same guys and again but the real annoyance 
 can be facing a monster that is never going to harm you but is hard to kill. Yet when busting through 
 a horde of monsters, it can be quite fun and usually the save points are well spaced, the shopping 
 and sort out equipment can be a nice change of pace. The three possible character seem well balanced 
 and that your beginning colour counts for nothing is a small annoyance.
  
  Playing through the wizard story, I thought the ending was a brilliant idea. The problem? The rest 
 of the story was boring, no character was memorable in the right way, didn't care for any of them 
 and the only humour came from a ghost who appears midway through, even then most of his jokes fall 
 flat. If only the game, or just the story itself, had shown the same inventiveness as the ending, 
 it would have been quite something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiecryss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Well I was hoping for something better then the psp versions since it went to PS3. It was good 
 for graphics and the upgrades were rather interesting designs. I found the spirit dialogue rather 
 funny. On-line is fun for a while. The playable characters were well put together with a storyline 
 that basically was ported from a psp version just re-written a bit. The bosses were predicable 
 in some cases. I do have to say though it is pretty long and vast worlds with abundance of the 
 same creatures every level. The king was not that difficult to take care of and was also predictable 
 to say the least. Only issue I had was all the same creatures basically all the way through the 
 game. No mix up of creatures. You would think coming from a sorcerer she would have different/stronger 
 minions. Other then these comments a solid game for someone that is looking for something different. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanerouth
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom is an old-school style action RPG that fully underutilized the power 
 of the PS3. The graphics are last-gen, the music is decent but repetitive, the storylines and dialogue 
 are poor, and the camera gets in the way alot.
  
  With all of that being said, it's surprisingly entertaining. The level-up system keeps the player 
 entertained and striving to advance their selected character. You're able to earn new and more 
 powerful abilities and weapons as you play, as you would expect from an RPG. The levels are designed 
 well, though they don't pose much of a challenge.
  
  This is one that is definitely worth checking out, considering the reduced price. You could probably 
 get away with a rental, though, since it should take less than 10 hours to complete each character's 
 storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steph202scott
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Well, like i said earlier, If the armor wasn't repetitive for every other armour, expecially the 
 scout's, i would like the entire game a little bit more... The weapons were nicely ranged but it 
 would've almost been better to be able to chose the weapons. And having to stop at level 45 sucked! 
 I really wanted to keep leveling my stats.
  
  Now the music was nice but like i had said every time i really listened to it i waited for a man 
 with very long silver hair to come down and crop me in to doggy food. The only real problem's i 
 had in the game was the camera angles and the fact you can walk off something and in to the pits 
 of never ending falling.
  
  And why didn't i end up fighting the big guy that killed the leader? Was it just because i played 
 as a scout or did they just kinda forget to put him in...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NATE78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  You know i liked the psp versions a lot so i was surprised at how dumbed down a ps3 version was. 
 I think a more in depth skill tree would have served the game better, on the other hand the combo 
 system is a nice touch for this type of game. the characters are all but intruiging and fleshed 
 out, but they serve there purpose. the level are standard for any video game really you know them 
 you love them at the same time you can't stand them. If you ask me there aren't enough of these 
 types of games on consoles. the simple to pick up and play. I even got my wife to play this game, 
 I didn't get my system back until she finished it. So that must be a testement to the over all 
 fun of this title.
  For all its faults and lack of depth, Untold Legends Dark Kingdom is still a blast to play. But 
 i like loot gathering games. So thats my opinion and I'm sticking to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  The PS3 had some really disappointing game at it's launch. It should have had brilliant games that 
 should have made the console look good against it's main rival: Xbox 360. This game, Untold Legends 
 Dark Kingdom (ULDK) is a disappointing game. It didn't give the PS3 an advantage over it's rival as 
 it should have. Untold Legend is the ultimate next-gen action-rpg, according to it's cover. Probably 
 for a brand new PS3 owner at the launch of the console, this game looked great. Helped by it's cover 
 the game says it has HD graphics, not a great or good storyline, but an epic one. It also says it 
 has an all new action-rpg combat system. The cover lies, like all the cover from all games. You always 
 find out after purchasing a game, that the cover is lying about something. In the case the cover 
 lies about everything. There is not epic sytory-line, the story is bad and bad implemented in the 
 game. The voice acting is bad and there is no lip-sync. You won't care about the story at all. It 
 will be almost impossible at some point to watch the cinematics. They are so bad that I would rather 
 watch a full episode of the Golden Girls. At some points in the game small cinematics appear out 
 of nowhere focusing on some enemy units. but it comes out of nowhere and it has no sense at all. They 
 are too short too make a difference about the unit they are presenting and used without an artistic 
 sense by the producers. I don't think anyone could really say this is one of their favorite games.
 
  The next gen graphics that the game praises itself with are of not much difference with those 
 of other PS2 games. God of War looks better in my opinion.
  The combat could have been the savior of this game. It's not. the combat is fun at the beginning 
 of the game when you still learn the controls, but after a while they seem shallow and the combos 
 are few and aren't great to watch or perform.
  The RPG part of the game is not that bad. You character will level up, you will have to increase 
 certain stats and you will gain new moves and new powers. There is nothing new here about that.
 
  You will be able to play as three different characters., which will change in small part the combat 
 and the way you hack'n slash your way through the game.
  Even though it's not a great game and doesn't show the power of the PS3 it still a fair action-RPG 
 which will take you about ten hours to complete.
  
  My Score 6.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLoc-Nar
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 is really lacking in the multi-player action RPG. Well, truth be told, all systems are. 
 The next generation of consoles has yet to see its Baldur's Gate, Champions of Norrath, X-Men Legends, 
 Marvel Utlimate Alliance... or even its Gauntlet, for that matter. Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom, 
 for all its numerous flaws, will help fans of this type of game fill a void - but briefly. 
  
  Let me start by saying my wife and I love to play video games, but when we play solo, we tend 
 to go for different experiences - she likes straight up RPGs, puzzle games, & platformers, whereas 
 I go for third person action games, fighters, and sandboxes. Action RPG is one of the only areas 
 we overlap, so we tend to play as many of them as possible. We try them all, and we'll replay ones 
 we like if there are new characters or levels to explore. We tend to finish even the bad or mediocre 
 ones, and anxiously await new releases.
  
  Imagine my disappoinment with the selection of such games on the PS3. We rented ULDK, and had at 
 it. First we noticed it had most of the elements we like: hack & slash, spells, single screen top 
 down view for co-op, drop in co-op, easy save system, and customizable characters. Perfect.
  
  As we played on, disappointments added up, but did not curtail us. A bad camera, which often 
 shifts at really inopportune times, was our first major complaint. Spells and abilities were cool, 
 but there weren't enough of them that were interesting, and the ones we like couldn't be expanded 
 enough - by the end of the game we ended up putting points onto things we knew we'd never use. 
 Weapons weren't really changed, you added different "orbs" and their look changed, but it wasn't 
 like you could go into an armory and buy a battle axe. As a matter of fact, the entire time we 
 played the game, I don't think we ever paid to upgrade our armor or weapons. Armor class, hit points, 
 and magic points information was on a different screen from the inventory. Sometimes the camera 
 would go to a fixed position - not cool. Jumping tasks were really lame. The storyline was cliched 
 and completely uninspired. Voice acting was subpar. Boss battles we usually either too easy or 
 too hard. The monsters were extremely repetitive.
  
  But we played i all the way through, and had a decent enough time. We never played it more than 
 2 hours a night, usually less than an hour and a half, and we were finished within 10 days or so. 
 As usual, we were a little disappointed when it ended, because we knew it might be awhile until 
 we found the next game like this to play together. But we felt no compulsion to play it again. 
 Since there were only three characters to choose from, one of us would have to play with a character 
 we'd already used -yawn. And there weren't any new levels unlocked or anything, so why bother? 
 I returned the rental the next day, satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  this game offers a lot of action no dought. it has a long story line with some solid gameplay. 
 however the game is extremely repetitive and the graphics look like ps1's version of gauntlet legends. 
 now for the price tag it has on it no way. i actually bought this when it was new for 60 big ones. 
 to be honest the first time i played it i hated it. after i gave it a couple of hours i was hooked. 
 if you can get past the repition and the corny graphics you have a pretty solid fun game. the best 
 part of this game is definitely the online. playing with up to four players co op is loads of fun. 
 however there is no point playing through the story mode more then once by yourself. if your just 
 looking for fun gauntlet style gaming. check it out. if you want an all around game worth your 
 60 bucks just buy it off of ebay for 15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Many say this game is bad because it is repeditive but isn't that what the Untold Legends Series 
 is known for?? Button Mashing, repeditive attacks, and lackluster...... Something?
  Anyway this game has more to it then meet's the eye so here's were we start...... Graphics.....
 
  For a launch title UL: DK is pretty good everything you really could ask and Recieve for such a 
 launch title but the cutscenes are a little LACKLUSTER that's what it was!...... Music is pretty 
 good and a little intysing so that's pretty good....... Gameplay which is really what matters is 
 pretty good we all know the combat system is about just under average but it's got online so that 
 add's to the score but what ever over all this game is still pretty good and the fact that it has 
 online and gameplay is great for a launch title overall this deserves about a 7.5 I am happy with 
 the price tag of 29.99 (What I payed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkstone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  For those who haven't played PS2 action RPG's Baldur's Gate Dark alliance (or its sequel) or Champions 
 of Norrath (or its sequel) , it's best to outline those games first: You choose your character from 
 a short list, get some minimal plot, hack and magic your way through a couple dozen open and dungeon 
 levels, get to shop for weapons, armor, and magic items, and periodically have to face boss-like 
 battles. The best part of these games, for many players, is the cooperative mode -- you and your 
 friend can play the ENTIRE game from start to finish in a single-screen single-console experience. 
 (Some allowed online coop and/or up to four players.)
  
  With that context, describing how Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom relates to these past forays into 
 the action RPG genre is easier through describing their differences:
  
  - You have only three characters to choose from. This is the weakest selection of characters since 
 the first Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, and it limits replayability, especially if you got to see 
 two of the characters through coop play the first time through. You can change their main clothing 
 color, but it's a very small cosmetic difference.
  
  - Melee combat is a definite step up. There are two melee attacks per character (X and square) , 
 and you can execute combos for various special kinds of damaging attacks like area stunning or 
 knock-back. It reminds me largely of Kya: Dark Lineage, and adds some needed variety and satisfying 
 wallops to the melee combat.
  
  - No bows or crossbows. Only one of three characters has a ranged attack as a "normal" (non-magic) 
 attack, and the other two are close-range only.
  
  - No more recall potions or gate scrolls. Instead, you simply shop at any save point. The game 
 calls money "essence" and you use essence to "create" armor, but other than the naming it's the 
 same thing.
  
  - You can't buy weapons. Instead, you add runes and gems to your existing weapon to add special 
 effects like fire damage and critical hit. There are a few other non-damage kinds of magic enhancements 
 your character can receive through this weapon modification approach as well. Strangely, this does 
 change your weapon's appearance, though, which makes it again more of a semantic tradeoff than 
 a true limitation.
  
  - No more potions. Instead, killing creatures sometimes releases health- or magic- increasing orbs. 
 This in general works fine during most of the game. During boss battles, though, there's no way 
 to "stock up" on health or magic potions. While one might consider this a valid game design choice, 
 since two of the three characters must use magic for their ranged attacks, it can be a little too 
 limiting at times.
  
  Overall, if you liked Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance and Champions of Norrath, you'll like this as 
 well. The length is similar, the graphics are rather better as it's on a more powerful console, 
 the cooperative mode is just as much fun, and there is nothing that should be a big discouragement.
 
  
  However, the game is not without its flaws.
  
  The most major one is that leveling up your characters occurs at too rapid a pace. The max level 
 is 45, but if you kill every creature (and respawning sections are minimal, so I'm not taking into 
 account power-leveling here) , you'll hit that about three-fourths of the way through the game. 
 It detracts greatly from the enjoyment if there's no reason to hunt down creatures anymore, and 
 turns the end section of the game into a boring dash to the last bosses. Plus, there's no harder 
 difficulty level where you can pick up with your previous character and continue enhancing them, 
 so it even further limits replayability.
  
  There's an even bigger flaw associated with this previous one -- every time you level up, it resets 
 your health and magic back to full strength. Fine. But if you've hit level 45, EVERY CREATURE you 
 kill causes this same leveling up behavior. So not only is it pointless to kill more creatures 
 after level 45, it's also trivially easy since you never have your health drop very far. Unfortunately, 
 it makes the later boss battles where there are no minor enemies relatively that much harder, since 
 you lose that auto magic/health replenishment.
  
  Other annoyances: getting gold ("essence") is too easy, and the variety of armor too slim, so you'll 
 always be able to afford the latest armor available as the store, leaving you nothing to wish for. 
 The collision detection for the monsters is buggy, so often when you strike them you have to wait 
 for them to fall fifty feet through solid floor then get reset back on solid ground before you 
 can hit them again. And the coop camera control is lacking -- in single player mode you can choose 
 up-close or far-away, but with two players it's stuck about halfway in between, sometimes preventing 
 you from getting a good birds eye view of the action since you can't back out the camera to its 
 farther single-player setting.
  
  None of these should keep you from playing the game if you enjoy a good cooperative hack-n-slash 
 action RPG. It's pretty, the game is still mostly fun, and as the price has now fallen to the point 
 where it's one of the most affordable PS3 games, it's hard to discourage a purchase at a bargain 
 price. But due to the limited replayability, you might get more distance from your dollar by renting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Upon first playing Untold Legends, I was surprised to see the visuals where pretty solid for launch 
 game. But all that recognition ended after about a few hours of playing. I really wanted to enjoy 
 this game, but I just couldn't. The Monotony of going from area to area killing hordes of enemies 
 with the very few selection of combos and magic as well as some unbearable sound effects, music, 
 and voice-acting was enough for me to stop playing altogether.
  
  The sound-effects for spells as well as weapon hits were just awful. If I hit someone with a hammer 
 to the face, I wanna hear a loud "THWACK", "SMASH", or even a loud "THUMP." Instead I get little 
 "pfffts." Music in the game leaves much to be desired. If you manage to play this game, your better 
 off playing it on mute. That's the best sound really. Or maybe if Sony finally releases in-game 
 xmb you can jam to your own tunes, but it won't make the game better, just the crappy sound portion.
 
  
  The game lets you pick one of three different characters, each different from the other, but not 
 by much. Most of their attacks and spells mimic each other, but have added colors or looks. Plus 
 you never pick up any new weapons, your stuck with the same weapon for that character the entire 
 game, but you can alter it with different runes or jewels to change it's properties which is pretty 
 nice, but it would've definately added more depth if there were different weapon types to use ( 
 such as polearms, shields ,bows, crossbows, etc) Armor looks pretty slick on your character, but 
 there are not enough different styles, which kinda hurts, especially when you have some good armor 
 on, only to realize it looked like the same thing you wore 3 levels ago.
  
  As far as the game itself.... it's just boring to the T. Levels are pretty long and you'll constantly 
 fight hordes of the same enemies for onwards of 2 hours or more at times. Plus you stop learning 
 new combos at around level 10, so your stuck with more of the same button-mashing for the time 
 being. Add to some uninteresting spells and tedious boss fights along with some fetch questing 
 make for a very dull experience. And to top it off a Story you wouldn't give 2 squats about.
  
  The game goes for $20 in most places, and I honestly think it's still not worth it. If you 
 can find people online or if you can get a friend who will freely take part in the torture, than 
 it's not too bad. At the time I had it, I could barely ever find a game online. I think for 20 
 dollars (or less) your better buying a solid PS2 game such as Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, Shadow 
 of the Colossus, or Kingdom Hearts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are absolutely nice. When I first bought Dark Kingdoms I thought it was going to be 
 a masterpeice. Armor and weapons look bueatiful and the enviroment is very attractive. For a launch 
 game, it does it's job on the graphics. Although, it's gameplay on the other hand, is a different 
 story. Bueatiful scenery and armor is nice, but mashing buttons every second of the game and using 
 the same combos isn't. Dark Kingdoms just doesn't evolve throughout the story. As a RPG, this is 
 probably one of the most boring games I've played in that particular category. Online play is frustrating 
 and difficult to use since there are no game lobbies. Why are there no game lobbies? A crappy online 
 support from Sony, that's why! Thanks a lot guys, first you make boring repetitive combos, now 
 I can't even play online!! Difficulty is extremly simple in single player, no matter what difficulty 
 you choose. So on top of repetitive gameplay, no online play, your stuck with no challege either. 
 Overall, and being damn generous, I give Dark Kingdoms an average 5.5! Such a good next-gen title, 
 put to such a waste... Dark Kingdoms is a huge disaster... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game had alot of potential... but it falls short. The upper-side of this one is, I paid $20 
 for it! I can not say this game is worth the introduction price at launch. The voice-overs are 
 kind of lame, and the action on-line if you can't talk to your team, yea it kinda sucks. Over-all 
 I have to this this game a low-rating due to it falls short of being good. If you can get the game 
 on EBAY for $10 then you have a title thats worth buying. I am a few hours into it and, I don't 
 know.... I think it could have been better given the the system that its on. The on-line multiplayer 
 would have been better with an auto-chat box or something to helpl communicate with players better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JingWalla
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Untold Legends : Dark Kingdom is a good game but there are alot of bugs and the story sucks, the 
 graphics are also bad compared to other play station 3 games i have played.
  Whats the point in the story? - Theres an evil man, you need to kill him, you kill him.
  I mean, 
 in the old games it was good because they dident have much space on the disk for a good story but 
 on the PS3 they have all the space they need.
  I think the only good stuff is the way they have the multy palyer mode and the charecter.
  this 
 game is overrated because it was one of the first games so the people dident have waht to compare 
 to and they had to make the game fast, if they put in a little more effort in the story, graphics 
 and fixing the bugs the game
  would have gotten a 7.5 or even an 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fs_metal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom
  
  By: Fs_Metal
  Game title: Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom
  Genre: Role Playing Game
  Platform: Playstation 3
  ESRB Rating: Teen
  Developer: Sony Online 
 Entertainment
  Release date: November 19, 2006
  Overall rating: 7.5/10
  
  The tail end of 2006 saw the release of the final two next gen systems, effectively making 'next 
 gen' the current gen. However, games for these 3 consoles have retained the title of 'next gen,' 
 which begs the question, What truly makes a game next gen? Is it just fantastic graphics rendered 
 in high definition or is it something more complex. With the launch of the Playstation 3, there 
 were a variety of games released for it. Many of them did have what it takes to earn the title 
 of next gen. Others left us begging for answers to questions. One such game was Untold Legends: 
 Dark Kingdom? Are great graphics rendered in 720p with a few minor advancements in the action RPG 
 genre enough to push a video game over that next gen threshold? To answer this question properly, 
 the order in which my reviews go needs to be shaken up a bit.
  
  Graphics - 8.5/10
  
  The most obvious difference between the PS2/X-Box and the PS3/360 is the graphical jump. Not only 
 are consoles outputting much higher resolutions than ever before, but pretty much everything else 
 graphically is vastly improved on as well. This is probably the biggest graphical jump from one 
 console generation to the next that we have ever seen. If you look at last gen games, even upscaled 
 to high def, and then look at next gen games, it is obvious to even the untrained eye that we are 
 seeing graphical beauty of hte likes that we have never seen before (unless you are looking at 
 the PS3 port of the Godfather, but that is beside the point) . Speaking as a 14 year veteran of 
 the game genre who has never believed that graphics matter, I must say that I am more than impressed. 
 No graphics do not matter. Gameplay does, but it sure is nice.
  
  Well, in this reguard, Untold Legends does not disappoint. Graphically, it is an excellent looking 
 game with a few minor drawbacks that hamper it's score a bit. It was not the best looking PS3 launch 
 title, but one look at it (especially in motion) and one cannot question that it is very much next 
 gen, atleast in this aspect. Untold Legends displays in 720p, true high definition, though 1080 
 would have been nice. The game shines through with a level of detail that was just not possible 
 on past gen consoles, or anything close to it. Everything is richly colored and highly detailed, 
 and it looks fantastic in high def.
  
  http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v611/fs_metal/932329_20070109_screen001. jpg
  One look at Untold 
 Legends: Dark Kingdom solves any issues with it's graphical next gen-ness
  
  One of the best aspects of Dark Kingdom's graphics, and one that I, personally, have always felt 
 that the series has done well, are it's particle effects. This is some of the better particle effects 
 you will see on the system. they look fantastic, and are only aided by nice lighting and an excellent 
 use of color. Character models look nice. They aren't at the amazing level of Resistance, but they 
 are nothing to write off either. This game has solid animations as well that really helps the visual 
 experience, even if they do get repetitive before the ride is over. There can also be alot of stuff 
 going on on screen at any given time, and it is just something consoles of years past have not 
 been able to do at this level.
  
  I mentioned that the game has some graphical problems that hamper it and lower it's score. The 
 primary one is the framerate. When you look at Resistance: Fall of Man and then look at this, you 
 know that there is just no excuse for having any kind of frame rate issue at all, but this game 
 has slowdown. It never slows down for very long, and it never has any major effect on the gameplay. 
 It is not something that is going to kill your character or anything. Infact, it seems to appear 
 most when you are attacking, which really makes it not that big of a deal. Even so, Resistance 
 had just as much, if not more, going on on screen at any given time with no slowdown at all, and 
 that game looks quite a bit better than this one does, so why is there slow down in the first place? 
 The other one, and this is more of an opinion thing so you may not see it this way, is that some 
 of the art direction seems uninspired and alot of the creature design, while looking good, seems 
 rather repetitive. It's kind of a minor thing, but it is worth mentioning, I think.
  
  Sound - 7/10
  
  Untold Legends score is noteworthy, as it has a few very fitting songs that 
 are actually decent, which probably makes you wonder why on earth I gave the sound a 7. Well, the 
 music, while decent and fitting, is also repetitive. It is a vast improvement over the original 
 PSP entry of the series, but even that games music was more varied than this one. At times this 
 game seems like it just has a number of tracks that play on loop. They are great the first time, 
 but they wear down on you over time, and you are likely to get sick of hearing them, at which point 
 the loose their effect. Is it wrong to ask for more variety in my next gen soundtrack?
  
  There is more than that, though. The voice work is just fine. Not the best, but certainly not the 
 worst, though some of the dialogue that drives it is... well... not good. It isn't something that 
 will stick with you, but that doesn't necessarily knock off any points. What really knocks off 
 major points is the lack of variety in noises. It seems like ever explosion sounds the same and 
 every enemy being tossed makes the same thud noise. Every time you swing your weapon, no matter 
 what you swing it at, it makes the same exact noise. Why? Why is there no variety at all? Players 
 are likely to get sick of hearing the same smashing noises and grunts for the entirety of the game. 
 It is very repetitive and is a poor use of a great sound chip embedded into the PS3. It's the next 
 gen. IT could have been done much, much better than this. Oh, and, on occasion, when things get 
 really hectic, the weapon sounds will disappear entirely. Don't we have all these processors in 
 the cell chip to avoid things like that? Very disappointing.
  
  Story - 7.5/10
  
  Anyone that plays action RPGs, especially hack n slash games, will tell you that they are not about 
 story, and never have been. If you happen to get a good story in an action RPG, it is a nice bonus. 
 This game is no different. Teh story here takes a back seat to the gameplay. That doesn't necessarily 
 mean that it is bad, though it is fairly cliche. IT does have one or two interesting characters 
 who are absolutely nothing like what you would expect them to be like, though. That is kind of 
 a nice touch.
  
  Anyway, you are a member of the Dragon's Shade, an elite group of warriors with the especial ability 
 to absorb the essence of your fallen enemies. You have been sent on a mission to crush a barbarian 
 uprising outside of your homeland of Dureth. The game starts at the end of this war. A barbarian 
 leader tells the Dragon Shade of some seriously dark stuff going on in their home land, and even 
 accuses the king of being at the center of it all. Shortly there after, you travel back to Dureth 
 to try to find out just what is going on. There are some plot twists to try to keep you guessing, 
 and a tower elder that will make you guess even harder, if he fails to make you laugh anyway. That 
 being said, it all feels a bit under developed and cliche. http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v611/fs_metal/untold-legends-dark-kingdom-2006111. jpg
 
  The Dragon Shade
  
  More than likely, to many the story will offer nothing more than a way to advance to the next area 
 full of enemies to smash. Others might find it somewhat interesting, but rest assured that there 
 is nothing truly new or unique to be found. It is just a story of the fall of a ruler and the Dragon 
 Shade's attempts to redeem him. There are, however, minor variations in the story depending on 
 which of the three playable characters you go with. This is a nice touch. Branching storylines 
 are always appreciated, but this alone may not be enough to make people play through it a second 
 time. It certainly doesn't hurt, though.
  
  Gameplay - 7.5/10
  
  Untold Legends is a hack n slash role playing game. Anyone that has played games such as Diablo 
 or Titans Quest knows exactly what to expect from this game, but, for those that haven't, allow 
 me to recap what this branch of the ARPG genre is all about. In Untold Legends, you will kill tons 
 of enemies to level up your character and make him more powerful. You loot corpses for items to 
 improve your weaponry and armor. You then proceed to do it all over again as you progress through 
 the story. When done right, the mutiplayer will always bee good and it will seem like alot of fun 
 instead of incredibly repetitve. Rest assured. This is no Diablo. IT does, however, shake up this 
 formula a bit. You have one weapon throughout the entire game. Instead of getting new ones, you 
 simply collect jewels to place in it to upgrade it. It gets more powerful and grows as you do, 
 though you are never given more jewel slots. That would have been nice. Furthermore, instead of 
 money, you collect a yellow mist like substance called essence that your enemies leave behind after 
 you dispose of them. You use this to purchase new items or restore your health at save points. 
 Don't worry about running out of it, though. There is an over abundance of it throughout the game. 
 http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v611/fs_metal/untold-legends-dark-kingdom-2006-1. jpg
  Untold Legends is a typical hack n slash RPG
  
  Although the game does try to improve on this 
 formula in a few minor ways, this is where the game really runs into problems. This gameplay feels 
 distinctly last gen, and that is not why people are buying this system. For the most part, it does 
 nothing to seperate it self from the hordes of otehr hack n slahsers out there. The game follows 
 the formula to a T, and it has everything it needs to be a fully functioning hack n slash RPG, 
 including online multiplayer, but it does not do enough to set itself apart, and it does very little 
 that is actually new. This is the answer to the question. Are high def graphics enough to make 
 a game feel next gen? Not really. Untold Legends retains that last gen feel.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, the game does do a few things to improve on the hack n slash formula. You 
 can now pick things up and throw them. IF you throw them at enemies or at something else such as 
 a wall, the object will break. This is also true for enemies. You can pick up some of the smaller 
 enemies and throw them at breakable stuff, and they do just that, break. The game takes it one 
 step further in that swinging your weapon can send an enemy or a group of enemies flying. This 
 is a nice touch, but it feels like it us understated in the game. While this type of physics is 
 nice to see in an ARPG, it does not feel well implemented. If this feature had been combined with 
 a destructible enviroment, this, alone, might have been able to make the game feel next gen. Let 
 me give you an example. You swing your weapon at an enemy. He goes flying and hits the wall. This 
 impact he causes on the wall breaks pieces off of the wall, causing them to fly outward, possibly 
 even hitting other enemies. They could also have had the enemy fly through walls as a result of 
 you sending them flailing through the air. This would have fleshed out the physics alot more, and 
 it would have been extremely cool, helping to solidify this games next gen-ness.
  
  There are two other problems with the gameplay as well. The first is that the camera just plain 
 sucks. It is a 3D camera that you have pretty much complete control over, but, when there is something 
 inbetween your character and the camera, it doesn't become transparent so that you can see everything 
 or anything like that. Nope. It just ensures that you cannot see a damn thing, and this is sure 
 to anger alot of people. I know it got on my nerves. Furthermore, sometimes the camera gets stuck 
 and, when it does, it fights with itself. It will shake back and forth for a short time, and this 
 is very annoying. The other problem is with jumping. If you jump when you are against the wall, 
 your character, more often than not, will be suspended in mid air for a short time before landing 
 back on solid ground. This one is a bit of a minor gripe, but it does look stupid. http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v611/fs_metal/untold-legends-dark-kingdom-2006101. jpg
 
  In typical hack n slash fassion, Dark Kingdom also includes magic, but b3e prepared to hit one 
 or two buttons till your fingers bleed, also typical of hack n slash games.
  
  Replay value - 8/10
  
  Replay value is what hack n slash RPGs do best and, for those that can 
 look last the games faults and see that it is still an enjoyable game, Untold Legends does have 
 plenty of it. This game features three playable characters, each with their own slightly varying 
 storyline and style of play. It has multiple difficulty levels and co op play both online and offline. 
 It is a game that can keep you busy for quite some time, despite it's rather short ten to fifteen 
 hour length. There is are alot of thing to try out here and a variety of ways to play through this 
 game, just as hack n slash fans have come to expect. It i=may not have the wonderful replay value 
 of a game like Diablo II, but it certainly doesn't slack off in this aspect either. There is quite 
 a bit to do here.
  
  Final thoughts -
  
  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom asks the question, Are good, high def graphics alone enough to make 
 a game next gen? In the opinion of this gamer, no. This game has a distinct last gen feel. Does 
 this make it bad or something that you should skip all together? Not necessarily. There is enjoyment 
 to be had here, if you can overlook the games faults. It is not the greatest role playing game 
 of all time, but it has everything that is required if a fully functional hack n slash game. Renting 
 it first might be a good idea, though, as it is certainly not for everyone. IT will seem very repetitive 
 to alot of people, but the good news is that it is also short, so you are not doing the same thing 
 over and over and over again for forty hours. Certainly give this game a second look before dismissing 
 it. It is not a bad game. It just does not feel next gen. If the price drops to twenty to twenty-five 
 bucks, it is almost definitely worth that cheap price.
  
  Gameplay - 7.5
  Everything needed to be a functioning hack n slash RPG with a few minor additions that are nice. 
 Not enough to make it feel next gen, but not boring either
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  Great use of color. Good lighting. Awesome particle effects. Art design feels a little uninspired, 
 though
  
  Sound - 7
  Good score that feels repetitive before it is all over. Decent voicework, but incredibly repetitive 
 battle sounds
  
  Story - 7.5/10
  A great character in the tower elder. He is witty and can be funny. He is nothing like your typical 
 elder at all. Some plot twists to try to keep you guessing, but it takes a back seat to the gameplay.
 
  
  Replay value - 8
  Three playable characters, multiple difficulty levels, varying stories and co op, both online and 
 off. There are alot of ways to play through this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  The game plays a lot like Dark Alliance or Champions of Norrath, with the biggest glaring difference 
 being the lack of customization in the characters. You'll get different pieces of armor as you 
 play through the game, but they won't change how your character looks drastically. Also, you'll 
 keep the same weapon throughout the whole game, with sleight changes in appearance as you upgrade 
 it with Runes / Orbs.
  
  The worst part of the game is the camera. It's easily controllable, but for some reason there are 
 always trees in the way. I don't know how they could release this game without fixing it, because 
 it's impossible to see what's going on a good deal of the time. Luckily, the game is easy enough 
 that you don't have to.
  
  The game gets better if you have a friend to play through with. Co-op story mode is a really nice 
 feature in just about any game. That's pretty much the best part of this game though.
  
  Some of the spell effects look neat, mainly for the Mage class. There's only a total of 3 classes 
 to pick from. Warrior, Scout, and Mage. Warrior is pretty bland.
  
  If you like the hack n' slash genre and you've beaten all the other similar titles, I'd recommend 
 getting Dark Kingdom. Otherwise, wait until the price drops more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesslyssiee
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I don't really regret it, but this game is bad. It's an embarrasment to me, my friends, my PS3, 
 my Sixaxis, my sixaxis charger, my power cord, and my HDMI cable. It is also an embarrasment for 
 my mom, dad, sister, uncle, aunt, grandma, grandpa, and dog. You know why, cuz I'm related to them 
 and I brought a shame to our family name by playing this broken, worthless pile of racoon feces. 
 I love that classification list for having BROKEN on it becuase that basically is a review of this 
 game in itself. Now, for a real review. This game was on the PSP a while ago. Never played that, 
 but it seemed alright. This thing isn't. Basically, you run around and mash the X button till your 
 fingers bleed. Occasionally, you shake the controller as if it had a trantula stuck on it that 
 was ready bite your head off. The story is boring, it's long to add to that, and the combat is 
 DULL. The graphics and sound however, is decent, at best. Frame rate drops once in a while. If 
 you have sixty bucks, go buy Resistance, have it already? Go buy another one, it's better than 
 having this. If your family is kidnapped and the kidnapper says you have to beat this game in order 
 for them to rescue them, then and ONLY THEN should you even consider a THOUGHT of renting this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  No matter how often a new console can initially lull you into the belief that videogaming is being 
 pushed forward into new territory, something invariably comes along to bring the whole process 
 down to earth with a bang. Following on from playing the superb Resistance: FOM, Virtua Fighter 
 5 and Motorstorm; Dark Kingdom will fulfil that particular role with relish for many early adopters 
 on the PS3 bandwagon. Somewhat tellingly, the system already has its fill of generic action games, 
 and this is another solidly average attempt to add to the pile.
  
  The Untold Legends series has a fairly middling reputation on the PSP, and that mediocrity is translated 
 directly to this release. As an Action-RPG, character classes are limited to a choice of three 
 at the outset of the game (Warrior, Scout, Mage) , all of which utilise a similar moveset. There 
 are the usual raft of enhanced or limited attributes on offer depending on your class selection, 
 and a choice of nine unique spells to level up during the campaign. There is no further customisability 
 on offer, although some limited armour alterations provide a small amount of visual distinction. 
 Granted some of the upgrades to look very pretty and/or menacing depending on your tastes.
  
  Given the lack of personalisation options then, you'd think that Untold Legends would focus 
 on creating a strong linear storyline around the pre-created avatars on offer; but this direction 
 feels half-baked at best, and limps along weakly throughout the single-player. Don't expect a God 
 of War or even a Titan Quest, and you won't be disappointed.
  
  The basic premise casts your character as part of a group of three supreme warriors under the collective 
 name of 'Dragon's Shade'. Set in the fictional land of 'Dureth', the Shade act as an elite splinter 
 cell, separate from the main Kingdom. During a routine mission against the barbarian hordes that 
 plague the land, your band of warriors discovers an evil corruption running to the heart of the 
 empire, right up to the King himself. No prizes for guessing where the story leads, and over the 
 course of the 15-18 hour journey you'll be treated with several bland in-engine cutscenes to dictate 
 the tale, complimented by some pretty poor voicework.
  
  Role-playing elements are surprisingly lightweight even by action-rpg standards, and although you 
 can upgrade statistics and spells in the normal manner, there isn't enough compelling depth to 
 make this a real drive to continue working on your character. The game scales enemies well to your 
 character level, providing a decent challenge, but with the side effect of hampering any real sense 
 of progress or achievement. Of course part of the problem is the linearity of the levels, but every 
 now and then it would have been nice for the designers to provide some lower-level enemies for 
 you to simply decimate.
  
  Given that the story and RPG elements are not enough to carry the experience alone, it's left to 
 the core action to spur the player along and unfortunately this also falls short of excelling in 
 any particular field.
  
  Basic and heavy attacks are mapped to the face buttons, and the usual raft of blocks and magic 
 attacks can be performed with combinations of the shoulder triggers. Combat is generally well-designed, 
 with some decent animation, and there are a good variety of attacks on offer without ever becoming 
 overly-complex. The sense of fluidity is perhaps Dark Kingdom's best achievement. Taking out a 
 group of enemies with a combination of weapon-based attacks and magic support can be extremely 
 satisfying, with a similar orb-collecting system to the God of War series boosting along your health 
 and mana meters in the process.
  
  But it's just all a bit too routine. Nothing particularly stands out about the combat and the developers 
 seem to have hit the halfway house between focussed action game and a traditional point-click RPG 
 style, without the out-and-out benefits of either system. Monotony soon sets in, and an over-reliance 
 of simple hack and slash tactics rules the day.
  
  It doesn't help that the game feels dated from the outset also. Graphical quality is clean and 
 precise, but contains an undeniably clinical and almost PC-like feel at times. Some of the magic 
 effects look good, but lets face it, streaking primary colours across the screen is one of the 
 easiest things to get right, and the lack of subtlety in the environmental and character design 
 shows through in the end. Audio quality is a similar story, with some decent effects and music, 
 but generally terrible voice-acting.
  
  Dark Kingdom is as basic an Action-RPG as you'll likely find on any generation of console hardware, 
 as mired in tradition as any to come before it. No doubt for some people that will sound enticing, 
 but this is a genre crying out for a dose of originality and a shove forward into a new era. Unfortunately 
 with every subsequent release of this stature we appear to be no closer to reaching that goal, 
 and whilst Untold Legends is by no means a bad game, it doesn't do enough right or provide a compelling 
 enough experience to recommend as full-price purchase on a brand-new console.
  
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xander1188
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty good for a system starter. A bit blocky at parts but other than that its a pretty good 
 button smasher. If you look back at all of the system starter games starting from the 64/PS1 and 
 up you'll see that most of the first games are a bit buggy. Most of them are to used to give the 
 creators an idea on what to focus on for the upcoming games. This one could have been used as a 
 basic sound and graphics test. Im tired of people bashing on button smashers. Its like they expect 
 it to be the next Halo or something. Its quite rediculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  You can choose between a warriors with a massive hammer, a scout with dual swords and a mage with 
 a staff and great magic....
  
  Gameaply 8 : Repitive but fun in multiplayer its great!
  
  Graphic's 8 : Glitchy somwtimes but nice models look great
  
  Sound 10 : Polish voice acting 
 and good story 10/10!
  
  Value 9 : Single player is long and its fun on multiplayer because you can be som1 elses chaRcter 
 and save a different persons game and contiue it on singler player koool!!!
  
  Overall 8.7 : A fun Action RPG with a very good multiplayer rent if you like then buy its worth 
 it money (got it off Ebay &pound;26.00 NEW!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 20, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  You won't find anything new to this repetitive game. The gameplay, characters and enemies are like 
 the ones on other games. Even customizing your Character and the puzzles can't stop this game from 
 being boring, repetitive, tiring and feeling familiar and the camera and bottomless pits make the 
 game very frustrating. The only good thing about this game is the offline and online cooperative 
 play but the puzzles are hard to do when you are playing online. Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom is 
 only for the fans of the series and those who really like hack and slash games. And for those who 
 are not, stay away from this game. Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom is not worth your time and money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuy540
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I hate the games like PSP Untold Legends because it is slow confusing and stupid. I loved this 
 game it is an awesome game. The way the changed it is just perfect. Also I love the online mode 
 I played it for hours. The fact the made it so you could pick characters that people have previously 
 made so you didn't always have to start out level 1, and it made it easier to play with your friend 
 online. The way you made your weapon more powerful and look different was a great addition, and 
 it was original. I just loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntDaGamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom Better than the Press tells you! by AntDaGamer77 April 28, 2007 - 
 This game is pretty good. I'm not gonna say to much cause this is the 2nd time writing an review 
 and I could pretty much sum up the doubt of this game. You can load up your saves and play them 
 online even have a friend join in. You can start a game up and leave it open for up to 3 other 
 players and they can join later. Downside yes, they have to start there character over unless they 
 joined your games before if so the character will be in that particular save. The game itself is 
 incredible the camera people talk about can be controlled by pressing down on the R3 button for 
 3 seconds to give you a closer view. Its real close in 1 player and a little bit no so close in 
 2 player but what you can expect from online multiplayer slashers. Soundtrack is gorgeous storyline 
 is very in depth and what is the majore prize along with the simple gameplay. Looking for something 
 different then don't pick up. Looking for something that is just a good game with a good storyline, 
 good game play, and amazing soundtrack pick this game up. Especially if your a S. O. E fan, a EQ 
 fan, or Champions Of Norrath fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  You are one of 3 different characters who come back home from a crusade to find your emperor has 
 been possessed by some evil force...... and here your journey begins.
  
  Graphics: Visuals are sharp, especially over HDMI. Good textures, great AA, excellent lighting, 
 its all put together nicely. While the textures are good, some times they get a touch grainy up 
 close, but other than that its not Gears of War, but its not GUN either. The magic spells are cool 
 to look at to. A great game visually.
  
  Gameplay: Fighting is easy, its hack and slash, not much to it but button mashing which works out 
 perfect for this game. You have 3 different classes as well. You can be a barbarian, a Mage, or 
 a woman, not sure what she is exactly as far as class goes a stealthy fighter maybe.
  
  All of the classes can have some magic use but really its better just to level there fighting skills 
 (mage being the exception) as trying to use everything will mean a weaker character over all.
 
  
  The magic casting isn't to difficult either just assign a spell to one of the 4 face buttons use 
 it. The controls for the game are simple which works out good. The AI is as you would expect from 
 these types of games always on the offensive. So just mash away, maybe blocking every now and then.
 
  
  The game has tons of cool looking armor to. Its a blast to play multiplayer too.
  
  Sound: Not that great is all I can say. Over HDMI you can get static, and the sound is rather drab 
 any way. Nothing fantastic, average at best.
  
  Value: Other than the sound I find it hard to see how GS rated it so low. Fighting is great, Graphics 
 and gameplay are great, and multiplayer is a blast. Definitely a rent first though, depending on 
 what type of RPG's you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpoticusPlatt
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom should have been a PS2 game that came out a few years ago. There isn't 
 anything next gen about it. Before I get into it, if you like games like Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, 
 Gauntlet: Seven Sorrows, or Champions of Norrath, this game may be worth playing - but not @ the 
 $60 it costs now. I like to set price threshholds where the game is actually worth buying.
  
  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom - $24.99 is about what its worth or rent it.
  
  I bought the 
 game for $60 b/c I like Baldur's Gate type games, they are fun to play with your wife, friend, 
 etc. I was very disappointed. When you begin the game, you get into a tutorial mission. Here you 
 learn how to play, you learn about the difficult camera angles, and height issues with your ranged 
 combat. (when using magic, it often hits the ground just in front of the enemy) .
  
  Playing the game is fluid and easy, I was never in any real danger. It was easy to learn - you 
 felt like the super warrior they made you out to be. The problem is that it is so repetitive - 
 x x x, x x y how will I kill the next person? Bosses were very easy as well.
  
  Graphically, it is pretty much as good as PS2. It only runs at 720p.
  
  The game is simple, 
 kill a bunch of spawning enemies, move on to the next mission. If you like that, good for you. 
 On a side note, the item/weapon features of the game I found simple, but pretty cool. It's probably 
 the most positive aspect of the game that I will remember.
  
  I jumped around a lot with my review of the game. Bottom line is that the game is mediocre at best. 
 If you are unsure about it, rent the game first. Under no circumstances should you pay $60 for 
 it.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been fooled again. I guess it was something of a false sense of security after purchasing 
 my Wii... that developers might launch a title that is somewhat decent at the launch of a system.
 
  
  That being said, I figured I'd be alright purchasing a S. O. E. game, since Sony developed both the 
 PS3 and the game. I was sadly mistaken.
  
  Not that the game is horrible. It's just not great. There was nothing that stood out, the controls 
 were awkward, voice acting was poor, and a very poorly intergrated story-line was implanted in 
 a straight forward hack and slash game.
  
  Graphicly, it reminded me of the last of the PS2 games. This game I do admit that I am blaming 
 myself for not researching before purchasing, but I know that I will never end up playing this 
 game in its entirety unless I suddenly become unemployeed, and replay many better games from my 
 collection as far back as my 2600. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  If the name doesnt seem to roll off the tip of your tongue, its not your fault. For the PS3, 
 Sony probably wants to keep it that way. Even when the controller was still a boomerang, Sony paraded 
 Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom as one of its next-gen titles arriving on Day 1. Gamers responded 
 with as much delight as could be expected for a hack-and-slash series that achieved only moderate 
 popularity on the PSP  with distain and much eye rolling. As pictures of the next-gen pony-tailed 
 barbarian leaked out, critics condemned the graphics for not measuring up to the hype. Sony gave 
 in, redesigning the look of the barbarian and removing him from the cover of the box. Unfortunately, 
 after playing the game, youll wish Sony spent more time redesigning the game itself and less time 
 with the box.
  
  The Next Generation of Lazy
  
  So you are a hapless barbarian, a half-naked rogue, or a weak wizard sent out by the king to break 
 up the barbarian invasion. Ill call this Project Tutorial. Right before you deliver the killing 
 blow to the chief enemy combatant, a group of heroes appears from out of nowhere to explain that 
 its your employer who is terrorizing the kingdom by turning peasants into hideous monsters. As 
 the only hope for this kingdom (what about that group of heroes?) , you must destroy all the sources 
 of kings power before confronting the big guy himself. As it happens, the king gets his power 
 from overly-used areas of the Untold Legends series  dark forests, dark sewers, and other dark 
 areas that look remarkably like the last level you just played.
  
  Dark Kingdom rarely ventures outside the realm of the previous titles. Every character possesses 
 a heavy and light attack that can be mixed in three button combinations with various results. Clicking 
 on one of the triggers lets you unleash one of four potential spells in your arsenal. As you slug 
 your way through the same five enemies, your character levels up, allowing you to increase his 
 stats as well as open up new spells and combos. After learning the new combos, your characters 
 learning curve flat lines which only leaves mashing the same button configuration to get through 
 every enemy. Spells only slightly ameliorate the tedium by unlocking gradually through the game. 
 Most likely, youll find the one or two spells that you really like and keep them rather than explore 
 your options. Its hard to keep going through the same onslaught again and again when the game 
 feels like its already given up.
  
  Seriously, do we need another sewer level? Untold Legends may have had a couple of years to develop, 
 but many of the levels look like they were quickly put together the night before from pieces of 
 previous levels. This isnt a step forward, but a look back at all the clich&eacute; s that have 
 impaired the genre from growing beyond its moss-covered walls. Quests appear throughout the game 
 only to explain to players how to open the next area or to remind them simply to keep moving forward. 
 Add in a camera that gets caught behind objects, and you have yourself a list of items you wished 
 were fixed on the PSP  not something to greet on the PS3.
  
  Rage Against the Dark
  
  To say that Dark Kingdom is falling back on its roots is an over-simplification of the problem. 
 The newest title of the Untold Legends series misses the mark on several points by simplifying 
 the process. Next-gen may give you nicer graphics, but you dont have any pockets. No health potions. 
 No extra weapons. The buying system comes in the form of essence which you get from fighting and 
 trading at save points for armor, gems, or health. Your outfit changes little as you slug through 
 the dark and dank. Once you have the best outfit, theres little reason to change out until the 
 next level or two. Gems take replace new weapons by accessorizing the only one the game gives you. 
 Like most of the game play, youll rarely change once you find the right set.
  
  The warrior, the mage, and the really fast one  are there any more generic characters than these 
 in a dungeon crawler? Dont get me wrong. Theres nothing bad about these characters. Except if 
 you take into account that the wizards fireballs only target the closest enemy and not the one 
 youre facing. Thats just annoying. As with just about everything else in this game, theres a 
 surprising lack of creativity or anything interesting to discern this game from that of a fifth 
 graders report on Lord of the Rings. Remember, even Gauntlet had four playable characters.
  
  Hit Buttons and Things Happen
  
  I didnt forget about the online multiplayer mode; I just 
 think its not even worth mentioning. Untold Legends on the PSP tried  not always successfully, 
 but tried  to include multiple modes of game play such as capture the flag or death match. Dark 
 Kingdom  a game made for a console that can handle the bandwidth needed for large parties  only 
 allows up to four people to play co-op. Thats right. You and three of your friends can all suffer 
 through the same levels together. The real question is, Where do you get a fourth person from 
 when you dont even have a fourth character?
  
  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom is a generic dungeon crawler. Period. With a real chance to reshape 
 the genre or at least demonstrate some of the power behind that oversized gaming grill, Sony instead 
 put out a game thats barely playable at best. Mind-numbing button mashing with unremarkable stages 
 can only be used to help you forget about the six hundred dollars that you blew on a system to 
 play a game no better than its PSP cousin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallenchosen
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  'nuf said, its really not worth playing unless you were in the same setting as me. haven't played 
 any game except NFSCarbon for the past ever since PS3 came out. then its a nice break untill elder 
 scrolls comes out (which i should've saved for *hint hint*) i dont need to tell you about the game, 
 as i A. dont have time. and B. dont want to bore ye all to death. DONT BUY IT, UNTOLD LENGENDS 
 SHOULD HAVE STAYED UNTOLD! (besides, theres nothing legendary about a bimbo with two swords honestly, 
 people. but other than my solid criticism, it does have good sound and graphics, but i owuld not 
 waste my time or $60.00, and i think i will now go burn the disk, as a matter of fact. farewell 
 readers, and do make good choices! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrovian
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well, I didn't really know what to expect from this game. I've played Untold Legends 2, on the 
 PSP, though I never did get to play the original. This game is one of the reasons I had been wanting 
 to get a PS3, and I was finally about to, and to purchase this game as well. So far, I am enjoying 
 the game greatly, I haven't tried all of the available classes, but am playing through the game 
 with the mage. I'm not too far along, and don't have the PS3, hooked into my HD tv yet, but the 
 graphics still appear to be rather decent, and the gameplay is quite good as well, in my opinion. 
 I think that the game is a little bit hard, at least at first, until you get used to all of your 
 attacks, and combos, but once you have those down, then it is fairly straight forward, and easy 
 to play.
  
  Though, there is one thing that I do not like very much, and that is the camera angle. I know that 
 it can be adjusted, but it is still somewhat of a problem, as I wish that you could raise, and 
 lower the camera angle, and not just move it from side to side. I think that is the one major thing, 
 that I think they could have done better with in the game. Perhaps they will, if they make a sequel 
 to this PS3 game, at least, there's always hope that they will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFFVI
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  While Untold Legends isn't any breakthrough in gaming, it's still good enough that you'll probably 
 enjoy playing it if you've been through other games like X-Men Alliance, or Baldurs Gate on the 
 consoles.
  
  It has pretty standard features, with your typical character upgrades, it pretty much follows the 
 dungeon crawler formula completely. But the multiplayer is really where the value is. It's a really 
 good game for killing time when you and a friend feel like some mindless fun.
  
  The graphics aren't spectacular by any means, but they do the job well enough that you probably 
 won't say the game looks terrible , but they don't impress you the way they might in Genji for 
 example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The popular PSP series, Untold Legends hits the PS3. From portable to next-gen console, Untold 
 Legends seems to have gotten lost in translation.
  
  Dark Kingdom puts you in the role of some hero guy working for some hero group with some cliche 
 name that soon uncovers some cliche conspiracy that reveals that the king of your beloved cliche 
 fantasy kingdom is a cliche power hungry bad guy. Pretty sweet story right? Right? ...
  The core gameplay of all the other Untold Legends games stays the same. You pick a character class 
 and you fight through hordes of baddies and collect loots. The combat system is still pretty deep 
 and you can unlock lots of new moves and spells for your character. On the PSP, this worked great 
 and was tons of fun, but there are a few problems in this PS3 entry to the series; One, there are 
 3 very bland character classes to choose from (slow melee, fast melee, spellcaster) as opposed 
 to the other games' 4 cool and specialized character classes. Secondly, you'd expect a console 
 game would have much more added to the formula from a portable game, but you'd be wrong to have 
 such expectations in this case. You see, Untold Legends games dominate the handheld action RPG 
 genre (since games in this genre are scarcely seen) but compared to other action RPGs on the consoles, 
 Untold Legends will disappoint.
  The multiplayer on the other hand is what makes this game great, the co-op is as it always has 
 been, where this game shines.
  
  The graphics in Dark Kingdom are its only great quality. The lighting/reflections are great and 
 the enviornments are pretty open and are detailed and no matter how many enemies are on screen, 
 the game never slows down. But this game has artistical design from hell. The models look terrible 
 because they are cartoony and way too out of proportion compared to the more realistic enviornments. 
 But the best thing about the graphics is the capes, these capes are the best capes I've ever seen.
 
  
  The music is the only part of this game that matches the epic feel the developers were attempting 
 of achieving. But the awful voice-overs and often muffled sound effects aren't so great.
  
  If you find any reason to go forth and beat the singleplayer, I'll be surprised. But the multiplayer 
 is well worth playing and the character classes (though bland) are fun to try out for a little 
 while anyway.
  
  If you're a fan of Untold Legends games or RPGs or just video games in general, you'll probably 
 be pretty disappointed with everything in this game except 4 things; the music, the combat system, 
 the multiplayer and the graphics, but even then they all have flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly one that is underappreciated. It is not just another mindless hack n' slash 
 like N3, but an old school quest oriented action/RPG. The game offers plenty of variety in terms 
 of level design, puzzles and 3 playable and customizable characters. You can customize their weapons 
 and attire. Your player is upgradable throughout the game with different spells and moves as well. 
 Straight forward and fun.... but with plenty of options as well.
  
  Ok, so the graphics are not Oblivion like, but so what? They are good enough, because the game 
 is just plain old FUN. That is what counts after all, is it not? At least that is why I play games, 
 lol.
  
  If you dig old school, action, hack n' slash like GOLDEN AXE and GUANTLET, then you will truly 
 love this Wizards and Warriors themed game. A true old school treat that should not be missed just 
 because you might think that the graphics suck, man. Trust me.... it is just a FUN and very underappreciated 
 game. I cannot wait for the next one in the series. Sometimes that old school vibe is just what 
 the doctor ordered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game is basically the same as any other Hack n Slash RPG, but it is solid. It has 3 different 
 classes of characters (Warrior, Scout and Mage) each with a small number of 10 skills each that 
 have 5 levels of power. It also has puzzle-solving elements as well. The game also has a co-op 
 play mode for a disappointing 2 players (youd think a game like this would have 4 player co-op)
 
  Rating: 3 out of 5 Online Multiplayer:
  The game has a fun online mode where up to 4 players take on the story mode together. The problem 
 is, you have to make a new character for online mode, but thats really it.
  Rating: 2 out of 5
  
  
  Story:
  This game has the same clich&eacute; d story: King is nice 
 to people, King finds limitless power source and is being controlled by it, King transforms people 
 to monsters for evil army, 3 heroes must stop him. Very basic and simple.
  Rating: 1 out of 5
  
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  The graphics are what you would expect from 
 a PS3 title. It supports 720p HDTV . The same old problems are here though: bad collision detection, 
 people phasing through walls and a hardly bearable camera. The sounds are sharp as well.
  Rating: 3 out of 5
  
  
  
  Sequel Differences:
  This game is not really any different 
 then its little brothers on the PSP except for graphics, sounds, classes and skills. A change in 
 the gameplay would have really helped.
  
  Overall:
  The game is a basic Hack n Slash with basic (yet solid) gameplay, with a clich&eacute; d story, 
 okay multiplayer and great graphics for a PS3 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Good: Fun, dungeon crawling action; around 40 hours of replay value; upgradeable weapons and armor 
 adds appeal; ONLINE!
  Bad: The fun dungeon crawling action is killed shortly in game play due to repetitive nature; graphics 
 are horrendous; frame rate is a little too low; not as deep as other dungeon crawlers.
  
  
  Untold Legends could have been an excellent game. The company already had experimented with 
 two other titles for the Psp, and yet they still could not get it right. Untold Legends resembles 
 Baulders Gate, but a lot less deep. The game play is bland and shallow. As you play, you mash the 
 X and Square, and that pretty much sums up the controls. You can level up and gain new skills and 
 abilities. You cant change weapons, but you can collect armor. The inability to change weapons 
 is quickly saved by the ability to attach orbs to the one you can use. Orb effects can vary from 
 elemental damage to getting more health from each enemy you kill. You can customize armor, on each 
 save point it gives you the option to save or use gold you've collected to make armor. Each armor 
 is different for each class; the three classes are Warrior, Mage, and Scout. One of the only fun 
 ones to use is the Mage class, so pick that one! Overall the game play can be summed up as limited 
 and pretty repetitive, since in most missions you will be doing almost the same meticulous task.
 
  
  The graphics are what really kills its potential. The developers already knew the games game play 
 wasn't the best, they should have at least put good graphics, like in Genji. The graphics in Untold 
 Legends is really bad, it doesn't completely ruin the game experience, but it is a bad example 
 of what the Ps3 can do. The character models are decent, but the environment is pretty ugly. In 
 fact, the worse part of the game is the ground. If your walking on a path, you'll notice how ugly 
 it is, it looks literally disgusting. Thankfully there aren't many paths in the game. A good point 
 is that you will travel to many different areas, forests, plains, mountains. Unfortunately all 
 of these maps are extremely unoriginal and cliche in dungeon crawling games.
  
  The sound is a huge let down. It would have been twice as good to play the game if it had decent 
 music, like from Baulders Gate or Lord of The Rings. In fact, you would be surprised how much better 
 the game feels while playing with good, fantasy music. Thats a huge downfall, especially since 
 you cant listen to your own music while your playing the game. The sound effects are mediocre and 
 overall a real big let down. Don't worry if you've played the Psp versions: the one thing they 
 learned from their past mistakes was to make the music a little less repetitive.
  
  Overall Untold Legends is an alright game, especially for a launch game, and since this is the 
 developers first time programming for cell processor. The game isn't worth $60, but you can get 
 it off Ebay for around $40. I recommend this game for anyone who is a fan of Dungeon Crawlers and 
 cant wait for the big upcoming titles. Its got around 40 hours of game play, but that doesn't make 
 it good, its repetitive for the rest of the hours. It does not get repetitive if you don't play 
 non-stop. Take breaks every 20-60 minutes to add appeal. Also to add appeal, you may not want to 
 start off at the easiest difficulty, that way it will be challenging, and not so drop dead easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rin
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  My friend and I were dying to play a game other than resistance, and we wanted online co-op, So 
 we went with Untold Legends. Essentially, it's a next-gen dumbed-down Diablo. Thats not to say 
 its not good, but its not great.
  
  First off, this game is incredibly unbalanced as far as classes go. The warrior by FAR surpasses 
 the mage or the scout in total damage done, and effectiveness in battle. The lack of a healing 
 class makes online not much more than a simple (and I mean SIMPLE) hack and slash. The storyline 
 leaves a LOT to be desired.
  
  However, It's not all bad. there is no shortage of save points (which also count as places you 
 can recharge your health for the games currency, called essence .) The graphics are pretty good 
 (for a launch title) . I also like the weapon system they have. Instead of finding new weapons, 
 you find/buy gems that you can enhance your weapon. every characters weapon has 5 slots to put 
 differently shaped gems in. The first of the 5 slots is the one the weapon takes its graphic from, 
 IE, if you put in a certain gem, the warriors hammer turns into an awesome axe, or if you put in 
 another, it turns into a wicked dragon head mace, with smoke coming out the nostrils. There are 
 probably somewhere around 30-50 different gems in the game.
  
  As far as armor goes, its pretty much OG Diablo style. Monsters drop gear, or you can buy it. The 
 real-time graphics for armor is generalized (IE not every piece changes your character's appearance) .
 
  
  The action aspect is not bad. As a mage, you have a plentiful arsenal of spells to cast, and his 
 melee attacks are pretty nifty too (But no where near as cool as the warriors) . It isn't overly 
 amazing though, since you will find yourself usually using the same combos all the time. kinda 
 repetitive.
  
  All in all, this game is good if you REALLY REALLY like hack and slash games, which involve online 
 co-op. Its fine if you have a friend to play with. Single player isn't recommended. Neither is 
 paying full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldksparda21
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game and i played for an hour before going to work and it was surprisingly fun 
 to play, and my roomate's fiance has been playing it since he got home and he loved it. I do have 
 to admit that when i first played it i was not impressed but i got into it very quickly. Try it 
 out, rent it and play it for atleast 2 to 3 hours if possible, you might be tempted to finish the 
 game i guarantee it. This game does not look like it is even using 30% of the Ps3's power. I think 
 that Sony could have done a better job on it, but as we all know time was running short. The game 
 could have been better but it is still enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought my Playstation 3, I was expecting quite a lot from this system, especially 
 with Sonys hype machine at work. The first game I bought, Resistance: Fall of Man was an unmitigated 
 success in my book. I was hoping that this would continue into the second game I was to play, but 
 sadly this wasnt to be the case.
  
  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom is the story of a squad of elite warriors, all members of a group 
 called the Dragons Shade. While off, fighting wars in the name of their king, they learn of how 
 things have gone horribly awry in their home kingdom. Returning home, they discover that their 
 king has turned to darkness and now tortures his citizenry to power his fell magic. You will control 
 either a fighter, mage or scout member of this squad and guide him on a quest to stop his liege 
 from destroying his own kingdom. The controls are pretty much what you expect for a game of this 
 genre, feeling somewhat similar to the Baldurs Gate: Dark Alliance games. The left analog stick 
 controls your characters movement while the right stick controls your camera, zooming in and out 
 or scrolling the camera around your character. The directional pad is used to scroll through your 
 special attacks on the fly or to access your mini-map. You have a normal attack, a wide attack 
 that hits in a large radius to fight groups of enemies with, an Action button (responsible for 
 anything from picking up a rock to throw at a foe or opening a treasure chest) and a jump button. 
 The R-Triggers are used for defensive maneuvers, such as a block, which you can only do a certain 
 amount of before your guard is broken, or a defensive roll. The roll is better against bosses, 
 while the block button will help you against the normal hordes you fight. The L1 button gives you 
 access to your list of special moves, much like you access your powers in the X-Men Legends and 
 Justice League Heroes games. Its a familiar system, thankfully, and it takes very little getting 
 used to if you have played any of these games.
  
  Each character has a number of special moves that they may learn during the course of the adventure. 
 Many of these seem to be functionally similar at first, but the later powers diverge yet more into 
 being more unique. If nothing else, they look pretty enough in use. However, even the warrior can 
 be fairly liberal with his magic attacks, as the enemies drop magic refill orbs often enough that 
 its usually not much of a problem. These attacks are either very good at crippling your foes for 
 subsequent bashing or they do enough damage where they will decimate your enemies quite rapidly.
 
  
  The controls are very restrictive in this game not giving you much leeway. This becomes frustrating 
 when youre going head to head with a horde of foes, should you start swinging your weapon, you 
 cannot change what direction you face mid-combo. It becomes a major nuisance when youre fighting. 
 On the other hand, the camera controls too wildly, moving far too fast when youre trying to adjust 
 it during a fight. You will usually end up swinging past the optimal viewpoint you were going for 
 or putting the camera behind another obstruction. Also, everything you pass by, especially trees 
 will obstruct your vision. These trees will be your worst enemies.
  
  When you are hewing away at the hordes of enemies that the game throws at you, you will be given 
 a variety of orbs with each enemy you kill. The red and blue orbs will refill your health or magic 
 meters, much like the orbs you are given when defeating enemies in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. The 
 yellow orbs you can acquire, the essence orbs, are one of the few things I actually enjoyed quite 
 a bit with this game. You can use this essence at save points for a variety of things: refilling 
 health and magic, craft any sort of armor you want or purchase a variety of runes. You can add 
 these runes to your weapon to provide a variety of special effects, be it the ability to see enemies 
 on the mini-map or to add knock-back to your attacks.
  
  The graphics are sub-par for the PS3, but they are passable. Comparing it to Champions of Norrath, 
 a game three years old and for the last-generation system, Champions graphics come close to these, 
 the difference being incredibly small. The cinematic cut scenes, which consist simply of stylistic 
 drawn still frames, come off as chintzy and cheap, not something you spend six hundred dollars 
 for. The Mages and Scouts capes sure are pretty though. They flow very nicely and are all shiny, 
 two things that get my attention.
  
  The music is very bland and almost sounds like something out of a Disney movie. It tries to sound 
 epic, but it honestly doesnt. To say nothing of how repetitive it gets and how quickly it gets 
 that way. The voice acting is fairly good however. While it is of the standard we must save the 
 world fare, the actors sound convincing for their roles. My only gripe with this was the mage, 
 who sounds fairly young by his voice, but yet looks quite old by his character model. Its an odd 
 mix that never sat well with me.
  
  Dark Kingdom is an ungodly easy game, especially as the warrior and its not exactly an adrenaline 
 rush of a game. The game is slow and plodding, especially due to the long lad times, and it doesnt 
 ever pick up. While it will take some time to beat, it was a struggle to force my way through the 
 game simply because of getting bored with the game itself. The storyline isnt the worst ever but 
 with the unmanageable camera and the bland gameplay the game is sub-par at best.
  
  Pros: Non-stop button mashing to fight the enemy horde, a variety of runes to add into your weapons 
 and familiar control scheme.
  
  Cons: None too interesting cut-scenes, repetitive gameplay, horrendous camera angle especially 
 in two player, load time between stages is very long and the controls are not responsive enough.
 
  
  Score: 5/10
  
  Recommendation: Definitely rent this one. If you dont get bored with it for this short time, then 
 youre a better man than me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rat-Bastard
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I bought for the PS3 when Resistance: Fall of Man was not in stock. Graphically, 
 its not as good as I thought it could be, although the close up shots of your character at the 
 inventory menu is a lot better than your average action RPG. One of, if not THE main problem I 
 have with this game is that the people testing this game obviously did not care about the overly 
 annoying landscaping issues. While running around slashing your way through your enemies your constantly 
 having to move the camera around to be able to see anything aside from a tree, a wall, a rock or 
 anything they decided to put in the way. This gets annoying very quickly.
  
  The gameplay is your normal action RPG with a decent combo system that works well mixing up how 
 you deal out the damage and is easy enough for new/casual gamers to pick up and play. The spells/skills 
 for each character are a nice mix that keep things interesting. I am currently playing through 
 a game with my wife, she is the Scout, I am the Mage. Like most games, the mage started out slow, 
 not dealing too much damage and taking a lot of damage, however now while the Scout can dish out 
 a lot of damage to an enemy, the Mage can wreak havok on groups of enemies with punishing Blizzard 
 and Vortex spells. All skills are upgradable, increasing damage, duration, area of effect etc. 
 Then of coarse there is the tons of items to attain during the dungeon crawling games such as this 
 one. While you pick up quite a bit of items, most of them are practically worthless, or they make 
 you choose between two things (do I want to keep working on my spell power or do I want to sacrifice 
 some for more mana?) Your weapon is slotted with four settings which you can install gems that 
 increase stats or give you new (all passive) abilities. Any gem that is set into your general slot 
 will change the appearance of your weapon, which is always nice. There are some repeats however. 
 The music in the game is actually pretty good. One level in particular that I noticed was crawling 
 with undead and the music was great, sounded like an eerie opera. Set the mood for the board and 
 thats great since I don't normally notice music in a game at all. All in all, I'm not completely 
 disappointed in this game, I think its worth playing if you're craving some kind of RPG and you 
 spent the cash on a PS3. Don't expect the world out of it, but take what you can get which is a 
 decent action RPG with nicely customizable characters, good combo system that comes with horrible 
 camera issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong777
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  i am a big fan of beat em up games and if anyone loves God of War, this falls way short. i do admit, 
 there are a lot of cool aspects of this game with different magic and armor and other regular run 
 of the mill fantasy game options. the gameplay is real droll though. the combos and the fighting 
 capabilities are just sub par, and i found myself getting real bored real quick. the story line 
 kept on cutting in every few minutes of fighting and i really couldnt get into it.
  
  i will say this, it has a very gauntlet -like quality about it, but come on, we are in the age 
 of high technology, let's kick it up a notch and get this game to a real competitive arena. again, 
 if anyone loves the fantasy-type style game without having too in-depth of an RPG feel, by all 
 means, give it a go. but heed this warning, i would suggest renting this first to see if you can 
 get into it yourself. and to be honest, i really only gave the game about one hour of my time, 
 and out of that whole hour, i truly only spent about a third of that playing because of the lengthy 
 insets of the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you have to really be in the mood to play, not just a game you pick up and 
 play. You gotta wanna sit down for like a day and just play a good old hack, slash and loot game. 
 I was expecting an awesome game when I bought it but it still feels just like every other champions 
 and untold legends game of the past, just with sweet graphics. It's an alright game but the repetitive 
 gameplay, and especially the lack of variety in characters, weapons, armour, etc just makes it 
 up to be a bit disapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamber303
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Well, when I took the game from the shelf and put it on the counter, the employee at EB Games asked 
 me if I was sure that this is what I wanted.
  I told him NO but it does not matter cause your still making a sale.
  
  I went home, put it 
 on and I have to say, for a first Action RPG, It is pretty good to me. I also played the PSP version 
 and honestly, I didn't like it that much, but this one is good.
  Some people say the graphics are not to good. How is that? I find the graphics better than some 
 first generation 360 games that were released last year.
  Anyways, I'm happy with this game. As a 1st generation Action RPG for the PS3, it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbrooks28
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Untold Legends: Dark Kingdom. You play as one of members of Dragon's Shade. This group is an elite 
 military unit for the Kingdom of Dureth. You have a choice between a Warrior, a Mage, and a Scout. 
 The King sends out Dragon's Shade to quell an barbarian uprising in a distant part of the kingdom. 
 After accomplishing their goal, they hear rumors of the Kings decent into evil. They return to 
 the capital to find the truth of the matter. And that is where the story begins to unfold. ULDK 
 is a simple game with beautiful graphics. Personally, I thought that this game would be a great 
 improvement to the PSP titles. But when I actually sat down and played the title, I realized that 
 this is just a pixilated improved extention and not a next gen verson. Don't misunderstand, I did 
 enjoy this title, but I was just hoping for something more. A feeling really. If anyone is old 
 enough to remember the time they spent with their friends playing Gauntlet (original arcade cabinet) 
 at the rollerdome should know what I was talking about. That's what I was hoping for, but both 
 online/off line experience just didn't par up. Graphics: Beautiful improvement to the PSP concept. 
 The art work of the spell casts are the details that really stands out. The characters are well 
 designed, but I wish for a little more. There is little change to the character after changing/modifying 
 equipment. One other problem with the graphics is the foreground. When your character walks under 
 a tree or into buildings the object does not fade out or becomes transparent. Because of that, 
 you may find it hard to fight or find a path to take. Gameplay: Game controls are simple and easy 
 to learn. That is a plus but also a minus. Why? Well this is Next Generation . Mechanics and control 
 should also be improved with graphics. Story: You're not going to find a Final Fantasy or Dragon 
 Quest here. Extremely simple with no plot twists or thrills. Overall: I did enjoy this game. It 
 still feels like a PSP quickie, but it is fun. If you rent it for a couple days and like it, maybe 
 you should try to find it used or on sale. If you haven't been a fan of Action RPGs, then this 
 isn't the title to convert you into the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisanoele
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of RPG games, and since this was the first one out for the PS3, I picked it up without 
 reading the reviews. I was debating if I should even open it when I saw the score it received. 
 But since Oblivion wasn't due out till Feb, now March, I thought, what the heck. The first great 
 thing is the action, there's lots and lots of slashing fun with the sword whelding heroin. I haven't 
 tried the other characters yet since I'm having way too much fun with her. The second great thing, 
 the ablility to turn items into essence that is used for healing, mana, or armor. My friend says 
 the armor items that you make are much better than the ones you find, but I disagree. I have found 
 most of the items on the list.
  
  Now the bad...
  
  The story is weak at best, really no meat on that bone. Like I said, it's no Balder's gate or Diablo 
 for that matter. The sum of the story, evil king has an evil new queen, kill them both, no plot 
 twists, just go get them. Blah... The side quests? There are none. Just quest that must be completed 
 to get further along in the story. Oh wait, there is the one with the wolf, and you need her to 
 get to a treasure chest, but that's all that I see.
  
  From what I can tell, you can't heal on your own, you have to level up or spend essence at shrines 
 to heal. I do see that your mana does eventually go up, but it takes a while. So if you're not 
 saving up those essence points, you could find yourself between a rock and a hard place fast.
 
  
  The camera is kind of crazy at some points and it's easy to lose your direction, but that's common 
 with multiple camera advantages.
  
  This game is a great RPG if you dont mind the lack of story and just like total carnage all the 
 time. I would have probably purchased it despite the review just to be able to play an RPG on my 
 PS3. I'm anxiously awaiting ES IV: Oblivion, I'll let you know what I think once I get my hands 
 on it. Eventually.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  Well, Game-spot again has failed me : (
  
  After renting this game I ran downstairs, switched on the PS3, and checked the rating of it on 
 GS (sadly I had forgotten) . Anyways, seeing the 6.0 was a huge hit to my heart, did I just waste 
 another 5.99$ on a game like Full Auto? Skeptical I put the game in, fired it up, and was pleasantly 
 suprised to see the graphics weren't as bad as mentioned. Sure they are not great, but these are 
 not PS2 graphics.
  
  Continuing with the story I was pleasured by the fun I had (not literally of-coarse :\) . The game 
 is for those who like fantasy overheads. Games like Marvel Alliance are very much similar to this 
 game. Multi-player is great (if you have a friend to play with) and can become very fun. I gave 
 this game a pretty good tilt because I enjoyed it and I expected much worse coming from the review 
 it got from GS.
  
  Hope this helped those who are skeptical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realtrance
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  While the game is nothing new, in many ways, in many ways it is also competent and a good start 
 on a new platform. Clearly the team did not have AAA resources to develop the game, and it shows 
 in the graphics design, game design and polish. Clearly the game was under pressure to ship at 
 launch. However, SOE continues to hold on to the concept that you can create a good, simple dungeon 
 crawler with a very simple set of options that can be sustainable, and even replayable fun, without 
 getting into epic levels of development.
  
  I'd recommend getting well into the game before passing judgment; it starts off pretty repetitiously, 
 but as with the UL games on PSP, once you're up to around level 12 it starts to get interesting 
 (this is on the Courageous setting; if you find the game too easy, try the max difficulty level 
 -- you'll be dying from the get-go!) . And it plays differently with each of the three different 
 characters, as well.
  
  The game is generally well balanced, with some interesting ambiguities along those lines -- either 
 there are a few areas where the team went Dead Rising in number of chars. onscreen excess to prove 
 some of the PS3's capabiliities, or the game tries to compensate for your not having levelled sufficiently 
 for the area you can get into by throwing mob parties at you. Either way, once you get into it, 
 these kinds of things can actually be amusing, as the bowling for zombies opening of Dead Rising 
 is on 360.
  
  Where the game showcases the PS3 is in the speed and fluidity of animations for characters and 
 NPCs onscreen (and numbers at a time, whew!) , and in good use of the new SIXAXIS controller's control 
 options.
  
  Taken on its own terms, UL: DK is a good romp, though not a great one. This series should really 
 be funded and managed with the goal of making a completely kick-ass game and proving that the basic 
 premises of the game design are completely viable for a top-notch title, which I truly believe 
 is the case.
  
  The online play was a mess at launch, but it's apparently been fixed up somewhat lately, so if 
 you already have the game, check that out again -- there's apparently some patching been done recently 
 (haven't tried it out myself yet) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1706
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  i was disappointed in this game. Seriously. I figured the graphics would be awesome.. they werent. 
 The fighting system.. same as the others. The story is alright. Nothing I'd go crazy over but its 
 alright. I expected so much more from this game. I've been playing untold legends games for a long 
 time and i always loved them but this game... it was a waste of my money. i could of just rented 
 it instead. but let me get into the actual review
  
  
  The gameplay: typical. Basically, the same as the other untold legend games. Theres nothing new, 
 no extra surprises.
  
  The graphics: horrible. Absolutely horrible. This is what I would expect for the ps1. The untold 
 legends games i have for my psp look so much better than this game. Storyline: the storyline is 
 alright. but its not the best they've had. It gets very boring after a while. The only thing to 
 look forward to in this game are the big cutscenes, thats when the graphics are actually great 
 and the story seems amazing. Difficulty: Very very easy. It takes no time at all to figure out 
 the battle system on this. If you've played the other untold legend games then you'll get the hang 
 of this game easily. Sound: the sound is alright. Nothing amazing but its alright. Really, rent 
 this game before buying it. You'll save yourself the money. I love the Untold Legends series but 
 this one was so disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played Untold legends on the PSP and i liked it. I think that this is a decent adaptation 
 from the PSp to the PS3. I am not much onn hack and slash games but this one is decent. IT is deffenatlly 
 a good alternative to the champions of norath. By far it isn't great though! The graphics are lacking 
 and the sound are slow. Most of the stories are told with still pictures which i hate. The Controls 
 are easy to learn and the gameplay is fun. To me that is what keeps this out of the dark. I did 
 like the game and it is worth a rent if not a but. The story is decent for this genre and it is 
 one of the decent games at launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamorutux
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't meant to be a hugely impressive game. It feels like it was created to fill a nich&eacute; 
 for a certain type of PS3 crowd. It definitely doesn't push graphically, but that wasn't the purpose. 
 If you're looking for a decent action-rpg that will keep you busy while you're waiting for more 
 games on the PS3, then this is a good time consumer. The gameplay itself works very well, though 
 does become slightly repetitive after a good 5 hours of play. Once you've gained the ability to 
 use all the spells, you really lose your push to move further along in the game. The story is interesting, 
 although it leads you into areas that just confuse you. Sometimes you have no clue why you're someplace... but 
 does it really matter when all you need to do is walk through it and kill things? Some of the puzzles 
 are implemented well, but a select few have pretty dismal controls (blocking the sewer pipes for 
 one) . But, even after all complaints, you still have an enjoyable game that's definitely worth 
 a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mowshnan
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Just got the game... and the first thing that comes to mind is, this looks kind of bad. God of War 
 on the PS2 looks way better than this game. I know it's first gen, but still it looks like a budget 
 PS2 game. It would be so bad if they charged $20 for it. It would make a descent bargin bin title. 
 Even the character models in the menus look bad and jaggy. It's HD, we should not be seeing jaggy 
 lines. And the water rippling effects look really fake, they should have take the rippling effects 
 from the Baldurs Gate games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
