-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Valkyria Chronicles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/senjounovalkyria/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exceptionally beautiful visual design.
 Unique combination of turn-based strategy and third-person movement.
 Wonderful, subtle soundtrack.
 Eliminates multiple genre-specific frustrations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Foolish AI.
 Story is very slow to get moving.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,236 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A boldly refreshing strategy RPG that is both beautiful to look at and fun to play. 

  You haven't played anything quite like Valkyria Chronicles. At first, you might think this is due 
 to its striking visual design, but this is a case when beauty isn't just skin deep. By usurping 
 elements of third-person shooters, it offers tactical freedom few strategy role-playing games approach 
 and should become instantly appealing to genre fans and newcomers alike. The game has some drawbacks, 
 including some questionable artificial intelligence that may cause you to scratch your head in 
 confusion. Yet for all its small flaws, Valkyria Chronicles is great fun, and likely to charm your 
 pants off to boot.  

           Welkin cocks his pistol for another showdown.      

  The land of Europa may not be exactly of our world, but Valkyria Chronicles is a fantasy version 
 of our own familiar Earth and tells a war story culled from multiple real-world conflicts. It is 
 1930, and the war between the East Europan Imperial Alliance and the Atlantic Federation spills 
 into Gallia, a small, neutral country that, unfortunately, is also overflowing with a resource 
 called ragnite. Our hero is the well-meaning Welkin, a Gallian student who becomes the unwitting 
 hero of Squad 7, a militia unit comprising a few friends -- and a few skeptics. The squad's story 
 is told through scenes organized as episodes and chapters in a book, an effective if slightly disjointed 
 narrative device that emphasizes the storybook visuals. It takes a while for the story to get moving, 
 and you'll be eight or nine chapters in before the fantasy elements truly kick in and the plot 
 begins to gather momentum. But this is a subtle journey, and you will eventually grow to appreciate 
 the understated manner in which the plot unfolds. And the most memorable moments, such as one in 
 which Welkin and the bright-eyed Alicia care for a wounded enemy soldier, are genuinely heartfelt. 

  It only takes a glance to appreciate Valkyria Chronicles' unique visual design, and you will appreciate 
 its beauty the more you play. The game resembles a watercolor painting in motion, but light crosshatching 
 within textures and gentle edges ensure it looks like no game you've seen before. The pastel color 
 palette is soft but vivid, and it all looks brilliantly cohesive and whimsical. This charm is further 
 accentuated by comic-book onomatopoeia that splashes on the screen during certain events. For example, 
 when you gun down an enemy, you may see "rat-a-tat-a-tat" pop up on the screen to accompany the 
 blistering gunfire. But if you look past the strong art, you'll notice some equally slick technology. 
 The impressive transition animation between the overhead strategic map and the fully 3D environs 
 of each character's turn never gets old, and the game maintains a high frame rate no matter how 
 much high-intensity action may be occurring onscreen.  

  Terrific sound effects and a fantastic, unassuming soundtrack accompany the outstanding visuals. 
 Yet presentation only gets you so far, and fortunately, Valkyria Chronicles follows through with 
 the thoughtful tactics genre fans expect, delivered in a manner so inviting that even those who 
 usually avoid SRPGs will find something to love. Forget the usual staples of map grids and restricted 
 movement. As with most similar turn-based games, you'll begin each turn by selecting the unit you 
 wish to maneuver, but once you've done that, you zoom in on that character and take full control 
 of him or her from a third-person perspective. From here, movement feels much like that of a third-person 
 shooter, though an action bar limits how far you can travel before that move is finished. Of course, 
 this isn't actually a shooter; you can't freely shoot at enemies during this period -- rather, you 
 get a single chance to perform a chosen action. Depending on the unit, that might mean sniping 
 an enemy shock trooper, healing a friendly, or repairing the Edelweiss, your ever-important tank. 

  This system is both unique and liberating, because it retains much of the challenge of traditional 
 RPGs while removing the limitations we've come to expect. Maps are often huge and throw surprises 
 at you like sandstorms and searchlights, which layer complications onto general tactical considerations, 
 such as unit weaknesses (scouts are vulnerable to shock troopers but can traverse great distances, 
 for example) and cover opportunities (you can crouch behind sandbags or hide behind walls) . Yet 
 for all its complexities, Valkyria Chronicles is never difficult to interact with, and it's a wonder 
 that some of its user-friendly features are so uncommon in the genre. You can save at almost any 
 time midbattle, and you can reuse the same units within a single turn, though ammo restrictions 
 and reduced movement capabilities will keep you from exploiting this particular facet. And while 
 you can permanently lose a recruit, you have a few turns to revive him or her by calling in a medic, 
 at which point the unit is removed from the battlefield (but can be resummoned or replaced) .  

 
  But while your lost units can be replaced by others, you'll want to hold on to the ones you have. 
 That isn't because you will lose an experienced unit; you don't level individuals, but rather, 
 an entire class at one time. Every scout, for example, is at the same level regardless of which 
 one you send to battle. Rather, it's because each soldier is incredibly individualized. They are 
 all physically unique, and their oft-amusing voice-overs paint each unit in broad strokes, which 
 will keep you invested in the ones you like the most. It's hard not to get attached to the meek 
 engineer named Homer when he proclaims his loneliness when separated from his peers. Certain units 
 also bring distinctive status effects to the battlefield, and in some cases, you may earn a new 
 weapon after battle and can assign it to a particular favorite. All of these facets elevate your 
 units from being random recruits and help draw you in to the game's slow-starting narrative.  

 
  The individual missions are terrific, placing a variety of interesting obstacles in your way and 
 forcing you to use environments to your advantage. Mines may be scattered about, sniper towers 
 allow you to get a bird's-eye view, and trenches might offer makeshift cover. Some of them may 
 take a few tries as you get a feel for the map, but rising to a mission's challenges on the fly 
 is highly satisfying. Maps such as a desert locale swirling with sand and littered with cover opportunities 
 are visually appealing and offer plenty of tactical possibilities. Other levels, such as one in 
 which you must knock down obstacles to delay a tank's slow progress, are clever and fun, while 
 elements that are simply annoying in similar games (such as late-arriving groups of reinforcements) 
 offer additional challenge without feeling cheap.  

           Alicia is a fine romantic interest, and an even better shot.      

  While it's easy 
 to appreciate Valkyria Chronicles' individuality, it does suffer from a few noticeable issues, 
 the artificial intelligence chief among them. Your AI foe often takes actions that will boggle 
 your mind. Tanks waste entire turns driving ahead, only to return to the exact same spot. The AI 
 will summon a half-dozen reinforcement snipers, which can't return fire during the player's turn, 
 when you have multiple nearby shock troopers ready to take them down in a single turn. Scouts run 
 directly toward entire groups of soldiers. When this issue is prominent, the challenge -- and therefore 
 the sense of reward for a completed mission -- is somewhat diminished. The sensitive collision detection 
 can also be a bit awkward, so you aren't always able to maneuver a character around with as much 
 freedom as you like, and the camera is an occasional annoyance in close quarters.  

  But in a game as smart and delightful as Valkyria Chronicles, it's easy to look past these issues 
 and take comfort in its fun and intelligent take on a genre that has plenty of room to grow. Yet 
 while it is a fantastic new step forward for strategy RPGs, it's a lovely and enjoyable game in 
 its own right, and if you own a PlayStation 3, you should also own a copy of Valkyria Chronicles. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cerebris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well the game certainly was an interesting choice when I decided to rent it, and I will say that 
 it was a good game for most of the duration, but it eventually got to a very repetitive "send out 
 forces, some die, some don't" rinse and repeat fashion.
  
  There is nothing you need to truly know before reading, so let's get down to the review.
  
 
  First off the story is quite interesting, I'll admit that it pulls out quite a few turns and twists 
 to the story, but all in all you are severely outnumbered, and overpowered by a vast Empire that 
 can always throw an even deadlier and stronger weapon at you than the last weapon they threw at 
 you, and that gets old really quick. Plus, add in the fact of an ancient race with near mystic 
 abilities via a "bloodline" and the perfection of the mysterious energy known as "ragnite" (which 
 is never fully dived into and thus just used as an explanation of "why things work") and you've 
 got yourself an interesting story... but is it good?
  
  Well the story is undoubtedly interesting as I stated earlier, but coupled with the game-play itself, 
 there is truly no essential DRIVE to continue playing or to unveil the final secrets of the mystery.
 
  
  Second, is the gameplay, and it is an interesting style to give commands to soldiers and then send 
 them out while trying to defeat larger forces than yours and somehow succeeding... but it gets 
 old fast, especially when the vast numbers defeat you at most turns, or some special mission or 
 boss-mission is just overdone and poorly balanced and incredibly repetitive... like most missions.
 
  
  There's even a mission with a girl-boss who has a chain-gun sniper rifle who shoots everyone the 
 entire game and even when you get to her, due to the dodge mechanic, avoid mechanic and her healing 
 and overdone life despite a tank round firing into her, she can kill most of your guys if you don't 
 perform a special technique to kill her.
  
  In terms of difficulty the game is not wisely designed, as many things are imbalanced, and as such 
 the desire to continue playing was testing with me at least 5 times, and that isn't a good thing 
 seeing as how I am generally very generous in terms of playing games, and I rarely want to stop 
 playing them if they have a moderately interesting story.
  
  Third, the realism of said story is an issue. As I stated earlier the enemy will keep sending even 
 larger gigantic fortresses, weapons, and vehicles at you that are all referred to as the top pinnacle 
 of their technology, and obviously ahead of their time, based on the timeline and research data 
 you get for everything you fight against and how the world has worked before these events. I think 
 what blew it over the top was that they somehow made a man-made "INTENSELY PLOT-BASED WEAPON" after 
 they had designed all their other weapons and technologies, but they never used and instead focused 
 all their efforts on getting the "INTENSELY PLOT-BASED WEAPON" that you had, or you wanted.
  
  Obviously if they had all these technologies and weapons, they could have won easily if they 
 had used them before the player's forces had become experienced and upgraded... but no, they didn't, 
 and that destroys some of the immersion of the game (what little it had) as well as making it hard 
 to believe that they had all these weapons in the first place.
  
  Some parts of the levels are just redo's of previous levels, and some are obviously thrown in at 
 the last second and that does not speak well for a game of this style.
  
  Finally, the last parts of this game include that the story is actually memorable if you go through 
 to the end (which is hard based on difficulty and repetition) and it is a well designed cast of 
 characters, each with uniquely designed plots and stories, and although some may be considered 
 over the top, they are still emotional and touching. In addition to this there is an interesting 
 medal and trophy system that is both fun and tiresome, while there is also the ability to upgrade, 
 enhance, and learn new skills for all your characters and vehicles and weapons, which is also a 
 nice add-on, but does get tedious eventually. Lastly, there is a journal type mission selector 
 which based on choices in the game and logs you can buy from a reporter, will also include special 
 bonus missions that will reveal more details about the characters and the world itself, which is 
 helpful in the backstory department.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  While it is a good story with a well designed selection of characters, the drive to finish it is 
 not always there, and several very repetitive, tedious, and incredibly annoying missions exist 
 that will test your patience and may make you drop the game, and while the story itself doesn't 
 really contain a lot of realism based on the information and technological capabilities of the 
 empire's and nations themselves, it still is an interesting plot.
  
  I'd say to try it... but don't expect this JRPG to be "all that", as it will appeal to very few, 
 despite its current rarity.
  
  Sidenote:
  
  I find that there are no good PS3 rpgs... and Playstation has always been known as the RPG center 
 in its lifetime, but now the 360 is taking that mantle... and it hurts me... as I really want to 
 play some good graphically intense non ported rpgs on the PS3, since that is why I bought it... 
 a pity.
  
  - Cere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is easily one of the most unique games you will ever play. It is a delightful 
 mish mash of First Person Shooting combined with turn based Strategy RPG elements wrapped up in 
 a delightful water color anime graphical shell. 
  
  The game is a tale of friendship and hardship, victory and defeat and particularly chronicles the 
 life of Welkin Gunther and the members of Squad 7 under his command during World War 2.... I mean, 
 Second Europan War (The parallel between Darcsens and Jews, the Empire and Axis powers and the 
 similar level of technology and ideology of the time should be apparent to all but the toddlers 
 who happen to be playing this game) . 
  
  As I said before, the game is the most peculiar mix of shooters and RPG. You start a round after 
 finding out where your mission wants you to go and what to achieve and after placing your troops. 
 When you select a character he or she will move until his or her AP (action points) bar is depleted, 
 and then will be entirely unable to move, although pivoting is allowed (but not for tanks) . In 
 addition to moving as long as your AP hold out, you have one action per turn per character. This 
 can be attacking, grenade toss, healing, repairing a tank (if the character is an engineer) , etc. 
 
  
  When you choose to fire (Press R1) , the game will go into a freeze mode where only you can move. 
 Your character will either aim within a circular crosshair or have a path of flight line showing 
 where the grenade will land. Initiate combat once aimed. Either you will kill the target or dislodge 
 it or whatever the case maybe (if you do not outright miss or the enemy dodges) . If you do not 
 kill the opponent, they may be allowed to counter attack if they are the right class (lancers and 
 snipers cannot counter, more on this later) . Factors like Aim, Damage and Range will determine 
 whether you hit or not and for how much (it will tell you "to kill" count) . By the way, remember 
 all of those Halo and Unreal Tournament headshots you practiced? They still count here. Aim for 
 the head if you can. 
  
  Also if you run in the range and view of enemies that can shoot (remember not snipers or lancers) 
 they can take pot shots at you, so be aware of this. Sometimes forming a defensive wall will eliminate 
 approaching troops from the oppressive gunfire (as you will find out when storming beaches and 
 fortresses) . 
  
  The classes of units are : Scout which can attack and use grenades and find hidden enemies in grass, 
 as well as having the most AP to run and seek enemies out. Shocktroopers have heavy machine guns, 
 slightly better armor, and more HP than scouts, as well as later getting flamethrowers. Lancers 
 shoot explosive mortars that really hurt anything they contact, but especially tanks. Snipers... 
 well snipe. They honestly are utterly useless until you get a B rank aiming sniper rifle or better, 
 but from there on out, one shot should = 1 kill. The fact they have VERY low AP and HP doesn't 
 make them viable for the reason I said before. Engineers are sort of like scouts, but can't run 
 quite as far, have less AP, but can heal for a lot more, and heal tanks, as well as repair barriers 
 and disarm mines. Finally tanks are the heavy bruisers of your militia. Regular characters require 
 1 CP (that's what it costs to select one character for one round of movement and their action, 
 more on that later) . Tanks cost two. They take no damage from anything but well placed grenades 
 or lancers (or mines) . The small exception being shot in the back on their glowing blue radiator. 
 Otherwise if you are smart, tanks are meant to be rolling bunkers from which to approach the enemy 
 with. One major deficiency is even to turn, AP is spent with tanks, so if you run out of AP and 
 are facing the wrong way, tough.
  
  I mentioned CP, which stands for command points. You get a fixed number of command points per turn, 
 modified whether you have any of the story officers, namely Alicia, Largo, Rosie and Zaka in your 
 party. If you spend them all, your turn is over. If you don't store them up for a future round 
 (to a maximum of 20) . Finally, if Alicia or one of them gets taken out, you lose that extra CP, 
 but the same goes for your opponents if you take out their officers. Speaking of deaths, you can 
 have anyone but Welkin fall in combat, providing you can reach their body and rescue them before 
 the enemy captures them or kills them by touching them. If rescued and removed from the field, 
 you can redeploy them at the cost of one CP (or place in any removed or absent unit from the reserves) . 
 Often retreating and replacing is a quick way to get units around the map or out of danger. 
  
  Other important aspects are orders. These cost CP, and if it is a mission where Welkin is in 
 a tank, he can spend the CP to boost HP of a unit, defense, attack, tell someone to retreat when 
 they are not near a base, raise all units attack, and so on. Don't forget them, I did oftentimes, 
 when a simple order to increase attack or aim would have made all the difference in the world. 
 
  
  Finally, potentials are aspects of a character that are triggered when a condition is met, for 
 good or bad. Some people are allergic to metal, some are good friends with other units, some just 
 randomly burst with power and are 100% accurate. These potentials are either advanced through the 
 story or are gained through training (more on that later) .
  
  In terms of combat I think that covers most of it.
  
  The mission structure varies from seek 
 and destroy, to stopping massive tanks, to holding down the fort, and more. Additional side missions 
 are less stressful but are more covert than others, fighting isn't the main goal in some levels. 
 
  
  I won't go into the story much so as to not ruin it, but the moral allegory shown in the tale should 
 resonate with many people, and one of the most powerful moments in gaming (in my opinion it stands 
 tall with the ending of Metal Gear Solid 3 and the demise of Aeris in Final Fantasy 7) is when 
 Welkin and Alicia come across a wounded Imperial soldier yet take care of him as he is suffering 
 and cries out for his mother. It was quite touching and reminiscent of the scenes in war movies 
 like Saving Private Ryan and We Were Soldiers (except without the life like gore of those situations) . 
 The whole story is touching and does in many cases touch on adult subjects like the oppression 
 of peoples and slavery to dealing with death and betrayal. But there is hope and friendship and 
 what I must say is a satisfying and uplifting ending.
  
  As was said before, the entire story is drawn out (or modeled using various filters) to look like 
 a watercolor anime. Each character in your squad, ranging from Welkin and the officers to lowly 
 recruits all have their own story and distinctive appearances, ranging from height, stance, weight, 
 age, facial features, etc. This is good, as some of the areas are somewhat devoid of distinguishing 
 features and details. Don't expect more textures than you would an anime or cartoon, you won't 
 get them here. There are a number of well produced full motion videos interspersed with a considerable 
 number of static and slight motion comic book panels as well that are used to advance the story 
 (which is actually told from a story book that serves as the main hub for the story and options) .
 
  
  In this book, which is titled "On the Gallian Front"... ah I'm not going to talk more about that, 
 you'll find out if you play it, you can engage in the Book Mode, Skirmishes, Headquarters, Personnel, 
 Weaponry and other tabs. Book mode allows you to watch cutscenes and engage in story battles. Skirmishes 
 allow you to relive certain battles for more experience and money. Experience and money may be 
 spent at Headquarters on increasing your weaponry and armor, as well as updating tanks firepower 
 and defense and to upgrade troop ability. Potentials, as well as character HP and at level 10, 
 elite status (more abilities like Flamethrowers or more AP) , can be gained from training at the 
 training grounds. At the War Cemetery, Welkin may learn new orders from the Aged Gentleman (it 
 was never explained who he actually was besides a friend of Welkin's Father who was a great General 
 in WW... ah dangit, Europan War 1) . You can receive new side stories from Ms. Ellet by paying her 
 fees (which are worth it for the amusing cutscenes if nothing else) . You can also receive royal 
 rewards from Princess Cordelia (which includes some very powerful items sometimes) .
  
  Finally, the game is also a sonic masterpiece. Thanks to talent like John DiMaggio, Fred Tatasciore 
 and Steven Jay Blum (if you don't know who those 3 are, you've probably not played a video game 
 or watched a cartoon or anime in the past decade) . The cast is entirely voiced, including non officer 
 members of Squad 7 (who all have distinct voices and little quips in battle) . The battle themes 
 are always intense and pounding making you engage in action while the enemy turn has an overture 
 of marching drums and horn work, a modern day "Imperial March" (wow that works on two levels) . 
 The game over and sad scene music are particularly powerful with woodwinds and sombre tones. Gunshots 
 and grenades go off all around, incoming mortars and radio chatter can be heard throughout a battle, 
 sometimes idle banter sometimes helpful hints. 
  
  In all I've sang the praises of this game throughout, but I'd be remiss to leave out the few imperfections 
 the game has.
  
  First: 
  Snipers I said before suck for the first 10 chapters give or take. It's just when you have a cone 
 where the bullets land that is the size of a characters body, then your degree of error is just 
 astronomical.
  Second :
  When approaching an enemy, they will know when you instantly walk into range and will blast you, 
 while you cannot say judge accurately what "350 meters" is in game to shoot them. I. E. we are talking 
 about AI being AI and getting the cheap edge.
  Third: 
  A related note, if you directly engage say a Scout to Scout and neither dies, you either run away, 
 or end your turn, but almost always will the computer be fast enough to get a shot or two off before 
 you can end your turn, but they on the other hand will instantly end the turn before you can have 
 an additional chance to fire (outside of your obligatory return fire mode) . Not game breaking, 
 but has on more than one occasion lost me a unit.
  
  In the end, this is one of the most beautiful and unique experiences on the Playstation 3, let 
 alone anywhere in all of video gaming and should not be missed by anyone, let alone Strategy, RPG 
 and FPS fans. 
  
  Gameplay : 9 out of 10
  Graphics : 9 out of 10
  Sound : 10 out of 10
  Value : 10 out of 10
  Tilt : 10 out of 10
  Overall : 9.5 out of 10
 
  
  Good :
  + Most unique blending of genres I've ever seen.
  + Excellent sound with a brilliant cast and score.
  + Also one of the most unique graphical presentations 
 ever.
  + A poignant and unforgettable story for the ages.
  
  Bad :
  - Lack of detail in overall environment in some maps
  - See technical issues mentioned above 
 with AI cheapness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is one of the best (if not THE best) RPGs you will play this gen, its got a 
 great story, great graphics and revolutionary strategy game play, the game is so good its hard 
 to believe that SEGA (given their record with Sonic games) managed to pull this off! It's a great 
 game and anyone who likes RPGs of any kind MUST give this game a try!
  
  Story: Ragnite, a powerful energy source that creates many possibilities, is a precious and yet 
 limited resource in high demand. In 1935 Europa was separated in to 3 nations, The Imperial Alliances, 
 Galia and the Atlantic federation.
  After the demand for ragnite came to a boil, the Atlantic federation and the Empire waged war over 
 the resource while Galia maintained a neutral stance. However not long after, the Empire decided 
 to attack Galia for their share of ragnite as well, and thus began the great Europan war.
  
  Game design: Valkyria Chronicles is a mix of JRPG and RTS, it is a turn based tactical shooter 
 which plays almost like a third person shooter but with RPG elements mixed in.
  The game uses an advanced manga type cel-shaded graphic style which looks insanely amazing.
  
 The game's story in broken in to chapters, each with cut scenes or "episodes", with around 1 or 
 2 skirmish battles in each chapter.
  You can flip through pages and tabs. The tab select (or menu) will allow you to return to HQ in 
 order to assemble your squad, equip weapons, level up classes as well as upgrade weapons.
  
  Game play: You will play as Squad 7 of the Galian forces lead by Welkin Gunther (The game's 
 main character) . You will be commanding 14 members during a skirmish with around 7 active members.
 
  The battles are split into turns or "phases". Within each phase each side will get to do an action, 
 each side can do a minimum of 6 actions indicated by the stars on the top screen (More if you select 
 command characters with stars) . While you do get to run around there is a limit as to how much 
 and far (indicated by a meter below the screen) so you will have to plan your course as some characters 
 will have short distance meters.
  There are 5 unit classes:
  - The scout: Mainly made for reconnaissance with the longest running meters with standard fire 
 power but weak defences.
  - The shock trooper: Basically the attack unit with strong rapid fire capability and strong defences, 
 but comes with half the distant meters as scouts, they are best used for guarding bases and performing 
 a frontal assault.
  - The lancer: Extreme fire power and very high defence but with limited ammos and very short running 
 distance, they are best used for artillery purposes and taking out tanks, not against another personal.
 
  - Engineer: Very weak fire power and defence but can repair tanks, cover sacks as well as provide 
 full ammo supply for all squad members they touch and they have long running distance meter.
  - The snipers: Very weak defence and extremely short running distance but with the most powerful 
 long range shots that comes with long range scopes for pin-point accuracy (when weapons have been 
 tweaked a bit though) , they are best used for backing up other units.
  You will also be piloting a Tank called "The Edelweiss" which can be used to shiled your units 
 from gun fire, but the tank can take damage from lancers, anti-tank cannons and other tanks and 
 the tank also has a short running distance meter. The Tank is the lead unit so if it's destroyed 
 its game over, so you will also have to cover your tank sometimes as well.
  
  Using these units affectively can allow you to achieve victory in battle so it's important you 
 know what you do.
  Once you lose a squad mate make sure to rescue them as quickly as possible, if you let to many 
 phases pass or let the enemy pick them up they will die in battle and will be lost forever (key 
 story characters will just retreat for the rest of the skirmish) .
  After each skirmish you will earn exp points which are used for levelling up a selected class and 
 development cost points or DCP, which is used for manufacturing new weapons and upgrading tank 
 equipments and armour in the R&D lab.
  There are many things you can do in the game but explaining the whole thing would be too troublesome, 
 all you should know though is that it's very simple and allows for creativity.
  
  Sound: The game comes with a great sound track, there aren't a lot of music in the game and they 
 are not that varied but they are still great to listen to, some music are calm while others are 
 pretty tense, giving for a good feel.
  The voice casts are HUGE, each and every character in the game were given voices of their own with 
 many dialogues, though the dialogues themselves do seem to convoluting at times and aren't very 
 creative, they are still enough to catch your attention.
  
  Valkria Chronicles is a hidden gem on the PS3, it has a great story, great game play and features 
 many content, and you can view information on the story and some other behind the scene stuff as 
 well as character profiles, weapon information and many other things.
  However the game does suffer from one weakness (of which at this point becomes inexcusable) is 
 that cut scenes cannot be skipped, that means you will be forced to listen to dialogues over and 
 over again and it becomes a great pain later on in the game, this is especially a factor considering 
 the game is filled with cut scenes.
  
  Aside from the un-skipable cut scenes Valkyria Chronicles is a great game and a MUST for all RPG 
 fans! It would serve as a great time killer (especially or those waiting for Final Fantasy XIII) .
 
  It's a great game! While the demo can be downloaded on PSN the demo is an extremely poor representative 
 of the game and it doesn't do it justice! so don't judge the game by the demo. The only way to 
 understand it is by playing the actually game.
  The game is hard to find nowadays so if you see it in stores PICK IT UP! You will be doing yourself 
 a favour!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LangoVicious
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:31 am PT
Review:  I played a level or two of this and put it aside for a month, not really being into it's slow pace. 
 Then thinking I'd better try to get my money's worth out of it, I picked it up again and have now 
 not stopped playing it for a week. I've got some time off between jobs and this is like a vacation. 
 No quick trigger shooter where it's all about aiming or button mashing, this is a THINKING game 
 with a fantastic story that actually invests you in the battles and the characters.
  
  This is a fresh idea for a game and I love it. It's time consuming and can be frustrating, but 
 trust me, it's fun to figure it all out. And DON'T read any cheats or Hints before you play. Read 
 enough to know about leveling up and using the newspaper place to gain bonus things, but let the 
 missions play out. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review off by saying that I have been a HUGE RPG fan since I rented Final Fantasy 
 2 (now FF4) for the snes. I've bought damn near a hundred RPG's and I've almost never been disappointed 
 and for the most part I've played through them all. With that being said, I couldn't get through 
 Valkyria Chronicles. I completely 100% lost interest in this game and fast. 
  
  The idea of the story has been played out to death but the twist on this game was that it was more 
 of a modern time war experience instead of the whole sword fighting magic take. This intrigued 
 me and the graphics sold it for me so I went out and bought it believing I'd love it and much to 
 my surprise I wasn't thrilled about my decision. The characters are EXTREMELY bland and dull, I 
 had no interest in a single character. The gameplay is somewhat innovative, a mixture between real 
 time and turn based strategy which works decently. It seems a bit sloppy at times. The game is 
 somewhat difficult as well, it's very easy to lose fights. You can save during the fight as much 
 as you want so that helps with some of the difficulty factor but I became extremely frustrated 
 with the game and with no interest in the characters or the story I put the game down and have 
 yet to pick it back up (it's been a few months) . I tried to give the game a chance and made it 
 to chapter 6 or 7 and I put some time into it but really just never picked up for me. I wouldn't 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmigueli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  I found the game awesome along with its cell-shaded graphics. 
  
  For some impatient players, this game might be a problem for you... because you might not like 
 how the battles progress at first. Each battle starts by showing an overview of the battle map 
 and where your units are positioned and also where the enemy units are positioned. From there, 
 when its your turn, looking at a top Point- of-View perspective, select the unit you want to move 
 and/or attack. Upon selecting the unit, it then shifts to 3rd person Point-of-View. Another problem 
 some players MAY notice is that when the story is told, it is shown per episode. Like in one chapter, 
 there are 5 episodes shown one at a time. (it is not shown altogether at once. You have to select 
 the next episode to play after the previous one has been shown) 
  
  These are the only problems I have encountered/ noticed while playing the game. It does take you 
 a while before you get used to it but after sometime, it wont be bothersome. Indeed, this game 
 GROWS ON YOU
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoo66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved tactical RPG. Until now, my all-time favorite was the "Fire Emblem" series. But 
 from the moment I tried the demo, I fell in love with "Valikyria chronicles". It is unlike any 
 other RPG in its semi-FPS (but don't get fooled by it, it requires about zero reflexes and accuracy) 
 phase but what sets it apart is its beautiful (in a "painting" way) graphics and (relatively) mature 
 story, If you don't like cutscenes, you'll get bored for long stretches of time (since you can't 
 skip them) but, most of the time, you'll be eager for more, like a good book.
  The tactical system is great, even though the AI is about braindead, but the difficulty is about 
 just right (with the opposition you get, if the AI were competent, all your character would be 
 dead by round 2 most of the time) . Honestly, when you read it, having overpowered opponent and 
 unpredictable twists may seem like a putoff, but when you play it, it just seems right and, with 
 minimal thinking and no need for a walkthrough, you can get just fine to the end (in at least 40 
 hours of great play) .
  If you like mainly FPS or RTS, you may not like this game, but if you love a good story, a beautiful 
 game and a tactical challenge, you can do no better than this.
  Enjoy the treat... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unplaystation
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This real time strategy takes place in a pre-present fantasy war setting, with glossy shaded pencil 
 animations, character models closely resembling anime shows and comic books, while not the finest 
 looking game, it's definitely a nice change from what's usually in games. 
  
  The player progresses slowly through the hordes of cut scenes and story telling. Pitting themselves 
 in turn based battle against the Empire. Battles are played in phases, moving character takes thought, 
 as you have a set amount of times you can move characters, this amount is dealt through command 
 points. Once you spend a command point and choose a character you go into real time third person 
 mode, where you use the analog sticks to move the character, but keep an eye on the characters 
 stamina gauge, once it runs low you can't move any further leaving you with only two choices, point 
 your character in a direction or to attack. Attacking is quite simple, hitting R1 activates the 
 free aim mode, once you aim at an enemy there is text to the top right of your screen which will 
 show how many shots you have in your clip and How many it takes to down an enemy, that number changes 
 depending on where you aim at the enemy, body shots takes quite a few as to where headshots take 
 very few. Headshots are always recommend as the characters accuracy can be increased with skill 
 upgrades. 
  
  You can go through different menus where you can choose characters of different factions such as 
 scouts, which can easily spot enemies hidden in grass or behind corners. Shocktroopers which are 
 your basic gunners, these soldiers carry a submachine gun and have no outstanding features, nor 
 do they have any real flaws. Snipers, who specialize in long distance battles and flaw from very 
 weak Armour but can move quite a distance, and so on. After you've chosen your soldiers you can 
 goto the training camp where you can spend your gathered experience points on upgrading your soldiers 
 skills. From there you can then spend points on upgrades to your tanks armour and weaponry along 
 with your foot soldiers weaponry and armour. 
  
  You can earn experience points by progressing through the story, you can also unlock skirmishes 
 through tasks in the storyline, these skirmishes allow you to gain experience points but in no 
 way progress the story. However, just like the main storyline, any fallen soldiers in battle can 
 be revived with the use of a medic, medics are summoned by reaching the fallen with a live soldier. 
 If the fallen is not reached within three terns the character will be permanently Removed from 
 use, Which makes it all the more meaningful to keep them in good health, especially if one of the 
 characters you love drops to the ground.
  
  Like mentioned above you choose which players you move and use to attack by spending your command 
 point tokens at the top of your screen. Once out, it's the end of the players phase, Now it is 
 the computer players turn, he also spends command points to move his soldiers, like your soldiers, 
 when moving, the opposing team can fire at will until the character goes into free aim mode. Once 
 the computer player has dealt his damage and has ended his phase you can then start your phase 
 over again. After watching where the computer player has moved it's nice to be able to give certain 
 "orders" which increase a wide range off skills with your soldiers for a set amount of time, such 
 as power boost and defensive boost. 
  
  Each time you enter a battle you are briefed with the task at hand, and then given guidelines that 
 must be followed during battle, such as the main characters must stay alive, and you must finish 
 the battle in twenty turns, and so on. As you progress and the battles get harder so do the guidelines. 
 Making you move less times and increasing the amount of captures and characters that must be kept 
 alive. The battle is won, you gain experience points, and battle statistics. Now you go back into 
 story mode, where the game acts as a book, with chapters and tabs allowing you to train your soldiers, 
 manage your soldiers, skirmish and progress to the story. Watching cut scenes, reading and doing 
 battles. Overall, if you've got time to spend, give it a try. You won't be disappointed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEvilBaron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great surprise, it exceeded my expectations. For a game that had little attention, 
 it sure left an impression on me, one that has left its mark on me. This was a game I overlooked 
 for months, dismissing the reviews until I played a demo, three days later, I had the game. 
  
  
  Before I go into the entire positive side, the negatives have to be put out there. Your 
 squad, even though I felt attachment to my regulars and the main protagonists, the others just 
 seemed like they were buffers should one of my mains die. The majority of my reserves never saw 
 any action. Though at the same time, I'd be lying if I never said that the ones that replaced their 
 fallen comrades usually grew on me as they, single handily took bases and returned the momentum 
 to me.
  Also, battles seem unfair, you're given 50 characters to make up your Squad, yet only 10 ever make 
 it onto the battlefield, makes poor for a ratio. Especially considering when the opposition has 
 WELL over 10 units. You might be a Militia, but no Commander would keep 80% of their soldiers off 
 the battlefield. Maybe I'm just being over critical, but it came to annoy as it likes with the 
 negative above, so many soldiers, so little room.
  I could put lack of a Multiplayer that could have worked rather well with the game in here, though 
 I feel this is a game that appreciates the quality of old, when games were about depth and game 
 play, not a half arsed single player because the developer has the satisfy social loners whom feel 
 multiplayer should be integral to a game. I should also point out I'm not opposed to multiplayer 
 but I feel often is it now that games main stories and game play are suffering because of developers 
 having to spend so much time with online play.
  One thing that really bothered me is that for a strategy game, your positioning of units, pre-battle, 
 is pre-fixed. Kind of defeating the point of a strategy isn't it? Would have been nice to have 
 hidden soldiers in the tree line or had them dotted more spaciously in my territory, rather than 
 them constantly been grouped together in spaces the developer has deemed for me. After all, the 
 developers don't know what strategy I want to employ.
  
  
  On to the positives of this hidden gem, firstly, its story is a good, well thought one, doing a 
 great job of immersing you into the world and attaching yourself to your Squad. The story could 
 have indeed been better at going into things at better depth but hey ho.
  The story is fairly linear, yet you can have Episodes that are purely about exploring the characters 
 for who they are, they're not compulsory to play but are good to play through to see how your characters 
 are developing. As the story develops, you might find yourself in for a shock for how long the 
 story actually lasts, at some point in the game, you may even curse the game for being so long, 
 but it's all worth it, I assure you. So good is the story of this game and its ability to engross 
 and draw you in that I genuinely felt saddened at the loss of certain characters.
  The story and indeed game itself does not shy away from the issues of war, torture, enslavement, 
 concentration camps, discrimination, hatred and civilian killing. Though the good news is love, 
 friendship, loyalty and community make their way into the game too to lighten the tone.
  
  
  The game play itself is good and simple. The game is so easy to play; most could pick it up 
 within minutes. There's no real learning curve as much as need to know what Troops to bring to 
 the battlefield, for example you'll regret not bringing any Lancers into levels filled with Tanks 
 or forgetting to stock up on your Shock Troops when Scouts and Lancers come your way. 
  When not on the battlefield, you'll be in a book, which is the centre for advancing the story, 
 allowing you to view the Film to unlock the next Episode, though expect to fight a battle on nearly 
 every page to advance.
  During my play, I encountered absolutely no lag, no glitches nor any screen tear to my recollection. 
 Though the lack of lag is answerable with battles being calm yet and at times, over whelming. There's 
 no chaos on the screen, it's more like watching "Chess" pieces fight as they sit and wait until 
 moved and then fire when told to. When I say over whelming battles, well, it's a turn based game 
 so when the Enemy Commander has his entire force directly in front of yours and has 9 Command Stars 
 (The Currency of Movement) and for 9 moves, constantly rips your poor squad to bits, it's fair 
 to say your next turn isn't going to be one where you're in a good position to fight back as much 
 as try to get the medic in and replace your fallen comrades.
  The battlefield is where all the action takes place, with 5 classes of soldiers, Scouts, Shock 
 Troops, Engineers, Lancers and Snipers, all self explanatory, oh and Tank, though don't be expecting 
 to be lining your ranks with them, it won't be happening. Once selected and positioned, you'll 
 spend 20 Turns Max completing your objectives through your soldiers, ranging from just getting 
 to point X, drawing an enemy to X, killing X, taking the main base or holding the enemy off until 
 the time expires. As I've said before it's all so simple, yet so great, there's really nothing 
 like having your Scout lob a grenade at the enemy Sniper hidden behind the sand bags and blowing 
 them up after they've killed two of your comrades. Nor can I describe the joy of seeing your Lancers 
 destroy a Heavy Tank that's been wrecking havoc upon your soldiers with Mortars. 
  However, don't think the game play is just the story and side missions. As you play through you 
 will unlock Tabs which will allow you to go the HQ to train your soldiers, allowing you to fine 
 tune what class you desire, equip your soldiers with specialist weapons, learn new Orders to issue 
 to your soldiers and read the local newspaper about your latest victory. 
  Other Tabs include Decorations, Glossary, Personnel, Weaponry, Stats, Music and Skirmish Mode. 
 The Glossary really helping you to understand everything that's unfolding in the story and the 
 Personnel tab really helps in understanding the characters much better and even though you might 
 not believe it, it's great for finding out what actually happened to your favourite Squaddie after 
 the war. 
  
  
  The Graphics aren't going to demolish your eyes with their awesomeness but the water colour effect 
 really is a sight to behold, it's different and soft, great contrast to the setting of the game. 
 This game isn't going to be showing you the power of the PS3 or going to have Graphic whores dropping 
 their trousers, but none the less the water colour graphics are a great complement to this game 
 and it's over all setting.
  
  
  Overall, Valkyria Chronicles is great game, one that flew under the radar for so many gamers, a 
 game that will probably be left unappreciated for time to come. This simple game, with its simple 
 design and simple way left more of an impression on me than most complex games. Its game play fluent, 
 easy, user friendly and fun. It's graphics soft and beautiful. The story a great tale of love, 
 hate, war and peace that will engross all those who love a good story in today's games and are 
 not just after a simple gaming experience. It took me 32 hours to complete this game, a shocking 
 length for today's games when considering some of the highest rated games on this site can easily 
 be completed in 5-8 hours. Though it has some minor flaws, they're not hugely game affecting. This 
 is a game that shouldn't be missed by those who appreciate real gaming, game play with decent graphics 
 and a good plot to engage the mind. Even as the credits rolled and the game told of the after math, 
 I couldn't help feel a small feeling of happiness for those who'd fictionally went on to better 
 things.
  This game is a classic, the problem? It'll be an off the radar one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Semaphore313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Senjou no Valkyria: Gallian Chronicles
  
  Valkyrie of the Battlefield puts you in the role of Welkin Gunther, a unit commander in the Gallian 
 Military. Gallia is a small duchy located about where Holland is in the real world. In this games 
 fictionalized version of 1930s Europe, its surrounded by the East European Imperial Alliance and 
 the Atlantic Federation. At the start of the game, Welkin is returning home from university when 
 the Empire invades in order to secure a source of the strategically important Ragnite ore. You 
 command Welkin's unit throughout the ensuing conflict. The design team behind this game includes 
 members who worked on both Skies of Arcadia/Eternal Arcadia, and Sakura Taisen, so expectations 
 are pretty high going into this.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are simply stunning. Cel shading and filter effects make the 
 game look as though it is a watercolor come alive, and the anime style characters are all well 
 designed. The various cutscenes are also all well blocked.
  
  Sound: The musical score is subtle, but beautifully done. The voice acting, at least in the Japanese 
 version, is all very high quality. The sound effects also fit well, and most are accompanied by 
 onomatopoeia such as "" when a gun fires. 
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay consists of two main parts: an overhead map where you can see the position of 
 units and select them, and a third person shooter style section where you move the unit until you 
 run out of action points. At the beginning of each turn, you are given a certain number of command 
 points, and the turn ends when they are used up. Between battles you can level up or purchase various 
 upgrades for your units. This works well overall, though it may not appeal to those who prefer 
 faster paced games.
  
  Overall: This game shouldn't be missed by anyone the slightest bit interested in the genre. Combining 
 beautiful artwork with great sound and fun gameplay, games like this don't come around that often. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is easily one of the best JRPG (or JRPG style game) I've played this from generation.
 
  
  STORY
  The story is about a tiny nation named Gallia is invaded by the Imperial forces in 1935 in a fictional 
 version of Europe. For an emotional factor you see innocent Gallian civilians being shot dead by 
 Imperials as they try to flee Gallia and a pregnent woman unable to flee. The main character is 
 named Welken Gunther who is well educated and a nature lover and loves to spend his time drawing. He 
 is mistaken for an enemy soldier and arrested by a cute 19 year girl named Alicia who a Gallian 
 soldier. Eventually they find out Welken has a great understanding of the landscape and is very 
 intelligent and well educated so they make him the leader of squad 7 which is a militia force and 
 they also put Welken in control of a powerful tank. Alicia joins squad 7 too, and spends alot of 
 time with Welken and starts to like him. Alicia had dreams of just being a baker until the war began 
 and Alicia is very kind hearted and likes to help people and she's also a great scout and long 
 ranged shooter.
  
  The other main characters are:-Isara Gunther (Welken's little sister who travels with squad 7 because 
 she can repair tanks efficiently. She is very shy and gets picked on alot by a woman named Rosie) , Rosie (who 
 first appears to be a b*tch and always likes to act tough and is mean to others, but in battle she 
 is invaluable because she's a great machine-gunner) Largo (an older soldier who is a lancer (he fires 
 rockets to destroy tanks) he is more of the no nonsense let's get in done type guy) , Zaka (who's people 
 were forced to work in labor camps in poor conditions for the Imperials and he later joins squad 
 7 as a tank driver)
  
  There's other characters to learn about but I'll let you discover them for yourself. To make things 
 interesting the armies are after a resource called ''ragnite''which is an energy source which heals 
 wounded soldiers and powers tanks and can be used as a weapon. There's also a big plot twist to 
 do with an ancient race called the Valkyria and the true potential of the power of ragnite.
  
  Many of the characters have a deep past to reveal, the story can be very emotional as not all 
 of squad 7 will survive the war, and there's romance too and big plot twists.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Valkyria Chronicles is actually a turn based strategy game, with elements of RPG and tiny elements 
 of 3rd person shooter. Each turn you and the CPU have so many phases to move your units. Units can 
 only move a certain distance, to make things balanced a scout can travel long distance but have 
 a weaker weapon, a trooper can only travel a short distance but up close they are lethal against 
 enemy soldiers. Lancers can only travel a distance even less than troopers but Lancers are vital 
 to destroy enemy tanks (because troopers and scounts cannot destroy tanks) .
  
  To win missions you'll need to accomplish a variety of different tasks. Some can be capturing enemy 
 camps, or destroying a powerful enemy vehicle, or diverting a destructive vehicle away from a town. It's 
 been pointed out the CPU's AI is poor at times but the CPU can call for an unlimited amount of 
 reinforcements from their camps until you capture the camps. And the CPU often starts off with better 
 positioned units and more powerful units than you.
  
  You will need to position your soldiers behind cover so the game can be a strategic battle to capture 
 the areas that provide protection from enemy weapon fire. Snipers come into the equation as you 
 and the CPU can use them to shoot enemies from a VERY long distance away and engineers can repair 
 damage to tanks.
  
  The RPG elements are you can level up your units and their weapons. The story is told in an RPG 
 style way too.
  
  For 3rd person shooter elements, you need to manually aim your weapons when you fire and head shots 
 do more damage but there's an element of luck for where the bullet/shell will hit and the chances 
 of an accurate gunshot/shell fire increase as you level up your units. You can drive the tanks around 
 blow up enemy soldiers with motars or keep enemy soldiers pinned down as they won't want to go 
 near a tank and get cut up by it's machine-gun.
  
  For more balance lancers and tanks have a strict amount of ammo for each turn. While scouts and 
 troopers can fire every phases of each turn.
  
  There's specific higher areas where you can place snipers (such as on higher terrain or on top of 
 buildings)
  
  When any unit besides the main characters die, they die permanently. When a unit goes down in battle, you 
 have a certain amount of phases or turns to get a medic to them (the medic automatically comes when 
 you send another unit close to where the injured soldier is) And when they're treated by a medic 
 they are automatically evacuated. You can also call for reinforcements from your base, but unlike 
 the CPU you can only do so a limited amount of times because your squad is only a certain size. From 
 memory squad 7 has only 14 people (which you choose) from a militia force that's around 50 people 
 in size and between missions you can bring in or remove soldiers. So you can select how many scouts, troopers, lancers 
 etc you want in squad 7. When a unit dies who's been with you through many tough missions, it can 
 become quite sad because you grew attached to them and all the units have names. eg when my trooper 
 named Kevin died I felt like I actually lost a squad member because he was a vital part of many 
 mission victories.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The water color style graphics are great, they look unique and beautiful at the same time. The forest 
 has lush green and the lake has bright blue water and it combines well with the texture of the 
 characters. There is FMV scenes that combine anime style with the water color and it looks stunning 
 and beautiful and great to look at. There's also desert terrain for variety and the towns have a 
 traditional 1930's appearance blended with anime influence. And when there's gunfire, explosions, moving 
 units you see comic style writing with boom!, or zoom! (for tanks driving around) or shuffle (for 
 soldiers) and it looks cute.
  
  I like some of the other little details I see such as how some of the Imperial forces wear helmets 
 similiar to what Nazi's wore as a universal representation of evil.
  
  When the Valkyria glow bright blue it looks amazing and chilling as they look incredibly powerful 
 and wait till you see them destroying many tanks and killing many soldiers easily and how gunfire 
 cannot hurt the Valkyria.
  
  The female characters are made to purposely look cute and wear uniforms that are slightly tight 
 to show off their figures. Many of the female characters have cute Japanese girl hairstyles.
  
  SOUND
  The voice acting suits the characters personalities very well. Welkin sounds easy going 
 at first and when the war infensifies he sounds more like a leader and determined to win. Alicia 
 sounds cute but she can be serious when she needs to be. Isara sounds very shy. Rosie sounds mean, Largo 
 sounds tough and like he has a no nonsense attitude. There is good voice expression for emotional 
 scenes and it's cute when Welken and Alicia flirt because you can tell they like eachother. The 
 weapon fire sounds have a more light hearted sound to suit the atmosphere that the game uses the 
 cute Japanese style culture.
  
  FINAL SAY
  The game is great but is also very challenging at times and you'll have a bit of levelling up to 
 do if you want to be any match for the enemy soldiers later on in the game and like in all turn 
 based/RPG, luck comes into the equation, but still it's a very great turn based/JRPG for the PS3, and 
 I recommend this game to all PS3 owners to at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarkon82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:05 am PT
Review:  One gaming website voted Valkyria Chronicles the "Best Game in 2008 That Nobody Played." I think 
 it's a crying shame that this game, despite its widespread accolades by critics around the web, 
 seems to have fallen by the wayside.
  
  As a long-time fan of the Final Fantasy series, I tend to have pretty high standards when it comes 
 to role-playing games. While it's true that this game is not your typical RPG (in terms of acquiring 
 spells and exploring dungeons) , it is nonetheless able to immerse you in its world the way the 
 best RPG's can. The delivery of the plot through its unique "storybook" interface is very effective. 
 Some gamers might be turned off by the fact that the majority of the plot progresses through cut 
 scenes, but the lengthy battle sequences complement them well.
  
  The developers also paid a lot of attention to character development. By the end of the game, you 
 really feel like you have your finger on the pulse of the main players. There are even some surprises 
 hidden along the way. 
  
  The graphics and music are absolutely phenomenal. Final Fantasy XII composer Hitoshi Sakimoto has 
 created a wonderful soundtrack that elevates the game play to an even higher level. The artistic 
 design speaks for itself; check out some screenshots if you haven't already.
  
  Expect to spend around 40 enjoyable hours playing the game the first time through. There is good 
 replay appeal, as well, as there are many bonuses that can be unlocked the second time through 
 the story. I highly recommend this game to both strategy and RPG fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petalic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Frankly, i wanted to give this game a 9, but the fact remains that this is a game that not everyone 
 would enjoy. 
  
  Although Valkyria Chronicles rethought the strategy formula and added in a third person shooter 
 experience to the strategy game, it does not change the pacing. Each action point still has to 
 be used very strategically, so you would find yourself on the "command" screen more often than 
 living out the action. The aiming system, though seems like a nice addition, is much like fallout's 
 aim; very random. Some might find this alright, but some might get annoyed, especially when its 
 not as simple as shooting again, because in a strategy game, every shot counts... every shot. You 
 might find yourself reloading saves again and again just because of the targeting system, in addition 
 to the time it takes to actually complete an objective, a single mission might take up to 1 hour, 
 so it is a very slow game. However, completing a mission would definitely give you a great sense 
 of accomplishment.
  
  The story is good, not fantastic, but pretty darn near. The voicing isn't the best but its alright 
 on the ears, the sounds on the battlefield however, is pretty good. There are sounds of gun fire, 
 and radio talking so it does give the feel of being in a battlefield. With the story, voicing, 
 and stylish graphics, the overall effect is mesmerizing and enjoyable. This game is a looker, the 
 watercolor palette does give it a unique feel, and when in motion, it seems like an anime scene 
 from TV. 
  
  I do not know why its called an action RPG... it doesn't really have RPG elements apart from upgrading 
 weapons and leveling troops. Its more like a action strategy game with a good JRPG like story. 
 As an RPG it fails.. don't expect to go to cities, have random battles, walk around, talk to people... 
 all the story happens through scenes in a book. As a tactical strategy war game though, it is really 
 great.
  
  Its a really fantastic game for me, but don't fall for the accumulating hype surrounding this title. 
 It is not for everyone... be aware that this title focuses more on strategy than anything else. 
 No RPG, No Third Person Shooter, just strategy and trial and error. Be ready to loose and try again, 
 its not a game where u can plow right through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackhole25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is an absolute gem hidden in an unassuming package. A lot of people will pass over this 
 game, probably unimpressed by the general style of the game (strategy RPG) and the art style, but 
 those people will be making a terrible mistake. This is, quite simply, my favorite game of the 
 "next-gen" systems.
  
  The game is basically a number of battles intermingled with a wealth of cutscenes and dialogue. 
 The battles have been described plenty elsewhere so I won't get into it too much -- basically, 
 a very interesting mix of turn-based battle with some elements of FPSs. It is one of the most unique 
 game systems I've played and I would love to see other games use this sort of system. Each battle 
 is well-thought-out and although the first few battles may feel the same-ish, later on the maps 
 and layouts are much more unique and interesting, some of the battles being fairly difficult. However, 
 the difficulty stays "just right" the whole way through. Although some battles are pretty damn 
 tough, there was never a point where I was absolutely stuck and helpless. And if even you find 
 the battles too easy, once you beat the game, there is a New Game+ mode where you can fight extra 
 battles on hard mode. These battles will DEFINITELY challenge you immensely if you're up to the 
 task. The hard battles (played on the same maps as the normal battles, but with completely different 
 layouts and objectives) , the secret weapons, and the medal system (basically an in-game trophy 
 system) keeps the replay value fairly high.
  
  Everything about this game just beams with heart. The characters are wonderfully realized, complete 
 with distinct personalities, personal development, inter-relationships, and a unique attitude and 
 perspective for each of them. Even the "random" squad-mates you have each have their own story 
 and personality. Unlike other war-ish games, your soldiers are not grunts -- they are soldiers 
 each with their own attitude, backstory, and unique voiceovers. It's impossible to go through the 
 game without loving or hating some of your squadmates (not just the main characters either, ALL 
 of the 50+ of them) .
  
  The story starts off slow and the beginning seems to be soaked with corny-ish and happy-go-lucky 
 dialogue. But don't count it out, though... midway through, the story and the emotions ramp up 
 CONSIDERABLY. It eventually becomes an absolutely epic and mature tale right before your eyes - 
 full of vengeance, betrayal, love, surprise, intrigue, tragedy and plenty of plot twists. It even 
 surprised me as I was playing it, thinking to myself, "Whoa! How did this story suddenly become 
 so epic!?"
  
  Don't think that by this review so far, though, that everything is picture perfect. Definitely 
 not, as there are a few things I wish were improved. For example, some of the corny dialogue, the 
 overly-simplistic ranking system, a little too much fade-in and fade-out on the menus and such. 
 Although I could go listing these minor things, whatever negatives there are are just overwhelmed 
 by the positives.
  
  At the end of the day, this game -- more than any other game I've played recently -- just has a 
 LOT of heart infused in it. It feels like the developers really CARED about the game, making it 
 as warm and inviting as possible. From the beautiful artwork to the wonderful characters to the 
 challenging battles all the way to the ending (which, although I can't spoil anything, I must say 
 fit the game PERFECTLY in nature and style... and was absolutely satisfying) , this game just exudes 
 a charm and beauty that you rarely see anymore, particularly among all the gray-brown first-person 
 shooter clones out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareRocks
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The game has a very rarely seen watercolor style of graphics that makes you think of a painting.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  This strategy RPG reminds of me Command and Conquer a bit in terms of troops and all. You're given 
 a map of the situation, and you are allowed to assemble your team from a group of varying characters 
 to fight. In addition, you can customize their weaponry and the main character's tank. Although 
 the exact gameplay is simple in that you move the characters around to fire on the enemy, the actual 
 positioning and movement is much fun and can make it complex in a good way. There aren't a lot 
 of random battles, for each one is story-related; however, there is also a set of skirmishes that 
 you can partake in as you unlock them. The AI is criticized quite a bit, but you will find that 
 if they were as smart as human players, the fights would become practically impossible, for they 
 would have enough CP to possibly blow up your tank or defeat you in another way on the very first 
 turn.
  
  Style: 10/10
  
  Valkyria Chronicles has a very polished presentation. You play the game in the format of a book 
 with "episodes" that are essentially voice-acted cutscenes. At first I was dissapointed, because 
 of the lack of a world map or the ability to move your character in towns and such, but in the 
 end you realize it's very good this way, for the cutscenes propel the plot forward.
  
  Storyline: 9.6/10
  
  You follow Wilkin Gunther through a battle between two Europan nations 
 in EWII (essentially a spoof of WWII, although not to the last detail) , which his nation (Gallia) 
 gets in caught up in. Throughout the story, you meet a colorful cast of characters and see a somewhat 
 simple, though excellent story run its full course. Occasionally, there are some cheesy dialogue 
 segments, but even they are not so bad.
  
  Last Impression: 
  
  This game is probably the best RPG (game in my opinion) this generation of gaming has seen. You 
 owe it to yourself to pick it up if you want a unique but excellent approach to the genre and have 
 a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj_simmons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS : 7.5
  
  The graphics in Valkyria chronicles resemble that of anime. While neither the character models 
 or the envirnmental effects wan't leave you in aw, they are still nicely done. there are also some 
 times were the character will disappear or partually sink into an object their leaning against. 
 
  
  SOUND : 8
  
  The voice acting in Valkyria Chronicles is top of the line. However, the overall sound quality 
 of the game, while not bad, does very little to draw you in and make you feel apart of the battle. 
 Also, characters tend to repeat the same lines over and over and that can become quite annoying, 
 expecually when you have to here the same potintial five to ten times in the same movement phase.
 
  
  STORY : 10
  
  The story is presented as a book where you will veiw cut scenes and battles in the form of episodes. 
 the game does a great job of setting the story and defining it's characters. while it does take 
 a few chapters to move into full swing, Valkyria Chronicles offers a story you will remember long 
 after you've compleated the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY : 8.5
  
  When playing the game, you start out with comand points in which you use to give orders and to 
 move your characters. when you select a character to move, you will take control of that character 
 and play as if it were a third person shooter. Instead of using a grid system or limiting a charter 
 to a number of moves per turn, each character uses a AP meter to move. when the AP meter is used 
 up, the character can't move anymore unless you use another command point. each time you select 
 a character, it has less AP. While the overall gameplay is really good there are a few annoyinces. 
 For instance, the potential screens pop up frequintly and compleatly disrupt the gameplay. Also, 
 it can be annoying trying to get a character to leap over objects.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT : 8.5
  
  Valkyria chronicles is a very entertaining game. If you can look past 
 the annoying potential screens constantly poping up then this is easily one of the most entertaining 
 single player games of this generation. 
  
  OVERALL : 8.5/10
  
  Valkyria Chronicles delivers an amazing story and solid gameplay. It is a must play for any fans 
 of strategy or role-playing games and is very highly recomended for everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing I was thinking wow this is hard. Once you figure out how the game 
 works it's a lot of fun. The game is set in the 1930s and uses a book format to tell its story. 
 You pick an episode and watch a scene or go into a battle. The story is moving, the characters 
 are likeable and well acted. With all the usual expectations met for a teen rated RPG. The real 
 fun is in the unique battle system. In battle you first select your units and deploy on a map. 
 The game gives you five types of units to control each with different weapons and movement distances. 
 In this game each unit can only move so far and perform one action per turn. This forces you to 
 plan ahead and a mistake can spell defeat. You can save in battle whenever it's your turn so you 
 won't have to redo the entire battle. The battles can be played any way you want but the game rewards 
 you with more exp used for leveling up based on your grade getting a high grades means finishing 
 battles early usually 1-3 turn or less. Getting A grades takes away from the fun as its basically 
 a dash with 1 or 2 units to capture a base and takes away form the fun of playing. If you don't 
 get high grades you'll need to play in what the game calls skirmishes over and over again to gain 
 exp. EXP is important to level you troops and if you aren't gaining about 1 level per chapter you'll 
 find yourself out matched halfway into the game. In the first play through you can't replay an 
 area to get a A so its a 1 time deal. You also can develop new weapons and armor to equip your 
 troops with. As a whole the game works really well once you learn what each unit is capable of. 
 The battles are quite challenging but still fun to play. My only gripe was the way the grading 
 system worked and affected leveling and money. It conflicts with the fun. Expect a good 40-50 hours 
 for the first play through. Once beaten, the game can be replayed keeping your old levels, equipment 
 and new hard skirmishes are opened. There are rewards you can earn so there same solid replay value. 
 Not recommended to rent as you can't beat it in a single rental. This is definitely one of the 
 better PS3 exclusive games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjlebron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  You're likely to feel that if you've played one SRPG, you've played them all. Despite the innovations 
 presented by games like Disgaea, the general tendency, also present in Disgaea is to try and throw 
 more at you rather than provide a truly distinctive gameplay experience. This is exactly the reason 
 one is likely to immediately fall in in love with Valkyria Chronicles. 
  It is uncommon for SRPG's to present a story as strong as the gameplay, but Valkyria manages to 
 buck this trend. In presenting a stylized and fantasy infused version of WWII and the threat of 
 Holocaust, Valkyria infuses the game's battles with gravity. Moreover, the characters are varied 
 and well-realized with voice acting that is more spot on than miss. Many of the crucial cut scenes 
 are likely to rouse angst if not anger at the cruelties against which your team must fight.
  SRPG's, in the final analysis, depend on their gameplay, and here Valkyria truly excels. Foregoing 
 an isometric grid, Valkyria offers a quasi real-time system in which units are selected on a tactical 
 map and then moved on the actual battlefield, with movement restricted to an Action Point meter. 
 In being able to move characters and tanks in real-time, you feel as if you're actively and dynamically 
 engaged in the fight. Moreover, while most strategy games rely upon a rather obvious rock-paper-scissors 
 calculus, players will not feel so constrained here. The gameplay is versatile enough to accommodate 
 many command and battle styles. Additionally, the ability to unlock special unit abilities as well 
 as use your tank for cover or to launch smokescreens is a real treat. It is also worth noting that 
 the maps are varied, large, and provide for many tactical possibilities.
  Valkyria is also a beautiful game to look at. Remniscent of a Level 5 production, the game is drenched 
 in beatiful animation style art. Valkyria also borrows from XIII's use of onscreen pop up words 
 to convey an almost graphic novel feel to the action.
  Valkyria is nearly perfect but not so. While there is room to develop different troops as you see 
 fit, there's at least one map that is nearly unbeatable without leveling your Scouts sufficiently 
 to acquire the grenade launcher upgrade. Enemy AI is also spotty: sometimes their ruthless, efficient 
 killing machines while at others they engage in the most bizarre inefficient behavior. Last, Valkyia 
 could have done a better job in representing the terrain and size of the battlefield on the over-world 
 map. Many times, I restarted a battle after 4 or 5 turns because it wasn't clear where there might 
 be a ridge or valley or building with a climbable ladder.
  In all, Valkyria is likely to be one of the best next-gen RPG's for quite some time, and it is 
 not to be missed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfjl
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Very fun, strategic, rewarding hybrid gameplay that stands up to repeat playthroughs
  -Great 
 artwork and style
  -Likable cast of characters
  -Solid story, good soundtrack
  -Solid value; the game can take anywhere from 25-50 hours to complete and is fun enough to play 
 through more than once, plus new things are unlocked upon completion
  
  The Not-So-Good:
  -Story and dialogue can be wildly inconsistent in quality, sometimes top-notch but other times 
 very questionable and even silly
  -A little more class balance would have been nice
  -Enemy AI sometimes seems very dumb, which might make you feel like you got away with mistakes 
 you shouldn't have
  -Intro cinematic is too spolierish
  
  Gaming history is filled with excellent games that unfortunately find themselves lost in vast ocean 
 of first-person shooters, sequels, and rip-offs of much better titles because they for whatever 
 reason can't find an audience. It's getting to the point where you can spot such a game before 
 it even gets released. 
  
  One such game is Sega's Valkyria Chronicles, a fun hybrid of turn-based strategy/tactics, JRPG, 
 and third-person shooter. The game is one of the best to be released in 2008 and possibly the best 
 RPG out of Japan in this console generation. But, alas, few people outside of Japan seem to be 
 too interested in the game, which is a shame since they are missing out on a unique experience 
 and a good time. 
  
  The setting has a very similar feel to World War II. The game is set in a fictional land called 
 Europa, set in 1935 during a time of conflict between two warring factions: the East Eurpoan Alliance 
 (who seem similar to the Nazis) and the Atlantic Federation. Caught in the middle is the neutral 
 nation of Gallia, who finds themselves invaded by the Alliance for their bountiful natural resources. 
 The player finds themselves behind the controls of Squad 7, a group of militia soldiers fighting 
 to defend Gallia from the invasion. Squad 7 is led by the game's main character, the young lieutenant 
 Welkin Gunther.
  
  The story is told in a very unique way as cutscenes are split up into bits and pieces and scattered 
 throughout a storybook, through which you proceed through as you advance through the game, unlocking 
 battles and new scenes along the way. The player can page back through the storybook at any time 
 to view any previously-viewed cinematic. The story is an odd bird as it sometimes can be as sweeping, 
 epic, and emotional as a video game gets but can other times make you roll your eyes. The good 
 outweighs the bad though, and the good moments from this story will stick with you for a long time 
 to come. A word of advice though: as pretty as it is, try to avoid the game's intro cinematic that 
 appears upon loading the game as it contains a couple spoilers to many. 
  
  Battles consist of a main map screen, from which you can formulate your strategy and select which 
 troop you want to move. After selecting a soldier, the screen switches to a third-person perspective 
 where you navigate the character over the terrain and engage in combat with the enemy and position 
 them for the next turn. A turn can consist of 12 moves or more, and players must choose their moves 
 strategically as each soldier has a limited amount of ground they can cover with each move and 
 can only make one combat maneuver, whether it is attacking another enemy or healing yourself. The 
 battles can take anywhere from a few minutes to a couple hours, and players can save their game 
 at any time during their turn. 
  
  Players assemble their team of soldiers from a list of characters, each one with their own unique 
 and sometimes humorous personality. The soldiers come in six classes -- Tanks/Tank Commander, Scouts, 
 Shocktroopers, Lancers, Engineers, and Snipers. Tanks cost two moves to use but can do the most 
 damage, while Scouts can move over the largest amount of ground but are easy to kill if unprotected. 
 Shocktroopers specialize in close quarters combat while dealing a good amount of damage, while 
 Lancers specialize in combating enemy tanks. Engineers are similar to Scouts in their offensive 
 abilities but can also fix tanks, barriers and disable mines, while Snipers can of course take 
 out an enemy in a single shot but can only cover very little ground. 
  
  Each class has their purpose, but as the game progresses, you may find yourself using Scouts almost 
 exclusively given how much ground they can cover. The lower amount of turns you can win a battle 
 in, the higher the reward will be, which is why Scouts come in so handy. Classes are leveled up 
 as a whole as you gain experience points, and as the scouts grow more powerful, they become the 
 backbone of your attack. You may find yourself wanting to use other classes and characters, but 
 Scouts are so instrumental in winning a battle quickly that it may keep you from doing that. For 
 that reason, giving the other classes a bit more oomph might have been nice. 
  
  The game is always great to look at as it comes off looking like a watercolor painting with a comic 
 book style. The cast of characters is likable and the villains are charismatic. The mostly symphonic 
 soundtrack is of very good quality and fits in well with the game. 
  
  Valkyria Chronicles does plenty of things right and not a whole lot wrong, but more than anything, 
 the game's just flat-out fun to play. Even if you don't like JRPGs, you should give Valkyria Chronicles 
 a try as it delivers a different flavor of gameplay than what you've seen in the past. This is 
 a game that deserves to be played, so if you're bored with the same ol' stuff and looking for something 
 different, give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  
  Valkyria Chronicles: The shiny, big-eyed fantasy and magic version of World War 1.
  
  Story: So two fictitious nations in a fake version of Europe are waging war over a fake non-renewable 
 energy source. Along the way, Welkin, a teenage aspiring teacher with no military experience, gets 
 involved with Alicia, a teenage aspiring trooper with slight military experience, and the two of 
 them survive an assault on their hometown by the enemy. They are recruited into the army and are 
 IMMEDIATELY appointed commanders of their own unit above people with, well, actual experience. 
 This is the anime version of World War 1, meaning your group can comprise of big-eyed young teens 
 of assorted genders and sexualities, 24 is old enough to be considered a salty veteran, most of 
 the ladies have revealing skirts that do nothing to shield them from bullets or wind, there's a 
 mystical force that gets awakened, a secret conspiracy behind everything and a heaping scoop of 
 dialogue. There are way too many cutscenes, and not enough of them are optional, but the characters 
 are likable enough that you'll find the cockles of your heart warmed as they start to bond and 
 overcome their prejudices. And I guess the art style helps a bit. 
  
  Realism is my bane in gaming, in part because I have no first hand experience in most fields covered 
 in games aside from being a virtual couch potato (thank you Grand Theft Auto 4.) I can't handle 
 a realistic sports game because I have no idea how to realistically choose plays for a virtual 
 team and scout virtual free agents. I can't handle a realistic racing game because I have no clue 
 which virtual shocks will make my virtual car handle turns better. I can't do realistic Tom Clancy 
 shooter games because I have no clue how one should control a virtual team of elite troops and 
 barge into a room filled with terrorists. And I can't do a realistic strategy RPG because I have 
 no idea how to realistically manipulate a team of black mages against a group of magic-wielding 
 virtual goblins. 
  
  I can't seem to handle a strategy RPG. I've heard people praise the genius of games like Disgaea 
 and Final Fantasy Tactics, but it seems like I never seem to know enough about the units or required 
 tactics to understand what the fuss is about. Of course, it could also be due to the grinding required 
 to succeed. I get the idea that you need to redo missions repeatedly to level up your units, classes, 
 sometimes even individual weapons! And if you make a new character, it seems that he or she will 
 start at level 1 and you'll need to grind levels to get him up to par with the rest of your team. 
 Both of which are reasons are why I like Valkyria Chronicles. 
  
  For one, the class system follows a K. I. S. S. mentality. Scouts can run far and shoot people, Shocktroopers 
 can mow down people in close range, Lancers can fight tanks, Tanks can fight everything, Engineers 
 offer assorted gimmick utilities and Snipers pick off people from a long distance and die from 
 other snipers. Classes level up as a whole rather than by individual units, a monumental improvement 
 from every single strategy RPG I tried to play. The experience you win from missions can be assigned 
 to the class of your choice (with the only sacrifice being that you have to listen to the annoying 
 drill sergeant repeat the same dialogue every time you go to the "training room" menu.) There's 
 a bit of grind, regrettably; if you feel like you need to level up any given class more or make 
 some money for upgrades, you'll have to replay "skirmish" missions, which are essentially story 
 missions without the story bits. I'd like for the rewards of completely such skirmish missions 
 to be more generous, but alas. It helps that the gameplay is enjoyable enough that you may not 
 mind at all the grind. 
  
  That's right, I didn't mind the grind! So Valkyria Chronicles is a miracle akin to Barack Obama 
 being America's first black president, in that it's the first strategy RPG that I liked! 
  
  Well, I think that's a big deal anyways.
  
  Another key note is that you're actually tasked 
 with the recruitment of your units. You have a litany of possible recruits, each with a list of 
 people they like working with, as well as unlikely strengths and weaknesses such as "power decrease 
 due to pollen allergy" and "accuracy increase from motherly instincts." Not electing to follow 
 everyone's individual preferences in ice cream flavor won't cripple your tactics, but at the same 
 time, you'll find yourself picking favorites in your squad. I'm guessing that this game was developed 
 by the Skies of Arcadia team, partly because you can recruit a few members from that game in your 
 army, and partly because it's the only rational explanation for a 2008 release by Sega actually 
 not sucking. 
  
  The actual gameplay can be described as a hybrid of Fire Emblem and Brothers In Arms. You select 
 which party members enter the fray along with Welkin in his tank. The game is turn-based, but rather 
 than only being allowed to move every unit once, you're allotted a set number of points to expend 
 however you like, be it on making your tank do all the dirty work, giving "orders" (stat boosters 
 in a nutshell) or saving said points for another turn. That's another thing I like about this game 
 over, say, Fire Emblem; with enough moxie, you can, for example, sneak a single unit behind enemy 
 lines, pick off key enemies and then send in your army the next turn. And call me ignorant in the 
 genre to make such a statement if you like, but it's nice to see a strategy RPG depend so much 
 on actual strategy instead of what level your units are. 
  
  The "Brothers In Arms" part of my Brothers In Arms/Fire Emblem siamese combination comes in the 
 rain of bullets. When moving around, enemy units will open fire, and you can lose a trooper on 
 your own turn if you're reckless enough, so cover and smart unit placement is critical. The Fire 
 Emblem half sticks his head out once again once your unit runs out of health. It's possible that 
 you can lose a beloved party member, but unlike Fire Emblem where a cheap ambush or underestimating 
 an enemy will cause that black mage you've been trying to level up to die and force you to restart 
 the mission or else carry on without him/her, here you're given a chance to save your favorite 
 spiky-haired soldiers by sending someone else to recover them. 
  
  Which is greatly appreciated, as missions can be quite merciless. More often than not, you will 
 not be finishing a mission on the first go, as the game will often throw unexpected ambushes by 
 divine angels or mortar shells from the heavens. A well-played assault can blow up in your face 
 because of an unexpected set of reinforcements. Be sure to save often, and be grateful that you 
 can create as many saves as you'd like over the Fire Emblem games. 
  
  You can't quite power-play Valkyria Chronicles like one would be able to with other RPGs. I found 
 myself playing a mission, losing, getting angry, and then trying the mission again the next day 
 with a new gameplan and a new outlook on life. And every time I would get angry over a cheap enemy 
 sniper attack or goddess assault, I knew that I'd be able to exact my vengeance another day. So 
 you need a bit of patience to play through Valkyria Chronicles, but the uniqueness of it all and 
 the game's ability to avoid most of the genre pitfalls makes it stand out as one of the Playstation 
 3's strongest games. In my mind, this is the best original gameplay concept of 2008 that doesn't 
 fall flat on its face. And quite frankly, I don't care if I'm the only one that thinks this is 
 special, but me liking a strategy RPG is big deal!
  
  Pros : I've neglected to mention that there's a really interesting  
 art style used in the game. 
  
  Cons : The game is becoming hard to find in stores. So if you find it, buy it while you can!
 
  
  4 stars. 
  
  Fire Emblem almost became the first strategy RPG that I liked, but the game kept finding cheap 
 and deranged ways to kill my units and test my will to restart missions or carry on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverKeyMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is divided into "chapters", with each chapter having multiple cut scenes and 
 1-2 battles. The cut scenes are usually animated through boxes depicting only the heads of the 
 characters talking, but occasionally a full animation sequence emerges, which is very rewarding.
 
  
  The first thing that grabbed my attention was the artwork. Every scene, and every character, no 
 matter what angle they are viewed from, look like a still 2D sketch, complete with shading lines. 
 The artwork is simply fantastic if you take the time to look at it.
  
  The story is hardly "epic" by today's standards, but the characters interactions are engaging, 
 resulting in my excitement to watch the next cut scene overshadowing the actual battles themselves.
 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. Every turn starts with a number of Action Points, which you can spend 
 to take actions with your troops or tank . Every action consists of (1) Selecting your character, 
 (2) Moving to position while being subject to interception fire, (3) attacking your target then 
 being subject to return fire, (4) finishing your movement. Making sure that your characters finish 
 their turns behind cover quickly becomes the key to victory. As you progress through the chapters, 
 additional gameplay elements come into play, making strategy decisions even more entertaining.
 
  
  There are plenty of "extras" in this game, but I won't spoil them for anyone that wants to play 
 this game.
  
  I highly recommend Valkyria Chronicles to anyone that has enjoyed Shining Force, or anyone that 
 likes traditional RPG's.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: west7899
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles. 
  Valkyria Chronicles presents a brand new game play into the gaming industry -- a cross between intense 
 strategy, an exciting shooter, and fulfilling RPG. For those who own or have played the game, these 
 elements are just as obvious to you as they are to me, for those of you who have not played, download 
 the demo. Now. And you'll find one of the most innovative games in history. Valkyria Chronicles 
 leads a new gaming genre, a pioneer in the strategy genre, a successful one at that. Many would 
 think this game was another boring strategy game, but is more strategically challenging than some, 
 and also at the same time gives a satisfying feeling when landing a head shot on an enemy with 
 your own controller holding hands. Without rigid grids and boundaries, attacks are based on your 
 own aim, no more auto aiming and chance criticals, you do it all yourself in this game; aim for 
 the head, and that ends it there, aim for the body, and a less chance of stray bullets missing. 
 unfortunately, missing is also your own mistake as well. And missing DOES happen quite often in 
 this game even if it is yourself aiming. As skilled or coordinated as you are, enemies are going 
 to shoot at you whilst you move around the map, and when you have that small pixel of health left, 
 you'll want to just press the shoot button on instinct; resulting in a distasteful ratatatat into 
 the dirt. The RPG element is a great addition to any game, and in Valkyria Chronicles, it is much 
 better than most. Instead of leveling up characters individually, when one class is leveled up, 
 all characters of that class are as well. Classes would include the tank-killing lancer, gut-busting 
 shock trooper, fast-running scout, ammo supplying engineer, long shot sniper, and of course, the 
 muscle of any army; the tanks. Valkyria Chronicles combines agreat storyline with a even better 
 gameplay, no matter how many times you think your done with this game, you'll always find your 
 way back to it again. Though of course, if you actually owned it. Valkyria Chronicles being the 
 best game that no one actually played, it has been skipped by many people looking for other genres 
 such as fallout 3 or guitar hero 4. A promising future is in store for this game however, with 
 its rising popularity in the gaming charts, more and more people may try this game out as tie progresses. 
 All we have to do is wait.
  
  -west7899 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skacore_Al
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real treat if you're a fan of strategy games or JRPGs, but even if not you can appreciate 
 this wonder of a game. Admittedly it took me several months to complete, due mainly to the difficulty 
 of the game and my constant drifting between other games. The game's story starts very slowly and 
 takes some hours of gameplay to get into but eventually ends out immersing you and charming you 
 with its heartfelt story. 
  The history fictional setting: Europa (not massively inspired) is told through a book mode, where 
 you watch certain cutscenes and participate in battles. In between this you can do all manner of 
 things, such as go to headquaters, where you can do several things, such as select who will fight 
 in your squad; level up your troops and buy upgrades for your troops and your tanks. The BLiTZ 
 (Battle of Live Tactical Zones) system of combat is an interesting and unique way of playing, you 
 have a certain ammount of Command Points (CP) which you can spend on moving your troops around 
 and issuing orders, once you've used your CP your turn is up and the enemy has their turn. You 
 move your troops in relative real-time (you will be fired on by enemy soldiers) but when you aim 
 you are exempt from return-fire, if you don't kill a soldier though, expect them to retaliate. 
 The choice of different soldiers and tanks, as well as the ability to issue orders, which enhance 
 your soldiers attacks (increase anti-tank damage, increase aim, etc.) offer you a wide choice of 
 accomplishing this games many missions.
  There is a big choice of soldiers to choose from, and whilst their stats don't vary too much, all 
 have different Potentials, which are basically stat bonuses or minuses depending on your situation 
 (if your troop fancies men they will aim better when surrounded by men or you don't do as much 
 damage because of a pollen allergy) . You can also equip your troops with special weapons. The story 
 is fairly good, and whilst occassionally it can seem slightly childish it deals with heavy subjects 
 such as death. Also, it often seems slightly over-sentimental, but this compliments the beautiful 
 anime style graphics and offers a thoroughly heart-felt experience similar to many Hayao Miyazaki 
 films.
  Overall this game is beautiful, thoroughly enjoyable, and really quite unique, a classic. It doesn't 
 take a coinnosseur of strategy games or JRPGs to appreciate this for the beautiful game it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesa11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  It has been quite some time since a refreshing new SRPG came onto the market. Valkyria Chronicles 
 is probably one of the best games to be released in the genre in recent years. It successfully 
 pulls off a unique battle system that tests the player's tactics, ability to command troops in 
 battle, and how to handle ever changing situations. Valkyria Chronicles is without a doubt one 
 of the best games of 2008.
  
  The story takes place in a sort of alternate universe of our own, where the Second Europa War has 
 started and the small country of Gallia is being invaded. You see the war through the eyes of Squad 
 7, led by Welkin Gunther, a nature loving young man from the small town of Bruhl. There are dozens 
 of characters you can have in your squad, but the only ones that get story development are: Alicia 
 (Welkin's love interest, of course) , Rosie (a hot-headed red head) , Largo (a sort of peace-keeper/grandpa 
 of the squad) , Isara (Welkin's little sister) , and another who you get later on (he's suppose to 
 be a secret undercover agent, so revealing him might ruin the story a bit) . You really do get attached 
 to your squad members as the battles rage on and the story progresses. The story doesn't really 
 start out of the gates very fast, but it catches up and you won't want to miss a single event to 
 find out what happens next. But the real draw to Valkyria Chronicles isn't so much the story, or 
 the characters, but the battle system.
  
  The battle system isn't that of your typical SRPG. It's something almost completely new that is 
 actually fun and feels rewarding when you successfully finish a battle. Instead of the usual grid 
 layout where units can only move a certain number of squares and then attack, characters move on 
 an open map where they have a sort of, "Movement Meter" (MM) . Characters can only move as much as 
 their MM lets them. Everytime a character takes a step, the meter starts to go down and will continue 
 to go down as long as the character is still moving. The meter stopping when you stop allows you 
 to think about where you want your unit to go if you've already moved it and it's in a tight spot. 
 The length of a character's MM is determined by their class, and what rank their class is.
  
  When a character wants to attack, you press R1 to bring up the sights of your gun, or the range 
 they can through a grenade. You can switch quickly between potential targets by pressing either 
 R1 or L1, which makes it so that there isn't a lot of aiming involved. So those not so good at 
 FPSs or Third Person Shooters won't feel left out or intimidated. There are really two types of 
 shots you can pull off on somebody. You can either shoot them in the body, for moderate damage, 
 or you can shoot them in the head, for heavy damage. But remember, the enemy can do the same to 
 you. So standing out in the open with no cover when enemies are around, isn't a good idea.
  
  Attacking with your tank is a bit different from attacking with a foot unit. Your tank has 
 3 weapons at the start (you get 1 more later, but at the rist of spoiling the game more, it'll 
 remain a secret) , Anti-Armor rounds, Mortar Rounds, and a mounted Machine Gun. You can only attack 
 with one of these each turn the tank takes, but each can be used against a specific unit. Anti-Armor, 
 obviously, is used against enemy tanks. There are 3 different areas to attack enemy tanks, each 
 do different amounts of damage. You can attack the treads of the tank, which immobilizes it. You 
 can attack the tank body itself, which will destroy the tank, but it will take a couple more shots 
 more to destroy than the treads. Or you can attack a generator on the back of the tank, which results 
 in an instant kill on the tank. The Mortar Rounds are good for taking out bunkers and grouped up 
 foot units, and the Machine Gun is good for taking out a single foot soldier.
  
  There are 5 different classes of foot soldiers to choose from when picking out your squad: Scouts, 
 Shocktroopers, Lancers, Engineers, and Snipers. Scouts are your fast moving, long runner units. 
 They have the longest MM and use rifles to attack, which means they can run in, hit somebody hard 
 with a few bullets, and then retreat. Shocktroopers are your front-line soldiers. They can take 
 more punishment than a Scout, but their MM is about half as long as a Scouts. They carry sub-machine 
 guns which can take care of most foot troops very quickly. Lancers are your Anti-Tank ground troops. 
 They carry giant lances which have an anti-tank rocket of sorts on it. They're slow, and have a 
 MM about as long as a Shocktroopers, but they're essential to have in case your tank can't hit 
 the enemy's tank. Engineers are one of the more multi-talented units of your squad. They can remove 
 land mines from the battlefield, repair tanks, resupply your foot troops with ammo and grenades, 
 and they also carry the same rifle as a Scout. They also have a rather good sized MM, so they can 
 move and resupply units very fast. Snipers are one of those units you'll either love, or hate. 
 Their MM is very small, so they can't move very much, but their strength if their ability to take 
 out basically any ground unit in one shot. Their ability to land their shots is something that 
 will make you either frustrated with the class, or never want to use anything else. The hit detection 
 for your snipers seems off compared to the AI's snipers. The same could be said for the other classes 
 too. It just feels like your troops can hit worth anything, and the enemy hits every single time 
 with their bullets.
  
  Your units gain experience from each battle, and level up, like in a regular RPG. At a certain 
 level their class goes from being a normal Sniper or Scout, to being an Elite. This means that 
 they get more movement in their MM, and they get a new weapon to add on to their primary one. Well, 
 for Scouts and Shocktroopers, anyway. The other 3 classes just get more movement.
  
  You also learn "Orders" through battles, or through training. Orders can be executed in a battle 
 to strengthen your troops attack, defense, healing, and numerous other things. You can learn dozens 
 of orders, which can turn the tide of a battle in some situations. The enemy can also use orders 
 too, though. So it's not like you have an advantage over the AI there either.
  
  There are also "Potentials" that each person has in your squad. They unlock more potentials as 
 they level up. Potentials are like special abilities that a person has. For example, Rosie has 
 the "Strong-Willed" potential, which allows her to run into a storm of bullets and take less damage 
 than normal. Potentials happen at certain moments in a battle. There are also negative potentials, 
 like "Pollen Allergy", which reduces the hit % of that person for that turn. There are hundreds 
 of potentials between all the members of your squad. Knowing when they'll be activated and what 
 they do can also help you out greatly in a battle.
  
  If there is one thing you should take into each battle, it's that if you mess up, or make a wrong 
 move, the AI will make you pay for it. The AI is no slouch in VC. If it sees an opportunity to 
 attack your tanks generator, it will. If it sees one of your units isn't behind a sandbag or behind 
 cover, it will send troops after that person. You have to plan each move accordingly, or it could 
 cost you the whole battle.
  
  When you aren't fighting, you'll be in Book Mode. The game is told like it's being read to you 
 through a history book, or somebody's journal of the events. In Book Mode, you can visit HQ to 
 recruit new troops for your squad, go to the training ground to spend the EXP you earn, go to the 
 R&D facility to upgrade your weapons or tanks, the War Cemetery to visit the graves of your fallen 
 comrades, the Royal Auditorium to get rewards from the Princess, and a couple other areas that 
 are mentioned more in the game. You can also fight Skirmish battles from Book Mode, which allow 
 you to fight in previous battles you've done to earn more experience and money.
  
  Graphically, VC is one of the prettiest SRPGs out there. The cell shaded characters and buildings, 
 look life like and bring you into the conflict more. The different weapon and armor upgrades for 
 your squad are shown very well. So you can see how your squad has evolved from what it was at the 
 start of the game.
  
  The sound is on par with the graphics. The voice acting is very well done and each VA brings out 
 the life in their character. You really start to feel like you know the members of your squad and 
 what they're thinking. The sound effects for the guns and other weaponry are also very realistic. 
 Your heart starts to pound faster when you hear that tank coming around the corner, and the turret 
 begin to rotate to aim at your troops. The soundtrack is passable. There aren't really any outstanding 
 themes, but it's not like the soundtrack is awful either.
  
  The complaints for Valkyria are few, and are nothing compared to how well the rest of the game 
 is executed. Also the fact that, well, the game is just plain fun to play. It also feels very rewarding 
 to complete a battle knowing that you outsmarted the AI and successfully took the objective. If 
 you have a PS3 and have yet to buy this game, shame on you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  It has been quite some time since a refreshing new SRPG came onto the market. Valkyria Chronicles 
 is probably one of the best games to be released in the genre in recent years. It successfully 
 pulls off a unique battle system that tests the player's tactics, ability to command troops in 
 battle, and how to handle ever changing situations. Valkyria Chronicles is without a doubt one 
 of the best games of 2008.
  
  The story takes place in a sort of alternate universe of our own, where the Second Europa War has 
 started and the small country of Gallia is being invaded. You see the war through the eyes of Squad 
 7, led by Welkin Gunther, a nature loving young man from the small town of Bruhl. There are dozens 
 of characters you can have in your squad, but the only ones that get story development are: Alicia 
 (Welkin's love interest, of course) , Rosie (a hot-headed red head) , Largo (a sort of peace-keeper/grandpa 
 of the squad) , Isara (Welkin's little sister) , and another who you get later on (he's suppose to 
 be a secret undercover agent, so revealing him might ruin the story a bit) . You really do get attached 
 to your squad members as the battles rage on and the story progresses. The story doesn't really 
 start out of the gates very fast, but it catches up and you won't want to miss a single event to 
 find out what happens next. But the real draw to Valkyria Chronicles isn't so much the story, or 
 the characters, but the battle system.
  
  The battle system isn't that of your typical SRPG. It's something almost completely new that is 
 actually fun and feels rewarding when you successfully finish a battle. Instead of the usual grid 
 layout where units can only move a certain number of squares and then attack, characters move on 
 an open map where they have a sort of, "Movement Meter" (MM) . Characters can only move as much as 
 their MM lets them. Everytime a character takes a step, the meter starts to go down and will continue 
 to go down as long as the character is still moving. The meter stopping when you stop allows you 
 to think about where you want your unit to go if you've already moved it and it's in a tight spot. 
 The length of a character's MM is determined by their class, and what rank their class is.
  
  When a character wants to attack, you press R1 to bring up the sights of your gun, or the range 
 they can through a grenade. You can switch quickly between potential targets by pressing either 
 R1 or L1, which makes it so that there isn't a lot of aiming involved. So those not so good at 
 FPSs or Third Person Shooters won't feel left out or intimidated. There are really two types of 
 shots you can pull off on somebody. You can either shoot them in the body, for moderate damage, 
 or you can shoot them in the head, for heavy damage. But remember, the enemy can do the same to 
 you. So standing out in the open with no cover when enemies are around, isn't a good idea.
  
  Attacking with your tank is a bit different from attacking with a foot unit. Your tank has 
 3 weapons at the start (you get 1 more later, but at the rist of spoiling the game more, it'll 
 remain a secret) , Anti-Armor rounds, Mortar Rounds, and a mounted Machine Gun. You can only attack 
 with one of these each turn the tank takes, but each can be used against a specific unit. Anti-Armor, 
 obviously, is used against enemy tanks. There are 3 different areas to attack enemy tanks, each 
 do different amounts of damage. You can attack the treads of the tank, which immobilizes it. You 
 can attack the tank body itself, which will destroy the tank, but it will take a couple more shots 
 more to destroy than the treads. Or you can attack a generator on the back of the tank, which results 
 in an instant kill on the tank. The Mortar Rounds are good for taking out bunkers and grouped up 
 foot units, and the Machine Gun is good for taking out a single foot soldier.
  
  There are 5 different classes of foot soldiers to choose from when picking out your squad: Scouts, 
 Shocktroopers, Lancers, Engineers, and Snipers. Scouts are your fast moving, long runner units. 
 They have the longest MM and use rifles to attack, which means they can run in, hit somebody hard 
 with a few bullets, and then retreat. Shocktroopers are your front-line soldiers. They can take 
 more punishment than a Scout, but their MM is about half as long as a Scouts. They carry sub-machine 
 guns which can take care of most foot troops very quickly. Lancers are your Anti-Tank ground troops. 
 They carry giant lances which have an anti-tank rocket of sorts on it. They're slow, and have a 
 MM about as long as a Shocktroopers, but they're essential to have in case your tank can't hit 
 the enemy's tank. Engineers are one of the more multi-talented units of your squad. They can remove 
 land mines from the battlefield, repair tanks, resupply your foot troops with ammo and grenades, 
 and they also carry the same rifle as a Scout. They also have a rather good sized MM, so they can 
 move and resupply units very fast. Snipers are one of those units you'll either love, or hate. 
 Their MM is very small, so they can't move very much, but their strength if their ability to take 
 out basically any ground unit in one shot. Their ability to land their shots is something that 
 will make you either frustrated with the class, or never want to use anything else. The hit detection 
 for your snipers seems off compared to the AI's snipers. The same could be said for the other classes 
 too. It just feels like your troops can hit worth anything, and the enemy hits every single time 
 with their bullets.
  
  Your units gain experience from each battle, and level up, like in a regular RPG. At a certain 
 level their class goes from being a normal Sniper or Scout, to being an Elite. This means that 
 they get more movement in their MM, and they get a new weapon to add on to their primary one. Well, 
 for Scouts and Shocktroopers, anyway. The other 3 classes just get more movement.
  
  You also learn "Orders" through battles, or through training. Orders can be executed in a battle 
 to strengthen your troops attack, defense, healing, and numerous other things. You can learn dozens 
 of orders, which can turn the tide of a battle in some situations. The enemy can also use orders 
 too, though. So it's not like you have an advantage over the AI there either.
  
  There are also "Potentials" that each person has in your squad. They unlock more potentials as 
 they level up. Potentials are like special abilities that a person has. For example, Rosie has 
 the "Strong-Willed" potential, which allows her to run into a storm of bullets and take less damage 
 than normal. Potentials happen at certain moments in a battle. There are also negative potentials, 
 like "Pollen Allergy", which reduces the hit % of that person for that turn. There are hundreds 
 of potentials between all the members of your squad. Knowing when they'll be activated and what 
 they do can also help you out greatly in a battle.
  
  If there is one thing you should take into each battle, it's that if you mess up, or make a wrong 
 move, the AI will make you pay for it. The AI is no slouch in VC. If it sees an opportunity to 
 attack your tanks generator, it will. If it sees one of your units isn't behind a sandbag or behind 
 cover, it will send troops after that person. You have to plan each move accordingly, or it could 
 cost you the whole battle.
  
  When you aren't fighting, you'll be in Book Mode. The game is told like it's being read to you 
 through a history book, or somebody's journal of the events. In Book Mode, you can visit HQ to 
 recruit new troops for your squad, go to the training ground to spend the EXP you earn, go to the 
 R&D facility to upgrade your weapons or tanks, the War Cemetery to visit the graves of your fallen 
 comrades, the Royal Auditorium to get rewards from the Princess, and a couple other areas that 
 are mentioned more in the game. You can also fight Skirmish battles from Book Mode, which allow 
 you to fight in previous battles you've done to earn more experience and money.
  
  Graphically, VC is one of the prettiest SRPGs out there. The cell shaded characters and buildings, 
 look life like and bring you into the conflict more. The different weapon and armor upgrades for 
 your squad are shown very well. So you can see how your squad has evolved from what it was at the 
 start of the game.
  
  The sound is on par with the graphics. The voice acting is very well done and each VA brings out 
 the life in their character. You really start to feel like you know the members of your squad and 
 what they're thinking. The sound effects for the guns and other weaponry are also very realistic. 
 Your heart starts to pound faster when you hear that tank coming around the corner, and the turret 
 begin to rotate to aim at your troops. The soundtrack is passable. There aren't really any outstanding 
 themes, but it's not like the soundtrack is awful either.
  
  The complaints for Valkyria are few, and are nothing compared to how well the rest of the game 
 is executed. Also the fact that, well, the game is just plain fun to play. It also feels very rewarding 
 to complete a battle knowing that you outsmarted the AI and successfully took the objective. If 
 you have a PS3 and have yet to buy this game, shame on you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I stumbled upon this game by mistake back when the possibility of a release outside Japan was still 
 just that. After much praying to the gaming gods and more than a few small animals being sacrificed, 
 I'm happy to see that this refreshing, original new IP made it over here to breathe fresh air in 
 an industry suffering from a severe case of sequelitis. 
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is set in a fictional world called Europa. It is basically an alternate/fantasy 
 version of 1930s Europe with elements from the Cold War. The Second European War has started between 
 the Atlantic Federation (A NATO-like alliance of Western Europa) and the East European Imperial 
 Alliance (An Eastern European faction that is what you get when Nazi Germany and the USSR make 
 hot, dirty love and produce a son) . The war is mostly being fought over ragnite, a miracle ore 
 used for everything from vehicle fuel to medical supplies to explosives. Caught in the middle is 
 the small neutral country of Gallia, who is eventually invaded by the USSR... I mean Imperial Alliance... Because 
 of their abundance of ragnite.
  
  Standing in their way is our band of heroes from Squad 7, a Gallian militia unit led by Welkin 
 Gunther. Helping Welkin is a moderately large cast of characters: His little sister Isara, the 
 (Blindingly) obvious love interest Alicia, and the veterans/mentors Rosie and Largo. There is an 
 enormous cast of characters you can use in combat, but much like the Fire Emblem series, none of 
 them really effect the story beyond the core cast. 
  
  The characters and story, while nothing overly complex, are good enough to keep you interested. 
 The more magical elements of the story take a while to really appear, and a lot of the plot twists 
 can be spotted a mile away. But, in any case, the story and characters are good considering this 
 is a JRPG, a genre I have become increasingly acidic to over the years. 
  
  The voice acting, however, is what you would expect from a JRPG: Some of it is generally good, 
 a lot of it is merely passable, and some of it is OH DEAR GOD SOMEONE TEAR MY EARS OFF!! terrible. 
 Luckily, the ones in that last category are all minor characters that you can opt not to use, and 
 really aren't that useful anyway. 
  
  Now onto the real meat of any strategy JRPG: The gameplay. Valkyria Chronicles is, simply put, 
 unlike anything I've seen before. Like all turn-based strategy RPGs, you start off by selecting 
 what units to bring into a battle. You can usually bring nine or so. Also like a strategy RPG, 
 you select your units from an aerial view during your turn. Here is where things get different.
 
  
  In Valkyria Chronicles, when you select a unit you go into a third-person perspective and it plays 
 almost like a tactical shooter. You have a set amount of AP, or Action Points, that determine how 
 much you can move that character. AP varies between character and class. In addition, each character 
 can do one action, such as attacking or using a health item. Once you are done you exit back to 
 the aerial map. 
  
  You also have Command Points. These determine how many units you can move each turn. You can use 
 a character multiple times per turn, they merely start with less AP each time. You can also use 
 support powers that require a certain amount of CP for some type of effect, like raising a character's 
 attack power or healing your units.
  
  Because the game plays like a tactical shooter, you must take into account cover, and head shots 
 grant major damage bonuses. What also needs to be considered is the fact that enemies (And your 
 own units during the AI's turn) will fire on anything in their line of sight. Put certain characters 
 next to each other and they will also provide covering fire, meaning that what characters are placed 
 where can make a big impact on combat. 
  
  There are a number of classes that form a rock-paper-scissors relationship: Infantry are good against 
 anti-tank infantry, tanks are good against normal infantry, and anti-tank infantry are good against 
 tanks. Some of the classes include lightly armored scouts with semi-automatic rifles, snipers, 
 heavily armored shocktroopers with light machine guns, engineers that resupply and repair units, 
 and so on. 
  
  As I said, you have a huge cast of characters at your disposal. This is because, if a character 
 is killed, they die for good. If this happens to key characters then the mission will either fail 
 or the character will retreat. When a character's health reaches zero, you have three turns to 
 get to them or they die. Likewise, if an enemy touches them before you get to them, they will die. 
 Generally this isn't an issue; I completed the game without losing a single character, so the game 
 can be pretty lenient on this subject. 
  
  One interesting feature is that each character has characters that they work best near, and Potentials. 
 These are special abilities that can be positive or negative when certain conditions are met. Besides 
 merely making that character unique, they also flesh them out more than your typical strategy RPG 
 might. For example, the handsome womanizing playboy-type characters have a Potential called Likes 
 Girls, which gives them stat boosts when near several female characters. Or perhaps a character 
 might have Country Bred, which makes them better in maps set in rural areas. 
  
  After each mission you gain experience and money. Experience goes towards leveling up your characters, 
 while money is used to upgrade weapons and armor. Your characters level up and upgrade by class, 
 meaning that you don't have to worry about losing a favorite character and having to level up a 
 newbie from scratch. But, the best part about Valkyria Chronicles is that there is no grinding. 
 You CAN grind by doing optional skirmish battles, but levels and equipment mean much less in this 
 game than in your typical JRPG. Missions in Valkyria Chronicles are determined more on skill than 
 on how many hours you spent grinding yourself into a coma. 
  
  The graphics in Valkyria Chronicles are just beautiful. It uses a sort of cel-shading/painting 
 style. It may not be the photorealism so common this generation, but that is why it looks so nice. 
 In a generation where brown, gray, and black = cool and realistic, it is nice to see the occasional 
 game like Valkyria Chronicles that goes for a less realistic yet equally impressive style.
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is perhaps the best turn-based strategy game of 2008, and this is coming 
 from someone who generally hates the JRPG genre like the filthy, plague-and-maggot-ridden dead 
 horse that it is (Fanboys need not send me hate mail, I'll simply ignore you to death) . It is sad 
 that this excellent, original game seems to have been lost in the wave of high profile sequels 
 in the holiday season of 2008. If you own a PS3, Valkyria Chronicles is well worth a look. It is 
 one of those (Sadly) rare new IPs that takes an established genre and breathes new life into it 
 in an interesting way. 
  
  If you do own a PS3 and haven't bought this game yet then YOU are the reason why we never get new 
 IPs anymore.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolcatDavid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  Just the right balance for a RPG. Intriguing storyline, great sound track, beautiful scenery - 
 FANTASTIC gameplay!!! I found that one of the few draw backs initially was being able to save at 
 almost anytime you wanted to... but as the game got harder - it works out better to half complete 
 a battle then save so if you didn't complete the task, then you didn't have to start the whole 
 battle from the beginning! I found that some battles took well over an hour to complete - like 
 playing chess, each battle was never exactly the same -it depended on what I did. If I chose to 
 attack with the tank, or send in the scouts, or mount a frontal attack with the stormtroopers... 
 all of which results in different actions from the enemy. And as the game progresses, I noticed 
 that the opposition grew in strength and cunning, making it even harder to defeat them. Without 
 the save feature - I believe that some battles would be almost impossible to complete - so saving 
 doesn't make the game any easier - it just, in my opinion, makes it possible to progress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:21 am PT
Review:  Okay, when I first heard about this game, I already thought that it'll do good, but not all that 
 great, when I bought this game and spent three hours on it... I slapped myself for doubting this 
 game. If you can't find a word to describe it, than call it a masterpiece.
  
  Valkyria Chronicle mixes the WWII era with Fantasy elements... sound familiar? Sort of, but it works 
 perfectly here. The story follows Welkin Gunther, son of a famed war hero, as he must defend his 
 country from the invading Imperial Forces. Joining him is a colorful, yet very likeable, group 
 of soldiers in coming war. Okay, I'll get this out of they way first. If you've played any war 
 games, you'll notice they're all gritty and dark, this is game is colorful and may seem light, 
 but it covers the various elements in a war story, loss, sacrifice, brothers (sisters) in arms 
 and so on. The graphics are nothing you've ever seen before, no really, they are nothing you've 
 ever seen before, a mixture of cel-shading and watercolor, yet the sketch style is like watching 
 a picture book come to life, even the boarders have this white outling, like painters when drawing 
 their best works of art, in fact, the game overs are like an artist never finishing his work as 
 the color disappears and the screen becomes blank, and like a moving picture book, works like 'bang' 
 or 'kaboom' appear, similar to XIII.
  
  The voice work is amazing, each voice actor bringing each character to life and making them very 
 hard to let just one die in combat. Each character has their own quirks and personality, one character 
 named Jann Walker is... well, he'll remind you of a crossdresser while another named Wendy maybe 
 shut in, but seems like the person who'll charge into combat and wanting more in the end, its quirks 
 like these that give the game life and enjoyable. The music is amazing, the main theme is awesome 
 while the battle music is amazing, each breaking from heroic to ominous when the enemy's turn comes.
 
  
  The combat system can be summed up as this: A third person-action-strategy-squad based-RPG, like 
 most SRPGs, you'll have a map of the battlefield and a set postion for both allies and enemies, 
 but there are no grids to move as once you select a solder, you control that soldier for a limited 
 amount of time thanks to a small gauge and depending on your character class, like Scouts, can 
 move for an extended period of time while Snipers are very limited. Once you get into your position, 
 you aim and let loose on the enemy, but like all SRPGs, you get one turn and if you miss, your 
 enemies will retaliate, thankfully, you characters and duck while they fire, but it depends if 
 their evasion is up.
  
  Each character has Potentials and Boosts, which aid in giving the players better accuracy, move 
 damage or higher evasion, but instead of them saying 'Damage Boost!' or 'Extra Shot!', each have 
 their own dialogue and some are rather funny, like the big guy Largo will say 'Veg-Ta-Ble!' during 
 his veggie maniac potential while others maye say 'heh, heh, I have the power' or 'The hunt continues', 
 these little additions is what sets the game apart from the rest the pack. Character leveling is 
 now done by Class instead of indiviudally, so you're not wasting away leveling everyone to level 
 ten for hours and as out get each class to the next level, you unlike new potentials, boots and 
 orders, which range from aiming boosts to calling in artillery, but at the cost of command points, 
 so you'll have to think about what you're doing before you make your move.
  
  Upgrading is done different as well, you can buy upgraded firearms, some branching to different 
 designs like extra ammo or down evasion to even poison. These user-friendly ideas make this game 
 pretty easy to manage and you don't have to worry about all those different menus and such. As 
 mentioned, your squad is broken into different classes, Scouts, Lancers, Shocktroopers, Engineers 
 and Snipers. Snipers are pretty much as their name suggests, Shocktroopers are the standard infantry 
 and can take more damage and use machine guns, Scouts use single-shot weapons and have a longer 
 movement range, but are weak. Engineers are the jack-of-all-trades, they repair tanks, heal squads, 
 restore ammo and fight, though they're weaker than the Scouts, but handy when your tanks are badly 
 damaged and Lancers serve as anti-tank soldiers and are the only infantry unit that can take a 
 lot of punishment, even from tank mortars. Tanks are the moving cover that can provide some mean 
 firepower, but have a weak point in the back, though this can be said for enemy tanks.
  
  The only problems are a few minor cases of frame rate slow down and the AI's battle tactics, at 
 one moment they're crafty buggers and the next they're wasting command points on moving tanks around 
 or calling in snipers that... well, are sitting ducks for the more powerful units. The game offers 
 up skirmish maps, which are a select group of maps from the main story, but without the story elements, 
 a good way to get extra money and experience.
  
  So, is Valkyria Chronicles worth the price? Hell yeah, there's enough there to keep you playing 
 for hours and with additional chapters and skirmish maps on the way, there's enough to ensure that 
 this doesn't collect dust on the shelves. PS3 Owners, if you don't already have Valkyria Chronicles, 
 stop reading this review and already buy the game, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No_SuRReNDeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is a game that reminded me of the time was I was proud to be the only kid on 
 the block with a Sega master system. Phantasy Star was the first Sega game that made my jaw drop 
 it also was my first glimpse into the world of Japanese Animation. Years past and the Shining Force 
 2 for the genesis came to my local video store and was so amazing I could not put my controller 
 down. Then again the magic that is Sega caught my imagination again on the Dreamcast with Skies 
 of Arcadia. Never has a Sega game captivated me and intrigued me since, until I played Valkyria 
 Chronicles.
  
  Visual Design- The obvious thing that will strike you right away is the breathtaking visual design 
 and gorgeous use of cell shaded 3 models. The game has a "sketchbook" look to it. Never, in my 
 opinion, have 3D Japanese Anime characters looked as flawless as this. When sometimes when the camera 
 is static in a cut scene you would absolutely swear you were watching 2d animation. It really is 
 that amazing. Much like the new Prince of Persia the improvements to cell shading animation are 
 huge leap forward in visual design.
  
  Gameplay-
  The game starts out kinda slow and this can for some be death sentence. The demo on the psn doesn't 
 represent the game well at all because it is only the very first mission where you have no tank 
 not different unit types, choices terrain etc.... so if you played the demo and thought.... this 
 to simple... you just haven't gotten to meat and potatoes yet. The game doesn't really start getting 
 good until you acquire the ability to chose squad members, upgrade their gear, upgrade your tank 
 and chose how you manage your battle. Fear not .... this happens soon enough. This approach to the 
 mechanics really makes it much easier to understand how a game with much simplicity can offer so 
 much complexity.
  
  --Update-60 hrs of play -- It keeps getting better. As you play you unlock more commands and more 
 and more brilliant design unfolds every time you turn a new chapter. Like the book it is set in 
 , the story and gameplay both develop throughout. Intertwineing like vine climbing a trellis slowly 
 revealing a beatiful flower of design, that is far more brilliant than almost every story driven 
 title that has come before it. I love the characters, and they way the world is never too black 
 and white . Even some of the games worst characters have noble intentions. 
  The innovative points system really makes this game unique. I also really like the variety of units 
 and picking the"right people" who will work together. It's great how a units personality effects 
 it's behavior on the battlefield. I don't want to go into to much depth but the mechanics are almost 
 flawless here. The colored sight lines are a brilliant idea, and often the game feels action based 
 not turn based as you can easily get mowed down by a turret or something just by turning the wrong 
 corner. Valkyria truly evolves strategy rpgs to a new level. This game is not "kinda like" anything 
 you have played is a genre defining title. So look at the reviews here ---when 951ppl average a 
 score of 9.0 its almost a no brainer. 
  
  
  Conclusion-
  If you are a Sega fan buy this game. If you like strategy games fan buy this game. If you like 
 role playing games and great storytelling buy this game. If you like games that make you think 
 , keep you entertained and inspire you buy this game. If you video games at all in way shape or 
 form BUY THIS GAME!
  Sega deserves a huge pat on the back for this release which in years passing like Skies of Arcadia, 
 and Phantasy Star before it, is destined to become a cult classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Sega always seem to do well with RPGs. Back in the Late 80's and Early 90's, Sega competed with 
 Square's Final Fantasy with the Phantasy Star franchise which is known to be one of the best RPG 
 series to ever exist. Skies of Arcadia is another notable Sega RPG, which graced the Dreamcast 
 in 2000 and the Nintendo GameCube in 2003. And now Sega are back with another awesome RPG for the 
 new generation, and this time it's exclusive to Sony's PlayStation 3. Valkyria Chronicles is rather 
 hard to describe, but RPG fans are guaranteed to love it. It is definitely up there as one of the 
 best PS3 titles so far.
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is set in 1935, in a fictional country called Gallia, which is in Europa, presumably 
 an alternate Europe. Valkyria Chronicles is a tale of the Second Europan war. The Empire is against 
 the Federation, and the Empire are trying to invade Gallia, which is rich in an incredible mineral 
 that can be refined into powerful fuel, ragnite ore. Welkin Gunther is the hero of the story, who's 
 a 22 year old university student who's father was the famous hero of the First Europan War. After 
 finding his hometown, Bruhl in flames, he, his 16 year old step-sister Isara and the female protagonist 
 Alicia join the Gallia Militia. Welkin immediately becomes lieutenant of Squad 7. The story is 
 great, with an interesting start and it evolves into a beautiful tale as you progress through. 
 A lot of the later cutscenes are very touching and emotional. As far as I know, the story of Valkyria 
 Chronicles is not related to the second World War.
  
  I simply couldn't find any character that I disliked. They were all great! Welkin Gunther is a 
 mature hero with bizarre interests, such as studying nature and insects. Alicia Melchiott is a 
 baker, and is a very gentle character, which I haven't seen lately in RPGs. Isara Gunther is knowledgable 
 on machines, and is the driver of Welkin's tank, the Edelweiss. Brigitte Stark, or simply known 
 as Rosie was previously a singer at a bar, with a bad temper for Isara's kind, the Darcsens. Largo 
 Potter is a lancer in Squad 7, and is obsessed with vegetables. Another main character to mention 
 is Eleanor Varrot, who is the Captain of the Militia. These characters are all very likable, and 
 they all have their good backstories. There are also many other characters from Squad 7 which are 
 rather interesting. For all you Skies of Arcadia fans like myself, Vyse and Aika appear as playable 
 characters (from blades to guns) , and Fina appears as Squad 7's medic. These three characters have 
 also had a massive High-Def upgrade since their last appearance back in the 6th-Gen. What a treat!! 
 The antagonists also rock.
  
  Gameplay is rather fascinating, and awesome in Valkyria Chronicles. Sega like to call it "BLiTZ" 
 (Battle of Live Tactics) . It is a Strategy RPG, and has a similar feeling to Fire Emblem. Before 
 battles, you have to put your soldiers in the selected areas. This tells you where they will start, 
 much like in any SRPG. The battle system is indeed tactical, but there just isn't any squares your 
 characters walk through. There is a lot more freedom in battles, making it a bit more action-based. 
 During your turn, you will be looking at an overhead view of the map, being able to select which 
 soldier you want to move. When moving characters, they have a certain amount of AP (Action Points) . 
 When the AP reaches zero, the character moving is unable to move any further until their next turn, 
 much like in Breath of Fire V: Dragon Quarter. Of course, you can shoot enemies if you can. There 
 are five soldier classes, plus the tanks which you can also control. The first class are the Scouts, 
 who may not have the best rifles, but they are by far the strongest in AP. The second class are 
 the Shocktroopers, who have machine guns, and have a medium level of AP. The third class are the 
 Lancers, who have Anti-Tank missiles, and have a slightly low level of AP. The fourth class are 
 the Engineers, who are handy with tanks and can fix them. The fifth class are the Snipers, who 
 obviously have the best range and are the most accurate, but have a very low level of AP. Missions 
 vary from all sorts of objectives, such as capturing bases, destroying a certain enemy or thing, 
 or simply getting to the other side of the map. But be careful, it's not as easy as you think.
 
  
  Outside the brilliant tactical battles, the game is set out like a book. Every two pages is worth 
 one chapter, and you'll find screenshots of cutscenes to click on to view the cutscenes. It's quite 
 clever really. There are 18 chapters. On every chapter, you'll find one or two battles. You are 
 also able to change tabs. The chapters count as one tab, and other tabs include the Headquarters, 
 the Profiles of characters, the weaponry guide, the glossary and the skirmishes. Skirmishes count 
 as the side-missions of the game, and can be played through over and over (main missions cannot) 
 if you need extra experience or money. Back at HQ, you are able to recruit new allies, equip them 
 with weaponry at the barracks, train your soldier classes with your earned EXP, upgrade weaponry 
 with your earned cash, read articles from the funny reporter, Irene Elliot, and talk to an aged 
 gentleman at a war memorial who teaches you orders for some EXP. Eventually, you will even be able 
 to enter the audience chamber and win medals from the princess, Cordelia gi Randgriz.
  
  The controls are pretty good. Everything is perfect, aside the Edelweiss which sometimes becomes 
 a pain to control when turning around and squeezing through tight areas. AP can be wasted a fair 
 bit, but this problem is minor and isn't really anything to complain about.
  
  Strategy RPGs have always been known as very difficult. Final Fantasy Tactics is difficult. Fire 
 Emblem is difficult. This one is no different. The starting missions go easy on you, but then later 
 on, you're gonna get beaten a lot by the Empire. Sometimes, the AI is kind to you, but then sometimes 
 turn into big bullies. Thank God for saving within battles. Battles take a fair bit of time, like 
 in pretty much any SRPG. They vary however. Sometimes, it can take up to an hour to complete a 
 tricky mission, if not more. The cutscenes also add to the hours of the game. There are quite a 
 few cutscenes in this RPG, but they are all great cutscenes and are skippable for the impatient. 
 It is a lengthy game, worth around 30 hours of satisfaction. But you'll probably be spending a 
 lot more time than that for restarting missions and such. Valkyria Chronicles also offers a New 
 Game Plus mode for players who have finished the story, so it's safe to say that you should be 
 treated with over 40 hours of excellence.
  
  You will most certainly be surprised with the beauty of Valkyria's graphics. Whether you have an 
 HDTV or a regular TV, you shall prepare to be stunned, as Valkyria Chronicles has some of the best 
 artistic graphics, if not the best. The game's visuals, which feature Sega's CANVAS graphics engine, 
 have received a lot of attention - with CANVAS, the game's entire graphical style is built to resemble 
 a watercolour painting in motion. Both the cinematics and the regular graphics are amazingly stunning, 
 and some of the best i've seen so far this gen. The cinematics are jawdropping, and in my opinion 
 come very close to the CGI in Vexille, an awesome Japanese film which I highly recommend. The artwork 
 is fantastic too. In all honesty, Valkyria Chronicles has the best artistic graphics i've ever 
 seen. Yes, they even top the brush strokes in Okami.
  
  The soundtrack was composed by the man responsible for the soundtrack of RPGs like Breath of Fire 
 V, Final Fantasy XII and Odin Sphere. Hitoshi Sakimoto. He did a pretty good job with Valkyria 
 Chronicles. A lot of the songs are very catchy, and definitely suit the areas in the game. Along 
 with the catchy battle tunes, there are also the touching songs in the emotional cutscenes. The 
 voices are also great. Valkyria Chronicles offers both English and Japanese voices. Tried both, 
 and to my surprise, I actually preferred the English. It seems i've finally come across another 
 RPG with good English VA. Huzzah!!
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is simply the most beautiful game available on the PlayStation 3. It is definitely 
 one of the best reasons to buy a PS3, if you don't own one already. If you do own one, then make 
 this epic SRPG your next purchase. With awesome gameplay, a beautiful story, stunning graphics 
 and great music, you simply cannot go wrong. Of course, if you don't have the cash for it, you 
 can play through the downloadable demo multiple times until you can afford the full game. It is 
 one of the best Strategy RPGs of all time, if not the best. There is also upcoming downloadable 
 content, so watch out for that. Squad 7, Move Out!
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_hated_one27
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas. That night, i started the game. As i read what to do, i couldn't understand 
 it well. I played a little and was still a little confused, but knew what to do. As i continued 
 playing, i really got the hang of it. I enjoy the game very well. It is my favorite game for a reason. 
 The graphics are exceptional, for the lack of a better word. The storyline drags you into the game 
 from the beginning to the end, begging you for more. The battles are very challenging. Requires 
 a lot of thinking. Sometimes you will tell yourself "oh, why didnt i think of this or think of that?"Including 
 parts that will leave you in a very sad mood. I can't find anything bad about it, no real letdowns. Sega 
 has come out with one of it's best. A great game all around. I recommend this game to everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZephyrDivinitas
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria chronicles wonderfully takes together some of the great aspects of a Strategy game, tosses 
 in some Action flair, then puts their own little twist to make it a fantastic game all around.
 
  
  Use tactics to take at the evil Empire of Europa as they try to take over your home country of 
 Gallia.
  
  The only decide, can be somewhat frustrating as the action appeal is sometimes lost in the usual 
 game play of a Turn based strategy game, i. e. "why did that shot just miss?" But that can be easily 
 fixed as one can save mid turn so if you miss a shot you can just reload. A feature that makes 
 you wonder why no other strategy game over thought of that...
  
  Set up like a novel, which the beautiful Water Color, hand-drawnesque graphics complement, the 
 game is decently long with 17 chapters, quite a few with multiple battles with each the story will 
 captivate causing you not to stray often, but Side-missions as well as practice Skirmishes are 
 available the latter having an Easy and Normal difficulty selections allowing one to polish ideas 
 for tactics on previously played battles. A Good thing to note is a Hard difficulty is available 
 for selection after the game is beaten and cleared game is started, which also offers the same 
 level and weapons of your end of game platoon. 
  
  So check it out,
  
  It's a sure classic for the PS3 and a must try for any serious RPG/Shooter/Strategy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajmin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:33 am PT
Review:  It's a shame that there's been hardly anyone making a fuss about Valkyria Chronicles, because it 
 is largely a good game.
  
  Let's set the scene. It's an alternate take on mid-1930s history, with your character and their 
 selection of friends (and enemies) hopping into the 2nd Europan War. This war is for a mineral 
 known as Ragnite which apparently can be used for everything from fuel to medicine, so it's no 
 wonder the evil Empire wants to invade your country to steal the bounty of resources apparently 
 hidden underneath.
  
  The main character, Welken, son of a famous General from the first war, is a bit of a nature geek 
 and makes endless references to studying plants and animals, which sometimes helps out his squad 
 during their battles. Although the link is sometimes a little tenuous.
  
  Moving onto the combat, which is where you'll spend most of your time, it's all very well laid-out. 
 Unless you choose to go digging, you're not shown any stat screens and you don't have to juggle 
 any numbers to work out what's going on. Before the battle you're given the list of conscripts 
 and asked which ones you want to use, and this is where you need to pay attention to the mission 
 objectives. Different classes have different skills and weapons, from your enemy-detecting Scouts 
 to your machine-gun toting Shocktroopers, rifle-weilding Snipers and anti-tank Lancers, each one 
 has a valid place in the combat. Thankfully, they all have the ability to heal both themselves 
 and their allies, so you don't need to worry about assigning a healer. Engineers repair your tank 
 and can restock ammo, so they are pretty vital too.
  
  You're assigned a number of move points at the start of a combat round. Infantry will use one of 
 these up, while a tank will use two. You can order a unit to retreat (if it's injured or if you 
 just want to replace them with a different class) , and both this and ordering their replacement 
 both uses a movement turn. Once you've selected a unit, you're stuck into the only real-time part.
 
  All of your unit positioning is real-time, which is really good because it lets you look around 
 the map and work out a decent tactic for sneaking past an enemy, or finding cover. Each unit's 
 movement bar decreases and you run, and obviously when it's empty you're stuck on the spot. Scouts 
 and Engineers get more, Shocktroopers and Snipers hardly get to move at all.
  
  Attacking is simple. Once you're in position, you hit R1 and enter aiming mode. You're given a 
 target reticule, which shows the area you're aiming for and the maximum spread the shots will take. 
 Some units have limited ammo, but you get an extra shot back per combat round.
  
  Some of the story is a little odd. Not to give away any spoilers, but one of your guys has an unhealthy 
 obsession with vegetables. I sense a moral message in there somewhere. You also stumble onto a 
 winged pig that understands English. Your guess is as good as mine on that one.
  The voice acting is mostly good, although the script is a little odd in some places. I don't know 
 if this could just be down to it not translating from Japanese very well.
  
  The art style is really nice, making the whole thing look like a watercolour painting. It uses 
 comic-book style visual sound effects though, which I'm not so fond of. It has the audio already 
 and those seem a little unnecessary, jarring with the otherwise subtle graphical style.
  
  The cut scenes are fairly short, but most of the time require a button press to advance the conversation. 
 This is my biggest issue with the game in general. If you're playing the audio anyway, you shouldn't 
 need to manually progress the conversations. It messes up the timing of some of them too, as it's 
 impossible for someone to interrupt someone else when you have to wait for the first person to 
 stop. It's not a game-breaking issue, but it's something I'd have dumped early on.
  
  Ideally I'd have gone with an 8.7 or 8.8, but 9.0 is the closest it would let me go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanAce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is an absolutely stunning game. For once, I thought "this looks like a PS3 
 game" after loading it up on the console. Not only are the visuals appealing, but the gameplay 
 mechanics are also functional and fun to work with.
  
  Being a Strategy/Role-Playing Game (SRPG) , there is a significant focus on the use of strategy 
 and tactics. If you're looking for a third-person shooter, this is the wrong place to go. However, 
 for strategy-game enthusiasts, Valkyria Chronicles is without a doubt, a genre-redefining title. 
 While there is little focus on number-crunching, there are a multitude of parameters that players 
 must consider. This includes the varying class roles, individual unit abilities, unit positioning, 
 distribution of command points (which are used to allow units to act, or to perform special 'orders') , 
 etc.
  
  Visuals are extremely beautiful in this game. The environments are varied and the colours are vibrant. 
 You won't notice "jaggies" that seem to plague many other games. The characters, architecture, 
 and vehicles are also all very well-designed.
  
  Another surprise was the quality of the voice acting. Apart from a few minor characters, all the 
 voice work was solid. None of the main characters' voices will make you cringe (unlike Star Ocean 
 3) .
  
  The story, although often cliche'd, has plenty of depth to keep the player interested. It's also 
 sprinkled with a little humour here and there so you'll never feel like they're trying to be "too 
 serious".
  
  When you discover all the intricacies of the controls and menu-navigation, there really isn't much 
 to complain about. Valkyria Chronicles is an amazingly well-polished gem - a quality that seems 
 to be rather rare amongst the other titles in its generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeros89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  RPGs have been my favorite genre of games ever since FFVI and Super Mario RPG for the SNES. However, 
 in this current console generation, I find myself playing fewer RPGs in favor of other genres, 
 due to time, due to multiplayer content, or whatever other poor reason. Nonetheless, playing a 
 marvel of a game like Valkyria Chronicles brings back fleeting memories of what makes a 50 hour-long 
 RPG so unique and memorable.
  
  Japanese TRPGs have been stuck in a rut for some time. Many games have tried variations on the 
 de facto Fire Emblem system (one of the first TRPG series) of grid-based, ally then foe turn-based 
 system. But Valkyria Chronicles (VC) introduces a completely new system where you have a certain 
 amount of command points (CP) and where you see the entire battlefield map in-between every action 
 without seeing all the details of the battle. Selecting any of your characters uses one CP (two 
 for a tank) , after which the camera zooms in third-person style onto that character and the battlefield. 
 Your character can move freely in 360o until his/her action bar depletes, and you can initiate 
 a single action (attacking, grenade, healing item) during that time. What makes the system truly 
 unique is that you may choose to spend your entire CP on a single character and keep advancing/attacking 
 with that unit, although their action bar is less full every time you select the unit within the 
 same turn. You may also choose not to expand all your CP, in which case the leftover CP will carry 
 over to your next turn, allowing you either greater mobility of firepower on that turn. Interactions 
 on the battlefield such as rescuing an ally, disarming landmines, flipping a switch, taking cover, 
 etc can be done infinitely so long as your action bar isn't depleted.
  
  These are the very basics of combat, but the depth of the system is astonishing. Sega dubs this 
 game an "active simulation RPG", which is a fitting description. You will understand and master 
 the breadth of the system little by little after every battle, and the experience you'll gain, 
 not only within the game space but also in your own head, will help you achieve victory in increasingly 
 satisfying fashion as the game progresses. By the end of the game, playing the "skirmish" battles 
 for pleasure, I was able to exploit the system on certain maps, completing a seemingly long encounter 
 in a single turn. The game hands you a score between A and D after every battle depending on how 
 speedy you were in achieving victory with no other criteria, and in this fashion you can see how 
 quickly a certain map can potentially be completed by looking at your objectives mid-battle and 
 seeing your score down to a C on only your third turn (for some battles) . In sum, the gameplay 
 is addictive, highly rewarding, and totally unique (you also have to aim all your shots manually!)
 
  
  But that isn't why I felt the urge to review my experience. The story of VC, along with the brilliant 
 music of Hitoshi Sakimoto, is further proof of the immersion latent in the best RPGs that no other 
 game can match. The characters in this game are plentiful. However, most are not story relevant 
 and only participate in your battles, and you can choose such characters from a deep roster that 
 expands as the game progresses. Despite not being present in any of the many wonderful story panels 
 (as the whole game is presented as a narrative straight out of a book) , every character has his/her 
 own distinct personality conveyed through unique voice-acting, detailed model, character relationships 
 and specific skill sets. You will grow to love most of the characters you've chosen for your squad, 
 and the fact that they may die permanently makes you all the more caring and careful when planning 
 your kamikaze final push towards the enemy camp.
  
  The main story characters are some of the most genuine characters I've ever seen in an RPG. I chose 
 to play the game using the original Japanese voice acting, which was, as I expected, spot-on, emotional, 
 perfect. From what little portion I played with English dubbing, the voice actors also seemed quite 
 competent, but when playing a JRPG or viewing anime, it only seems fitting to me to listen to the 
 original acting. In dozens of occasions, during emotional scenes or serious dialogues, I expected 
 some cheesy, slightly childish replies and comments between the characters, as is often the case 
 in JRPGs. I was delighted that the two main characters, Welkin and Alicia, did not deny their love 
 for one another, or act like grade-schoolers when talking privately. Likewise, the friendly bonds 
 between characters often seemed beyond real, such as the difficult love relationship between prior 
 war veterans (Largo and Cpt. Varrot) , the deep unjust hatred Rosie feels for the Darcsen tribe 
 and thus Isara, and the relationships between prince Maximillian and his loyal generals. The writing 
 is mature, the voice-acting was spot-on, and of course the awesome storybook-like visuals all contribute 
 to form of the most touching, seemingly realistic, and endearing stories in video games.
  
  Lastly, Hitoshi Sakimoto delivers one of his best performance to-date with the 50 or so tracks 
 in this game. I listen to less videogame music now then I used to, but after playing VC, I had 
 to order the OST to reminisce about the countless powerful moments the story presented. Most tracks, 
 whether they are during combat, sad moments, or uplifting events are vibrant and decidedly poignant. 
 This is simply of one the best scores I have heard in a game, and Sakimoto might have even outdone 
 his spectacular and timeless work on both Breath of Fire: Dragon Quarter and Final Fantasy Tactics.
 
  
  It was a treat from start to finish to experience this game, its story, and its memorable lore. 
 Do not pass it up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  After the strong RPG collection the Playstation 2 built up over its years, you would have thought 
 that the Playstation 3 would be following in its predecessors footsteps. At this moment in time, 
 this is not the case. The system has a lacklustre amount of RPGs in its catalogue of games. Thankfully 
 Sega have decided to fill in this void with their take on the strategy RPG genre. Valkyria Chronicles 
 is a game that changes the way we play a typical Japanese strategy role playing games, and it's 
 for the better too.
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is the child of Sega WOW, the development studio at Sega that consists of Wow 
 Entertainment and Overworks. If you aren't sure what those names mean then let's just say that 
 the guys and girls who work there have designed such games as Skies of Arcadia, Streets of Rage 
 and Phantasy Star and that's just naming some of their games from a large portfolio.
  
  Now you're either thinking "sweet" or just sat there not really caring, shame as you should all 
 be in the "sweet" category because Valkyria Chronicles is a game that really helps spice up the 
 strategy RPG battle systems we're used to. It takes bits from other genres and splices them together 
 to make a battle system that's quite innovative and very rewarding.
  
  Set in an alternative fictional version of the 1930s, Valkyria Chronicles is the tale of the second 
 Europa War. The continent of Europa consists of two superpowers, the Empire and the Federation. 
 The Empire desires to rule all over Europa with ultimate supremacy and decides to send a full force 
 to take down the Federation. A little independent nation that goes by the name of Gallia happens 
 to be stuck bang in the middle of the two super powers. Also Gallia is rich in ragnite ore, an 
 incredible mineral that can be refined into powerful fuel. Because of this the Empire invades Gallia 
 to get an upper hand in the second Europa War.
  
  In the middle of all this is Welkin Gunther, a University student and son of a famous hero of the 
 first Europa War, General Belgen Gunther. After his home town of Bruhl is caught up in the conflict 
 and drafted into the Gallia Militia. He's instantly given Lieutenant status and is the leader of 
 Squad 7 as a Tank Commander.
  
  The story manages to keep you entertained, even though at times it can be predictable. One of the 
 main reasons you will want to stick with it is due down to how well Sega have crafted the characters. 
 Their attitude and character are so well portrayed that you'll most likely become more engrossed 
 in the characters than the overall story.
  
  Taking over as Welkin, it's your job to make sure your squad overcomes any situation they are faced 
 with during the story of Valkyria Chronicles. The story unfolds in the pages of a book with the 
 acts as the main content page of what you can access. It features tabs down the sides for topics 
 that deal with different aspects and the first thing you see is the chapters tab that shows off 
 the game's story. The pages you see at first are in black and white, but once you've clicked on 
 the pictures that are featured and see the cut-scene or completed the mission then it becomes colour. 
 It's a brilliant idea to present the story to you as a book and really suits the watercolour graphical 
 look the game has.
  
  As you play more of Valkyria, more tabs open up. Later on you get access to skirmishes, headquarters 
 and even database type information on personnel, weaponry and a full on glossary about pretty much 
 anything in the game. Someone who wants to learn more about the history and characters of the game's 
 world will really enjoy what there is to read in those sections. Obviously the bulk of the game 
 is in the Chapters tab. This is where you are allowed to continue through the story and play missions. 
 Usually a chapter will consist of a few beautifully rendered cut-scenes then a battle or two before 
 moving on to the next chapter. You're always briefed about your objectives at the start of the 
 mission. Most objectives finish a map by capturing the enemy base.
  
  But what is even better than the presentation and content is the game's funky battle system. Sega 
 has managed to blend in real time gameplay with the strategic skills of a strategy RPG. The game 
 starts you off with your turn first, with the enemy following after, which you'd normally expect 
 to see. What isn't normal is after the overview map is up and you've selected the unit you want 
 to move, it will zoom onto the unit and you'll play it from a behind 3rd person view. From here 
 on you have free control the move the unit how you want. Simply move the analogue stick and off 
 your character runs. To limit things certain classes have a certain amount of movement they can 
 take per turn. Reusing the same character in the same turn will reduce her movement. This stops 
 you from spamming the same unit over and over to get to places.
  
  Once you've got yourself in a good position, you can freely press the R1 button to bring up the 
 aiming reticule to attack the opposition. Aiming is also done in real time. Once you've shot at 
 the opponent, you'll get a quick animation of your character attacking the adversary. Enemies who 
 carry rifles and machineguns can counter attack. To block against this you can also make your characters 
 hide behind walls and other blockades. As you are doing this the enemy and also your squad will 
 be firing at each other. This adds a believable realism that adds a touch to the gameplay while 
 also making it feel more alive. The soldiers with the opposite army aren't just going to let the 
 enemy run straight past them. It feels much more like a furious war when you run past them and 
 they start firing machineguns at you, making you think more about where you're going to move your 
 units to.
  
  Reading this probably makes it all sound more of a strategy game in general than one to fall into 
 the RPG side of things. The RPG elements come into play with the classes you have available to 
 you - Scout, Storm trooper, Lancer, Engineer and Sniper. Normally when the selected unit beats 
 an enemy they would gain experience points, not so in Valkyria. Rather than have individually units 
 level up, the classes level up instead. This is why you get experience as a reward at the end of 
 a battle rather than during it. The grade you receive at the end determines how much experience 
 points you'll land. Money is also rewarded in the same style as experience points. It makes much 
 more sense because if a unit who isn't a major character in the plot dies in battle, and is touched 
 by an enemy or not rescued by you in three turns, they die for good as well. Think of something 
 along the lines of Fire Emblem and you get the idea. But thankfully Sega have come up the squad 
 leveling up system to combat this.
  
  Leveling up squad types is done in the headquarters tab. This is a very important place to visit 
 because there's so much more to do than just level up your squad as well. It also allows you to 
 change members of your squad or hire new ones if some unlucky member has been killed in battle. 
 Training is the area you go to spend your treasured experience points. It's a simple method of 
 holding right till you've pumped enough experience into the squad type. It also allows you to freely 
 level up which squad you think is more important, giving control of how to go about your game. 
 Leveling up adds more health but it also unlocks new potentials for your units.
  
  Potentials are great helping skills. They are a kind of super move to do more damage or protect 
 against being hurt. One extremely good one is double movement for the scout. It allows you to travel 
 twice the distance, which is a huge help later on in the game.
  
  Welkin also has special skills called commands. At first when playing Valkyria you don't have a 
 huge selection, but speaking to the guy in the graveyard or leveling up units gets you more. Commands 
 are really overlooked as they are like a godsend when used correctly. At first I never used them 
 but having got further into the game I started feeling the challenge of the missions. About halfway 
 through I started reading into the commands and when used correctly made some of my characters 
 godlike in some aspects. The scout class can become the ultimate base capturer in Valkyria Chronicles 
 when used in conjunction with commands. It's also a great way to use the skirmish maps to get some 
 quick experience as you can use the commands to get units to finish the maps in a couple of turns. 
 This might make them sound overpowering, in some cases they do make the game easier, but not always, 
 so I wouldn't look at it as a "cheating" way to finish the game.
  
  All these features combine to make an exceptional game to play. It never feels a drag and is always 
 full of action. I'll state right now that this is one of the best systems to be implemented within 
 a strategy RPG game. If I was to be spoil sport then I'd probably say the A. I. isn't the best to 
 fight against all the time as sometimes it likes to waste turns by moving to pointless places.
 
  
  There are so many other features like researching weapons, tank upgrades and so on. I could go 
 on but I'd be filling up the pages so fast, so it's best for you to check them out yourself and 
 have some surprises.
  
  The game itself is a pure single player experience. There's nothing wrong with that because the 
 main game will probably last you 30 hours, side quests extend the game as well and these are bought 
 from the news reporter woman. They act as extra pages in the book that fill in more details about 
 the characters. There's no doubt though that the battle mechanics will make a fine multiplayer 
 game and hopefully Sega will implement it in another game. There's no way I am marking this game 
 down for lacking multiplayer because it doesn't need it.
  
  When you first put Valkyria Chronicles in to your Playstation 3, you are met with some luscious 
 artistic graphics. The game shows a view that is like a canvas watercolour painting that seems 
 like it's come to life in some very fluid animation. The whole presentation down from the book 
 interface all the way up to the fighting, all feels like it's just a book come to life. Adding 
 even more to this sense of feeling is when you are shooting in battles. The game has comic book 
 style text written for sound effects. You can tell Sega WOW really wanted to make this a living 
 book, and boy have they got it spot on with that. Apart from some little texture clipping in trees, 
 everything is so beautifully spot-on. Last year's best artistic game is right here ladies and gentleman.
 
  
  Sound is also just as impressive as the rest of the game. The voice acting is strong and Sega have 
 nicely opted to feature the Japanese audio, allowing all you Japanphiles to have the original Japanese 
 voices. The musical score is just as polished; it never feels out of place and comes up with the 
 goods in being both epic and emotional. There's especially one scene that it does so well. I felt 
 gripped by the entire thing; you'll know when you see it.
  
  There's no trophy support featured in Valkyria Chronicles, however there is a new game+ mode you 
 get for finishing it. Also the missions are given ranks, so if you want to perfect the missions 
 and get that treasured 'A' rank, you're going to have to think up of some clever and tactical strategies.
 
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is a game that deserves to be played by everyone. It's so innovative, fresh 
 and blends different features of other genres so well that you'd think Sega WOW had already done 
 this before. I think a quote from Bruce Almighty tells a lot about this game, "B-E-A-UTIFUL" is 
 what should be slapped all over it. It's Sega's best game since well, the Dreamcast era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timberwolf8889
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  I was wary of Valkyria Chronicles because it was a Japanese Strategy RPG which despite having tried 
 a few in the past, never gripped my interest in a big way. When the game was released however, 
 the overwhelming support of the game made me drop my prejudices and try the game.
  
  The first thing to note is that the meat of the gameplay are the battles, which makes sense, but 
 they are long and time consuming and fairly addictive for the most part. I wont detail the system 
 since gamespot does it in their review better than I do but it feels natural and is a fairly clever 
 way of mixing third person mechanics with a JRPG element.
  
  The story does a good job of developing the main characters (albeit, like all anime, a bit melodramatic) 
 and more importantly gives you context and drive to completing the many battles. I've found myself 
 about 15 hours into the game still intrigued by the story: so far so good.
  
  When you're not battling you'll be spending your time at HQ, levelling up units, gaining access 
 to new orders (attack orders or stat increases for units in battle) , buying reports (supplemental 
 chapters to either watch or play through) or developing new equipment with the experience and money 
 you earn in battle. In case you ever feel behind on either of those two fronts, the game has a 
 selection of skirmish battles to play to gain extra XP and money since you can't play through the 
 operations in the main quest more than once.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and integrate the 2D style anime visuals with 3D visuals quite well.
 
  
  I found the challenge to be pretty variable. Some missions are a breeze and result in good rankings 
 without breaking a sweat, other battles have seemed near impossible and had to be attempted four 
 or five times before finding a strategy that worked.
  
  One thing is I found the reports (the extra side chapters) that are displayed to be bought tend 
 to be fairly random, so far one report that I know should have shown up by now hasn't yet and since 
 reports help increase the amount of status perks for your main characters, this is a bit concerning. 
 It's not a major detraction from the game, but it's a shame this bug wasn't hammered out before 
 release.
  
  Other asides is that there's no Trophy support for it, but I'm not really one to give a care about 
 stuff like that, but if it's something you keep dear to your heart maybe you should avoid playing 
 it.
  
  Overall, it's a great game, I've been very pleasantly surprised by it thus far. If you're interested 
 in the game and are a bit iffy on Japanese Strategy RPGs give this one a look. Though, if you already 
 hate Japanese RPGs this one isn't going to be one to sway you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrossRunnerZero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is a creative and fun game that will entertain the player from start to finish. 
 However, there are some problems that are very forgivable, but they stop this game from earning 
 a perfect 10 in my book. Yet no matter how someone looks at it, the game is excellent in the overall 
 aspects of storyline, gameplay, audio, and visual.
  
  STORYLINE
  
  Valkyria Chronicles's presents a very moving story to the player. The game is presented in a storybook 
 fashion; the pages lead to a chapter while selecting the illustrations in the pages triggers a 
 cutscene or a battle. The storybook opens by introducing the exposition. Basically, there is a 
 war going on between two superpowers, the Federation and the Empire, over a resource called ragnite. 
 Caught in between the two giants is a little itty-bitty neutral country named Gallia. The Empire 
 invades Gallia because the country is loaded with ragnite. Gallia sucks at fighting, so the Empire 
 is on the verge of pawning the whole country. However, the main character, a guy named Welkin Gunther, 
 is not going to let that happen. He's your average nature freak with a war hero dad, and he gets 
 arrested by a townguard named Alicia (yeah.... there is absolutely NO CHANCE of a love story going 
 on *cough*cough*) while trying to help his sister get out of the town that is about to be invaded 
 by the Empire. After some twist of events and the procuring of a tank, Welkin, his Darcen (A type 
 of human race in this game that basically has dark hair as its only distinguishing figure) adopted 
 sister, Isara, and Alicia all enlist into the Gallian militia (the one that sucks) in order to 
 save their homeland. From there, the story introduces a well-developed cast of characters, such 
 as Rosie, a Gallian soldier that harbors disdain for Darcens and Isara, and Largo, a big, lovable 
 guy with a history in a previous war. At first, the squad does not get along because newbie Welkin 
 is automatically the leader, but after a while everyone becomes close friends. There is a whole 
 lot more going on in the story, such as the bad guys (they actually have reasons for kicking Gallia's 
 butt) , but explaining more could ruin the it. 
  
  BATTLE
  
  Basically, Valkyria Chronicles is a tactics game. The overview system is turn-based. The player 
 has to complete a certain objective before a set number of turns is over. They usually involve 
 claiming a base with a foot soldier. These bases (like the ones the player has) bring reinforcements 
 onto a map. Also, if Welkin's tank is destroyed or if the player's main base is taken, then the 
 game is over. There are other game-over requirements that differ depending on the mission. There 
 is a 2-D overview map in which the player chooses his or her units for action at the sacrifice 
 of one command point per unit chosen. Command points can also be used to issue orders, which are 
 stat raising effects that can be applied to a unit. Multiple command points can be applied to one 
 unit so that the unit can move and take an action more than once, but the amount of movement a 
 unit can take decreases for each successive action the unit does (basically, choosing a character 
 on the same turn too much decreases their movement) . This prevents a really strong unit from going 
 Rambo on an army. When a unit is chosen, the map turns into a third person view of the character, 
 like that of Dirge of Cerebus or that of Kingdom Hearts. The character moves at the cost of AP, 
 which is a bar at the bottom of the screen. However, when moving, if an enemy unit sees you, it 
 will fire at you until you end your unit's turn or take an action like shooting. To shoot, the 
 unit aims their weapon (there are neither swords nor close-ranged weaponry) at a target with the 
 press of the R1 button. When this action is taken, the screen switches to a shooting mode in which 
 the analog stick moves the crosshairs onto the enemy unit and presses X to fire. Obviously, if 
 the unit fired upon survives from gunshot wounds (don't ask how) , then it will fire back at you. 
 That's the basics. Even though that may seem basic, the game is very fun and challenging because 
 of a few twists. For example, Valkyria Chronicles has 5 different types of human units to choose 
 from (sniper, scout, lancer, engineer, and shocktrooper) , each with their own strengths. For example, 
 there are HUGE, MASSIVE tanks that are impervious to bullets. How can someone defeat them? Simple, 
 a lancer, which is a slow, heavy type of unit that fires missile-like projectiles can dispatch 
 a tank in about three shots. However, Welkin, the main character, is also driving a tank. So what 
 can he do about lancers? Also simple, take a shocktrooper and fire his or her machine gun at the 
 lancer and call it a day. These types of situations illustrate how complex a seemingly simple battle 
 can become. There are minor problems, however. One noticeable problem is that there is lag when 
 a unit travels through grass. It's a little distracting, but it does not happen often. Another 
 problem is when a unit is just out of site of an enemy unit. This situation will make a person 
 snicker because he or she will witness one of the troops practically standing right next to an 
 enemy unit and nothing happening, which makes the game seem unnatural. 
  
  *One disagreement that directly pertains to the Gamespot review: it says that the AI is faulty 
 because sometimes it makes its tanks go back and forth and take no action. To me, this is not a 
 cause of fault. It is because the AI is scouting/looking for enemy units but just can't find any. 
 Also, it states that sometimes scouters run straight into troops. I'm not sure about them, but 
 that daring action gets me screwed and I end up having to rearrange my tactics to make sure they 
 don't take my base. Of course, this is just a disagreement.
  
  OUTSIDE THE FLAMES OF WAR
  
  Outside of the battle, there are some optional sidequests that the player can unlock. However, 
 most of the outside-of-battle menus supply options that help the player get ready to fly into the 
 fray. This is not necessarily a negative aspect. The player has the option of leveling up his or 
 her unit class (if a class levels up, then all the units that pertain to that class levels up too) , 
 or outfitting his or her units with weaponry, which can be upgrade to the player's liking. Another 
 option is the choice to improve or outfit the tank. This is important because if the tank sucks, 
 then it will get destroyed and lead to a game-over. One of the options that has nothing to do with 
 battle but is still interesting is reading about almost anything that has to do with the game, 
 such as characters, terms, and weapons. There is no trophy system, but there is a medal system 
 that is built into the game. It involves accomplishing a feat, such as unlocking all of the chapters/episodes, 
 and earning a medal for the accomplishment. The medals do nothing (you can't even show them off 
 to the ladies) , but they are nice and shiny.
  
  VISUALS
  
  The visuals are neat. They resemble a water-color painting scene and work well to go with the story. 
 There are some scenes that are similar to CG scenes (they are better looking than the other scenes) , 
 but it is difficult to notice the difference, which is good. However, some visuals, such as leaves 
 in a tree, overlap and lead to one of those situations where someone can see a patch of dark shade 
 of green in the tree's light green leaves. These events do not occur often, but that is why they 
 are noticeable. Also, some scenes feature characters talking, and the player has to press the X 
 button to continue the conversation. This is not something to complain endlessly about, but when 
 noting the visually stunning cutscenes, one would say that the quality of these conversation scenes 
 fall out of place with the quality of the game.
  
  AUDIO
  
  The audio is smooth. The music matches the atmosphere, and there is a music player that can replay 
 the themes, so that's a plus. The voice acting is great and matches the mouths perfectly. There 
 are no noticeable faults with the audio, and I was actually looking for them.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is a great game that should be added to almost any PS3's 
 collection. However, there are faults, which is natural of anything in this world. Fortunately, 
 no one should care about them. The only people that would be nervous before trying this game are 
 ones that love action games like Call of Duty and Halo and ones that love fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been searching for a good RPG for a long time, something worth playing like FF VII, VIII, 
 Tactics, Suikoden, Dynasty Tactics, Front mission 3 & 4 Now there's Valkyria Chronicles. What 
 they said was true, it's like a watercolor painting in motion, it's beautiful. Great story and 
 gameplay, very interesting characters, quite an immersive and memorable game. The AI may not be 
 too impressive, but the entire game is! You'll easily fall in love with this game. RPG/Strategy 
 lovers should really get this game, you might've been waiting for a game like this as well for 
 a very long time. Great RPGs and Strategy games are rare for the PS3, FPS games are quite dominant 
 nowadays and though this is kind of a shooter as well, it has some twists that makes it unique 
 and special. This is also a must-own exclusive for all the PS3 owners. Get this game ASAP, you'll 
 have a wonderful gaming experience! it's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezro01
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting to pick up a game that was just plain fun for the PS3 and Valkyria I thought 
 was just right. Having read some of the other reviews here, I will have to agree with most of them. 
 The game is very unique compared to what is out right now. I liked the graphics, the music, the 
 story, gameplay and the character n vehicle customization. I wasn't into the controls when your 
 in tight corners and yes, the story developed pretty slowly in the beginning. 
  
  I was really afraid that this game might end up being one of those corny japanese games with rediculous 
 voice acting and phrases, but its not! They really tweaked this game so its near perfect! But I 
 didn't like the over micromanaging of the soldiers, the fact that certain soldiers can act differently 
 if they're in the same squad with people they like/dislike. That was a bit too much I think.
  
  My library of games contains mostly FPS with lots of violence, definately not suitable for 
 10 yr olds. But with this game, I am able to play with my little nephew who is just getting into 
 games. Nowadays thats very rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2114ATHOL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this review as short as I can, and start off by saying that V. C. is a hidden gem in the 
 PS3's library - which is to say it should not be missed. 
  
  What you should expect going into V. C. is... wait, you can't expect anything of a game such as 
 this because you've never played anything quite like it. The closest thing (s) that V. C. can be 
 compared to is Final Fantasy Tactics meets third person movement, and uses an aiming system that 
 is like Fallout 3's V. A. T. S. system but free of specific area targeting. If you can wrap your head 
 around a turn - based, tactical third person shooter that has the presentation and polish of an 
 anime than you may find an immersive experience that you'll not soon forget.
  
  What the previous paragraph describes barely scratches the surface of what Valkyria Chronicles 
 offers as far as gameplay is concerned, not to mention the deep story that has a fleshed out story 
 for not only the main protagonists, but also for the 50+ unlockable characters as well. With the 
 customizable squad of 20 that can be tailored to make a razor sharp fighting machine and the sheer 
 number of unit and weapon upgrades along with the in-game achievements makes V. C. a game with almost 
 infinite possibilities that will feel fresh long after you first pick up arms to fight for freedom.
 
  
  As an aside it's also worth noting that there is planned DLC for V. C.
  that will hopefully make it to our shores. Keep your fingers crossed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidus55
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:02 pm PT
Review:  very few games follow the formula that i stated, and even very are able to pull it off, this game, 
 is one of the few, it has unpredictable battles, and sometimes will have you on the edge of your 
 seat, and other times you'll get ticked off because of the randomness in it, the weapon upgrades 
 are so numerous and with 5 classes there is always a new way to win and fight a battle, and plenty 
 of upgrades for your tank, from armor, to thread defense to, to periscope defenses, its very unique 
 in so many ways, and there are many many secrets in it as well, and its anime style cartoons is 
 much enjoyable to watch, and the storyline is absolutly great in many ways, and some cutscenes 
 will leave you in awe from sadness to just dumbstruck, as i have said, a must buy for all rpg, 
 turn based strategy fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLStinson
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Single player elements of this game is outstanding. Great solid game play with stylized cell shaded 
 graphics. The way the story is laid out is just like a classic teenage anime. In fact, it is best 
 to turn the language to Japanese and turn on the subtitles. For some odd reason an American dub 
 for this type of story just doesn't do it any justice. 
  
  The game is turn based. You start with a certain amount of command points (CP) . You use these CPs 
 to issue your soldiers to move. When the battle begins you see it from a battlefield map point 
 of view, and you can only see the enemies that are within view of your soldiers. When you select 
 a soldier you use up one or two CPs. Once you select that soldier you go into a third person view. 
 From there you are only allowed to move a certain distance depending on what type of soldier you 
 are. 
  
  There are 6 types of units you can control. SCOUTS (weak with rifles, but can see far away and 
 can travel the farthest) , SHOCK TROOPERS (stronger with machine guns with average mobility) , LANCERS 
 (strong with a lance that shoots like a rocket launcher and has average mobility) , ENGINEERS (basically 
 a scout that can disable mines and fix tanks can travel the 2nd farthest) , SNIPERS (weak character 
 that has a weapon with excellent range and damage, doesn't travel very well) . AND A TANK! ( Very 
 strong and most important, limited mobility, and provides excellent cover for soldiers) .
  
  After you travel you only get to attack once. After you attack and you still have enough "travel" 
 left you can move back into cover. You can also spend another command point or two to control a 
 unit multiple times, but you can't travel as far as you could the first time, and some units have 
 a limited amount of ammo that will replenish when you end your turn. 
  
  When you end your turn this allows you computer opponent to start its strategy (which half of the 
 time can be questionable) . Also your command points roll over to the next turn if you don't use 
 them all. 
  
  You can also level up your soldiers and equipment. When you do that it will level up that soldier 
 class as a whole even new recruits. That makes developing your squad not overly complicated.
  
  To go in between squad development and story is done by a brilliant menu system that is set 
 up like a book. The story is even told like a book, but the menus look fabulous and make the menu 
 surfing more enjoyable than it would in most other RPGs.
  
  The game is not perfect. It can get a little repetitive, and the AI can do some stupid things. 
 The game kind of balances this with the enemy being able to call in more reinforcements, and usually 
 stronger tanks. There is also no multiplayer if there was this game would totally be a blast.
 
  
  Bottom line is that you won't find another game that is quite like this. I give it a 9.0 on the 
 Derek scale!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inczo757
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for those who like in depth and well thought out games. The hand drawn graphics 
 are very well done on the PS3 and look great in HD, it also has enough voice acting to keep you 
 in the story. I wish Zelda games would upgrade to some voice acting like in this game. The combat 
 was surprising at first since it is turn based with responsive reactions. If you walk into an enemy's 
 line of sight they will shoot you even if it is your turn. The Leveling system is great because 
 it allows all units of the same type to gain a level instead of just the units that do the most 
 work which makes playing with different characters in your squad alot easier. I would say that 
 this is the best RPG game I have played on a home system, it will attach you to characters and 
 it makes it even more emotional when an enemy lands that fatal hit on a character and you don't 
 have the chance to heal them and the story makes them die instantly ( only in certain occasions) . 
 The game does deal with topics such as racial injustice and prejudices but through time and interactions 
 the characters are becoming more and more familiar with each other and their differences are not 
 important. I cant wait to beat this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLaZnPimP2691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb. I have not come across a game of this type in my years of playing RPGs and 
 RTSs. This game is truly unique. I see it as the missing link between games like Advance Wars/FF 
 Tactics and Full Spectrum Warrior. Its unique playing style, a mix of turn based strategy and third 
 person shooter action, is only augmented by its beautiful, artistic presentation. The anime style 
 artwork is really nice to look at, and it gives the game a nice atmosphere.
  
  The only problem the game has is its fluctuations in difficulty. The game is fairly simple to pick 
 up, and the AI can be very stupid most of the time. Enemy units will usually run into your units' 
 lines of fire, leaving you shaking your head. On the contrary, the enemy can get really, really 
 lucky. Some tanks and lancers can take out your scouts with one hit from far away. These little 
 quirk will leave you wondering why, but overall, the gameplay still outshines these problems.
 
  
  One thing I could have lived with, though, was the inclusion of a two-player mode, whether online 
 or local. While this would only be icing on the cake, it still may have peaked interest in some 
 people who are on the edge about buying the game.
  
  The only thing I would ask is for people to really get this games name out. It is a hidden gem 
 among the many hyped games this holiday season, but it is well worth the money. Hopefully this 
 game gains popularity and a sequel will be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the games that will lift Sega out of their gaming slump. Boldly shifting 
 from Platform to RPG is probably one of the best moves that Sega seem to have done and never has 
 such a move been more beautiful.
  
  The sequences and how the story progresses; as if being read like a story book, are very beautifully 
 done, and the animation of these is brilliant in their own right, going to show you don't need 
 to look more life-like to be successful, in this Generations' consoles. From game play to sequences, 
 the graphics hold really well, aside from some slightly overdone 'rag doll' effects done on downed 
 units, the game doesn't depreciate in between.
  
  To couple with that, the voice acting is just great, matching each character scarily well and while 
 speaking of characters, bringing in some cameo appearances from Aika and Vyse; two characters I've 
 heard hail from Skies of Arcadia.
  
  Onto the game play, it takes a coupled standing; taking the strategic positioning and acting of 
 your units as a strategy game, but also throwing in real-time elements, meaning that if you stray 
 too close to an enemy unit, you can be certain that interception fire will be coming your way. 
 This adds to the planning you'll need to give towards the game, considering your actions before 
 taking them. You're given weak spots to aim for, on your enemies, but attacking these, at least 
 in the early phases of the game, may prove to be more hassle than help.
  
  You'll start each battle as if looking at a map and are given your choice of which unit to select. 
 (naturally, you are able to place the units you wish to use before the battle begins) Once a unit 
 is selected, the game switches to a third-person perspective, where you are given your chance at 
 manoeuvring your units and potentially attacking one of the enemy's. Be sure to keep your units 
 out of harms way, however, because once downed the enemy can move in to finish them off or after 
 three turns, they will fall to their injuries, losing you the unit.
  
  As you progress, you're given five different unit types; Scouts, who scope out the enemy with their 
 superior observational skills, Shocktroopers, who are pretty much your main infantry unit, Lancers, 
 who are your Anti-tank units, Engineers, who fix tanks, towers repair sandbags for cover and disarm 
 landmines and finally, Snipers, who are unmatched marksmen when firing long-range. All of these 
 units have advantages, but likewise, they have weaknesses, as well.
  
  Naturally, as the Lancers will suggest, you also get your own tank (s) to command, but using these 
 can become costly on how many times you can act, as they take double the Command Points of footsoldiers.
 
  
  Overall, the game has a brilliant design and presentation. It will keep you gripped to the characters, 
 game play and storyline right through to the finish, giving you an overall satisfying victory for 
 your hard-earned battle prowess.
  
  I'd say everyone should give this game a shot, because it is one of those games that has a really 
 broad open market; just unfortunately overshadowed by other games released at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbismark
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, I come across a game that, while maybe not well known or even a big seller, 
 is so well done that it completely catches me off-guard. I am not much of a strategy RPG player, 
 so it was a gamble picking this game up, but I found it to be so well done that I can't stop playing 
 it. The graphics are pretty with unique water color design that looks like if came off of a painting 
 or made in an art class, surprisingly decent voice acting, that doesn't seem of be as annoying 
 like some ofther JRPGs (does Disgaea ring a bell?) , and very well designed battle system that is 
 very original and so simple to a point that you wonder why it has never been done before. The battle 
 system is set up that even people who like shooters may enjoy this one. I highly recommend. It 
 is a good addition to any PS3 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desantomd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I am a loser
  I am 41 years old and I still play video games.
  I have no life. I want all the time I spent during my life playing video games, and I want to spend 
 it outdoors. With friends
  
  p p pp pp pp pppp pp pp ppp pp pp pp pp ppp p p pppppp pppp ppp p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p 
 p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p 
 p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p 
 p p p p p p pp p p p ppp p pp p p p p p p p pp p
  j kdj dskf ks ksadfkakfakd jf kadsfasdjf ksda fsdafksaksdkf s fsdk fsd jfds sdka fksdj fjfdkjsf 
 akjfkas j fksajfkdsj
  1 o32iu u 23 u4234u 2134 2134 l2342k3l1h4 23iu4 2o3iu 4 234 k23 1423uu]
  fgds
  dfs
  gdfg
 
  dfsgsdfg
  g
  dsf
  gdf
  gdfs
  g
  dfg
  dfs
  g
  dfsg
  dfs
  g
  ds
  
  tr
  t
  s
  fdgdfg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANONYM0U5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Here's a segment from the Wikipedia page:
  [i] The game is set in a fictional version of Europe in 1930, in the country of Gallia. Because 
 of its abundance of ragnite ore-which can be refined into a powerful fuel-it has come under attack 
 from the East Europan Imperial Alliance, which itself is engaged in war with the Atlantic Federation. [5] 
 Players take control of an uprising of Gallian nationals, dedicated to repelling the invasion. 
 The game's visuals, which feature SEGA's CANVAS graphics engine, have received a lot of attention 
 - with CANVAS, the game's entire graphical style is built to resemble a watercolor painting in 
 motion. [/i]
  
  First, I'll cover the graphical presentation. As depicted from the Wikipedia page, Valkyria Chronicles 
 debuts on a new graphics engine referred to as 'CANVAS'. You'll immediately recognize the distinction 
 from the more typical graphics engines used in modern games, such as Unreal III. The intent is 
 to create a watercolor presentation, giving a more artistic feel to the environment. The presentation 
 is very unique and refreshing, and helps you overlook the technical shortcomings.
  
  The game presents a myriad of different terrains to fight against the Imperial forcesm everything 
 from lush woods, to open deserts. All connected by the unique presentation governed by the engine. 
 However, this new graphics tends to look as though it were making very conservative use of the 
 PS3. During cutsenes, low poly-counts and low resolution textures become painfully obvious as they 
 zoom into characters. Character animations tend to appear sterile and slow. Although they're minor 
 issues overall, they tend to become an annoyance throughout the game.
  
  The game is supported by a strong orchestral score, providing mood and depth to scenes. However 
 the English voice acting isn't anything to brag about, and the shallow script certainly doesn't 
 help. Thankfully Sega had enough space on the Blu-Ray disc to fit the Japanese voice acting, unfortunately 
 that doesn't do anything to fix the unfortunate character dialogue, but makes it seem less awkward. 
 
  
  The main character is unfortunately just as 2 dimensional in personality as the myriad of squad 
 members, despite his large amount of screen time, which becomes an annoyance, especially when his 
 quirky behavior becomes borderline autistic in serious situations. However, despite their obvious 
 lack of depth, the story progression and character situations can still grip you. Unfortunately 
 this aspect is often hampered by the panel style cutscenes, which are numerous and often tedious. 
 Overall, the story isn't ambitious enough to warrant the almost endless amount of cutscenes, but 
 they're nonetheless captivating at times, and add to the overall experience.
  
  Aside from cutscenes, the large and varied environments and great art-direction certainly improve 
 the gameplay presentation, although there are some qualms I have with it. The game lacks an accurate 
 depiction of intensity from a viewing standpoint. The characters act nonchalant amidst the battlefield. 
 The bright setting and seemingly untouched environments and disappearing corpses contradict the 
 situation. There are no decals left from explosions or bullets, the weapon sounds are soft, and 
 the orchestra often drounds out the situation. Although this is a more personal qualm, it's something 
 that nonetheless bothered me. 
  
  As a result of the less than enticing war presentation, it lacks the 'edge of your seat' feeling 
 that you'd expect from a story about war and friends. Although I'm just speaking from a critical 
 standpoint, and I'm obviously asking a lot from a video game in terms of story, although it's certainly 
 an accomplishment to be able to rate this as though it were a film.
  
  I'll continue this review in a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madSomnambulist
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  It's all about the little things in this game. Never mind the fact that the general premise and 
 presentation is unique and memorable, but it's the small things that will keep sinking in and makes 
 Valkyria Chronicles a delightful experience for any fan of the strategy or tactical RPG genres 
 or just plan anyone who enjoys a rewarding character experience in general.
  
  Just going through the installation starts to tip you off of these little things. As it progresses, 
 the background image from the title screen slowly fills in with color from just a sketch to a full 
 mural. It's so subtle it takes particular attention to even spot it happening. Though optional, 
 this install makes a lot of the load times in-game practically zero and I'd highly suggest it.
 
  
  Starting your game you can instantly tell you're on to something special. Instead of being shoved 
 through any content, you're shown the game interface in the extremely unique form of a novel-one 
 apparently being written by an author in this reality. Every cutscene and battle throughout is 
 treated as a separate entity. Separated into Chapters, it gives a sense of meaning to your progress 
 and lends a very unconventional third-person view over the game. Time to fight for Gallia!
  
  The combat system itself actually lends to the story experience. You're playing the role of 
 one squad of one regiment of one division of an army of Gallia. Not some elite group, not the pride 
 of the army in any way. Actually quite the opposite-as part of the militia the military higher-ups 
 in the army have little faith in you and are quite happy to send you in as cannon fodder on the 
 front lines. This flows into the normal course game, and eventually you'll end up with more special 
 little tasks in particular places that make the story documentation by the narrator actually justifiable.
 
  
  Perhaps the aspect of this I find most interesting is that your squad and characters are just comprised 
 of just normal everyday people. You don't have special powers or magic abilities of any sort. Some 
 are volunteers, some are drafted. Some have friends, others prefer to work alone. You can be injured 
 and killed just like anyone else out there. If one of your members is killed, they're gone forever. 
 This cloud overhead instantly changes the game from just some kind of war-based or simple tactics 
 game toward a hybrid RPG to all but the entirely coldhearted. In other words, you might start out 
 as any random group of soldiers, but because the story develops so well it's only at your final 
 battles that you realize you're in such a special place. This is a good thing. 
  
  Moving forward, every new chapter keeps offering new little things to make you smile. You gain 
 members and form your own specialized smaller attack squad with them. You'll end up with about 
 50 recruits, all of which have a very particular personality (with voice-over dialogue included) , 
 special quirks and traits, and the novel will even keep a "Personnel" section for you that will 
 keep adding new bits of information about them as the story progresses as they're used more in 
 combat. With so much diversity, there are more than enough different ways to fill out your squad 
 to match your mood. When you go into a mission, you'll have your squad comprised of 20 out of all 
 of your available recruits, and any of these 20 is able to be used if you choose.
  
  All aspects of your squad are handled in the "Headquarters" tab of the novel, allowing you to change 
 members at any time, upgrade weapons and armor, train your units (the process to level up) , meet 
 with a war reporter and a few other things. The first time you head here a few chapters in, you'll 
 have the task of picking your 20 active members-this is harder than it sounds. As I mentioned, 
 each has his or her own personality and you'll end up with an instant love/hate of some of them. 
 It becomes harder and harder to keep in all the members you enjoy the most, as almost all of them 
 have memorable lines of some sort. You'll most certainly feel some kind of real emotional connection 
 to some of them after your battles together, so much so that losing them in combat will have you 
 frantically going to load from your last same to prevent this and some self-mental abuse for ever 
 putting them in such a tight spot.
  
  Beyond the personalities of all your members, as they go through battles and gain levels they'll 
 earn new "potentials" (combat abilities, basically) . Here's another place where the RPG-ness of 
 the game kicks in nicely. Even though all units of any of the 5 job classes all gain experience 
 levels at the same time, no two members end up the same because of these potentials. These can 
 range from expected elements in battle such as either being stronger or weaker when caught in crossfire, 
 to such quirky things as some characters developing such a strong love or hate of one of their 
 comrades that it will greatly change their combat skill when around that member. For example, one 
 of your group leaders wants to be a singer. Another member of her class has the same aspirations 
 and gets furious when around this leader. Another member looks up to her as a role model for the 
 future career she wants and receives bonuses instead. On top of zany quirks like this, when the 
 abilities kick in during combat they all even have their own character dialogue attached. 
  
  Combat can seem rather complicated at first, but you'll get accustomed to it fairly quickly. 
 The first half dozen missions slowly ramp up the difficulty for you and teach you basically everything 
 you'll need to know in terms of normal battle tactics. In short, you're playing the role of the 
 tank commander and leader of your squad, you choose units to control with CP (command points) , 
 then move the unit in real-time. This includes moving, hiding in cover, firing, etc.. Naturally, 
 your CP pool is limited. Fortunately, your opponents also have to follow these rules so you're 
 theoretically fighting on the same terms. On top of the movements, you can issue "Orders" from 
 your tank over the radio, which are mostly normal combat things like a heightened evasion, calling 
 for a medic to heal or evacuate a wounded soldier. Just like CP, enemy generals can use these too. 
 Moreover, all job classes are shared between you and your foes, general weapon types are the same, 
 tanks work the same way, and so forth.
  
  The normal combat flow is to choose how to use your members to capture a particular place on the 
 map or to eliminate a particular target-though there are some very unique types of missions and 
 a few times you'll simply drop your jaw at what you need to do. The overall difficulty of this 
 game can be frustrating for some people, but in almost every case there are multiple ways to complete 
 your objectives.
  
  There is one battle element that needs a special note attached; the enemy AI can be simply horrible 
 at times. Even worse is when it's completely manic. You can take advantage of foes by trapping 
 them with crossfire, while others will walk head-on into certain death without firing a shot. Reinforcements 
 seem to have preset actions, which might look very dumb, or might surprise you and cause an instant 
 mission failure if you're not watching your back. This is the one thing that really holds this 
 game back from being a truly revolutionary title that could appease players of a half dozen different 
 genres.
  
  Between missions, you'll be going through cutscenes (defined as "episodes" within chapters of the 
 book) which push the story forward. All have full voiceovers and have your characters moving and 
 interacting like you'd expect of any social group. The only letdown in these scenes is that conversations 
 that take place in closed areas such as a room are all done via character face pop-up boxes. If 
 you feel like you need to improve your characters a bit more, you're free to engage in Skirmishes, 
 which are basically a way to duplicate battles on some of the maps you've already fought on. All 
 things considered, the majority of your time will be spent in storyline battles, though the percentage 
 of time is in the 70-80% range compared to 90-95%+ like in a lot of RPGs.
  
  The graphics are stunning, if not hard to describe in other terms. It's kind of a hodgepodge of 
 what you might think of an animated television series mixed with the drawing style of manga, penned 
 by a sketch artist for accents and flares and colored in with crayons. I'm sure that makes very 
 little sense, but all your need to know is that it works incredibly. My only real complaint about 
 the graphics is how granulated and pixel-y units get when you look at them from a distance or through 
 a sniper rifle scope. It's almost as though you zoom in at what the original view was and it's 
 not enhances. There are tons of graphical details to make up for this though, such as small smoke 
 trails coming from shell casings falling out of machine guns, to the simply beautiful way large 
 explosions and smoke clouds rest, to the awesome "action word" system of thing s in battle which 
 continuously remind you that this is a Japanese title. It's not much, but seeing the word "rummmmble" 
 trail out from behind your moving tank in a choppy motion is adorably wacky yet adds to the feel 
 of combat. If you're using the Dualshock3, you also get a satisfying rumble in your hands as you 
 move the tank, too.
  
  The sound presentation is equally great. The soundtrack is quite expansive and particularly in 
 combat the different tracks and stanzas flow together seamlessly. The only bits of music I really 
 started to yawn at was what's played in headquarters and in book mode. As I've said, all your members 
 have their own unique dialogue and all cutscenes are fully voiced. Moods can change mid-battle, 
 and the music will match and special cutscenes will pop up at important moments with extra dialogue. 
 Weapon sounds are all great and on par with what you'd expect in a full-blown shooter.
  
  Depending on your style and care for the story and members, a fair guess of time to complete the 
 storyline is 40-60 hours. This goes up more if you need to repeat missions. After clearing, you're 
 offered the proverbial "new game plus" feature, which lets you replay any mission and adds a difficulty 
 level to skirmishes. You'll also have a wide range of "decorations" (medals) to collect, and you 
 could easily sink over 100 hours into this game if you wanted to. Even past that, this is the sort 
 of game where you might want to start from the beginning at level 1 all over again, just to watch 
 the whole story play through.
  
  However you look at it, the game gushes personality. It took awhile, but here's a truly solid RPG 
 for the PS3. Looking over the game objectively it barely meets the criteria of any variant of RPG, 
 but anyone who might see 10 seconds of a cutscene would instantly recognize it as such. It takes 
 a hell of a game to combine so many different things you do in any single title, throw it in a 
 blender, and actually come out with a result that is greater than the sum of its parts. It may 
 favor players of the RPG brand and hardcore followers of Japanese titles, but there's hardly a 
 gamer out there that wouldn't enjoy playing Valkyria Chronicles. Sega did an awesome job here and 
 this is the sort of genre-mixer that's likely to lead to a lot of copycat types of games in the 
 future. Assuming the few weaknesses of this game can be adjusted, a sequel here could well be a 
 highly anticipated title in the near future.
  
  ... And hey, this game inspired me to write my first FAQ. It captured my attention that well, which 
 is hard for someone who has a ridiculously high standard when it comes to any game they buy such 
 as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  The first time I saw this game the look of it took my breath away. It was like a painting that 
 moved. So I kept a watchful eye on it and I expected alot.
  
  Valkyria Chronicles delivers.
  
  This game is a turn-based strategy game; Advanced. Sega's 
 approach, of taking a turn-based game and adding a real time element, works PERFECTLY. You get 
 enough time to plan your strategy plus you get the bare knuckle excitement of bringing your plans 
 to life. This is the RTS game that TBS players like me have been waiting for.
  
  Story wise the alternate-world WWII scenario works. You'll be pulled in by the Gallian struggle 
 and form attachments to your squad members. In an effort to protect them you have to learn to move 
 both quickly and cautiously and you'll definately be making use of THEIR friendships as well because 
 when forming teams out in the field they work much better if the individual squad members sync 
 up.
  
  The music fits perfectly within the story, giving you a real sense that you are part of something 
 majestic.
  
  The controls are what you would expect; simple and effective. The Book-style layout of the main 
 screen works very well in context and the short and replayable cutscenes make up for the lack of 
 a mid-scene pause. Adding the Japanese language track was a special boon, especially considering 
 the English dialogue is just fine by any standard.
  
  With a mission ranking system the replay value will be high on this one, but expect it to be challenging. 
 While the story itself is just about right in difficulty I can only assume it's crazy-hard to get 
 an A or (suspected) S Rank in a mission as I've not managed to accomplish this feat yet.
  
  It's rare for me to give out a perfect 10 to a game. I always try to find something negative to 
 balance it. For Valkyria Chronicles my ONLY complaint is there is no auto-save. An auto-save could 
 have saved 3 hours worth of work that was lost when the power cut out! However saving IS easy and 
 it was MY fault in being too lazy to save when I should have so I can't really hold that against 
 this game. In all no fault this game has measures up to affect its rating.
  
  Story: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Music: 10
  Replayability: 10
  Overall: 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles (VC) amazed me at first when I saw screenshots and videos. The visuals were 
 very stylish and one of the most unique I'd seen yet. While shopping, I was staring at a shelf 
 full of PS3 games, but there was something oddly magnetic about this game which sat all the way 
 on the bottom. I'm all for trying new things, so I decided to take it home with me. I'm happy to 
 say that I'm satisfied with the purchase.
  
  The gameplay that VC offers is just as unique and refreshing as the visual style of the game. It's 
 a unique blend of turn-based strategy, RPG and third-person action elements which works out a lot 
 smoother than one would expect from otherwise conflicting genre's. It might seem a bit overwhelming 
 to a new player however. The units, weapons, etc. in Squad 7 are very customizable, and the overall 
 storyline is complex and highly detailed/documented. All of this calls for a convoluted series 
 of menus and sub-menus. The game does a great job of explaining itself and keeping you in the know. 
 You will never be thrown into something and not have a clue on what to do. It does a greater job 
 in keeping some things as simple as possible. A perfect example would be the leveling up. Instead 
 of training unit-for-unit which would understandable get bewildering, you train class-for-class. 
 Instead of having one scout in your unit level up, all of your scouts level up at the same time. 
 It's a great thing they did here. The storyline is another thing I loved about this game. It's 
 touching and while it does take its sweet time to progress, it does so gracefully.
  
  I would definitely recommend VC to fans of strategic games and everyone else looking for a unique 
 and refreshing experience. My only big complaint is that it will most likely fly undetected by 
 the vast majority of the gaming community, which is sad. Remove all doubts you may have with this 
 one. It's well worth your $59.95. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasbadong
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was a getaway from all those flashy, overrated fps shooters out today. The 
 graphics are fun and simple, the game play is fun with its comic style, and it was just overall 
 a wonderful experience. when I played this game it brought me back to the days when kingdom hearts, 
 final fantasy, and other unrealistic games were top of the line and everyone just loved to play 
 fun games and have a good time. Definitely a way to get away from all the leader boards and competition 
 ( save it for the super bowl ) in so many games today. They should bring more of these games back 
 ( kingdom hearts ) and bring more games back to a more simplistic experience. I mean I have so 
 much competition in my life that I don't need it in my leisure activities. And they should make 
 a new final fantasy online, just saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aiolar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Key markets, target demographics, market trends and other such analyst jargon rules a large portion 
 of the games industry today. So it's rare to see a game come along that simply wants to tell you 
 a heartfelt story as Valkyria does. Right from the very beginning, the game is presented to you 
 as a story book "On the Gallian Front" a war story about the second europan war which is somewhat 
 similar to World War 2. The storybook theme is carried throughout the game, with different sections 
 of the book such as the glossary of terms at the back being a source of background information 
 about the world. All this background information serves to really flesh out the game world and 
 suck you into its unique alternate reality.
  
  What a beautiful world it is too. Continuing the storybook theme, the graphics are rendered in 
 a unique graphics engine called CANVAS, making the entire game look like an old pencil and watercolour 
 painting on old, faded at the edges, well worn paper. Hidden under the unique artistic style is 
 a solid engine that never suffers from draw distance issues or framerate drops no matter how vast 
 the map, number of enemies or even under the weight of massive map dominating set pieces.
  
  At its heart the game is a strategy RPG, though it reinvents the genre in so many ways and 
 melds together so many gameplay aspects you'd be forgiven for not knowing it. The original BLiTZ 
 (Battlefield of Live Tactical Zones) battle system combines aspects of Third Person shooters, squad 
 based shooters, real time strategy and strategy RPG together in a surprisingly compelling way. 
 You begin by choosing what characters you want to deploy at the start of battle and positioning 
 them around your base camp on an overhead tactical map showing your units and the enemy units that 
 you know of. When you select one of your units from this tactical map, the magic really begins. 
 You're given a pool of command points every turn, you can increase this number by deploying your 
 officers, Alicia, Largo and Rosie, more on them later. Selecting a character uses up one of those 
 command points and your turn usually ends when you run out of CP, though you can choose to end 
 your turn before that and carry over CP to the next turn.
  
  Unlike most SRPGs there are no tiles or grids in Valkyria. When you select a character the camera 
 swings down to ground level behind them and you're given direct control over them. You can run 
 them around the map much as you would in any third person shooter, crouching behind sandbags, lying 
 in grass, climbing ladders to get to advantageous sniping positions and so on. A characters movement 
 is constrained by an Action Point bar which depletes as they move. With its world war style setting 
 you wont be using swords and sorcery in this game, instead you have rifles, machineguns, grenades, 
 flamethrowers and the original rocket lances that act as rocket launchers to take out tanks, bridges 
 sandbags and other forms of cover.
  Enemies with rifles or machineguns will fire at you in realtime if you come within range and sight 
 as you move around the map, adding a real sense of visceral danger to the tactical gameplay. Thankfully 
 when you choose to attack, everything pauses, giving you time to aim your shot very carefully. 
 Naturally headshots do more damage than body shots, but they're more likely to miss. Some enemies 
 will even dive behind cover or to the ground when you fire, making it even harder to hurt them. 
 You can use multiple CP to use the same character several times, if you need to get them to cover 
 or finish off an enemy, but they get tired and each time they have less and less AP to move with.
 
  
  There are five character classes in the game, Scout, Shocktrooper, Lancer, Sniper and Engineer. 
 Scouts have very high movement and moderate attack power, but they can be mowed down by enemy interception 
 fire if you make a bad move while exploring. Shocktroopers have high defense and high attack power 
 but fairly limited movement range. Lancers have high defense, high attack power and are immune 
 to mines, but their awful aim makes them mostly only useful for taking out tanks. Snipers, as you'd 
 expect, are useful for uh, sniping. They can attack from huge distances and take enemies out with 
 a single headshot. Their movement distance is tiny though and their defense is pitiful, so they 
 cant go roaming around maps willy nilly.
  Both Lancers and Snipers have limited ammo, only 3 rounds, though they regain a round each turn. 
 Shocktroopers and Scouts have unlimited ammo for their guns, but only one grenade each. The final 
 and most complicated class is the engineer, they can carry out a huge number of support tasks. 
 Removing mines, repairing sandbag defenses, supplying ammo to Lancers and Snipers and grenades 
 to Scouts and Shocktroopers. They also carry out one other vital role; Repairing your tank.
  
  Squad 7's tank, the Edelweiss, is the backbone of the team. It can be used to shield the group 
 from enemy interception fire, knock down walls, barriers, obstacles and enemy cover. It cannon 
 can take out enemy tanks, its mortar can take out groups of imperial troops and its machinegun 
 can even lay down some heavy interception fire. Of course all this comes at a cost, your tank takes 
 2 CP per use. The tank once belonged to a hero of the first europan war and now has been handed 
 down to his son, Welkin Gunther, the hero of this war story.
  
  Wekin is an odd hero for a war story and indeed for an RPG at that. There's no spiky hair, amnesia 
 or brooding in sight. Instead we have an absentminded university student with a love for nature 
 who was drafted into the war and given a commanding position simply because of his education. Naturally 
 some of the more experienced soldiers added to squad 7 are none too pleased about that and initial 
 relations between the main characters are quite frosty, with Rosie and Largo insisting they'll 
 never follow Welkin into battle. Friendships soon develop though and the cast grow on you as much 
 as they grow on each other. The other main character, Alicia Melchiott, is from Welkin's home town 
 of Bruhl. Before the war began she was in training to become a baker. As the war began, she joined 
 the Bruhl town watch, on the lookout for empire spies and at the very start of the game, she and 
 Welkin strike up a friendship, which then blooms on the battlefield, in defense of their home. 
 Who could fail to love a girl with lines like "I'm the one with the gun!" and "I'm not his girlfriend, 
 I'm just his hero" Welkin's younger sister, Isara is almost as strange as he is, but her love is 
 for machines instead of nature. She operates the tank with her brother, she takes care of the driving 
 while he operates the weapons. She isn't related to Welkin by blood however and her Darcsen heritage 
 results in her being hated by many racists, even among your own troops.
  
  Strong as this main cast is, when you're finally given command of Squad 7, the roster expands to 
 nearly 50 characters, from which you can select a squad of 20. Unlike so many other SRPGs, these 
 secondary characters are actually well fleshed out with well defined personalities, backstories 
 and relationships with the rest of the cast. With such a varied cast, everyone will find a group 
 they love and a few favourite characters. Whether it's the anti-social lone wolf Marina, the man-hating 
 Alicia-loving female engineer Dallas or the Veggie loving loyal team-mate Largo, each characters 
 personality has an impact on the battlefield in the form of Potentials. Each character has their 
 own personal set of potentials defined by their personality. They activate under certain conditions 
 and offer varied benefits, for example, Rosie's Strong-Willed potential operates when she comes 
 under interception fire and increases her defense and Dallas' Alicia' Lover activates when she's 
 near Alicia and increases her attack power. Not all the potentials are good either, Marina's Lone 
 Wolf potential activates when she's near allies and decreases her attack power. This element adds 
 an extra element to the strategy in terms of who you choose to work with who in your squad. Characters 
 also have hidden potentials that are unlocked by using them in combat, sometimes you'll find an 
 unexpected star in the squad and some characters will turn out to be shiftless duds. You needn't 
 worry about wasting experience leveling up these dud characters though, instead of leveling each 
 character individually, each class of characters level as a group, so you can chop and change your 
 squad without fear.
  
  Of course there are two sides to every story and there's a strong opposing force in this one. Selvaria, 
 the titular (no jokes, please) Valkyria is at first a terrifying enigmatic foe, but as the story 
 unfolds you come to respect her bravery and loyalty and perhaps even pity her and regret that you're 
 enemies. Jaeger, the tank commander is a character you cant help but relate to when sucked into 
 this world, as much as you're fighting to protect you're home, he's fighting to protect his too.
 
  
  There's a lot of political wrangling behind the scenes in Valkyria, between glory hogs sending 
 the little people to die for their own pride and militaries trying to conquer countries to control 
 their resources. However the game doesn't concern itself to deeply with these things, instead choosing 
 to concentrate on how these things effect the people. Darcsen concentration camps, Darcsen hunts 
 to kill those who escape, torture of war prisoners, the war crimes in Valkyria are a little too 
 close to reality to casually ignore compared to other RPGs.
  
  Over the course of the war there are many battles, but they never get tiresome as each new battle 
 brings something new to the table. Sandstorms, minefields embanked turrets, almost every map has 
 some kind of set piece but the boss battles are where it truly impresses, these behemoths will 
 take all your skills to win and even at that may take several attempts, thankfully you can save 
 mid-battle. so one wrong move wont send you back to the start of the battle, not that it often 
 will since when a character falls in battle, you have 3 turns to get to them, whereby you'll automatically 
 call a medic for them. However if you fail to get to them within that time, or if an enemy soldier 
 gets to them first, they're either gone for good, or it's game over if they're a commander.
  
  Valkyria matches a beautiful art style with a well developed world, likeable character designs 
 with a loveable cast and a unique addictive battle system with a well told if not original story. 
 RPG fans should pick this up without question and every PS3 owner should at least give it a look, 
 even if they hate RPGs with a passion, this game is unique enough and charming enough to win them 
 over.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  The graphics engine is unique, making the game look like a studio Ghibli anime. The only Flaw is 
 the sometimes offputting ragdoll physics.
  
  Sound: 9.4
  One of Hitoshi Sakimoto's best soundtracks, the game features full voice acting in both japanese 
 and english. The voice acting is a top notch job with big name voice actors such as John DiMaggio, 
 the voice of Bender in Futurama. The game even features the vocal tracks redone in English, which 
 is often rare in Japanese RPGs. The Japanese option will please purists too.
  
  Playability: 9.7
  Revolutionizes the SRPG genre, showing HD RPGs can bring more to the table 
 than nice visuals.
  
  Story: 9.8
  An extremely well told story of love, friendship, flying pigs and vegetables. Some plot twists 
 are predictable, some are shocking, overall the charming cast and script win the day.
  
  Lastability: 9.0
  The main story is 30-40 hours with many sidequests. New game+ offers new quests 
 and a harder difficulty mode, hidden characters to unlock and 20 medals for achieving various tasks 
 should keep you going for 100 hours.
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitten123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles was the game I chose to purchase to celebrate 2 months of exam studying... and 
 at first I was overjoyed with the game. At last game that is truly challenging I thought.... I rejoiced 
 at my regular failures in battle...
  
  But that quickly wore off to frustration... being a non-regular RPG gamer (only real experience 
 is FF games) I found I was quite lacking in the tactical elements... and that progress was slow... also 
 I was slightly disspaointed at the lack of utilisation of the PS3's power... the anime is a quirky 
 edition - but the story book mode of telling the plot felt a bit pre-dated.
  
  However - Valkyria is a game that rewards patience and virtue - and is a great game which youi 
 will wittle many hours away playing over the festive period if you ask for it to be put in your 
 stocking!
  
  Mit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShivaRpg
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Remember how the ps1 and ps2 used to be kings in RPGs? When I bought my ps3 last year, I expected 
 the same. As time has passed, I'm aware things are different now. Not many (if not at all) RPGs 
 have been released and the Xbox 360 got a few RPGs that are not what they should be. Though Tales 
 of Vesperia looks really good. 
  
  Where am I getting at you ask? Valkyria Chronicles, an SRPG released at the end of October, a game 
 which I wasn't that much excited about and it got little buzz. That is, until I tried the demo 
 out. Everything has changed since then. 
  
  The game is a true classic and truly brings new things to the SRPG genre. It changed the genre 
 like how Mario 64 changed platformers and 3d. The game is very special and does everything right. 
 I can't explain how it plays since you really need to play it in order to understand it. Let's 
 just say it's a mix of FFTA, gears of war and real-time mixed with turnbased. Crazy, I know. Coupled 
 with excellent graphics that looks like a painting, engaging story that puts huge emphasis on character 
 development, great dubs in Japanese and English (the English dub is really good) and amazing soundtrack 
 (You expect no less from Sakimoto) and you have the best HD (S) rpg released now. 
  
  
  There are 5 classes to choose from each with their pros and cons. It would be pointless to have 
 an in-depth explanation about each class, do know that they are all very balanced and needed more 
 in certain missions. You have your scouts, snipers, engineers etc.
  
  Small things to mention that are special to the game. First of all all your recruits have the so 
 called potentials. Special powers to each recruit and power granted to classes. For instance, it 
 would be handy to have a scout who is able to dogde traps in places full of of them. That game 
 is very deep personality wise.
  
  There are recruits who like certain characters only. For instance you have a gay Lancer who loves 
 a certain male. When that male is next to him, he will perform better. Speaking of gay/lesbie that 
 game has a few characters in that department.
  
  Character level-up and equipment is handled with each class instead of each character. That is 
 a very handy way since it makes managing your 50 recruits very manageable and you can experiment 
 with the characters.
  
  You can combine attacks with other recruits if some are next to you. That is very handy if enemies 
 are hiding and you can't kill them on your own.
  
  As for how long it lasts. The main story takes about 18 story mission with 9 skirmish missions 
 and a few special missions here and there. If you play the game without rushing it and playing 
 all the extra stuff, it easily takes 40+ hours. After finishing the game, you can try new game+ 
 with all your data brought over, difficulty select with skirmishes (for the hardcore junkies out 
 there) , the ability to replay story missions as much as you like, Data tab and music tab added 
 etc. It's worth the replay.
  
  If you're an rpg fan or a newcomer interested in the genre but think they are too complicated, 
 this game is a must have. Go get it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FRvulgar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Valkyria chronicles is really great game, with detailed world, great combat system, a bit cheesy 
 characters (but that is OK in anime) , storyline could be done with less interruptions, confirmations. 
 In is nice in sort of a way, but million confirmations for really short episodes really interrupts 
 the feeling. The story should be told in more fluid way. Game itself is IMHO very addictive, saying 
 so after 15 hour of playing it and practically no sleep at all. Combat is hard, until you get used 
 to it you might get frustrated and some battles really made me frenzy. But it is good and fair 
 challenge that makes you try and try again. After combat you get to upgrade your characters and 
 weapons, both is made in very good way. More I play it, more I like it. Similar feeling as in Princess 
 Mononoke, only you get to play it.
  
  + combat system
  + world 
  + upgrades
  + a great replay value, never ending challenge (when you unlock hard level in skirmish)
  
  
 - story could be told in more fluid way
  
  After 48 hour in game, I change my score for this game to 9.0. If you are fan of strategic RPG, 
 this game is pure gold. Story is mediocre but fair image of today society, everything else is fantastic. 
 The best game I played in the last seven years, since, well, Jagged alliance 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtMustang644
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Mkay so were to begin i started playing the game and found myself... going from one cutscene to 
 another not doiong anything exept playing the next scene until i finally got into combat and then 
 things started to change up by a larg margin. the combat in this game is fun and addicting to a 
 point. much better then the traditional you move i move trough glowing blue squares. the free movement 
 system is a welcome addition to turn based games such as this, but what trough me off was as i 
 was movieng the enemy AI was reacting by shooting me.. at first i was confused and tought a glitch 
 perhaps. then the next set of cutscenes came and my next battle were once agian they were shooting 
 and so were my men i thought this was a very nice addition to the game it makes it seem more alive 
 and more real. as oppose to the normal i can shoot you and you will take it or ill just run past 
 you and you cant do anything gameplay that most other games have to them. the sound for the game 
 is very enticeing the music scores used compliment the art style. which is a very beautiful one 
 at that the what seems to be a hand drawn artistic look to the game gives it a well deserved beauty 
 that most games cant quite achive. all in all i feel that this game has succeded were some have 
 failed this game is fun and very entertaining to play altho sometimes frustrating when you have 
 to play a mission from the begining once again. more games should learn from this and continue 
 to build on the formula this game has given 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgen_edne
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Well how to begin. Well just look at it. Naruto and Valkyria are the most amazing titles graphically 
 in the PS3: both Cel Shading and both Japanese, crazy!!
  So this is just little part of this game. It gets a story about a version of the WW, a very much 
 different one, as much as dangerous but lot less violent. 
  What make me fell a bit strange about this game is the fact of how they created the cast you use 
 to play. I do not like the characters very much. Not exactly the characters, bu how predictable 
 they are in thesis: Nice and beautiful white guy, a nice and beautiful girl with a strong will, 
 a more lusty whit girl and a strong white man (believe, one look like a "man" and the other more 
 a boy) . But this is mostly because the setting is an anime, so is just this.
  The game get a got size and the whole way it works will be a common, and comfortable place for 
 SRPG fans. 
  But this is why no a 9 or 8: No versus!!!!!
  This days we have plenty of conectability in the PS3. And some games of SRPG already see that the 
 multiplayer can be fun!! Just like a chess game. But Sega did not saw this possibility, well a 
 lot of developers just ignore this kind of possibility, but is not a bad one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeigra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  There's simply nothing quite like it. Its a very good gaming experience. It feels like there are 
 no generic characters in this game, everyone feels like they have a role, and you can't help but 
 start caring for them. You'll have this feeling that you can't just let them die (besides, if they 
 die and you can't rescue them after a number of turns, they're gone for good) . Every character 
 (yes as in every soldier you can recruit) has a distinct set of skills. Which opens up a lot of 
 strategies. 
  
  Weapons, armors, tanks can be upgraded. 
  
  Like what other people say, best SRPG (oh wait not just SRPG, but RPGs as a whole) in the current 
 generation so far. I'm very happy that sega after awhile, has finally released something wonderful. 
 
  
  Worth every penny. This is a very well crafted and well thought game. Very beautiful. 
  
  Definitely 
 deserves more than the score that gamespot gave it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  **Some Gamespot user emailed me telling me if I do not delete this post that he/she is going to 
 report it being irrelevant. This is the USA and this is my opinion and I am sticking with it! If 
 you don't like my review, you know what you can do?! Check off the little thumb up or thumb down 
 at the bottom of the review page.** 
  
  Final Fantasy 7 is a better turn base RPG than this! Valkyria Chronicles is not a true action game 
 it is a turn base rpg with rts and 3rd person shooting elements!
  
  Now for my review of Valkyria Chronicles:
  
  I waited for this game to be released thinking 
 it would be the bee's knees and all it is is knee deep in dodo! Oh it is one beautiful game, but 
 graphics and game-play are two different things. I really tried to give this game a chance but 
 the slow pace of this game really hurts it. I would rather have Starcraft for the PS3 as a true 
 RTS game, even Warcraft II Battlechest would be more fun!!! I guess its the turn-base game play 
 that really hurts this game. If it was more like Fallout 3 with its V. A. T. S system, I would have 
 enjoyed it more. Anyway I have it up on eBay complete and cheap. I would say if you like turn base 
 game play that is super slow, you will like this game. If you are looking for something that has 
 some life in it pass on this game it is way over rated! 
  
  Now when I say slow I mean slow, say you move your unit and while your unit is moving you are being 
 attacked by the enemy if they can see you, then you stop line up your shot and you attack back, 
 right after your attack the enemy automatically attacks back, sometimes your unit will duck out 
 of the way or just get hit. Now you get 3 actions per turn, very basic: move then attack. Now when 
 your movement bar is exhausted your turn for that unit is over and you switch to your next chance 
 to move, you get 3 moves per phase/turn whatever you would like to call it. If you don't take your 
 turn your units will heal and you will rack up more movers per turn. Wow that nice but your units 
 just sit in one place while the enemy moves or they will fire upon you.
  
  I really wish Sega made this game better, this is not a true 3rd person shooter. It is a RTS from 
 the perspective at a 3rd person level. Moreover it is labeled as a action RPG, no way it is a true 
 turn base RPG with 3rd person and RTS elements as I have stated above. Don't even think RE4 more 
 like point and click game play. Old school gone bad. I have played superior Sega Saturn games such 
 as Command & Conquer and Iron Storm both of these are true RTS and more fun. 
  
  For me I notice if I really like a game I can not stop playing it. This game is one of those games 
 I kept lying to myself, play it one more time saying "you might just start to like it" forget that 
 it is a beautiful looking game with no game play for me at all! A waste of my hard earned money!! 
 I would rather play something off of the psn instead! Mortal Kombat II anyone?! 
  
  There are better turn based rpg games on the PS2 with inferior graphics better than this game! 
 Just wait Persona 4 will be out soon, best story ever! 
  
  DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY PLEASE RENT IT FIRST! I own over 170 PS2 games and this is not a classic 
 let alone something to keep in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xado
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles breaks new ground in quite a few new ways for RTS fans.
  One thing I like is the difficulty of the game. The missions are not pushovers, Keen observation 
 and a good mix of soldiers can definitely help you win. For people who dont enjoy traditioinal 
 rpg/anime storylines can't complain if they rent or purchase this game. The storyline is as immersive 
 as you want it to be. If you think you are a hard punk that cant rock out to Pink Floyd or Cannibal 
 Corpse for that matter. Closed minded people will not like the storyline. I enjoy it myself. Music 
 is invigorating, nice soundtrack. The graphics are something unique in its own somewhat of a watercolor/slight 
 cell shade look with supreme animations make this game beatiful. Thanks to games like this PS3 
 can smile proudly that it has a great new Rpg under its wing and for 360 fanboys hopefully this 
 game will come to you because it is undoubtedly worth playing. I'm hoping Last Remnant Comes out 
 early 2009 as well :P 
  I'm certainly not really far into the game yet ( Somewhere around chapter 6)
  Off to a great 
 start. I can tell that more than likely this game will get overlooked by many but cherished by 
 many as well. Hopefully the underground hype hits hard enough for them to make another in the future.
 
  As for now the Edelweiss has some asses to kick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorWinters101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Be in no doubt, Valkyria Chronicles is a fabulous game and a must play for anyone who is remotely 
 interested in a number of things: Anime, great stories, JRPGs and more. Don't let this gem be overlooked 
 like it currently is being by both gamers and retailers alike. Stop buying generic mainstream mediocre 
 games and do yourself a favor by getting this top of the line title.
  
  Story:
  
  The story of Valkyria Chronicles is centered around the Second Europan War, which is based in an 
 alternate reality to our own European continent. The war takes place between the Atlantic Federation 
 and the East Europan Imperial Empire over a resource known as Ragnite, which is used for multiple 
 purposes from medical aid to fuel. Gallia is a small independent state that is caught in the middle 
 of said war. So what you have on your hands with VC is a war story and in that war you follow a 
 squad of militia known as Squad 7. Although the story does center heavily on a few members of the 
 Squad, each and every character you can recruit (of which there are at least 50) has their own 
 personality, likes, dislikes and background story. 
  
  You never take on an operation without knowing why you are fighting, no fight is meaningless... each 
 and every one has a goal and will bring Gallia benefits (as well as your own squad) . The story 
 is epic, engrossing, immersive and a joy to go through. The one complaint I have is that the ending 
 is a little cliche and slightly disappointing after the magnitude of what you have been through.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Valkyria Chronicles gameplay is split into two distinct phases, the first being book mode/headquarters 
 and the second being the operations themselves. Book mode is where the main story flows... you are 
 presented with a book as your interface and from there you can watch cut scenes, and dialogues 
 that give the purposes behind the operation you're about to take on. Headquarters is where you 
 recruit your squad members, equip them, develop and upgrade new weapons, train your squad and receive 
 rewards you gain from successful operations. All of this is a set up for the main component of 
 VC's gameplay.
  
  The operations themselves are a joy to play through, You begin by choosing and positioning what 
 squad members you want to go into battle with... then you are presented with a map and from there 
 you can select a unit to begin your phase with. This is when you get transported into a 3rd person 
 view.. move your character (dependent on action points) and take up aim on your enemies. Headshots 
 count, and accuracy depends on distance from the target, the weapon used and your characters skills. 
 It's difficult to describe all that goes on in operations, but believe me it's some of the most 
 enjoyable gameplay you will experience (much more so than some of the more structured SRPGs on 
 the market) .
  
  Presentation:
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is a beauty, there is no way anyone can deny its fantastic looks and sounds. 
 The Canvas Engine is a breath of fresh air in a generation crowded with graphics engines that seek 
 to be the most realistic and blind you with all their post processing effects. Before I saw VC 
 I would never have believed that the hand drawn look that it pulls off was possible, it really 
 is something to gawp at.
  
  The audio is equally as impressive, both English and Japanese voice work is available and both 
 are done brilliantly... each and every character of your squad has the exact voice you would expect 
 to hear come from their mouths. Alongside the voice work, the soundtrack is also fantastic with 
 each chapter, cut scene and operation having its own tune.
  
  
  Valkyria Chronicles is truly something special, and gamers around the globe should not let this 
 gem pass them by. Leave your generic FPS's and the newest episode of a sport's franchise (there 
 will always be 2010, 2011, 2012..) on the shelf and treat yourself to something unique. You won't 
 regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsy3k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Valkyrie Chronices (Senjou no Valkyria in Japanese) a year ago back when this 
 game was only released in Japan, I thought to myself that I will be buying a PS3 if this game will 
 ever localized and released in North America. And fortunately, it is and I bought my PS3 a month 
 before this game is released. Once I got the game, I played this game literally for hours and it 
 exceeds every single expectations that I have for this game.
  
  What is very unique about this game is that the delivery of the story and battle is the "Book" 
 mode system, where literally, you are like reading a storybook. In this mode, players need to choose 
 the chapter they want to read and the part of the story they wanted to "read".
  
  In each of the chapter, there is at least one battle scene where the real action of the game resides 
 in. Once you are inside the battle, you will be able to place the character you have recruited. 
 You can choose from up to 5 different group: Scouts, Shocktrooper, Lancers, Engineers and Snipers. 
 Once you have placed them, you are ready for action.
  
  The battle gameplay for VC is where the game shines the most. Like my title suggested, VC is a 
 combination of action game, strategy game and RPG rolled into one great package. Some may thought 
 this combination may sounds strange at first, but trust me, once you play the game, you will found 
 out how they have integrated these 3 elements incredibly.
  
  First thing first, on every turn, you will be shown the battle map and you have a limited amount 
 of this element called "Command Points". From choosing on who to move, orders to give, or requesting 
 of reinforcements, you will consume a number of CPs, dependent on what kind of command you are 
 choosing.
  
  If you choose any of your character for moving, this is where the action game elements come to 
 play. The map will go to the 3rd person view of the character you choose and you can move the character 
 around the map like you play your action game, but with one limitation. Each group is assigned 
 this element called "Action points". Each of the group will have certain amount of AP to move. 
 Once you reached the end of your AP, you will not be able to move. Within this amount of AP, you 
 can do whatever you want: scout the area for positions of enemies, disable mines, move your tanks 
 and also shooting enemies when they are in range. Once this is done, the game will move into map 
 and you can choose other characters to move until your CPs are depleted.
  
  RPG elements also exist in a way that you can upgrade your weapons and level up your group levels 
 inside your headquarters. Upgrading weapons requires money and leveling up requires experience 
 points, and both can get gotten once you have completed the story battle or from skirmishes. For 
 experience points, it is a bit different from normal RPG. Instead of the experience points given 
 to the characters, you have the chance to assign the experience points to the group you want to 
 level up. So that means you can gather all the experience points from battles and assign them to 
 the groups you want to level up. Once you level up the group, all people in that group will level 
 up too, so there is no need to train every single character in the game.
  
  Storywise, this part is a give and take for different people. For some, the highly cliched story 
 may put them off, but as for me, I felt that the story delivery is very good, so I do not really 
 mind the cliche. In fact, I love it. There are some twist and turns, but none of them are not unpredictable, 
 with exception on one part that nearly stunned me.
  
  As for voice, I am glad that they decide to keep the Japanese voice in the game, which is something 
 that I highly appreciate. You can play them in Japanese or English voiceover, according to each 
 player's preference. As for BGM, they are superb and fits the game really well on most of the scenes, 
 which is pretty good.
  
  In summary, this game is highly recommended for any people who owned a PS3. This game really proved 
 that Sega can make a quality game despite their downs in the past few years. This game is definitely 
 a collection that you must not miss regardless of any circumstances. The only circumstance that 
 I can think of if you are not getting this game is that you did not own a PS3 =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norabbitnofun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles brings in a bit of first-person view in the turn-based strategy genre. Speaking 
 of which there are extremely few strategy games on the PS3 itself - so this is a welcome attempt 
 at bringing strategist to the console.
  The story of Valkyria Chronicles unfolds as war breaks out between two large alliances - West and 
 East of Europe. The scene takes place in what looks like the early 1930's of a different universe, 
 where modern firearms meet medieval vocabulary, but any similarity with WW2 is probably intended 
 philosophical thinking - which we will set aside for this review. The universe is depicted in a 
 manga-esque way, with the art style close to what drawing and water painting would look like on 
 paper. The story revolves around characters who belong to Gallia, a neutral country sitting between 
 the 2 European blocks. Weiqin Gunther, son of a famous general from previous wars, would-be teacher, 
 joins Alicia Melchiott, member of the local city militia. Let us keep the rest of the story for 
 you to discover, but let us say it will deal with friendship, love, war and all it means to people, 
 great secrets to uncover and occasional humour. Suffice to say, the story is not exactly break-through 
 but it will keep you entertained. However I found the story telling pretty efficient. The scenario 
 unfolds through anime sequences 
  between missions, which are browsed through a book which I guess bears the title of.. "Valkyria 
 Chronicles", of course! And there are a ton of sequences out there - probably 4-6 per mission.
 
  With 20 main missions, 8 Skirmish missions on existing main mission maps, and a few more in "reports", 
 the game is not as long as Fire Emblem but it still took me in the order of 50 hours to get through 
 (taking my own sweet time) . After the main missions are over, you get to play again and get free 
 main missions access, so you can try and challenge yourself to get an "A" grade, but that is all.
 
  
  
  What is truly new with Valkyria Chronicles is the gameplay. You engage in battles with (2-10) squad 
 members, that you pick up among a roster that is said to reach 50 (I could only see 40+ on my first 
 play-through) , sorted in 5 classes: Shocktrooper (run & gun with a machine gun) , scout (foot reconnaissance 
 armed with a rifle) , sniper, engineer (able to repair your tank, disarm mines and repair sandbags) , 
 lancer (who has rocket-launcher) . You take turns with your enemy in spending your command points 
 (CP) on units in order for them to get an action phase. For each Action phase, a unit has an Action 
 Points (AP) gauge that drains while it moves, and the unit can fire / repair once only in the phase. 
 During unit movement, other units are static but the enemy's units armed with rifles and machine 
 guns will shoot at you when you enter their range. This is where the strategical eleent starts 
 to be interesting. You will build your tactics around probably 3 lines of thought:
  - placing your units to catch the enemy in defensive fire and kill them when they move;
  - using 
 a longer-ranged unit to take out the enemy's (scouts on shocktroopers, lancers / snipers on scouts) ;
 
  - using a unit that does not really fear the attack of an enemy unit to take it out (shocktroopers 
 on scouts, tanks on any unit) .
  Yes, you did notice: this is not just rock-paper-scissors, but the one moving has a lot of impact 
 on who wins. Part of this comes from the fact that, when you shoot, you can choose to aim for vital 
 parts of the enemy to score critical damage. This means shooting the head of a foot-soldier for 
 instance.
  
  This makes for a lot of hit-and-run, of cover fire provided from sandbags that decrease damage 
 you take when hit, of calculating who you take out first in order to reach your objective fastest, 
 etc. When your units are hit, you can heal them (instead of acting in your phase) , or retreat them 
 at a camp to swap them with another unit, or recall them.
  The last thing on which you can spend your Command Points (unless you want to save them for the 
 next turn) is "Orders". These come from your squad commander (Welkins) and can bring in a little 
 extra (damage / defense / aim / dodge) , heal or a variety of other effects that you will have to 
 find out for yourself. I personally nearly only relied on the "retreat" order, which can save your 
 unit from a tough situation and also speeds up your movement.
  
  In terms of objectives, most of the time you will be tasked with taking the enemy's main base while 
 protecting yours, keeping your main character alive and taking less than 20 turns. A few missions 
 deal with holding the base or taking out all enemies, but they are the exception. Maps are sized 
 with the 20 turns limit in mind, so do not expect huge maps - they are "ok" in terms of size.
 
  
  The artificial intelligence is a little lacking, which in my view is where the game's main defect 
 lies. It will do its job of sending its units at you, but it often keeps CP's instead of downing 
 one of your units and it seldom runs at your main base. It will surely punish you for leaving a 
 unit exposed in the field while in range, but do not expect clever tactics. There is even a point 
 in the game at which you are told to expect tactics unseen until then. Well you will probably have 
 done a better job by that time. Still it is fair to say that the AI does a decent job at being 
 "ok", but not difficult.
  
  The game also brings in RPG elements, by letting you gather experience from the battlefield depending 
 on how well you did (probably based on how quickly you complete a mission as well as how much damage 
 you took or how many characters got downed) . You spend experience on unit classes rather than individuals, 
 which... well prevents the Fire Emblem syndrome of having later comers not getting played easily, 
 but at the same time does not endeavour you to consider your troops too individually. When troops 
 level up, they reveal "potentials" which are traits that give them extra boost in statistics under 
 special circumstances (being in the desert, near men...) The most useful are for instance "Extra 
 Shot" (sniper gets another ammo for free, out of 3 it counts!) but overall they are useful when 
 triggered, which happens rarely until you level up.
  Your tank evolves too, by spending Ducats (money) rather than experience. Some upgrades have to 
 be equipped and you get to choose a certain set based on how much room they take.
  
  I found sound really good. The sound effects are efficient in taking up the atmosphere, while the 
 music score is lyrical enough to suck you in. As for voice acting, while not always lick synced 
 in English (but better in Japanese, which is included too) , is pretty damn good. (I love the training 
 field officer's way of asking you to go through sweat and pain!)
  
  The game is not without a few flaws in its execution. The 3D aiming will sometimes frustrate you 
 in indicating you cannot hit while you can see the enemy in your visor (because of object proximity) . 
 Then there are limitations that are mostly game design choices that can surprise you but are actually 
 here as part of the game's mechanics. For instance, you can only crouch near sandbags and stairs, 
 and while crouched you will never get critically hit even when aimed in the head. This means that 
 couching spots are critical to go for and creates a more strategical sense than action-fans are 
 used to. Not everything is destructible (in fact very few objects are) - especially don't expect 
 to shoot through wired fence. But again this forces a strategical gameplay rather than an all-out 
 crush action gameplay where only ashes remain at the end. :-)
  
  Trophies? No, I could not see any. The game grants you medals, but that is all within the game 
 only.
  
  Overall, this is a game with which I had a great deal of fun! While I would not encourage you to 
 try it if you are looking for an FPS, it is probably a good choice as a starter in the strategy 
 genre. And I do recommend it because of its original gameplay to all of you strategy fans out there 
 (even occasional fans, yes) . Manga / Anime fans will also love the atmosphere.
  A quick closing note for European dwellers: the game is in English only, so you usually save (30%) 
 money by importing it from the UK through an e-retailer.
  As for me, I will now get after the replay value and hope we get downloadable content or a second 
 game (who knows? playing the bad guys would be fun too, and getting an AI boost download would 
 do wonders!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAntwerp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  If you buy this game make sure you don't throw i away immediately, just play it how cheezy the 
 story and characters might seem. I almost gave up on this game because it's a gamestory you won't 
 like to get caught playing unless you are a girl or at least a boy not older than 12.
  There is something about VC that makes the game even pervert in that way that these sweet and loving 
 characters are actually shooting with guns, you would expect them handing out flowers instead.
 
  
  But there is the game itself wich is very good! So good even that all the bad things i write above 
 only costs this game a half point in my rating. I like strategy games and this one is clearly a 
 very good one. Battles are challenging but rewarding. Upgrading your units is done in a very good 
 way.
  
  All I can say is that if this game was not so unreal sweet and had some more mature content and 
 a drawing style like american comics this would be the best strategy game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklodus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game first of is Amazing to look at its beauty is stunning . I like the turn base RPG's and 
 this one does it just right . l like how each person has their own traits in your squads just like 
 in real life . The voice acting has been done perfect and l just can't say enough about how much 
 this game is going down as one of if not my Favorite RPG ever . l am a ex Army soldier and l find 
 that the military rpg but with the graphics and not all blood and gore is a great fit for my gaming 
 . Graphics 10
  Sound 9.5
  Gameplay 10 Story is a 9
  Controls 10 Tilt 10
  
  Can't get enough of this game.... 
  
  I can't belive this game slipped under the radar it is 
 a Must BUY . please dont just over look this and buy soo many of the other great games that have 
 come out this past month Get this one its a Amazing RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  A quick review, since I haven't done one in a while...
  
  Valkyria Chonicles is a new turn-based strategy game by Sega, and it offers a blend of atmosphere 
 and gameplay that hasn't quite exactly been done on home consoles before... anime fans, RPG players 
 and strategy gamers shouldn't pass up on this game.
  
  The game takes place in Europa, a fictional continent somewhat analogous with early 20th century 
 Europe. The game is focused on a militia company of the nation of Gallia (the Switzerland of Europa) 
 as the whole of the continent becomes victim to a large-scale invasion from an empire to the east. 
 The object of the game is to win a series of combat objectives, using the soldiers of Squad 7 against 
 the enemy forces in turn based fashion.
  
  In battle, you are given an overhead view of the action, a zoomed-out view drawn in a washed-out 
 palette, resembling a canvas battle map. Upon choosing a unit to take action, the game zooms down 
 to ground level, and you move the unit in real-time. Each unit has different characteristics, from 
 scouts (with high movement range and visibility) to troopers (slow, heavy machine gunners) to lancers 
 (tough fighters with rocket launcers) and others. A turn is spent moving up to a set allowance, 
 during which you may pause the action once to use one of your unit's weapons. Though the game is 
 turn-based in this way, it has trappings of real-time action games in practice, as units will provide 
 covering fire against moving enemies. Thus, careful movement, positioning and line-of-sight become 
 tremendously important in the 3D battleground. The game has a surprising amount of depth... and 
 it can be rather challenging, as many units have a rock-paper-scissors relationship with one another. 
 A lightly-armored soldier rounding a corner only to be spotted by an enemy trooper will likely 
 be met with a potentially lethal barrage of bullets. To make things even more interesting, units 
 can take cover behind destructable sandbags, boxes and trees, and powerful tanks can be commanded 
 on both sides of the line. As the story further progresses, you'll encounter some truly frightening 
 boss units with terrifying power. Since there's always a chance you might lose a squad member permanently, 
 moving carefully is the order of the day.
  
  Winning battles earns you experience and money, which you can use to buy experience levels for 
 your squad, upgraded equipment, and new chapters and cutscenes in the game's story. You can also 
 purchase new Orders, which are somewhat analogous to CO powers in the Advance Wars series... large-scale 
 unit bonuses that can be invoked in combat. In addition, you can also replay many missions in skirmish 
 mode to earn extra experience and money, which you'll need... the game can be delightfully difficult 
 at times. You'll often find yourself loading a saved game after a nasty surprise throws your squad 
 for a loop.
  
  The game has a great water-colored anime style, and is told from the perspective of one reading 
 an obscure history book on the squad. The plot is a somewhat standard, lighthearted anime affair, 
 with colorful characters and a story that unapologetically transitions from jovial to jarringly 
 serious. This might immediately turn off some gamers, but for others it will only make the experience 
 more endearing. Each character's personality can become a large factor on the battlefield... you'll 
 be a bit saddened if you lose your favorite units in the crossfire.
  
  So, what do I think of it all? I love it! The circumstances of the war in Gallia change with each 
 chapter, as the political web unravels and ancient secrets are uncovered. The strategy action is 
 accessible and satisfying. The game's anime style matches the visuals and music perfectly. Some 
 of the more sappy and frivolous moments in the story can sometimes distract from the seriousness 
 of the conflict, but the game just oozes with personality. The whole experience reminds me of some 
 sort of tabletop wargame, where units will be carefully moved to minimize damage from enemy shells 
 and to get that perfect line of sight for the shot. At the game's beginning, it will seem a bit 
 derivative or dry, but as you get deeper into the missions, the challenge will pick up and you'll 
 be flipping pages as fast as you can to find out what absurd circumstance you have to get your 
 squad out of next.
  
  With promise of DLC and extended playtime granted through new things to do on extra playthoughs, 
 the game is definitely worth the money. While it may not be for everyone, this will be a welcome 
 addition to the right gamer's collection (you know who you are) . I think the only thing this game 
 is really missing is some form of multiplayer... it would have been great to swap rounds with someone 
 via hotseat or remote play.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  I was pleasantly surprised by Valkyria Chronicles... and I'm a bit saddened, because I think it 
 might be overlooked this season. In a sea of spinoffs, ports, sequels and derivative titles, this 
 original game looks all the more impressive.
  
  If you're in the market for a strategy/RPG title on PS3, this is your ticket. It's not 100% perfect 
 by any means, but it's a solid game and certainly charming. If you aren't turned off by a lighthearted 
 adventure, anime styling, or turn-based combat, this is a worthwhile addition to your collection.
 
  
  +Beautiful watercolor anime graphics
  +Endearing cast of characters
  +Challenging and satisfying
  +Unique unit-based strategy blended with real-time movement
  +Considerable 
 replay value
  -Lighthearted anime style might turn off some gamers
  -No multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Finished the game yesterday and continued on Clear mission just to get some more into what else 
 the game had to offer. Over all, if this game doesn't get on the List for Top Games of 2008, I 
 will personally wish to hang myself. 
  
  Gameplay is a near perfect blend of classic turn based tactics and added in real time 3rd person 
 shooter elements. PS3 seems to be getting lucky getting the odd ball games which try to change 
 and create a new style. Valkyria Chronicles does this successfully, if not goes farther than they 
 most likely needed. Moving soldiers from place to place is easy, dodging enemy fire is straight 
 forward, the gameplay is simple, that people who are not used to shooters can enjoy it and people 
 who are not used to turn based tactics can also catch on very quickly. Only thing that ever got 
 to me on the game was the before battle briefings being completely useless for knowing what you 
 will be needing to do much of the time or what units you should deploy, but then again isn't early 
 20th century warfare like that? Pre recon aircraft and spy sat. 
  
  Story is perhaps this games strongest point, it does an excellent job showing the player a more 
 true face of war than that of other war games, most NA war games try to show the brutality, by 
 way of visuals, graphics, and blood, this game does it by emotion, racism, and hatred, and even 
 ignorance. The characters are perfectly suited for their roles, to the point when even the generic 
 soldiers fall in battle and are gone for good you almost wish to shed a tear as their personalities 
 make you pick favorites even among those which are not main characters. 
  
  Music on the game was near perfect, some of the in battle music wasn't that great I thought, but 
 the cut scenes, and menu based music always fit the mood perfectly, and some of the music I personally 
 thought was near brilliance. 
  
  Graphics are yet again another strong point for this game. I can not say cell shade animation has 
 ever been done better, nor can I say any Japanese animated feel game has ever looked better. The 
 story book feel and white fade outline on the screen which is there at all times, reminds you the 
 game is told through a book. The shadeing is ment to have lines similar to a sketch book. Some 
 of the cut scenes look absolutely amazing at that. 
  
  Pros: Graphics+, Gameplay simple+, Story+, Character Design+, Music+
  
  Cons: Frustratingly 
 Hard at times, is that all?
  
  In conclusion, Valkyria Chronicles in my right mind has to be the best PS3 game I have ever honored 
 myself with playing, this comes strongly for a person who finds it very hard to like any of the 
 new generation video games. I'd highly recommend it as a purchased game for anyone who owns a PS3, 
 you have to get this game. It would be a shame something this great would fade into history because 
 of people hating cartoon/cell shade animated games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Valkyria Chronicles is an original RPG game and it works very well. Everything about it is flawless, 
 although it isn't perfect, its nearly there. Some people might overlook this game because it is 
 new and no one has really paid attention to Sega recently. However that shouldn't be the case. 
 This game seems to have it all. The game play is very bright, graphics are breathtaking, and the 
 characters are well structured. It feels original and overall works very well. It has a ton of 
 awesome action which goes very well with the RPG feel. Perhaps you might want to rent it first 
 just to make sure, but if you are an action-RPG fan you should not pass on this game. The elements 
 of strategic battle plans also add in well to the mix. The storyline is also very interesting and 
 it will keep you glued to the screen undoubtedly. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  So me being a big RPG fan there wasnt too much for me to look forward to so far when it comes to 
 PS3. I didnt hear that much about the game but i saw the demo on PSN thought i give it a shot. 
 Loved it so much pre ordered it the same weekend.
  
  I havent beaten the game yet but so far the games story is interesting like how most RPGS are. 
 The graphics are great. I love the artistic direction and surprisingly the voice acting isnt bad 
 like how most video games are. 
  
  One thing that i really like about the game is the characters. All of the characters you can recruit 
 have their own personality and as you fight with them you get to pick your favorites.
  
  Something else that is great about the game because its really a true strategic game because some 
 characters get along better with other characters or they may do better in other areas then others. 
 Some classes are more helpful then others in some levels also. My favorite classes are shock troopers 
 and scouts.
  
  As for game play i was a little intimidated by it at first but its not hard at all once you get 
 used it. 
  
  This game can get VERY intense when you get into a tuff spot. Which i find fun because you may have 
 a plan going into it but they may backfire so you will always need a back up plan at hand.
  
  
  Awesome game for anyone who is looking for that special RPG fix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_Lord
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. It has nice control, nice gameplay, nice storyline. The beginning is kinda iffy 
 at first, which you only get like 4 units. Though when you get to the part where you have more 
 units this game gets a lot more fun. While you're moving to an enemy unit or if you're just moving 
 around enemies can shoot you... and aiming at different areas of an enemy is very important, which 
 this leads to the real time strategy part. It's not a bad thing but... I never saw this comming 
 which turned out REALLY well in my prospective. turn base part of this game is the player phase 
 and the enemy phase which you really don't need to get real into it to understand it. If you don't 
 like anime style or any strategy games then this is not a game for you. Most people who love strategy 
 games would love this! Not everyone since people have different tastes obviously but, give it a 
 chance. The game is not hard to pick up and not know what to do. The game isn't easy nor hard seeing 
 how the difficulty is just right. 2 thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the best jrpg out this generation so far. Everything about this games is perfect. The level 
 of detail in the graphics is great. It really looks like you are playing a watercolor painting, 
 hell there are even details that look like paper shading on some of the graphics. This isn't cell 
 shaded, this is a unique art style never done before. And I like it. The game flows through episodes 
 mixing in lots of story and action. The characters have personality and aren't little cutsie kids 
 like in too many jrpgs nowadays. I haven't liked a jrpg this much since the ps1 era.
  
  If you like jrpgs, rpgs, strategy games, real/turn based, good story ect.. then you will most likely 
 love this game. It's innovative, original and unique. Its about time some developers break the 
 mold and make something original and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one fo the best SRPG or JRPG to date its the best JRPG this gen. It has spectatular graphics 
 the art style is the best ever seen... The gameplay is fresh and orginal and if you love RPG's 
 you will love this game a lot! apart from the main story will last over 40hours theres DLC on the 
 way (on in JP where you can playt as the enemy...) also the story is epic and the english voice 
 acting is good for once do not miss out on this epic game! Also if you played skies of Arcandia 
 on Dreamcast or Gamecube some of the chars appear in VC like Vyse... OVerall:
  
  Gameplay : 10
  Grpahics : 10
  Sound : 9.5
  Value : 9.0
  
  Overall scoe : 9.5/10 'EPIC 
 RPG' If you miss out you will be gutted because this is a brilliant made RPG and SEGA's First sucessful 
 Games WELL DONE! Hopefully Sega will cont the tradition of making good games...
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
