-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vampire Rain: Altered Species
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/vampiresrainalteredspecies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combining stealth gameplay with vampires remains a great concept.
 A few minor tweaks to the difficulty and storytelling make the campaign marginally more playable than it was a year ago on the 360.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No significant changes from last year's atrocious version of the game for the 360.
 Truly insane difficulty with vampires that are almost impossible to kill.
 Enemy vision cones give only a rough approximation of what the bad guys can see.
 Dark and confusing--yet somehow still linear--level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 3.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 235 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: AQ Interactive
Developer: Artoon
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Sep 2, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A year after its disastrous debut on the Xbox 360, Vampire Rain is still a pain in the neck. 
 

  Vampire games apparently can't be staked. If they could be finished off a la  Van Helsing , you 
 can bet that Vampire Rain: Altered Species would never have made it to the PlayStation 3. Developer 
 Artoon's blend of Splinter Cell-style stealth gaming with toothy creatures of the night was so 
 awful when it debuted for the Xbox 360 last summer that it deserved to be locked inside its coffin 
 for good. Alas, the game has been resurrected for a new platform with a subtitle added to it in 
 the hopes of fooling people into believing that this is a superior sequel. It isn't. This is a 
 mostly straight-up reissuing of last year's debacle, loaded with the same crippling design screwups 
 and absurd difficulty.  

  Playing Splinter Cell with vampires isn't as cool in reality as it is on paper. About the only 
 good thing about this game is that it doesn't waste your time; it broadcasts its awfulness right 
 from the start. The campaign tells the ludicrous tale of John Lloyd, member of a team of plucky 
 commandos fighting a secret war against postmodern vampires called Nightwalkers. These fanged goons 
 are biting their way across America and will outnumber Joe Sixpacks with pulses in precisely 908 
 days. The new PS3 version of the game better explains how this is happening, courtesy of a relocated 
 flashback scene, although the whole story still seems faintly ludicrous and not the slightest bit 
 scary. Civilians are still walking the streets at night without a care in the world, so it's hard 
 to believe that you're in the middle of a bloodsucking apocalypse. Visual design of the game is 
 too urban and high-tech to give off any sort of creepy gothic vibe, so the game always goes for 
 the gross-out. Yet gory scenes, such as the one where you discover some of your buddies have been 
 turned into performance art through the innovative use of stop signs, seem more like cheap gimmicks 
 than truly spooky.  

           Oddly enough, the rain of murderous vampires doesn't keep pedestrians and cops from wandering 
 the streets at all hours of the night.      

  It's hard to get too creeped out by the protagonist and setting, either, because both are pulled 
 straight from Splinter Cell. Aside from fanged foes ripping your throat out when you lose, there 
 aren't any differences between Vampire Rain and a typical espionage-style sneaker. Lloyd looks 
 exactly like Sam Fisher, right down to his black Underoos and night-vision goggles. Mission objectives 
 are taken from the Third Echelon playbook. You're sent on one technological scavenger hunt after 
 another, set in usual-suspect locales, such as offices, parking garages, warehouses, and deserted 
 city streets. Goals are very formulaic. Even though Lloyd is supposed to be fighting an undead 
 invasion, he spends most of his time dealing with standard spy stuff, such as sabotaging electronics, 
 shutting down power plants, and sniping bad guys. Level design should also be familiar because 
 you spend the game creeping through alleyways, climbing ladders, and sliding down wires or poles 
 in a desperate attempt to avoid the vision cones of patrolling bad guys displayed on your minimap. 
 The only striking difference between this game and a typical sneaker is that you're dealing with 
 undead killing machines that have no personality -- not the usual sentries whining about noisy rats. 
 Instead of getting to listen to inane conversations tipping you off to the guards, you get a cheesy 
 flashing-eyes special effect that lets you know somebody with fangs is watching and you've got 
 a couple of seconds to get under cover. If you fail, you're dead. If you succeed, congratulations -- you've 
 just beaten a transparent game mechanic.  

  Still, this isn't exactly a by-the-numbers stealth game. New ideas are introduced in almost every 
 area, but these innovations just mess up what should have been a pretty straightforward game design. 
 First of all, Nightwalker vision cones are rough approximations of what the beasties can actually 
 see. Shadows are more authentic zones of darkness here, not the magic cloaking fields seen in the 
 Splinter Cell and Thief games. But even though you get used to this vagueness, the fickle vision 
 cones force you into tedious trial and error. Sometimes, you'll go to great lengths to get around 
 a sentry that you're positive will be able to easily spot you, only to eventually abandon this 
 alternate route and discover that you can dart around the bloodsucker unseen. Other times, you'll 
 try to walk by a Nightwalker a half block away and be sighted immediately. To make keeping track 
 of enemies even more bothersome, their vision cones are not automatically activated on the minimap. 
 Instead, you have to switch on the necroscope feature of your night-vision goggles to check heat 
 signatures and separate the vamps from innocent derelicts wandering the streets at 3 a. m.  

  Second, Nightwalkers are virtually impossible to kill. Throughout much of the game, weapons are 
 worthless, so it takes a full clip of the automatic rifle or the submachine gun to take down a 
 single Drac-pack refugee. They are also amazingly fast and kill with just two swipes, the first 
 of which always incapacitates you. And once a Nightwalker gets you in its sights, it goes on the 
 hunt until one of you is dead and can even pursue you by leaping all the way up to the tops of 
 buildings. So there's no running away or hiding. Later weapons, such as a UV knife and a sniper 
 rifle, make it easier to kill Nightwalkers, although these new-and-improved devices require rare 
 ammo (yes, even the freaking knife) , and disappear at the end of each level. Some levels appear 
 to have been tweaked for the PS3 release, however, which makes the game marginally less difficult 
 in spots. The vampire population seems to have been trimmed back in some key locales, and ammo 
 caches have been made more common. These two changes make both sneaking and shooting more palatable. 
 Still, nine times out of 10, vamp numbers, toughness, and speed continue to make it suicidal to 
 try fighting them.  

           A Nightwalker's speed is pretty cool to behold in a picture, but it's very frustrating 
 to actually be on the other end of its fangs and claws.      

  Level design causes more headaches. Paths forward are relentlessly linear in the campaign missions. 
 Even though street scenes in the game appear wide open with lots of alleys to explore and ladders 
 to climb, you're hemmed in by invisible borders. Basically, you're herded toward the single route 
 through a level by both invisible and real walls, as well as heavily populated groups of vampire 
 sentries, that you immediately know you have to find a way around them. Everything is so dark, 
 however, that it can be tough to figure out which way to go. Most backgrounds are so shadowy that 
 fine details are swallowed by the gloom. You frequently can't be certain of the presence of vampire 
 sentries until you stumble over them. Night-vision and necroscope goggles can be used to pierce 
 the blackness, but the battery powering them runs down in a few meager seconds.  

  Vampire Rain's murky visuals haven't been cleaned up for the PS3 port. This take on the game looks 
 and performs worse than its 360 predecessor. Load times are long, despite a mandatory 30-minute 
 installation of almost 4GBs to the PS3's hard drive, and jagged edges are on show everywhere. Sound 
 effects don't help you navigate the darkness, either. Vamps generally don't say anything when they 
 spot you, and their footsteps are so muted that they might as well be walking on air. They never 
 talk to one another, shuffle their feet, cough, or even complain about how Count Chocula is an 
 offensive vampist stereotype. Generally, they just stand stock still, mindlessly staring into space 
 or mindlessly staring into space and smoking. The only noteworthy aspect of the audio is a high-pitched 
 score that raises your heart rate and the squelching sound of a vampire mowing down on your carotid 
 artery during the you-got-killed cinematic.  

  Solo gameplay modes outside of the campaign are generally unimpressive. One-off levels called trial 
 stages can be more entertaining than the full-blown story missions because of somewhat innovative 
 ideas, such as playing tag with all the other members of your team or grabbing a weapon from under 
 the nose of a vampire, but they are too short to be all that involving. The only multiplayer option 
 that stands out is Death or Nightwalkers, a solo and team Deathmatch variant where a killed player 
 can turn into a vamp. Of course, all this does is give the player the absurd speed and strength 
 of the vampires, so games end up unbalanced. It's probably best to stick with the uninspired alternatives 
 online, which include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and a Capture-the-Flag clone where you capture 
 a flame.  

  Now let's go back to hoping that this is the end of the Vampire Rain series. But just to be absolutely 
 sure that nobody has any bright ideas about summoning the game back from the grave for a third 
 go-round, please hang some garlic over your Wii.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Simple_minDed1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  There must be something wrong with me because i really like this game. Everyone else is saying 
 its terrible.
  
  Your mission is to take out the prime nightwalker (translation: Head Vampire.) , because doing so 
 kills all the lesser vampires it has created. There are also parent nightwalkers with a couple 
 of children.
  
  This is a stealth/strategy game and not a shootem-up action. So dont expect to be able to blast 
 your guns off and mow down hoards of vampires. 
  
  The vampires are incredibly strong, even just the common street variety. You must avoid direct 
 conflict with these creatures at all costs because if you alert them they run you down and tear 
 you to pieces in 2 swipes. They are very fast and agile and can virtually reach you wherever you 
 are (hiding on top of buildings with a pistol doesnt work) . 
  
  In my opinion it makes sense that they can kill you so easily because, you are after all only a 
 human with guns.
  
  The game has pistols, automatic weapons, sniper rifles and for stealth kills you can sneak up behind 
 nightwalkers are assassinate them with your UV-Knife.
  
  What i thought was great about them game is you can try one tactic, if you die you continue at 
 the last checkpoint/area you were in (which is usually close to where you finished) and you continue 
 on and try another method, each time you die it gives you tips like "Try to avoid direct conflict 
 with the nightwalkers, try finding an alternative route".
  
  This game is really just good fun, and you can continue a million times to get it right. It reminds 
 me of how games used to be.
  
  Best part is it was reduced by half price at the shop because people were bringing it back. Someone 
 else has to have thought it was great?
  
  P. S I dont mind the acting and voices, keeps it simple and you know what you have to do.
  
 
  Rating. 6.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdmundHonda
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I was a little reluctant to purchase this game. Little was known and there were hardly any reviews 
 for it online. However, if you like me, who enjoys using your brain and experimenting with "new 
 stealth games," you will appreciate Vampire Rain for PS3. 
  
  Some games make stealth -- almost impossible -- this seems just right to me on the normal level.
 
  
  The Graphics are compatible with the game and it is not just a hack and slash type of game but 
 you really need to use your mind at times. 
  
  It has a varied set of levels with many viable options with helping your team, to fighting one 
 on one, etc. 
  
  The "Nightwalkers" aka: Vampires. Can be a little repitive at times in their movements. 
  
 
  However, the combination of Stealth and Scary Behaviour will intice. 
  
  The Music at times has the feel of "Mission Impossible." 
  
  There is use of the Sniper Rifle 
 which I enljoy being a Big Fan of another underappreciated game: Sniper Elite for PS2. 
  
  While Sniper Elite is Great for both Single, Co-Op, and Online. 
  
  Vampire Rain is great for 
 Single, terrible for Online.
  
  Check it out!
  
  Vampire Rain is a great new game!
  
  Yours,
  
  E. Honda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moester10
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  God, this is probably the worst game I have played in years. It looks and feels like Syphon Filter 
 for PSX. This wouldn't have completely turned me off for the game as I was a big fan of Syphon 
 Filter, but they took everything that made that game fun to play and made it overly difficult instead. 
 
  
  This is basically a puzzle game requiring a set of pre ordained moves to get past every single 
 challenge. The game is an exercise in frustration where every puzzle not only has to be solved 
 in a specific way, but also has to be executed perfectly in several instances. The game could use 
 being more forgiving and would actually be fun if it gave you some gameplay options. 
  
  The story in itself is uninteresting and takes forever to actually get going. The dubbing is horrendous 
 and is remeniscent of the Godzilla movies I used to watch. 
  
  This game seemed to have decent potential as a stealth oriented survival horror game, but it ended 
 up as being a highly disappointing game that wasted my time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElementalSoljer
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Even at $39.99 Altered Species is still not worth your money or your time. Steer clear from this 
 pile of Nightwalker fodder.
  
  You could see it coming a mile away. 
  My advice to potential buyers: If you want a 360  PS3 port save your money and buy BioShock, but 
 please heed the following advice and pass on this one.
  
  Vampire Rain: Altered Species still features a terrible third-rate HUD, boring and uninspired character 
 design (Snake?) , mixed messaging on whether or not it wants to be a stealth or action title, drab 
 visuals, linear gameplay and falls far from captivating its audience with its sub-par storyline.
 
  
  Once again failing to separate itself from its 360 counterpart the PS3 version lacks the support 
 of the Six-Axis controller and does not include Trophy support. In addition, the game does feature 
 rumble, but isn't creative with its use.
  Need I go on...?
  
  Afterall, you can invest tons of time and money into a piece of poo but in the end its still a 
 piece of poo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuchu113
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the same game that was on the 360, with the addition of new content. The game itself only 
 will cost you 40 dollars which is a bargain for a ps3 game. Playing this game was extremely difficult 
 for me at first since it was not of my expectations. Every game on the market is a lot easier than 
 this. The game will have you screaming with anger from the very first level. The difficulty will 
 definitely make it unappealing to others, but if your in for a challenge this is your game. I like 
 this game for many reasons.
  
  1. The difficulty brings me back to my middle school life where games were Actually challenging.
 
  2. This is a tactical espionage type of game where you actually HAVE to sneak. MGS you could actually 
 run through everything and still get through a good portion of the game. This game if you get caught 
 your dead with no mercy.
  3. Vampires, if you are a fan of the supernatural world then you will like this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
