-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viking: Battle for Asgard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/vikingbattleforasgard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat can be amusing for a few hours.
 Portals make travelling easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 After a few hours, the combat gets dull.
 Objectives and missions are repetitive.
 No payoff for exploration.
 Camera is horrendous.
 Audio is sparse and disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Action
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to Viking: Battle for Asgard's mundane and tedious gameplay, the only battle you'll wage 
 will be a losing one against boredom. 

  Learning about the adventures and deeds of Vikings, such as Erik the Red or Leif Eriksson, was 
 always the highlight of any world history class in school. After all, these were true stories about 
 men who explored the unknown, conquered new lands, and often killed mercilessly. With such strong 
 material to draw from, it would seem that a fictional game based on Viking lore would be a sure 
 thing, but Viking: Battle for Asgard completely fails to capture what makes Vikings -- or even games 
 for that matter -- interesting. Those who enjoy mindless killing might find something to like here, 
 but everyone else will find Battle for Asgard monotonous and dull.  

           A game can only get so far on violence alone.      

  There's a story here, but it's 
 barely worth mentioning. You play as Skarin, a Viking that has been called upon by the Goddess 
 of Light to fight the forces of Hel, whose undead army is killing people to create a new Valhalla. 
 There's also something that has to do with Skarin having haunting visions and some anger toward 
 at least one of the gods -- you know, like in God of War. The story is told via cutscenes that are 
 reminiscent of the graphic novel  300 , but they're typically quite short, hard to follow, and 
 fail to tell the game's tale in any coherent matter.  

  Without a gripping story, all you're left with is Viking's gameplay, which is occasionally enjoyable 
 but usually just plain mediocre. It's a third-person action adventure that focuses on combat while 
 mixing in fetch quests and unfulfilling exploration. Your main task is to go to enemy encampments, 
 kill the bad guys, and free the soldiers who are imprisoned there. Once you've freed enough soldiers, 
 you can attack an enemy fortress. This triggers a huge battle with hundreds of soldiers onscreen 
 at once. Heavenly Sword did a fantastic job with encounters of this size, but during Viking's epic 
 battles, the last thing you want to do is fight because it's so easy for enemy soldiers to gang 
 up on you. Your best bet is to simply run past everyone, kill the shaman that protect the area, 
 summon a dragon to fry some guys, and beat the boss. If you master this once, you're good for the 
 rest of the game because every battle after this is  almost exactly the same --just a little longer. 
 Other than that, the only other things you'll be doing are fetching items for people and finding 
 gems so that you can summon the aforementioned dragons. These tasks play out in much the same way 
 as freeing soldiers, but instead of letting soldiers out of a jail after you've killed all the 
 enemies, you open a treasure chest.  

  The game is broken up into three levels, each of which is a large world that's reminiscent of Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion, but on a smaller scale. Having such a large area to explore is initially 
 exciting, but this excitement quickly turns to disappointment and then boredom. The problem is 
 that there's nothing to do and very little to see. The only optional quest in the game is to find 
 barrels of mead, and other than that, the only thing you're rewarded with for heading off the beaten 
 path is gold, which is quite easy to acquire. There are also several occasions where you'll find 
 yourself lost or confused as to what to do next because either the game didn't make your next objective 
 clear or the map was difficult to read. At least the game doesn't force you to walk around too 
 much, thanks to its liberal use of portals that allow you to teleport from one area to another. 

  So missions are tedious and exploration is unfulfilling; how about the combat? It's a little better -- at 
 least at first. Skarin is armed with a large sword and axe with which to make short work of Hel's 
 legions of undead soldiers. You attacks are initially limited, but upgrades can be purchased as 
 you progress. Skarin can briefly power up these attacks using his rage mode (a handy way to break 
 shields) . He can also collect red orbs that represent the souls of the vanquished, as well as unleash 
 elemental magic, such as lightning, fire, and ice onto his foes.  

  It can be fun for a few hours to run around, indiscriminately beating on undead soldiers, knocking 
 them off of cliffs, and sneaking up behind them to stick a sword in their backs. You can do all 
 this and lop off their heads with a press of a button, but combat still gets repetitive. Although 
 you have a fair amount of moves at your disposal, you'll wind up performing the same moves repeatedly 
 throughout the game because there's no reward for mixing things up, enemies can gang up on you 
 to kill you in no time, and the best attacks are typically the easiest to pull off. The game tries 
 to mix things up with the addition of several button-pressing minigames during important fights, 
 but this mechanic is played out and not much fun.  

  There are also instances where you'll need to use stealth; these are hit and miss. When everything 
 comes together, it can be a lot of fun moving from cover to cover silently chopping enemies in 
 half, but too often, your plans are laid to waste because someone saw you through a solid object 
 or noticed you killing someone else from far across the area. If you're spotted and everyone heads 
 your way, you're in for a rough time. That is, unless you can lure a few guys away from the action, 
 kill them, trigger a few more to run your way, kill them, and so on. Thankfully, the game's inept 
 AI is easy to exploit; otherwise, you'd be hard pressed to make it through some of the more challenging 
 areas.  

  Battle for Asgard is one of those games that looks great in screenshots but not so great in motion. 
 The biggest culprit is a horribly incompetent camera that is zoomed in so close and moves around 
 so much that it can't even show a functional view in a wide-open field, much less any location 
 with walls. You're constantly forced to manually manipulate the camera while getting attacked by 
 and fighting off enemies that are offscreen. Each of the game's three worlds is quite large, but 
 the first two levels look virtually identical, and other than the occasional enemy, fortress, or 
 camp, they're completely devoid of animal life. It's possible to run around for minutes at a time 
 and never see a living thing; just trees, flowers, grass, and some ugly mountains. The undead soldiers 
 are interestingly designed and look appropriately menacing. However, there are only a handful of 
 different kinds of soldiers and their animation is often limited. The only time the visuals are 
 impressive is during the huge battles at the end of each level. Hundreds of soldiers will clash 
 while dragons fly overhead shooting fireballs and wreaking havoc. It's too bad that the best parts 
 of these battles are the cutscenes because once they actually start, the frame rate takes a dive, 
 and you'll notice that most of the soldiers are standing around or running into each other.  

 
           It's a huge world... with almost nothing to do.      

  Subpar audio rounds out Viking's disappointing package. Other than an epic orchestral piece that 
 plays during the end-level battles, there's almost no music whatsoever. Wandering around this barren 
 world would be boring enough with music, but it's even more tiresome without it.  

  If mashing buttons to kill hundreds upon hundreds of enemies is all you're looking for in a game, 
 you very possibly may enjoy Viking: Battle for Asgard. However, if you like original ideas, a story, 
 meaningful exploration, a working camera, or fun, you'll want to take a pass on this one-way journey 
 to boredom.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The second you step into vikings, you have no idea what to do. I spent about 3 hours alone finding 
 out controls!!! After you do find out what the heck to do, this game finally kicks in... its almost 
 awesome... My favorite feature was the stealth kills. Yes, in this game, even though sneaking feels 
 a little bit too... aware, as you start sneaking the second an enemy is in a 20 ft radius... even 
 if you aren't looking at it..., it still packs a hell of a punch. Tell me, are there any other 
 games that let you cut off someone's arms while trying to avoid 10,000 legion soldiers a few feet 
 away from you... a game that actually makes you think, that is before you start rampaging through 
 fluke city kicking people off cliffs and avoiding giants by sending your army after them... yes, 
 you will be able to recruit your own army! At the first raid, you might get 100 or so soldiers.. 
 but then, as you progress, you'll find your army growing to a maximum of 10 MILLION soldiers, all 
 saved by YOU! This game is worth the 40 bucks, as it will entertain you, even through it's mediocre 
 story and last gen graphics.. but hey, its got stealth and THOUSANDS of F bombs! I RECOMMEND IT 
 TO YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong at the start here, I think Viking is okay. Now the reason I gave it that 
 score was due to the lack of entertainment you're going to get out of it. Yeh, you buy it, play 
 it for 5 minutes, your amazed by how well they have organized the fantasy graphics, you explore 
 the viking town, interact with guys and watch random fights going on with guards and trolls...
 
  then you go out, hack guys limbe off, battle with your army, amazing! 10 minutes has come..."Uh, 
 Im getting bored if it... Im going for a game of COD". That is what its like. I hav'nt played the 
 game that much, well for about 12 hours but that is'nt a lot for me because Im a true serious addicted 
 fanatical gamer who knows and plays everything about games. Now the blood and gore in Viking are 
 probably the things that get you to notice it the most. The combos involve hacking limbs and chopping 
 boddies in half as well as cracking their head down the middle for some brain-squelching gore. 
 The first thing you will probably come across is some trolls eating dead vikings. They tear their 
 guts out and upturn their insides (messy stuff) ... so you can walk by and let them get to it and 
 finish having their lunch in peace or you can go over and start a fight. You can develop new combos 
 at the stone circle located on the map. The longer the button sequence is for the combo, the gorier 
 it will be! Now would I recommend this to you... not really. Rent it first! Thats what I did. Played 
 9 and a half minutes of it. Thought it was great. Bought the full game. Played it for the other 
 30 seconds and I had ejected the disc from my PS3 and put Call of Duty 4 in. (And Killzone 2 after 
 that!) . It wont keep you entertained for long. If theres any 10 minute deals on for free the get 
 it then and you'll probably review it as 10 out of 10 but any longer and you'll br bored. It okay 
 fighting wise but lacks the entertainment you shoud get out of 25 quid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmiller2009
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I gave the game a 6.5 since I felt the good outweighed the bad. The good is that combat is satisfying 
 and the gameplay is smooth. Large battles are pretty cool as well since you get to fight hordes 
 of legion soldiers. The environments look nice in this game and are quite expansive. Perhaps that 
 is where the bad begins. I got somewhat bored walking long distances in the game due to the fact 
 that the area was so large. At times, objectives are difficult to understand. If you like hack 
 and slash type games, however, you will certainly like this. I would recommend renting it first 
 though to avoid any confusions about just what it is like. Like all games, you have to try them 
 for yourself. I was skeptical about Viking but actually didn't think it was a bad game at all. 
 You will get over the boredom once you get into some combat and you also get to fight giants, which 
 not only sounds cool, but is quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game seems like a half-finished product, rushed to the streets prematurely.
  
  The graphics are incredibly uninspiring, and so is the consistently random storyline and plot. 
 I cant help but feel like they (the producers and developers) were only after my wallet when they 
 put this game on the streets. Honestly, PS3 games cost anywhere between 400 and 550 kroners (40-50) , 
 thats quite a sum of money by most peoples standards. How they had the audacity to put this game 
 in public circulation is beyond me.
  I hope they learn from their mistakes, altho i highly doubt it - given the ethics of the creators.
 
  
  It reminds me of "golden axe: beast rider" in many ways - and trust me; that is in no way a positive 
 thing.
  It is very monotone and simplistic, one might even say rudimentary. I usually only use the word 
 rudimentary when put in context with manual labour.
  
  Nuff said tbh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Viking: Battle for Asgard came recommended from a user in a union I'm in. Went to Gamestop, on 
 the used shelf for $15.00 so, why not. You play as a strong Viking picked by a vengeful Viking 
 God to take out one of her "rival Gods". The controls are fairly easy to work, with no major flaws. 
 Combat is your standard hack and slash fare with the occasional spell thrown in for good measure. 
 The best thing about combat is sometimes your fighting multiple enemies, sometimes thousands. Never 
 playing any MMO's it was a real treat to start one of the many city battles for the first time 
 and see thousands of enemies as I had to make my way to the various shaman's and finally bosses 
 you had to take out to sack the city. Viking takes place on three main "worlds/cities", each with 
 towns, camps, and beaches to explore. There is quite a bit of running around to do, but warp points 
 make this a bit less tedious. All in all the game has a good level of difficulty and should take 
 15-30 hours depending on the speed at which you play thru. Replay value is nil, so if you buy it, 
 get it at a discounted price, and if you can you should be pleasantly surprised at this underrated 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionheart377
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Viking: battle for Asgard is first off a very good looking game. The visuals impressed me right 
 off the bat and continued to excited through out the game. Also, I found the combat to be extremely 
 responsive and satisfying, which is crucial due to the fact that you will be fighting though out 
 most of the game. If you love blood and gore, this game will also appeal to you. There are some 
 key problems that bring this game down though. Any music in the background is basicly absent, which 
 really makes it boring to travel thoughout the world. It may be pretty, but you have to do a lot 
 of walking, and it gets kind of depressing with no music. Also, the story is very bland and just 
 doesn't give you a large push to continue to play.
  
  Even with it's lack of music and bland story, viking is a fun game and a good experience for all 
 those hack n' slashers in need of a quick fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS34EVR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Great Game Definitely worth the $18.00 I paid for it it is a Simple Hack N Slash, like Beowulf 
 or Conan. Has a Better Story though. I wouldn't have paid full price for it though this is mainly 
 why I waited just like I waited for Conan and Beowulf to drop below or at $20. Fun to play and 
 some of the puzzles they make you do alone in the game are challenging, for instance I have to 
 sneak into a Fortress of I will call them goblins and destroy their barracks, very difficult because 
 I have to sneak in on the other side of the fort and work my way around the back then front to 
 get to the barracks. I find that most of the game looks great, some visual glitches here and there 
 but just normal ones you have seen elsewhere, and they only last a few seconds when they occur. 
 I have mine set on normal difficulty level there is no easy but there is a hard setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Likes_2_Spooge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Great game It is awesome fun & it costs around $44 dollars in Australia it is good fun & has great 
 game play but unfortuneatly it is pretty short & easy, but it does not spoil it is on my good games 
 list. It has three maps but it does'nt explain things very well soon you will find that you will 
 be puzzled for hours which at times is teeth grinding here are my stats out of 10.
  Gameplay:9
  graphics:5
  voice acting:6
  map size:6
  price:10
  story:4
  free world:10
 
  awesomness:8
  weapons:7
  blood:10
  therefore I give it 8.5 GREAT
  in conclusion it is awesome it's so awesome you won't believe how awesome it is. i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i l l l l l l l j j j j jj j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXJ0N0K3RXx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  
  I think the most dissapointing thing about Viking is what it could of been. A few extra months 
 of development you could of had a strong fast paced killer of a game which would satisfy even the 
 most blood thirsty of us.
  
  Alas what we received in the box next to the 12 page booklet was.... a 6 hour long bloodsplatter 
 on the walls of consoles. 
  
  Your start the game off with a small cutscene introducing Skaring (which is the protagonist in 
 this abortion) and the two gods Hel and Freia. You have fallen in battle and have been brought back 
 to life etc etc.
  
  Ok now the gameplay the first time i tapped the plastic button on my controller i was satisfyed 
 with ripping apart my first weird kind of undead thingy then after that............. WHERES THE 
 OTHER MOVES ok so youve got your ripping from the front and behind oh and you thing your in for 
 some epic boss battles try smashing them in the knees until you go into a tedious button pressing 
 squence.
  
  Now i have to give this game its merits, the graphics were very good a high standard for such a 
 bargain bin game ,there is also the blood but the best thing this game gives is during the big 
 battles it is very good to see thousands of men which earlier in the game youve had to free running 
 into crouds of undead thingys.
  
  The game itself soley constists of ----  Go here free people --------------  go here free some 
 more people its not fun or original sometimes there are some good bits such as ambushing a huge 
 advancing force outside a giant lighthouse .
  
  Hmm the difficulty is ok for most of it but at some parts you are just overwhelmed by the goblin 
 thingys so ill give it a hard
  
  I do strongly recommend you buy this game once it is below 5 it is worth that but for 6 hours 
 play dont pay anything more 
  
  Ive given this a 5.5
  
  3 for graphics
  2 for some entertaining battles
  .5 for guilty pleasures 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Viking battle for Asgard is a game that i waited to drop in price since i was never sure i was 
 going to enjoy it that much, eventually it did come down in price and I must say that I am glad 
 that i waited. Viking is not a overly bad game, it is just very bland and leaves you wondering 
 to yourself that if a little more time and effort was put in... could it have been awesome?
  
  The premise is great, free army friends and then lay a massive siege on an area of the map, 
 the battles are huge and epic, and by far the most fun part of the game, because the rest of the 
 time you are basically running around a lifeless island with no animals to be seen! 
  
  The combat is brutal, and great fun to watch at first, but it does get very repetitive and eventually 
 boring, with a deep combat system with clever enemies this experience could have been a blast but 
 instead it is dull at times, but since i am a sucker for a bit of hack and slash I must say i do 
 have a tendency to overlook the shallow combat at times.
  
  The graphics are nice at times, and even though there is a clear drop in frame-rate in the siege 
 fights you are expecting it and can overlook it almost. Its just a real shame that if a bit more 
 time and effort was put into the whole package then this game could have been up to the standards 
 of God of War and heavenly sword... maybe even surpassed them with the premise of war leader. Instead 
 we are left with an average game that is fun at times but could have been so much more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Viking is quite a good game despite the GS mediocre review. The story may not the kind of depth 
 you'd find in a Kingdom Hearts or Final Fantasy game but I think it's elegant in its simplicity. 
 Defeat the army of Hel, the Norse queen of the underworld, before she can bring about Ragnarok 
 - the end of the world. In Viking you play as Skarin, the champion of the Goddess Freya, and you 
 must help the other Vikings to amass their forces to fight back the forces of the Legion. 
  Unfortunately the first thing you'll find is that the graphics are sub-standard for a next-gen 
 console but fortunately looks aren't everything. The environments look quality although the same 
 can't be said for the characters whose mouths don't move when they speak.
  The combat system is simple enough. It's just really a button masher. However you do get other 
 weapons beside the sword and axe like throwing axes and fire pots. This game also has a stealth 
 element to it as well. When you're not in a huge battle and enemies are near Skarin crouches and 
 when you buy the skill from the ghost of Valhalla you can hack an enemy in half before they know 
 you're there. Now for the huge battles. In these huge battles there are literally hundreds of men 
 each side and the 360 and PS3 handle them both with ease. The battles are objective based but those 
 objectives are just kill the enemy shamans. To do that you either go after them yourself or kill 
 one of the big enemies and summon dragons to kill them with the eye of Asgard. 
  Well that's all I have to say about Viking - go forth and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Viking Battle for Asgard is the tale of Skarin, a warrior who has become the champion of Freya. 
 He battles way through Midgard, slashing apart literally thousands of the Hel's Legions.
  
  Seriously, you do slash apart thousands of soldiers. You start in the last open area of Midgard 
 and Freya suddenly appears out of nowhere and makes Skarin her champion. Then you start to retake 
 Midgard from Hel.
  
  There is basically no music during game play aside from the siege battles, and it gets really annoying. 
 You run across endless forests and up hills with only the foot steps of Skarin for music. There 
 is no sign of life in nothing but your own men. The graphics are okay, I don't know how to describe 
 it.
  
  Skarin is a pathetic character. We all assume he's a mute, as he literally says nothing in the 
 entire game except his screams that generate more power to the only weapons he has in the entire 
 game: his axe and sword. It never switches.
  
  Now, the most important part. The fighting. It's easy to see that the developers focused most of 
 their energy into combat. They hit it. You have so many moves and so many final death blows it's 
 overwhelming. Blood and guts fly everywhere when he lands a death blow to them.
  
  Some people call the missions repetitive. They are wrong. Lots of missions are mixed up. Lots of 
 times you must go find warriors who are hiding in caves or mountains. Lots of times you have to 
 go to quarries, distilleries, towers and other places. But it is sometimes mixed up and twists 
 are added. You'll see what I mean when you go to the cave in the mountains by the Longboat Graveyard.
 
  
  The siege is great. You control dragons and have to kill Shamans, Giants, and Legion Champions. 
 Battles are long and there are lots of soldiers after you, making Shaman killing hard but not to 
 hard.
  
  So Viking Battle for Asgard is far from perfect, but it's far from horrible. I bought it, but maybe 
 renting it would be better for a some people
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Brutal combat, beautiful visuals, epic battles
  
  CONS: You must do alot of repetative missions to get to those epic battles, no checkpoints, off 
 sounds, too much stealth for this type of game
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Viking: Battle for Asgard sounds like a game that would feature brutal fighting, massive battles, 
 and pillaging, right? Well, some of that is correct in some aspects.
  
  THE STORY revolves around a mute protaganist named "Skarin". He literally speaks nothing the entire 
 game and is summoned by the God Freya in order to help fight against Hel, the lord of the Underworld. 
 In truth, the story is very forgettable and will hardly keep your interest. And seriously, a God 
 wanting help from a mortal? Sounds almost like a God of War, but it doesn't even come close to 
 it.
  
  THE GRAPHICS look real good. All the environments look beautiful and the lighting effects all look 
 great. During the battles, chopping demons in half looks as gory as it should. You'll see internal 
 organs pouring out of the upper part of their body.
  
  THE SOUND is extremely off. First of all, the voice acting is decent. Its not bad, but its also 
 not that great. I also found that there were alot of things in the game that supported zero sound 
 at all, when it should of. And honestly, why is it that when you climb a netting, its the loudest 
 thing in the entire game? Also, there is no music at all during the game unless you are fighting 
 in a massive battle. So be prepared with your own soundtracks or get used to hearing only your 
 surroundings. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is where it stutters and shines all in one. Now, this game has some unique traits 
 to it. First, the game is indeed brutal. It features brutal takedowns that really show no mercy. 
 Plus, the actual fighting feels good. Hacking at enemies doesn't get old, and niether does chopping 
 their arms off and then finishing them off with a nice axe to the neck. However, this is where 
 it begins to stutter. It may have a good fighting system, however, the majority of your missions 
 require you to sneak into enemy territory to free your men. You heard it; sneak. Since when were 
 Vikings converted into ninjas? Last time I checked, I could've sworn Vikings were the ones who 
 ran into enemy territory directly through the front door taking them on directly. Not these Vikings. 
 In fact, if you try such a feat, you will about 90% of the time get killed. Which brings me to 
 my next point. When taking on an enemy base to free your men, you are granted with zero checkpoints. 
 So if you are on the verge of freeing your men, and then suddenly you get blindsidedly hit by an 
 unseen enemy and are killed, then you must restart from the very beginning. Its extremely frustrating, 
 and at times you feel as if you want to quit playing the game altogether. Also, these are Vikings 
 we are talking about, so why is there only one man freeing a bunch of other Vikings who are being 
 held prisoners in a cell with all of their weapons intact? And this is how all missions fare. They 
 are all revolving around freeing captured Vikings, to capturing Dragon gems to summon dragons to 
 help aid you in your cause. The dragons are only used in the massive battles. Now this here is 
 my favorite part of the game. Whenever you have acquired enough men to fight by your side, you 
 are able to launch an attack against an enemy stronghold. When its initiated, you partake in these 
 epic battles with hundred of enemies on screen. It really does feel epic, and feels as if your 
 guy is really there making a difference in this war. But when fighting in these battles, you experience 
 frequent slowdown. This is the way the game should've been however. It should've revolved more 
 around these massive battles, rather than having you spend all your time saving your own men.
 
  
  OVERALL Viking is decent. It has some really good qualities to it (epic battles, nice visuals, 
 good fighting system) , but its also obviously flawed (repetative missions, off sounds, frustrating 
 gameplay etc.) . Viking seems great when you first begin playing, but after awile, you will be looking 
 forward to the end. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  "A fierce struggle is taking place within Asgard, the realm of the Norse Gods. The battle has escalated, 
 spilling over to the mortal world of Midgard and now a Champion must be found, a warrior that can 
 sway this war, which threatens the fate of Asgard and the gods themselves. The Goddess Hel  daughter 
 of Loki, Norse god of mischief, has been banished from the heavenly kingdom of Asgard for defying 
 Odin's rule. 
  
  Angry at her fate, she seeks to release the ancient wolf-god Fenrir, which legend tells will bring 
 about Ragnarok - the apocalyptic battle that will destroy Asgard and the gods. With her army of 
 resurrected Viking warriors, Hel marches on the unsuspecting mortal realm of Midgard. Freya, Goddess 
 of war, is appointed the task of stopping Hel and defending the future of mankind. For her champion 
 she chooses Skarin, a great but troubled young warrior, ignorant of the true reason for his favour 
 with the Gods and thrust into the midst of their bitter war. As the player strikes down Hel she 
 screams, "You have not freed Midgard!"
  
  The player then sees Skarin asking for his place in Valhalla but is refused by Freya, causing Skarin 
 to release Fenrir and begin Ragnarok. A cutscene then states that, although the gods have been 
 destroyed and men now make their own decisions, the essence of the gods is nevertheless still present."
 
  
  That description of the story is taken from Wikipedia. The storytelling of this game is so down 
 right pathetic, that I never even knew the true story. I saw crappy still frame "cutscenes" depicting 
 wars with dragons and monsters, and a whole lot of text accompanied with derivative nord accented 
 speech, that said alot, but said NOTHING. This game basically has no story, so don't go into it 
 with a cool mythology story in mind. It doesnt deliver. 
  
  On to what you'll be doing constantly throught the game. The combat. Its very standard, brings 
 nothing new to the table, and becomes stale by hour 2, and mind numbingly, sleep inducingly repetitive 
 by hour 3. Theres a fair amount of gore and dismemberment that could satisfy any violence craving, 
 but you cant play it for long without wanting to lay down, pull up your sheets and teddy, and go 
 to bed. Its that bad. You can learn a few slightly interesting to watch moves at the Arena, and 
 attempt to improve your combat, but its like putting a band-aid on a bullet wound. Some context 
 and timing sensitive boss fights attempt to break things up, but to no avail. The only plus to 
 the combat is the sheer number of troops that can be on screen. It adds a bit of drama to the battles, 
 but once you actually start fighting, it gets boring again. 
  
  All of this joy takes place on three different, free to explore islands of Midgard. Treasure and 
 enemies are abound on these islands, but they're so small, that they wont keep you occupied long. 
 They are fairly detailed graphically, featuring fairly lush looking foliage, decent shadowing, 
 and nice terrain, but the complete lack of ambient life other than your drunken looking soldiers 
 once again leads to complete boredom. Sound design is also pathetic, and often time, actions arent 
 even accompanied by sound. I broke down countless gates, and slashed at hundreds of soldiers with 
 no sound effects at all. One plus, the game performs pretty much flawlessly. It keeps a very stable 
 framerate, even when the screen is covered with battling troops. 
  
  Over all, this game could have been good. It really could have. It had alot of possibility, but 
 the devs either rushed it, gave up, or were just.... terrible. Skip this game unless you get a 
 bad case of video game blood lust, and even at that, dont pay much to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke312
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  So in my local game and i see Viking for only 25, ive seen the adverts, and posters and some gameplay 
 and i thought to myself "HEY that looks fun a classic slash, smash game" so paid my 25 and drove 
 home feeling happy with my purchase and that it was gonna be a good day. 
  
  Booted up the game, intro swish yer, set up fine ok.... and then we get ingame well the graphics 
 are not amazing, very average but i thought ehh cant be picky its over all consoles. Do the tutorial 
 get into the game missions gettin into it but every missions thinkin.... uhh is this gonna get good. 
 
  
  The missions "go attack this, go get this, find this, help this, build an army (who cant fight 
 at all let me say) and in the end if was me vs 200 guys which really annoyed me. 
  
  The controls feel like there unresponsive and doing set moves such as cross, square, circle, cross 
 would do a comepltely different move to what u planned. The defend button was limited and couldnt 
 defend form all sides and stuck only facing forward so very vunerable from the back and side. 
 
  
  So by this point i wish i didnt buy this game as u kinda guessed from the title but i went on anyway 
 thinkin well.... hopeing it was gonna get better and no it didnt. and lookin at the character i 
 thought to myself he even looks fake i know there trying to make it "fantasy" but it looked like 
 a bloody dwarf with fur boots. 
  
  The only UPSIDE i really found to the game was the blood was pritty cool when u slashed someone 
 to bits however i thought the blood on conan was lot better espec ially when u took both the arms 
 off. 
  
  Anyway all in all. 
  
  The Good - Blood looks classy, some moves are cool, double swords/axe, big fights.
  
  
  The 
 BAD - Everything else... graphics, sound, controls, voices, characters, missions, gameplay, far 
 to fantasy, a disgrace to a viking to be perfectly honest. 
  
  If u want a cool slash em, smash em, dash em game get ninja gaiden everything is right about that 
 game you feel like a ninja, responsive and cool moves and weapons! 
  
  SCORE 4.5 
  
  If you see this for 25 say NO
  If u see this for 15 say NO
  If u see this for 5 say No
 
  NEVER BUY THIS GAME 
  
  Luke312
  
  PS - went back next day, took it back to the same guy in game and he said "i kinda expected you 
 to come back... faulty disc... dear oh dear ;) " 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rchase320
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  "Viking: Battle for Asgard", starts out ok, but that's all the further it goes - ok. If mediocrity 
 is what the developers had their sights on, then they nailed it. 
  The entire game can be summed up all in the first couple hours of play. Talk to the townsfolk, 
 wander about finding randomly scattered captives, release them, summon your army to defeat the 
 local Legion scum. Rinse, and repeat. 
  
  As far as the graphics are concerned, I would rate them good, but not great. I say this only because 
 I played the ps3 version. Maybe I have my standards set too high after player other titles of higher 
 quality graphics. 
  
  I will say that the idea of the game seems very appealing to me. I just think that the developers 
 went the wrong way about bring the idea into reality ( or as close as video games come to reality 
 ) .
  
  On the plus side, the game has plenty of blood, and some nice, gory finishers.
  
  All in all, I feel like this game was a let-down, over-hyped, and not worth the time I spent playing 
 ( or the cost of buying for that matter ) . If you absolutely must play Viking, please rent it first. 
 You'll be glad you did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  bottom line is if your a fan of conan you will love this game. a little repetitive at times, in 
 all a wonderful game though. it takes about twenty hours to beat getting all the upgrades and the 
 replay value is a little low. however on a personal note i loved this game and it definitely is 
 a diamond in the rough when it comes to critics. it is an action adventure to the core that i could 
 not stop playing for days. now if you love conan then i know you feel the same way and conan was 
 to short so this is a little more then three times as long. the battle sequences are absolutly 
 beautiful. when they have a thousand opponents on screen at one time there is no lagging what so 
 ever. not everyone may feel the same way i do but we definitly need many more games like this to 
 keep our blood seeking adventurous selves on the edge of our seats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtheripper
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  THE SUM UP: Okay, so you must rid the world of Evil, from Hordes of undead to armies of men. You 
 get to gather up some help by freeing captured soliders and calling in 'air strikes' with Dragons. 
 All the While Choping limbs off and running to and fro. Fun? or Repetive?
  
  GRAPHICS: Its very good, not brilliant, but the graphics will in the midst of the BIG battles, 
 will make you wish you could slow down time and enjoy the beautiful chaos.
  
  SOUND: By and by this is a weakness that I took for granted in most other games. Because thier 
 is very little of it in this game!!! Sure you get the music pumping for the Battles. You also get 
 some while talking and moving ingame dialogue. But for the mostpart, while your travelling around 
 to and from points of interest youll hear nothing... not even a repeating soundtrack. Very odd, 
 since i bought the Collectors Edition which came with a musical CD... But I wouldve liked to have 
 listened to something other than my padded leather feet running around to be honest. Lackluster.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Now you will either buy this game based on this alone. And unfortunatley I have to compare 
 this game to 2 others to make this a worthwhile choice for you. Ninja Gaiden and Conan. Those were 
 the other Hack and Slash games I owned before settling with Viking.
  Viking is easier than Gaiden to Play. Viking has more indepth than Conan (IE: Calling in Dragons, 
 Army Battles) Okay, I am happy with Viking over both Conan and Gaiden myself. Just from those two 
 points. I mean Gaiden I just couldnt enjoy due to its difficulty. Conan just felt more repetitive 
 after awhile to me. 
  While Viking is easier to play, you also have a mini inventory to use as well, from throwing axes 
 to health vials. Which to me is a good thing. The battles are big to watch, and ultimately the 
 real reason to get this game. There are times the Camera gives you a dum angle, and yes there is 
 sometimes lagg due to the HUGE number of characters on screen. Most times youll be by yourself 
 freeing soliders to join your army (the quests) and then attack a stronghold (end of mission) . 
 This Chemistry works well and does a good job of keeping you interested. Although the to and Fro' 
 to getting to the quests and back to get your 'pat on theback to do another' does get to be the 
 same.
  
  REPLAY / VALUE: So would you want to play this game again? Not entirely. Sure you could do some 
 of the quests in a differnt order. Try a differnt tactic in the Big Battles, as in NOT using Dragons.... But 
 I think one dose of this game might be enough for awhile. I think its a good enough game to have 
 around when you want to Button Mash for a few minutes, but ultimately this game wont have you coming 
 back for more.
  
  CLOSING: Gaiden too tough to enjoy? Conan not fulfiling enough? I can eaily suggest Viking. You 
 cant fault is gameplay, its the same as the others. But the extra little things you can do does 
 add in some quality to the game that is great to see. Sure it does have some Camera viewing issues, 
 no music, and sometimes long walks to destinations, But it is a game that grows on you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Viking seems to get the short end of the stick with critics. The game has it issues like any other 
 game. Although of the many poor reviews its overall not a bad game. There is no other game like 
 it right now. With the bloody and grotesque battle scenes. With all the arm and dismemberment of 
 other body parts. It also has excellent cinematic camera once your doing the killings. Once you 
 enter one of the masive battles the frame rate becomes very poor and almost depressing to play 
 at that point. The game also seems to get extremely hard at points where you get stuck fighting 
 hordes of creatures by yourself. Unlike some other games like Dynasty Warriors you cant really 
 take on an entire army without help. The fighting itself is more hack and slash but you can use 
 some strategy if you want the fighting to look cooler. Overall the game isnt as bad as many say 
 but is still a dissapointment to me mainly because of the hype Gamespot gave it and how it didnt 
 meat my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Hey everyone.
  
  I'm about to review a game, that i can't quite figure out how to describe.
  
  The game is called 
 Viking, and you play as a big fella called Skarin, that is killed in battle, but revied to save 
 his homelands, and fellow vikings. It's quite a poor story but i will get into that.
  
  Sometimes i'm really entertained by it, but other times i can't help but think how stupid it is, 
 and how much without value it is.
  
  Graphics is very very strange, the in-game graphics is quite beautiful, but it could have been 
 done on a playstation 2 or Xbox just as well. Specially in the movie sequences i get cracked up... 
 i mean when the characters talk, their mouth dosn't move, and i cant believe i'm playing this on 
 the PlayStation 3.
  
  It feels very edgy, and squared the graphics, actually it's kinda awkward, and in some ways it 
 annoys me, so i'll just skip the movie sequences (and that's not good if you want the story) But 
 some of the movies is actually quite entertaining, whenever they use the "paint" like movies, in 
 which you only see pictures, and not a film, and that's very interresting, and not without value. 
 Also, i'm not sure, but it really sounds like Ian Mckellen (Gandalf from LotR) is narrating in 
 these movies, which can be too much if you ask me, cause it is not that great.
  
  Anyways, voice acting is of very poor value, specially when it comes to Skarin - cause he does 
 not talk! Only "HEEYAA!" and "UGH" is the two things he can say, and to be honost, i liked for 
 the main characters in a game to talk...
  
  What cracked me up mostly, was the fact that everyone in this universe seem to be talking scottish... 
 now i'm danish, and know alot about vikings, and tha't's also because it is in my interrest, but 
 i do recall vikings, coming from Denmark, Sweden, and Norway, and they robbed and raped everyone 
 in the UK, so why the hell do they talk with a scottish accent, and not scandinavian? It is really 
 alot of fun.
  
  The rest of the "cast" is no better, it contains alot of flaws, and is just all around the place, 
 which is very annoying.
  
  The controls is easy, and you will learn the basics within a few minutes. Combat is actually quite 
 entertaining, and the small features like "grab an enemy and totally kick his ass just by pressing 
 square" is really awesome, or the "Continue pressing O untill the enemy is **** smashed" is also 
 quite nice. But you might get abit bored by it after you have done it 800 times... You use your 
 axe (which is the fast weapon, but less dmg dealing) or your sword (very slow, and i mean VERY 
 slow, but effective... even though axe is much better) in combat... but you an purchase magics, 
 and throwing axes and stuff like that... The throwing axes is actually quite powerfull and can 
 kill some enemies in one hit, and of course you can only hold 10 throwing axes... which is ridicoulus.
 
  
  You can also use dragons in the big wars... cause appearently Vikings believed in dragons...
 
  
  Now when i say "big war" i mean big war, and that's the plus about this game, you get to go into 
 huge fights, which is alot of fun, but of no matter, as the enemies usually is just a great wall 
 against your main target.
  
  The gameplay is of poor value, but it can be entertained, and it is quite a long game, which is 
 very good if you actually find yourself enjoying this game. I would say: I believed the hype about 
 it, which was a mistake, but i dont regret buying it, as it is still really good to play if you 
 ned a pause from something difficult in another game, or you just wanna have some fun.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I read the Gamespot review and I thought hey, it has good violence so I'll rent it. And I did.... they 
 was right there is SO MUCH BLOOD! Which is great and it has very nice combos when you kill some 
 of the boss'es but the boss'es arent like a puzzle or anything which is disappointing. All you did 
 was block a shot then attack and repeat. So yeah it gets really repetitive after a while. The story 
 isn't very compelling, but it will keep you going for a little bit. The story is kinda long maybe 
 about four days then you'll beat it. But the real thing that shines in this game is the brutal battles 
 at the end of. well I guess you could say levels, there are huge battles with hundreds of people 
 on your side and hundreds on your side and meet and absolutely destroy each other... ITS GREAT! Also 
 there is a pretty good bit of lag during those battles but you have to understand how hard it probably 
 was to put all those on screen. The Shaman battles are really fun too, it does'nt get old chopping 
 there arms off then there head. The graphics are really smooth also. But all in all you violent people 
 need to rent this to see the brutal kills and nice button mashing sequences.
  
  My real score:7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Wow, Gamespot really gave "Viking" a pretty unfare shafting. Is the game repetative? Yes, no doubt 
 about that. Is the game fun though? Absolutely!!! 
  
  I cautiosly rented "Viking" not expecting much after reading the harsh reviews. I popped it in 
 & to my surprise played pretty much all weekend straight. I was hooked at that point & went & bought 
 the game before it was even time to return my rental. The game won't win any awards for graffics 
 & there's not a whole lot to the story, but I garuntee you'll love every minute of it. Another 
 problem is the slow down during the big battles at the end of each level. That is kinda lame, but 
 considering what's happening on the screen it's realy not that much of a surprise. Bottom line 
 I guess, if you're looking for something fun to pass the time, this is your game. It won't by any 
 means win any awards, but it will definately keep you busy for awhile. Anyone who got into Conan, 
 GOW, or any Dynasty/Samurai Warriors will definately enjoy this title. This is absolutely worth 
 a rental for anyone & I think most that try it will wind up adding it to their collection. Give 
 it a shot & I'm positive you'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3fan18
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay the idea of "viking" automaticlly catches your eye right? Well, although there is alot of 
 good things going for it, Its still a total FAIL. The story line as you first start out is really 
 confusing, ..... Anyway this viking game is not all it is cracked up to be. like i said before it 
 is really confusing. You watch a 2D beginning cinematic that has a narrator that sounds like he 
 is coughing on a friggin goat when he talks. It is hard to believe that they want 60$ for a game 
 like this.
  
  
  But, on the other hand it has nice visuals. Also the blood is satysfying (up to a point) and it 
 seems that they really tried to make it feel your in the time of the Vikings. The concept of having 
 two weapons and completly malicing your opponents is pretty worth it.
  
  On the multiplayer side........ WAIT there is no multiplayer side! That is just another reason it 
 bombed. 
  
  On the campaign side it has a confusing storyline and it is narrated by some kind of weirdo that 
 i could have sworn i have heard in a cartoon before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milsvaard
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I rented the game on Saturday and finished it by the end of the weekend, it has several shortcomings 
 but I actually enjoyed playing it. I feel the score given in GS is not fair, I mean, it kept me 
 interested and entertained enough to see it through to the end.
  
  This game is far from perfect, far from great actually, but even with all its flaws it's actually 
 fun... sometimes.
  
  The cool thing about the game is that you're in a open world where you're free to tackle the different 
 missions in the order you see fit. You basically go around freeing some soldiers that are kept 
 imprisoned in cages on different settlements or camps around the map, every soldier you free joins 
 your army and this goes on until you have the certain amount of soldiers to assault a stronghold 
 or castle. There are other objectives you need to achieve before you attack the stronghold too 
 like summoning dragons or upgrading your weapons.
  
  The cool thing about this is that you can pretty much decide how you're going to go through with 
 the rescue, you'll either sneak around and kill the guards off one by one or just dive face first 
 into the action risking being overwhelmed by the enemy, although the sneaking around sounds cool 
 (and slicing monsters in half when they have their backs turned to you is fun) it doesn't seem 
 the focus of the game. Also, the assault on the castles are freaking sweet, fighting alongside 
 hundreds of ally soldiers against hundreds of enemies is pretty coo.
  
  The combat is a mixed bag, since the combos are not that intuitive, you basically can go through 
 the game with the basic X mashing combo but you can buy some combos that are actually useful, although 
 you'll pretty much the same combos to get through every battle.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty inconsistent, your character is very detailed but the environment 
 doesn't share as much detail, certain textures just look down right ugly. The other problem with 
 the graphics happens when you assault the enemy stronghold with your massive army, as you might 
 expect, the PS3 (and I hear the same problem exist on the 360) just can't handle the amount of 
 soldiers on screen so the frame rates drop considerably in these situations.
  
  Finally, the most annoying thing about the game is the camera, you see, since it's positioned so 
 close to your character (to display the graphical detail no doubt) it's sometimes difficult to 
 see where the blows are coming from, many times you're in the middle of a devastating combo when 
 some jerk comes up behind you and hits you in the back of the head, and this happens all the time 
 and is especially frustrating in the end mission.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game has its flaws but it's actually fun, perhaps it's not worth 60 bucks 
 but at least you'll get a good weekend out of it. And did I mention that there are finishing moves? 
 Well.... there are finishing moves and they are fun and visceral, can't get tired of doing those.
 
  
  Rent it.
  
  Cheers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I spent roughly 14 hours altogether on this game with just rental.
  I'll give a breif summary of my first 6 hours.
  hour-1. amazed by the beautiful if somewhat lifeless 
 enviorment.
  hour-2. still having fun learning the combat and combo's.
  hour-3. alittle confused on the story and seeing the start of repetition.
  hour-4 beggining my 
 first major battle, impressed by how many people are on screen at once, this might not be so bad.
 
  hour-5 the monotony of repetion beggining to set in. (what the hell is going on?)
  hour-6 asleep in my chair.
  This is pretty much the gist of this game go kill a few zombies that 
 really dont fit in with norse mytholigy, over and over and over again.
  Graphics are good and at their best in battle showing off all the gory goodness. The sound is.. uh... is 
 there sound?
  gameplay consists of hacking and slashing which is fun at first but gets stale and old real fast. 
 The controls are actually the highpoint, combat is easy and fun without being monotonous. the development 
 team tried to mix it up a bit by adding some platform and stealth elements which fall short of 
 being anything more than annoying. the story which i was pretty hyped up about, myself being really 
 interested in vikings and norse mytholigy was completely dissapointed. about 8 hours in on my playthrough 
 i really no longer cared about the story by that point. all in all this game was not bad, unfortunately 
 it wasnt good either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogtravisc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Look the game lagged a little here and there. Thats not a surprise considering at some points in 
 the game there would be up to 1000 or so characters on the screen. Ok so down to the meat and potatoes. 
 If your a real man you will love the gruesome combos and decapitations. The fact of the matter 
 is, the game looks great. The environment was very pleasing and you could travel just about anywhere. 
 That was probably the best part. Looking around the whole place making sure that you found everything. 
 There was no music, and overall the sound was less gratifying then say oblivion. To be fair though 
 the ambiance i thought was very nice and i have a large high def TV with Dolby sound so I'm not 
 really worried about cranking it up a few notches. The three islands in the game had there very 
 own distinct feel and were all very nicely done. Sega if you do get a hold of this review know 
 that its not all bad. I played the game straight through and didn't find myself bored at any moment. 
 One thing i could say was that when you kill things life giants and bosses with the same combo 
 of buttons every time it does get kinda of annoying and less rewarding, But beside that it thought 
 they were done fairly well. 
  All in all the game was a lot of fun and if another comes out. Guess what. Im gonna tear in to 
 some orcs again and totally destroy another goddess while she's in a giants body. Because thats 
 the kinda thing i live for. Anyway if you really like a game thats involved but not so involved 
 you spend 100 hours on it, and dream about it every night . Well look no further.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  There are plenty of video games based on Norse mythology, some of them are good, most of them are 
 bad. Fortunately, Viking: Battle for Asgard is in the former column. Viking successfully combines 
 a free-roaming world with some good ol' fashion undead slaying to create a great, gruesome and 
 grimacing experience.
  
  Viking's main selling point is the free-roaming world which adds a tactical depth to an otherwise 
 bland exterior. And while this free-roaming world may seem like a novelty that would soon wear 
 off, Viking: Battle for Asgard manages to be an enjoyable experience from start to finish, without 
 overstaying it's welcome.
  
  This "Battle for Asgard" isn't exactly a battle for Asgard, though. It's actually a battle for 
 Midgard. The mute hero of the story, Skarin, has been appointed by the goddess Freya to help clear 
 Midgard of the undead Legion who are under Hel's command. The relationship between these characters 
 isn't expanded on very much, and by the end of the game you'll be just as unemotionally attached 
 to them as you were at the start of the game. The main chunk of the story is explained throughout 
 some neat artistic slideshows that occur at the beginning of each chapter.
  
  The world of Migard is separated into three different islands, each island represents one chapter. 
 During your stay on each island you'll be given certain tasks to complete which will increase your 
 army numbers. These tasks range from liberating villages from the Legion to doing mundane fetch 
 quests from the ungrateful soldiers whos life you saved. Well, these tasks would be mundane if 
 it wasn't for the terrifically awesome combat system.
  
  Hacking limbs off, decapitating and slicing the Legion in half is surprisingly satisfying and easy 
 to do. There are always new abilities to purchase at the training arena on each island. Getting 
 money is quite simple. You can find mead and sell it to the local tavern owner, or you can find 
 it laying around the world or in villages. Unfortunately, money is too plentiful and this can lead 
 to huge spending sprees and not worrying about running out of money. You can buy health potions, 
 bombs or even runes to power up your weapons.
  
  The aforementioned tactical element integrates itself into the free-roaming world. When trying 
 to liberate a highly fortified camp or village, you can approach from any angle, sneaking your 
 way around and taking the enemy out one by one, instead of alerting every enemy in the vicinity 
 of your whereabouts, which often leads to death.
  
  Oh, did I not mention that Viking has an awesome sneaking element? It's no Splinter Cell, but compared 
 to other action games the stealth elements are really top notch. You can sneak through enemy encampments 
 undetected if you're good. But when you're spotted you'll need to quickly dispose of the enemy 
 before he can alert other Legion soldiers.
  
  Once you've accumulated enough friendly soldiers, you can start a large scale battle with literally 
 hundreds of enemies on screen. Dragons zoom through the skies, Legion group in their hundreds and 
 tear apart anything in their path. There aren't any framerate drops during these battles, but everything 
 goes in slow motion. This isn't enough to ruin the battle, but it is a minor annoyance. Unfortunately, 
 these battles are all too similar. Find and kill the enemy shamans to stop them reviving enemy 
 troops, kill some of the larger enemies then get your shaman to rid the land of the Legion. Once 
 you've done all three large scale battles this all amounts to an extremely underwhelming ending.
 
  
  As long as you're not playing for the story, Viking: Battle for Asgard delivers an action packed, 
 gory and entertaining experience throughout all of the 15 hours it lasts. Luckily it's free-roaming 
 world and stealth elements give it alot more depth than an ordinary hack 'n' slash game. Viking: 
 Battle for Asgard breaks the growing trend of bad Norse mythology games, and brings us something 
 fresh. Something unique. Something so grotesquely, ass-kickingly awesome that it just warrants 
 a playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets start:
  Viking: Battle for Asgard takes place during VIKING TIMES (suprised?) and is mainly focused on 
 Norse Mythology. You play as a norse warrior named Skarim, who was killed in a battle for his home 
 village but then ressurected by the Goddess Freya. She informs him of Hel and her doings, trying 
 to bring about the End of the world, and like any gaming protagonist, Skarim is really pissed off 
 about it, even though he doesn't show alot of emotion. SO Freya makes him her champion by giving 
 him a bracelet, which gives him superhuman strength and such. Skarim must overthrow the legions 
 of Hel on three large islands with the help of his Viking Kin.
  
  The storyline does sound pretty interesting, but soon, you won't really care what it's about and 
 will most likely lose your way. Sure the maps are big and you can free roam, but there's NOTHING 
 to do when free roaming. no random towns to enter, no random killing of citizens. NOTHING but admire 
 the scenery and kill Undead soldiers. Now it's not all THAT bad, you'll be focused on story missions. 
 Oh did i not mention the fact that there are no side quests? well yea, there are none. The game 
 makes you travel ALOT, walking back and forth back and forth, but the designers put these portals 
 in the game so you can teleport to other portals around the world to lower traveling time. 
  Just like God of War, the game offers a number of different combos and specials. But unlike god 
 of war, you have to buy the skills from Battle Arenas. Oh the game is VERY gorey by the way, fatalities 
 result in limbless and decapitated torsos, or a torso less body, AND MORE. Skarim also has three 
 elemental magic attacks available: Fire, Ice and Electric. each one is unique and when activated 
 it gives nearby friendlies the same effect it has on you. Ice is probably the most effective because 
 once you hit a guy, they freeze and another hit will shatter them. The game doesn't really have 
 bosses, they're more like big units the enemy will throw at you from time to time and will take 
 more damage than the usual legion soldier, and when weakened, you can access God of War like minigames 
 to complete your kill, but the button placement for these minigames aren't very well placed, i 
 mean, the button pressing doesn't really match the action going on. 
  However, the game does have a very very very strong point, and that is the bloody epic battles 
 going on. But to get to these, you have to do a lot of repetitive missions, saving Viking Kins 
 men from undead or taking back a town. 
  Well anyways, once you've completed certain objectives you can then attack major landmarks on the 
 certain island you are on. These battles are Peter Jackson worthy, Dragons you summon will rain 
 hell onto the battlefield when you kill certain enemies to get DRAGONSTONES which will be used 
 to actually attack with the dragon. Then the hacking and the slashing begins, but the battles are 
 TOO linear, most of the time you have to kill two Shamans in order to move on, or you can just 
 sit back and hack at an infinite amount of undead. I mean, its not THAT bad, but it's not good 
 either. 
  At the end of each battle, a boss usually shows up for a one on one showdown, you usually win, 
 most of the time anyways.
  
  The sound on this game is great, i love the sound of metal meets flesh,. but sometimes, the game 
 can be stubborn and lack of audio will be present, no music during free roaming is pretty boring, 
 hardly ever will you hear any music until you get into a big battle. Oh and the framerate drops 
 significantly during these big battles, ruining the experience. Did i mention the bad camera? sometimes 
 the camera will move so that a big tree will get in your way and your perfect dodge will end in 
 tragedy.
  
  Im not saying the game is bad, but its not good either, It would be GREAT if some of these problems 
 were fixed, and im sure that a sequel will make it better. I would reccommend this game for those 
 who like Gore Fests and Lord of The Rings, lol. 
  But overall, don't waste your money on a game that you probably won't touch
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0achB0MB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Excellent game, it was slow at the beginnigng, but once i started getting into it.. it changed 
 my opinion on the game completely! I started playing and by the time i was done on that day, I 
 was 4 hours into the game. It just took over. I loved it, quite challenging at some points, and 
 needs alot of tactical manouvers at certain points. It is a change in ps3 games, but i do recommend 
 the game. Graphics arent the greatest, but storyline and gameplay are awesome! Umm, if you were 
 into Zelda style games, then this is for you! The only downfall is that it's not online. Would 
 have been sweet if you could slaughter each other online, with different characters, but hey, games 
 arent perfect. But like i said, if you were a zelda fan, get it!, Slaughtering barbarians is one 
 my my past times now.. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  sure, it can be repetitive.. but who cares?!
  it never gets tiring fighting those bad guys - its so satisfying when you fight off a few of them 
 near a prison where your men are, and then you excecute a few of those fantastically ridiculous, 
 wonderfully gruesome over the top finshing moves!
  they also seem to fall back and take hits quite realistically, and the graphics and gore are briliant
 
  
  as for those final battles - WOW
  the gamespot review said something about them being really easy and all the same, and that theyre 
 easy you just run and kill the shaman straight away. thats completely missing the point... DONT 
 kill the shamans.. keep fighting for ages and ages hacking away at hundreds of enemies, enjoying 
 the carnage and those finishers even more! you die, but then you run back in again, just to enjoy 
 prolonged, gruesome, intense combat on a scale most games cant match. just watch as your men fight 
 off the enemy... theyll battle each other so well.. they do combos on each other, then one might 
 lose his sword, so they start wrestling each other and struggling! they do so many different moves, 
 for that many AI to be fighting like that its pretty impressive.
  
  its just like spartan total warrior, the WHOLE POINT is that combat is easy and repetitive. you 
 can enjoy the hack and slash and the brilliant finishers, but when your thumb gets tired of pressing 
 the X button after an hour or so, theres an easy objective so you can finish quickly when you want.
 
  
  and i love those minigames where you fight the big bosses... where you have to tap different buttons 
 and he jumps on them and dodges and all that heroic stuff.. its like watching lord of the rings 
 sometimes! with all the fighting going on around you too, AWESOME.
  
  and stealthily sneaking round and encampment taking out th earchers before you charge in to surprise 
 the grunts in the middle with a flame pot. great fun.
  
  yes the stroyline kinda sucks, and maybe it is missing side quests.. but that doesnt matter.. the 
 immense combat makes up for it big time.
  
  BUY ITTTTT
  =)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaggymaconline
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I thought it would be lame and boring! So I decided to test 
 drive it using my GameFly account! The game was fun, addictive and worth playing! I even went out 
 to my local game shop and bought myself a copy! The levels are fun and challenging.
  
  Sometimes you feel as if you're going thru the same motions again and again but every now and then 
 you are pleasantly surprised with something new and challenging!
  
  You'll need to master your skills and get ready to battle hordes of enemies swarming at you from 
 all directions!
  
  The game has awesome breathtaking graphics and the controls are REALLY EASY to learn and master! 
 I wish the game made use of the 6 axis controller. I also wish that the game was multiplayer (2 
 people on the same system or over the network) . 
  
  If you love vikings as much as I do then you know that you're going to "NEED" this game!
  
 
  Blizzard.. if you're reading this then PLEASE RELEASE THE LOST VIKINGS (with updated graphics, 
 music and story line)
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  It has some good gameplay, but not so good storyline. its starts like this :
  The character you play as, is called skarin a warrior chosen by freya.
  He is an resurrected 
 viking warrior choosen to lead the battle against Hel`s forces (undead vikings) .
  Hel has been banned from vallhalla and seek revenge. Thats were you step in and all the nice cool 
 stuff comes.
  
  Of course the game does feel like a bit similer too God of War ,but ,Vikings just seem too get 
 a bit old and reppetive .Graphics are kinda nice, you might attracted ,but it does glitch sometimes.
 
  
  THERE`S BLOOD !! Alot, so if you`re hungry, you might wanna hack someones head off with tha combat.
 
  
  stuff in tha game:
  
  There are 3 huge islands you can explore and rescue vikings to fight
  with you. All islands you 
 will see cities and villages and camps for your army.
  The graphics is pretty good, and the blood and chopping of arms legs and heads is pretty satisfying. 
 Its very simple to attack: there is fast attack and strong attack wich you can use to make combos 
 (if you hit the x button when you are near an enemy you will execute him) .
  
  There are huge epic battles with hundreds of on screen warriors.
  
  All in all agood action/adventure 
 hack n slash game, but i goota stay that it was fast and gets old quickly. Still its good, i suggest 
 for a rent thou.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Some will love it and some will hate it but this game delivers an entertaining if not strategic 
 and intense game play.
  I thought the game play was smooth, exciting, and most importantly, fun. I must admit that I am 
 really shocked at your low rating of a game that I feel is worthy of a much higher rating. I don't 
 like games that are difficult to play, I enjoy a game where I don't have to think, I just have 
 to react.
  The system lacks a target your enemy lock which make one want it when facing multi enemies or you 
 will be swing alot at air and at times over all it just seemed a bit clunky, maybe slow.
  However, battles are HUGE! These battles are by far the best part of the game. There is so much 
 going on and it is just kind of mind blowing and if done a little better this could have been a 
 truly next gen master piece. The game also has a lot of gore when killing the undead Vikings which 
 is always a good thing.
  Saying all that it is still a fun game if you have a weekend with nothing to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shodarkhorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Some will love it and some will hate it but this game delivers an entertaining if not strategic 
 and intense gameplay similar to the likes of sega's other masterpiece series the total war series.
 
  
  Bigger characters
  
  Face hundreds of legions at once and hope you survive.
  
  wicked graphics that pay a sort of homage to Fable.
  
  build your army by freeing your men 
 and others trapped by the enemy to grow an army then lead them into battle against the hordes of 
 enemies protecting castles and villages.
  
  Wage war in true next gen open ended lands.
  
  Master the skills necessary to bring hel to her knees.
  
  Decapitating finishers even conan 
 would be proud of.
  
  For all intent purposes if you like watching ACTUAL armies march across the planes of medival fantasy 
 like terrains and be able to do battle in over a hundred or more soldiers at one time on screen. 
 If you want blood and gore that is not just for the sake of blood and gore with simplistic gameplay 
 and controls that do ruin the fun. If you want to be a total badass and kill your enemies solid 
 snake style while trodding upon enemy camps and getting away with each kill which takes a lot of 
 practice and patience.
  
  Then Viking will fill the void for a good while.
  
  If you want epic storylines with hollywood style scripts and voiceacting befitting a true epic 
 cinematic gaming experience....
  
  Then viking will fill in all of the other stuff before it but lets face it...
  Skarin is not 
 Kratos in any way nor is his game... but try it and don't be surprised when you find yourself clocking 
 in a good 12 to 14 hours or more on this game alone.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhezekim
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I guess I am one of those gamers who enjoy a good game where you just go around hacking and killing 
 things. I woke up on Sunday morning planning to play it for a couple of hours. I kept telling myself 
 just one more quest, or one more boss kill and before I knew it six hours had gone by. I must admit 
 that my eyes hurt from the graphics after six hours of non-stop play so I recommend taking breaks. 
 I would have rated this game an 8 for graphics, game playability, ease of playing the game, meaning 
 that it does not take a rocket scientist to figure out how to find the hidden areas in the game. 
 I thought the game play was smooth, exciting, and most importantly, fun. I must admit that I am 
 really shocked at your low rating of a game that I feel is worthy of a much higher rating. I don't 
 like games that are difficult to play, I enjoy a game where I don't have to think, I just have 
 to react. Maybe that sounds boring to a lot of you but give me a break please, I'm 50 years old 
 and I enjoy the simple things in life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einstruzende
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  "Viking" is "Assassin's Creed" lite. 
  
  1. Big worlds you can explore, but with no real interaction? Check. 
  2. Combat that revolves 
 around you getting surrounded by enemies? Check.
  3. However #2 is no problem once you master a couple moves? Check.
  4. Missions that are similar 
 throughout the game? Check.
  
  With those similarities, why is "Viking" "Assassin's Creed" lite? Basically it comes down to a 
 couple points.
  
  1. Detail of the explorable world. "Assassin's Creed" has absolutely amazing detail, and for the 
 most part is set in urban environments, whereas "Viking" is primarily set in the forest, and in 
 smallish Viking towns.
  
  2. Story. For me, story isn't such a big deal (neither are lyrics to a song) . However, it's pretty 
 clear that the story "Assassin's Creed" was fleshed out a little better. I suppose this is because 
 Ubisoft intended "Assassin's Creed" to be a franchise title, whereas "Viking" seems to be more 
 of a one off game.
  
  "Viking" was an enjoyable game if you don't mind games of the hack and slash variety, and on Normal 
 difficulty someone with basic skills shouldn't have trouble with the game. The world is well done, 
 and even though the only point of exploring is to find gold or mead, I still felt compelled to 
 explore. 
  
  Some of the big battles suffer from frame rate problems (PS3 version) , but outside of that the 
 game ran well.
  
  If 15 hours of game play is good enough, and you don't need a complex story to be entertained, 
 then by all means try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpremus
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  the game has really good graphic, the sounds of the game are ok, the game play is short. The system 
 lacks a target your enemy lock which make one want it when facing multi enemies or you will be 
 swing alot at air. Combos are ok when you can land them on the enemy. After going to the last stage, 
 you basically know that you are going to be doing the same repetitive thing. IF you just want to 
 dice up some flesh and like Norse mythology then this is a game you might enjoy. I did notice that 
 the PS3 version doesn't have the unlockables like that of the XBOX so you don't know where you 
 beat all the elements of the game. It basically a go through the motions game. I have just beaten 
 the normal difficulty, if starting to play this game go to hard because I think it will give more 
 challenge and more gameplay. I paid $60 for a weekend. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GermanFizzle08
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  I went out and bought this game the day it came out, and while I liked it, I have to admit I was 
 a bit disappointed. I feel that this game is a cross of Spartan: Total Warrior, and God of War. 
 It is not even close to being better than God of War, but is fun nonetheless. The story is a little 
 confusing, but then again I played it for a couple hours a night after I got off work, so it might 
 make more sense if played in one sitting. The ending is either bad or it calls for a sequel, I 
 will leave it to you to decide. The graphics are average for a next-gen system. The game play is 
 repetitive, but then again most games are. I never had a problem with the game lagging during the 
 battles but did see a few graphical glitches during them (such as the character disappearing while 
 taking out a giant during its final moments) . And the battles are HUGE! These battles are by far 
 the best part of the game. There is so much going on and it is just kind of amazing. The game also 
 has a lot of gore when killing the undead Vikings. I think that this game could have been something 
 truly special if it was given some more time in development, but it is still a fun game if you 
 have a weekend with nothing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyvor
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Viking is definately worth picking up your PS3 controller for a while, though it does have it's 
 rough-spots. I read another review on this game, a less than complimentary one, where the reviewer 
 commented on the odd next-gen shine that appears to be everywhere, and I would agree with this 
 point, having seen these odd, very dark-looking graphics in a few games now, such as Conan and 
 Lair, and, ultimately, it just makes things plain hard to see.
  
  Aside from that, the game is mostly fun, if a little simple for a supposedly next gen game. The 
 lack of any really interesting combat mechanics makes kills seem to be the same over and over again, 
 but that could have been forgiven if the game had been split-screen multiplayer, which I've no 
 doubt the PS3 could have handled easily, since there are hundreds involved in the big battle scenes 
 as it is.
  
  Not sure it was worth the high price tag, but definately worth renting, or eventually picking up 
 from a bargain bin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Boy, is this ever the game for you, if you dig "olde" school, brutal hack n' slash games, with 
 a smattering of stealth and strategy that also let's you complete the game at your own pace due 
 to having open world exploration. While not being completely polished and lacking in the animation 
 department, what makes this game truly shine, is that it completely rewards you with some truly 
 epic battles that are like clashes on the level of Braveheart/LotR in size, and brutality.
  
  There are strategic missions that will sometimes have you roaming around enemy camps, trying 
 to figure out how to sneak in without getting outnumbered and mobbed. It also offers the ability 
 to learn new moves and upgrade your weapons with elemental magic runes. You will gain dragon runes 
 which allows you to summon a dragon during the truly massive battles, and you have to decide which 
 points of the enemy lines that you want the dragon to take out as well. You can also finish the 
 game at your own pace, and freely roam around huge environments, searching out gold whenever you 
 want to take a break from the core missions. 
  
  Without spoiling anything, by the time you reach the midpoint massive (ever growing larger) battle 
 on the second (much larger than the first) island, this game really starts to open up and become 
 highly addictive, as well as just flat out fun. And the thrid island is even larger still. But, 
 by the time you get mid way through the third and final island, you begin to realize that this 
 game is about as repetitive as Assassin's Creed was, only Viking's repetetiveness is a bit more 
 on the truly EPIC side.... at least for some of the game. 
  
  All in all though, it is a completely raw, brutal, war driven game that has wonderfully designed 
 fantastical environments which truly generate the whole Norse mythology vibe, while at the same 
 time, being reminiscent of Frank Frazetta's artwork. It also at times has a real Fable feel, as 
 well as a LotR "Battle for Helms Deep" kind of vibe as well. I highly recommend it to people who 
 dig epic, old school, fantasy hack n' slash games, as this game is good ole' hack n' slash at it's 
 core, but the repetitiveness begins to ware on you by the end of the game. Some truly epic moments 
 though, to be sure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_Els
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  What can i say im not a huge fan of hack and slash games but i am a fan of enjoyable games and 
 most of all games that have good visuals and VIKINGS!!
  
  In short:
  
  In the game your a viking called skarin and you gotta save the world of midgard because the godess 
 hel is gonna take over midgard and eventually the world of asgard which is the world of the gods.
 
  
  And you go around exploring, freeing vikings so they can fight for you and doing various other 
 quests, and then getting in huge MEGAMAX battles with Hels warriors of undead, and you can get 
 runes to power your elemental attacks and having the fun of charging into battle with fellow vikings 
 is a good feeling although sometimes its hard to distinguish who is who i the thick of battle and 
 one thing why this game didnt get 10 outa 10 is because of sometimes terrible camera angles this 
 happend to me in lord of the rings return of the king and believe me it was like waking up in the 
 same nighmare but im probly a bit harsh there it was okay.
  
  the fighting is enjoyable and will probly get a bit repetative but what i enjoyed was the graphics 
 and the detail in the game eg: when you cut a guy in half you can literally see his insides!
  And the size of the islands you explore is reasonably good which i like
  
  I could explain 
 more stuff for VBFA but i recommend this title to either blood worshippers, hack and slash lovers 
 or VIKINGS! (although i havnt pillaged an innocent town!) Although seeing huge dragons reigning 
 death from the sky with fire is very satisfying!!
  
  
  
  The game has alot of eye candy but it is a crappy game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_God
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  In the game you play as Skarin a viking warrior revived from death by the goddess Freya to fight 
 against another goddess Hel and her Legion Army. Basically the game boils down to three main points, 
 building your army by freeing viking settlements from legion control. Finding weapons or dragon 
 amulets allowing you to summon dragons to the battle field. And finally attacking a stronghold 
 infested to the brim with Hel's Legion Army. In truth when you are exploring alone the game is 
 a bit on the boring side, especially if you get stuck, and have no idea where to go or what you 
 are supposed to do. However, when you do get to a siege of a control point it is well worth the 
 struggle. Hundreds of warriors in all directions, shaman, generals with giant swords, giant ogre 
 looking creatures, and finally killing a boss to take the base is as fun as it gets. Though it 
 isn't as deep in story and insane battle system that say God of War or Assassin's Creed have, it 
 is still worth of playing and those the enjoy crazy gore and insane numbers of foes should pick 
 this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djb1203
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  been hooked on this for hours. it seems a cross between conan, god of war and world of warcraft. 
 not quite as complicated as WoW but theres plenty of quests and things to find. would of been good 
 if there where more optional quests. most seem to tie in with the main story and have to be completed. 
 The first island is basically a training ground, the action kicks off on the second level, its 
 at least twice as big and the mid level battle is much longer. The big battles where you fight 
 alongside your freed men break up the action from your solo questing. The graphics are lush. I 
 hope this is succesful enough to warrant a sequel and they can add more quests, more stuff to find 
 - possibly weapons and armour etc. worth giving a go, even if its just to add variety to your game 
 collection from all the miliatary FPSs that have been coming out lately 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobbe12345
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Its good gameplay but not so good storyline.
  
  The character you play as, is called skarin a warrior chosen by freya.
  He is an resurrected 
 viking warrior choosen to lead the battle against Hel`s forces (undead vikings) .
  Hel has been banned from vallhalla and seek revenge.
  
  There are 3 huge islands you can explore 
 and rescue vikings to fight
  with you. All islands you will see cities and villages and camps for your army.
  The graphics 
 is pretty good, and the blood and chopping of arms legs and heads is pretty satisfying. Its very 
 simple to attack: there is fast attack and strong attack wich you can use to make combos (if you 
 hit the x button when you are near an enemy you will execute him) .
  
  There are huge epic battles with hundreds of on screen warriors.
  
  All in all agood action/adventure 
 hack n slash game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJFreeze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Developped by the makers of the Total War series , Viking: Battle for Asgard is a new breed of 
 the hack and slash genre fusing third person combat with adventure and large scale battles ala 
 Lord of the Rings style.
  
  To start, Viking: BFA is a colourful blend of gory combat and exploration where you are thrown 
 into the world of the Vikings as a warrior known as Skarin. For centuries the Underworld has waged 
 a war against the gods to gain all control of the mortal realm and with Hels evil touch they finally 
 managed to break through destroying and purging eveything they come in contact with. Skarin tires 
 to defend his hometown but is struck down by Hels special champion and then ressurected by Freya 
 to rally all the survivors to take back what was lost. The story is strait forward and has little 
 substance but is presented rather pleasantly. The music is just about non exsistant apart from 
 your map menu and when you are waging large scale battles but when it does play it adds to atmosphere.
 
  
  The combat in Viking: BFA is grusome and bloody never over doing it but sometimes leaving you craving 
 for more. The combo system is simple while proving that simple can be effective. Skarins combos 
 are mapped on the X and A button, A for fast quick blows and X for a heavy hit.
  More moves can be pruchased through the battle Arena that can add specific hits to take out those 
 hard to hit monsters as well those shielded foes. You can evade hits when tapping Y and blocking 
 ( RT ) which proves indispensible throughout the entire game. Although the combo system isn't quite 
 like Devil May Cry or any other combo heavy game out there, you still end up doing heavy damage 
 and enjoying every bit of it as monsters are cut down to mere pieces while feeling the impact of 
 each blow .
  
  The rendered world of Viking BFA is indeed open ended but that word is thrown around quite freely. 
 You can chose where you go but there are still instances where you must take a set path to arrive 
 at a certain distination and areas contained because of the layout of the geography. But regardless 
 it is very fun to just walk around and check out every nook and cranny you can find. The graphics 
 are very crisp and colourful early on and become baren as you progress through the different island 
 themes. 
  
  The large scales battles are very fun and a treat after running around doing quests. The larger 
 battles show a bit of slowdown which can be dissapointing and with so many people around you it 
 can be hard to dissern your friends from foes but with enough focus and the help of elemental runes 
 this is easily avoided. 
  
  This game is very fun if you enjoy the hack and slash genre but has a limp story line and non exsistant 
 character developpement ( apart from hels champion) but by far one of the better titles to brace 
 the next gen community. Difficulty is just right on normal and challenging on the harder difficulty. 
 Rent it to get a feel or if you looking for some mindless monster mashing then get this now. With 
 a great story, some voice dialogue, music to compliment this game could have been an awesome title 
 but for now its lost potiential waiting to be exploited further. I loved it and was very satisfied 
 with it as I enjoy just about every kind of hack and slash. Better than Conan IMHO but not quite 
 enough to tople God of War.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aka_Oni
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Sup people. This game although was brutal combat and visual wise was overall BLOW-FUL. I must make 
 mention of the lag time when the battles got large scale and also to the mass of repetition that 
 it has to offer outside of dismembering viking zombies?? It has its moments, but if your looking 
 for more strategy, story plot, better camera, and the ability to run when necessary this game may 
 just frustrate you more than anything else. It's cool as hell the way dude gets his hands dirty 
 though. Tons of blood and gore even double deaths make it fun to just thumb it away for a few hours 
 and go for viking glory. The visuals as fore- mentioned are well done and nothing looked to jagged 
 nor that much out of place. Normally a game like this would have been in my tops for at least a 
 good month before I put it down, but it falls far short of the hype that was built. Maybe next 
 time guys, maybe next time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
