-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtua Tennis 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/virtuatennis3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Minigames are a blast.
 Gameplay is as smooth as ever.
 Crisp visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Strikingly similar to the last game.
 Lobs are worthless.
 Volleying is inconsistent.
 No online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 990 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sega-AM2
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once again, Sega serves up a winner with Virtua Tennis 3. 

  Sega's tennis series has had a multitude of names over the years: Virtua Tennis, Power Smash, and 
 Sega Sports Tennis. While the names may differ depending on location and year, the games have always 
 been easy to pick up and play and hard to put down. Virtua Tennis 3 is a great game that holds 
 true to that winning formula. There are some new minigames, and the career mode has been fleshed 
 out, but it's clear that the developers were focused on refining the gameplay rather than reinventing 
 it.  

          The create-a-player option lets you make some far-out and groovy players.     

  Virtua 
 Tennis' biggest lure is its career mode, which is deeper than in previous games but still pretty 
 basic when compared to most other sports games. You start by creating a male or female player using 
 the game's character editor, which doesn't hold a candle to the one found in Tiger Woods but still 
 gets the job done. After you select a spot on the globe for your home, it's time to start on your 
 20-year quest to go from the 300th-ranked player to the top-ranked player in the world. But you 
 can't just rush out and take the top spot; you'll need to start by training your player. This can 
 be done by going to tennis school or by playing minigames. Going to tennis school is a great way 
 to learn the basics while at the same time leveling up your player. Here you're given a task, such 
 as to hit a maximum-power forehand or finish a point with a smash. If you can do the task three 
 times in the given time limit, the skills that you used in the test will be increased.  

  Tennis school is fun, but not as much fun as the minigames, which, as always, are fantastic. Each 
 minigame focuses on one of four aspects of your game: ground stroke, serve, volley, and footwork. 
 A few games return, but most are slight variations or altogether new. Avalanche has you collect 
 fruit and dodge large tennis balls that roll out of the back of a dump truck. In Drum Topple, you 
 try and knock over stacked oil drums by hitting ground strokes. Prize Defender places you in front 
 of a table filled with prizes, and you must protect the items by volleying away shots from the 
 ball machines. In Pin Crusher, you try and knock down bowling pins with your serve. Each of the 
 minigames starts easy, but as you get better, the games get more difficult. They're pretty punishing 
 on the highest levels, but you can always choose a lower difficulty setting. This yields fewer 
 points, but it keeps the game from being frustrating. If you really love the minigames or want 
 to play them with your friends, a handful of them can be played with up to four players on the 
 same console.  

  Once you've got the basics down, it's time to start chipping away at that number-one ranking. You 
 do this by entering the singles and doubles tournaments that are open to newcomers. Tournaments 
 take place in locations such as Spain, China, France, England, USA, Australia, Germany, Italy, 
 and more. You'll play day and night, as well as indoors and out on clay, grass, and hard courts. 
 To win the early matches, you've got to take just two short games, but the matches get longer as 
 the tournaments get more prestigious. One quirk from previous games that holds true here is rather 
 than complementing the roster of real players with fictitious players, you'll be playing the same 
 handful of real-life players over and over again. You might play and beat the tar out of Roger 
 Federer your first match, which kind of takes the mystique out of facing one of the greatest players 
 of all time.  

  Your stamina decreases as you train and play tournaments. If there's a tournament you don't want 
 to miss, you can replenish your stamina with an energy drink and not lose any time, but this increases 
 your risk of injury. To avoid injury, it's important to occasionally take a week off at home, or 
 even go on a three-week vacation every now and then. Injuries are most prevalent when your stamina 
 is low, but they can strike at any time. Unfortunately, there isn't much to injuries. They occur 
 while you're in the main menu -- you don't get hurt during matches. The game tells you that you're 
 hurt and for how long, and the game simply skips ahead. You get e-mail from your coach, who will 
 give you tips, read you fan mail, and award you items. Other players will periodically ask you 
 to practice with them or, in a really awkward cutscene, encourage you or talk smack. There's also 
 no money system, and you're awarded items based on your play. This feels like a step back because 
 there isn't much in the way of items, and it was always fun to spend, like, a thousand dollars 
 on some wrist bands.  

          All great players get started by picking up fruit and avoiding giant balls.     

  Tennis 
 school, minigames, and e-mail -- it's all secondary to the action on the court, which is excellent 
 in Virtua Tennis 3. The game is fast-paced and arcadelike. It's a breeze to play, thanks to controls 
 that are simple yet allow for a wide variety of shots. You can even tilt the PlayStation 3's Sixaxis 
 controller to move your player around, but playing like this just makes the game more difficult. 
 There are just three shot buttons, but depending on your location on the court, you can hit a top-spin 
 shot, a slice, a drop shot, a volley, a slam, or a lob with ease. The earlier you get into position 
 to hit the ball and press the shot button, the harder your shot will be. Serving is as simple as 
 tapping a button to start the serve and then tapping it again when you've reached the desired level 
 of power. You can aim your serve and your shots by pressing the analog stick or D pad as you hit 
 the ball. Players move quickly and will automatically dive for balls out of their reach, and they 
 rarely hit the ball out of bounds or into the net. Even though the controls are simple, there are 
 many different ways to play. How you play the game is dependent on not only your skill, but also 
 your opponent's skill and the type of court you're playing on. You'll see players stick to the 
 baseline and trade forehand blasts, while some players will employ the serve-and-volley technique. 
 The early matches are typically pretty quick, but as you get further into the game, the points 
 grow longer. Even then, though, there's plenty of action.  

  This may be the most refined version of Virtua Tennis yet, but there are still some minor issues 
 that keep the gameplay from being truly superb. Lobs are almost completely ineffective against 
 CPU-controlled players, who get to nearly any ball lobbed over their head and will slam it right 
 back with ease. This makes anyone who uses serve-and-volley tactics extremely difficult to beat. 
 Volleying is inconsistent, too. Sometimes you're able to volley with authority, but other times 
 you'll be standing at the net ready to put away a ball that's right at your racket, but your player 
 will hit a soft shot that gives your opponent plenty of time to recover. It can also be difficult 
 to position your player properly before a shot. Sometimes you'll hit the ball when it's too low 
 to the ground, and other times you'll be just a hair too far away and hit a weak running shot, 
 or worse, dive for a ball you could have easily gotten to. But these are exceptions to what is, 
 for the most part, outstanding gameplay.  

  The Xbox 360 and PS3 versions are nearly identical, but the Xbox 360 version is easily the better 
 of the two, since the PS3 version doesn't have online play. For the first time in the series, you 
 can bring your created player online or use one of the pros and play ranked or unranked matches, 
 and you can even set up your own online tournaments. The game is a blast to play online, and what's 
 more, it runs smoothly without any significant lag. Using the VT TV feature, you can watch live 
 matches and even view the day's top plays. The Xbox 360's achievement points are spread out over 
 tasks such as winning tournaments, running certain distances, achieving the top ranking, and playing 
 online.  

  Virtua Tennis 3 plays as good as it looks, especially in 1080p, which looks crystal clear and doesn't 
 tax the frame rate at all. Player models are very detailed, and despite a few exceptions (like 
 a rough-on-the-eyes Maria Sharapova) , look like their real-life counterparts. Players move realistically, 
 as well, and they have different-looking strokes. You'll even notice little things like players 
 sliding a bit when they try to change directions too quickly. The courts are filled with fans and 
 look fantastic, though you'll probably be too busy playing to notice small details like how the 
 ball leaves a mark on clay courts or how ball boys move their heads ever so slightly to follow 
 the path of the ball. One thing that's a bit disappointing is that there's still no user-controlled 
 instant replay; you're at the mercy of the game (and some lousy camera angles) if you want to relive 
 a great shot. It's also curious that you can't always play in the near court and are forced to 
 sometimes play up top, which is slightly more difficult thanks to the camera angle.  

          All of the courts look great.     

  If you've ever played a Virtua Tennis game before, 
 you've got a pretty good idea of how this iteration sounds. Cheesy guitar rock plays during the 
 menus and matches; some people will love it, others will loathe it. Sound effects are spot-on, 
 though some of the player grunting and yelling is a bit obnoxious. The crowds react appropriately 
 to what's happening on the court, and there are PA announcers that give the score in their countries' 
 native tongue, which is a nice touch.  

  Although Virtua Tennis 3 doesn't feel vastly different from its predecessor it has been such a 
 long time since the last release that the tweaks and additions go a long way toward making the 
 game feel fresh. There are many ways to stay occupied, and it's easy to pick up and play. If you're 
 trying to decide between the PS3 and 360 versions of the game, the 360 is easily the better choice 
 thanks to online play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis is a good game, in fact some would say its a great tennis game. However Tennis has 
 never really been that fun to play on consoles, even when done right. While it seems like a realistic 
 simulation, your essentially playing an over priced, gimmicky version of pong. With other sports 
 games, tactics come into it, different plays can be opted for etc, however in virtua tennis 3, 
 little tactics are needed other than "hit the ball away from the opposing player". Nonetheless 
 i'll try and review it fairly.
  
  Gameplay wise, it's fine, as far as tennis simulations go. It's got a few minigame modes, that 
 aren't actually all that great after your first two goes, the lack of responsiveness for the controls 
 actually makes you view the minigames as a hindrance instead of a different way to play the game.
 
  What's more frustrating is that you have to complete these minigames just to level up, however 
 the ranking system, however intuitive, doesn't take into account incompetent ai. For example, you 
 may exceed at forehand and havea terrible back hand, thats not because you are awful with your 
 backhand in the game. It's because every shot played to you will always be on your forehand side 
 regardless of where you are.
  The other thing that becomes irksome is the sicckeninly stupid ai, when you firs start, in an attempt 
 to keep things fair, while you lack a powerful or accurate shot, sega make the ai drastically stupid. 
 What is even more frustrating is that as soon as you gain a meagre bar of talent, sega ups the 
 difficulty a ridiculous amount.
  This means you go from "haha look at the pathetic ai actually moving for a ball when it's already 
 bounced twice" to "*"&^$*%*& when the hell did i start playing against a combination between the 
 world's strongest hitter and road runner? "
  Another dissapointing fact, is that Virtua tennis lacks online play, meaning that the only time 
 you'd ever really go on it is when you have mates around, and while this can be ok, it just means 
 at it's current price, i wouldn't reccomend it, simply because you'd play it so litlle, from the 
 sickeningly stupid ai to the boring minigames.
  
  The graphics are fairly good, but honestly what games don't look good these days on the next gen 
 consoles? However everything has this weird shiny rubber look about it. The courts do well to simulate 
 the effects of the ball, ball marks on the court remain there throughout the game, the characters 
 animate nicely, however the models themselves look like they have a permanent sheen of sweat upon 
 there foreheads, which i'm not sure if it was a bad design or sega's actual attempt to make everything 
 tennis stars do seem laborious to the likes of pete sampras or roger federer.
  
  In summary, it's ok for a party game, but not a game i'd reccomend to anyone, except those i hate 
 and tennis enthusiasts. (which comes under the same category ) :D The graphics are fairly good, 
 but a lack of online multiplayer just makes this game not worth the money you shell out for it. 
 If you still insist on getting it, rent it instead, it'll save you money, and it'll stop giving 
 sega hope , maybe now they'll stop with both terrible sonic adventures and mediocre sports sims....
 
  
  peace out 
  
  dan
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firextreme
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 is really pretty fun, Its just it kind of ruins it all with lets face it, a pretty 
 short story for such a sport game. I personally would have preferred a longer and more rewarding 
 story. Also, as it has no online, there isn't much of an insentive to come back to it.
  
  Now that the bad stuff is out of the way, I'll now tell you all the good things about the game. 
 This was my first tennis game, and it is fun for me. It's very easy except for the last match, 
 which is very difficult. The game is also pretty realistic and you can do many different types 
 of shots, although the diving does get pretty annoying. Also with its own mini games there is a 
 bit more fun involved, and having a mate over; This game can easily kill half an hour of fun.
 
  
  Overall, the game is worth 10, no higher, but not a penny less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Music: 6.0
  The music is pretty average at first... but it gets to you after a while. It's kinda annoying...
 
  
  Sound: 10.0
  Very good sound effects. Sounds incredibly realistic. When you hit the ball it echoes, when you 
 turn fast and slip, it squeaks, perfect.
  
  Gameplay: 10.0
  Perfect gameplay for a tennis game. It's a tennis game that isn't boring! So good! Probably the 
 best thing about this game. It's like your actually there and your actually a professional at tennis, 
 great. Very very very very very very very very very very very very fun...
  
  Graphics: 8.75
  Pretty good graphics and detail in the characters. I can't really explain why 
 it's not 10.0 but you get me... don't you? A good thing about the graphics is the fact that there 
 clothes wave around with the wind which is incredibly realistic.
  
  Value:7.5
  
  PROS:
  SFX
  Gameplay
  Split Screen
  
  CONS:
  No Online
  Short Story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burock76
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I've had this game since the PS3 launch and it had me going for days. The career mode and mini-games 
 are really fun to play. But the most fun I had was when I gathered 3 friends and played doubles 
 matches. The player graphics are fine but would be better with a little more work. Though the animations 
 and player movements were spot on. The different kinds of venues and being able to play friendly 
 matches adds to the entertainment. The controls are not hard to get used to. You need to time your 
 shot and direct it to the right spot on the court.
  The biggest let down for me has been the lack of on line play. I'm sure in Virtua Tennis 4 they 
 will add this option but an online tennis game at launch would be the best buy. Overall the game 
 was a blast for a few weeks but as the big guns came popping Virtua Tennis 3 lost it's touch. Can't 
 wait for the sequel. With that said, this is a very entertaining and fun game to play not only 
 in single player mode but with friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis' biggest lure is its career mode, which is deeper than in previous games but still 
 pretty basic when compared to most other sports games. You start by creating a male or female player 
 using the game's character editor, which doesn't hold a candle to the one found in Tiger Woods 
 but still gets the job done. After you select a spot on the globe for your home, it's time to start 
 on your 20-year quest to go from the 300th-ranked player to the top-ranked player in the world. 
 But you can't just rush out and take the top spot; you'll need to start by training your player. 
 This can be done by going to tennis school or by playing minigames. Going to tennis school is a 
 great way to learn the basics while at the same time leveling up your player. Here you're given 
 a task, such as to hit a maximum-power forehand or finish a point with a smash. If you can do the 
 task three times in the given time limit, the skills that you used in the test will be increased.
 
  
  There is also a training school. Tennis school is fun, but not as much fun as the minigames, which, 
 as always, are fantastic. Each minigame focuses on one of four aspects of your game: ground stroke, 
 serve, volley, and footwork. A few games return, but most are slight variations or altogether new. 
 Avalanche has you collect fruit and dodge large tennis balls that roll out of the back of a dump 
 truck. In Drum Topple, you try and knock over stacked oil drums by hitting ground strokes. Prize 
 Defender places you in front of a table filled with prizes, and you must protect the items by volleying 
 away shots from the ball machines. In Pin Crusher, you try and knock down bowling pins with your 
 serve. Each of the minigames starts easy, but as you get better, the games get more difficult. 
 They're pretty punishing on the highest levels, but you can always choose a lower difficulty setting. 
 This yields fewer points, but it keeps the game from being frustrating. If you really love the 
 minigames or want to play them with your friends, a handful of them can be played with up to four 
 players on the same console.
  
  However, there are the bad points: 
  
  * Strikingly similar to the last game 
  * Lobs are worthless 
  * Volleying is inconsistent 
 
  * No online play.
  
  So, the playing field is very even, but is a very good game. If you are the serious tennis player, 
 this is NOT the ideal game, so go for Top Spin 3, but otherwise a good all rounder!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  With Roger Federer at the second spot of the ATP ranking and with Nadal beeing very soon the new 
 number one, tennis got under my skin. I just can't wait for the Olympic tennis games. Tennis is a 
 great sport. This is mainly because of the heroes it gave. People tend to like sports if there are 
 some individuals that stand out and always make a difference in their sport. Tennis gave many heroes, I'm 
 not gonna talk about that, but I think that a crucial part od a tennis videogame is to have the 
 opportunity to become that great tennis player you always wanted. This is why I bought this game, and 
 it did and still does everything I wanted it to do.
  Virtua Tennis 3 is a very good tennis videogame. It is simply such a good game, it's easy to pick 
 up and play, the difficulty is forgiving to the newcomers and can also be challenging for those 
 seeking greater challenges.
  The graphics are pretty good and on a HD TV the game looks really good, it isn't as shiny as the 
 new Top Spin 3 but it still looks good. Real players are very well presented in the game and they 
 resemble very much their real counterpart. There are some players who don't really look that good, like 
 Sharapova for example, who eventhough is the most beautiful tennis player in the world she looks 
 terrible in this game. Anyway other players look really good, including Federer and Nadal or Andy 
 Roddick. You have three options in the game: Exhibition where you can play a single match against 
 an CPU player or against a friend. Then there is tournament in which you will play in various locations 
 in the world advancing like in a tournament, you ultimate goal being achieving the most money. The 
 most interesting mode of this game is the world tour which let's you create your own player and 
 start your way as a novice and advance to the top of the ranking table. In this career you will 
 be able to play single matches, double matches in which you pick your teammate ,you can play all 
 sorts of mini-games which are very fun, you can attend a school of tennis which will boost up your 
 stats and make your player better. You will have a 20 year career in which you will go to the top 
 of the table by competing in all the events you can, but you also have to rest from time to time 
 as your player get's tired and if you overplay him he will get injured and won't be able to play 
 for a couple of weeks. You can restore the player's fatigue by resting at his home, sending him on 
 a vacation or by drinking an energy drink. But be careful, if you drink to much energy drink your 
 player will lose his stamina and won't be able to attend tournaments for a much longer time.
  The sound is probably the worst part of the game, there is mainly just one song in the game which 
 repeats constantly, and the players have no voices even if they sometimes approach you to tell you 
 something. In rest the shots and the sounds players do are very good.
  I would recommend this game to any tennis fan as this game is very fun and very easy to play on 
 easier difficulties.
  
  My Score 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan20
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  this is life chaging this game. well i was walking to a shop to have a look at what to get ps3 
 wii xbox 360 which 1? i went to have a try on xbox 360 i playde skate on it i was cool but then 
 i saw the ps3 i went have a go. i went to play virtua tennis 3 i thoungt 'this is probely going 
 to be rubbish'. before i tell you the life chaging part. i did not like tennis before i did even 
 think of a tennis game so this is the life chaging part. i press play when it came on the graphics 
 it blew me away then the diffent controls is anmazing then i said i am getting a ps3. then i started 
 to get tennis games for ps2 that is why it was so life chaging. people out there who do not like 
 tennis games try virtua tennis go on try it. and people who have ps2 upgrade to ps3 it is woth 
 the money defintly ps3 is the best rate ps310 xbox 360 10 wii 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you put a console that can start world war 3 and a great game that look ultra 
 real? You get Virtua Tennis 3. Thhis game is the umltimate tennis game. There are many features 
 added to this game, minigames, tournaments and good custimization. The new minigames are great, 
 they give you great games to play and they are lots and lots of fun. Creating a play is great fun. 
 It lets you create a range of different player, with all different styles. The only real bad things 
 about this game is that there is no online play. If you want a great tennis game, you need to be 
 able to play online. Volleys on this game are worthless, there is no point of including that button 
 in the game. The six axis is used in this game. When playing a game, go to the menu and swich to 
 type c or d. The tried to once and i prefer playing with the analog. But at some times, when playing 
 the game for too long, you can get really bored of it. So try to lay off it for a while. To end 
 this, i think that virtua tennis 3 is one of the best simulation tennis games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  If you ask any of tennis fans which was the best tennis game before 2003, most of them will say 
 Virtual Tennis (VT) on Dreamcast, developed by Sega. After a long time letting Top Spin occupy 
 its position, VT3 now comes out on next-gen consoles and PC to reclaim the rightful crown for this 
 series.
  
  Gameplay of VT has already been founded from previous versions, so it's not strange to see traditional 
 elements that used to create reputation for the series in VT3: lots of mini games, interesting 
 Career mode, variety of movement models.. But of course, besides maintaining, Sega does not forget 
 to modify many details of the game, for better. To start off, you have to choose a male or female 
 player, adjust his/her appearance and begin the quest to conquer the world of tennis. Certainly, 
 your ranks at this point is very modest (300) , and be patient because it takes a long time to become 
 a top class player. First work to do is improving your skills through out a series of mini games, 
 all of which are very lively designed. Besides the basic ones like Bull's Eye, Pin Crasher, Tennis 
 school in VT3 offers several surprises. For example, Prize Sniper becomes Ballon Sniper or Alien 
 Force becomes Alien Attack, Foot Work and Danger Flag are combined into Avalanche. You can also 
 recognize some brand new exercises: Feeding Time (use your service to prevent the crocodiles from 
 feeding) ; Panic Ballon (run around the court to return balls to specific locations) . At first these 
 mini games are like piece of cake but gradually the difficulty is raised, requiring gamers to spend 
 more time and effort.
  
  When you feel your skills alright, you can participate in tourney. Consider your rank, you have 
 to start with small ones. Winning several of them will gain you more points and raise your rank. 
 Yes, it's time for some real challenge and glory. Your character will start earning more money 
 from sponsors when playing big tournaments, gaining reputation along with lots of attention from 
 the crowd of fans. Moreover, you will have a chance to practise with other famous players: Federer, 
 Nadal, Sharapova ... But VT3 does not stop here. The fun is that if you take on a too heavy schedule, 
 the risk of suffering trauma will become greater. Taking pep pill is one solution but it's only 
 temporary. To protect your position on top of the world requires a proper schedule, spending more 
 time on resting, travelling ect...
  
  However interesting the World Tour could be, it still can't be compared to online match versus 
 other gamers. Unfortunately this feature is only fully supported on XBOX 360, allowing you not 
 only to play but also watch or even create your own tourney. PSP version is restricted to exhibition 
 match through ad hoc connection while PS3 owners can only play offline!!! Another error of VT3 
 is that some useful skills can't be applied effectively by the players. For example, whenever players 
 try to fling the ball overhead, machine opponents can easily return with a powerful smash no matter 
 what position players take. Another flaw is your volley, no matter how you carry it out, it becomes 
 a very weak return to opposite part of the court. Frankly speaking, these errors are very frustrating 
 on decisive tie-breaks.
  
  So what else I could say? If you are a tennis fan and own whatever of PC, PS3, PSP, XBox 360, ARCADE, 
 you surely want to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyed
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Virtua tennis has been the leading tennis series for years now and nothing has come close to matching 
 its great tennis action. And for the first game on PS3, it is a great blast to play.
  
  Virtua tennis 3 offers more modes than you can shake a tennis racket at. Exhibition, world tour, 
 mini-games, they are all there and great fun to play. There are lots of players to choose from 
 including the likes of Roger Federer, Nadal, Sharapova, Murray etc. they all look lifelike and 
 have stats that match their real life equals. Talking of looks, Virtua Tennis 3 looks great on 
 PS3. The courts look fantastic as well as the players, fans and even the umpires! 
  
  The world tour mode is where you will be spending most, if not all, of your time. You take a custom 
 character and take him or her to number 1 in the world whilst raising their attributes and stats 
 by completing various mini-games. The mini-games are probably the best out of any of the Virtua 
 tennis games although there are a couple of games well missed from the previous version. 
  
  The actual game plays just like the other Virtua tennis games. Fast, smooth and great fun. 
 Rallies can last for hours if you are up against one of the games better players but are still 
 as enjoyable as a two second rally. The only thing, which is sorely missed from this game, is an 
 online mode. An online mode would have been perfect for this game. 
  
  Even without an online mode and not being that much different from previous games, Virtua tennis 
 3 looks and plays great. One of the best sport games available. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaSky
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  This is a solid tennis game... and that about all I can say, just solid. Suffice to say I'm a long 
 time Top Spin fan, well since I played the first one and the worst thing about that is the Top 
 Spin out does Virtua Tennis in every single way. Oh and by the way I'm still talking about the 
 first Top Spin, the second one just destroys VT. The reason is this, if you ever played Fight Night 
 or seen it in action you may see the during the career mode you have to work your way up the rankings, 
 as that's how it is in real boxing and tennis. But what Fight Night did is they used their robust 
 character creation system to make about 265 fake fighters that all had real names and expressions. 
 Top Spin did the same in both their installments. Now if you played Top Spin you know why this 
 is a big deal but if you haven't then let me tell you why; simple really, because at rank 300 in 
 VT I found it odd that I played Nadal, Blake, and the best tennis player in the world Mr. Roger 
 in my very first beginners tournament. Virtua Tennis has no fake players to actually make you feel 
 like there are 299 people ahead of you. Mix that in with fun but extremely odd mini games and you 
 get a career mode that isn't too great. But that's it. There are no compliants. The graphics are 
 good, the courts are lifelike and they have a pretty ok roster of pros. But for a game that has 
 no online mode, the career mode was all they had going for them, and some things are just never 
 meant to pan out. If you're trying to figure out a quick game to play or just want to play a tennis 
 game before Top Spin you can skip this one over, trust me, it won't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a lit of fun, don't get me wrong. The tennis players on this game are fully recognizable, 
 it's very cool. I just wish they would have stepped things up, even thou there are alot of mini-games, but 
 it does feel at some points very odd.
  
  
  This has always been a great game and still is, it's just missing a couple of key things. Honestly 
 if you are a Tennis fan I would think you would want an announcer like Mcenroe or someone who would 
 hear if you were to play in a major Tennis tournament. Also I want to see how I rank with people 
 around the world. Also the game controls are not perfect, they are close but I can't control the 
 direction as much as I would like.
  
  the graphics in game are actaully quite catching ,and so are the mini-games, but some aspects in 
 the game arent alo of fun ,but meh, its still great.
  
  
  I guess since the price tag is not as high as all the other games, it's worth the price. and at 
 some points of thhis game are quit fun !
  
  
  
  6.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The game is definetely good. The graphics are good accept if you look closely Federer looks all 
 fat and weird and the players look like each other but with weird skin but it still looks pretty 
 good. The gameplay's really fun because not only do you play tennis, but you can also make a character 
 of your own and level him up. The sound isn't all that good like when you hit the ball but the 
 grunts of the players sound really good!! Its not very long and if you like tennis you'll like 
 playing the tournament mode and it'll make you wanna go out and hit some. Overall I give it a solid 
 8.0 recommend it not only to tennis fans but to people who just want to play the game and get into 
 tennis.
  
  In the next one they'll probably have Djocovic and other players like maybe troicki just because 
 he's cool!! Roddicks serve looks and is really awesome. It not only goes fast but when they return 
 it you can set off a good counter. Some people serve rather slow like James Blake, but it still 
 fun to play with people that have different styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Ive tried many tennis games, and virtua tennis has always been my favorite. Virtua tennis 3 doesnt 
 seem that much different from its predecessors in gameplay. It has more features (such as minigames) 
 and looks pretty but other than that it doesnt seem all that different.
  World tour is addictive, but building up players stats through the various minigames becomes a 
 chore. Reaching number one isnt much of a feat, as computer AI doesnt get impossibly difficult. 
 Graphics could look better, as I dont believe it is truly "High Definition". Player models dont 
 look entirely accurate, as I wouldnt recognize Roddick.
  The game excels at regular match/tournament play, especially with friends. It is addicting and 
 fun. Though the game takes some skill, it could use a bit more "skill" to seperate the noob from 
 the 1337. I hope virtua tennis 4 impoves a lot, or Ill just be sticking with this one. Still, a 
 good game for a tennis fan. If a tennis game for the wii got good enough to feel realistic, Id 
 go for that instead (even tho Id have to buy a wii first) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjhean
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I got my eyes on this game playing it at my brothers place, We played some matches together and 
 I really liked it. The graphics is great, it really looks awesome and the players move realistic 
 too.
  
  This is the first tennis game I've played in a long time. Last time was on my Sega Mega Drive over 
 ten years ago, can't recall what the name of the game was.
  
  Virtua Tennis 3 is really fun to play with friends, playing against the cpu all the time gets you 
 bored very quickly if you already played through the career mode. All the mini games is really 
 fun and lifts up the game but one thing I miss is the online play. That is a big disappointment. 
 I don't know why they have multiplayer on the 360 version and not on the PS3 version. That sucks.
 
  
  Overall: Great looking, really fun to play, easy to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodstock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed the multiple levels, and the long playing of the tour. One thing I also like is 
 the nice graphics. The difficulty is variable for those that can not compete to those that ace 
 everything they try. One thing I do dislike is that injuries in Career mode happen a bit more often 
 than I think is realistic, Other wise a sure buy I have enjoyed the multiple levels, and the long 
 playing of the tour. One thing I also like is the nice graphics. The difficulty is variable for 
 those that can not compete to those that ace everything they try. One thing I do dislike is that 
 injuries in Career mode happen a bit more often than I think is realistic, Other wise a sure buyI 
 have enjoyed the multiple levels, and the long playing of the tour. One thing I also like is the 
 nice graphics. The difficulty is variable for those that can not compete to those that ace everything 
 they try. One thing I do dislike is that injuries in Career mode happen a bit more often than I 
 think is realistic, Other wise a sure buy I have enjoyed the multiple levels, and the long playing 
 of the tour. One thing I also like is the nice graphics. The difficulty is variable for those that 
 can not compete to those that ace everything they try. One thing I do dislike is that injuries 
 in Career mode happen a bit more often than I think is realistic, Other wise a sure buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazz015
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Well worth getting and pretty cheap too! As it's my first game on ps3 i'm amazed by 
 the gameplay and graphics but seeing and playing other games this is definately one of the better 
 ones and one i highly recommend.
  
  The world tour is great, including exciting training games to play in weeks where you don't have 
 competitions or friendly games. The multiplayer court games a fun for you and your friends to compete 
 against each other in and the exhibition mode gets you prepared to take on the best!
  
  Graphics are quality and the players look extremely realistic and the characteristics in the gameplay 
 are spot on! Roddick and Nadal inparticular...
  
  On the down side it's a pity there isn't an online mode for it but the world tour compensates for 
 that. Gameplay is slightly easy but very hard mode is testing.
  
  Overall, a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Where to begin?
  Well, i shall start at the top of the title menu. World Tour mode is a section of this truly fantastic 
 game where you create your own player, and start at rank 300 and climb up to number one. I have 
 not completed this yet, but i am around rank 100. There are all sorts of mini-games of varying 
 difficulty which make your "levels" (basic skills) increase for each of the catergories available 
 to improve upon. Serving, Footwork, Volleying (fore/back hand) , and normal shots (fore/back hand) . 
 This system works well, and if you dont train up your player you wil get exaclty no where.
  There are many modes following on from World Tour, including the main multiplayer option and just 
 fun mode, exibition. In this mode, up to 4 players can be imployed to play together from this mode 
 and it can get rather heated when one team trounces another - who are in the same room...
  All in all an excellent game with no real flaw, apart from the glaring lack of online mode. With 
 an online functionality available, i hope that this could have been a 9.5... maybe even a 10/10 
 game. 
  I have put "just right" for the difficulty, because at the start of World tour it is very easy, 
 then gets just right, thn gets amazingly challenging towards the end.
  k_g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitelotus878
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for this game. I was a fan of Sega Sports Tennis for the PS2, and was hoping 
 that the gameplay would be improved in this next-gen take on the Virtua Tennis series. What you 
 really get is a prettier version of Sega Sports Tennis, with an updated roster. 
  
  First, the pros:
  
  1. You get a pretty decent roster of ATP and WTA stars like Federer, Nadal, 
 Sharapova, Hewitt, etc. Never a bad thing.
  
  2. The graphics in this game are simply top notch. It looks amazing in hi-res. 
  
  3. Good 
 party game. It's fun to play this with some friends to kill some time.
  
  4. The create-a-player feature has some nice touches, like being able to choose what your strokes 
 look like. 
  
  5. All of the roster players have realistic movements, stroke styles and service motions. Another 
 very nice touch.
  
  
  And now to the cons, and there are quite a few:
  
  1. This game, like Sega Sports Tennis, is really video game ping pong. It's not really tennis. 
 It's nearly impossible to make errors. And you have to almost TRY to hit a fault with a serve. 
 For a hardcore tennis player, the game just feels far too arcade-y. It would have been nice to 
 have some settings that feature realistic gameplay. The actual gameplay has not advanced at all 
 from Sega Sports Tennis.
  
  2. The World Tour mode is also basically the same. Aside from a couple of tweaks, there are almost 
 no differences between this game and Sega Sports Tennis. You get to play the same mini-games over 
 and over, and over... and over... and over.... and over... and over.... Well you get the idea.
  
  3. Players diving for balls on the baseline.... I'm sorry, but I'm never going to take a tennis 
 game seriously that features this kind of insanity. Granted, I know this is more of a party game 
 than anything.... but gimme a break! Can you imagine a tennis player doing this in real life? He/She 
 would make the bloopers reel on SportsCenter.
  
  4. Serving. It was an issue in Sega Sports Tennis, and its still the same old issue here. First, 
 its nearly impossible to hit an ace. When you using a huge server like Roddick and can't hit aces... well, 
 that pretty much eliminates a lot of his game doesn't it? In fact, in most matches I play, the 
 returner actually has the advantage, since if you know what you're doing, you can take advantage 
 of a point, right off the return. This drives me up the wall. 
  
  5. The players in a lot of cases are not realistically depicted. This is a problem in nearly all 
 tennis video games featuring real life players. In fact, Sega Sports Tennis was one of the few 
 that got it right. 
  
  First, there was Smash Court Tennis Pro Tournament 2, with the serve and volleying Kournakova, 
 and its version of Roddick, who was one of the worst baseliners on the game's roster. Not to mention 
 J. C Ferrero as one of the roster's biggest hitters. 
  
  Then there was Top Spin for the PS2, which was comically inept, when it came to depicting players. 
 Roger Federer not only serve and volleying, but with Pete Sampras' service motion. That was just 
 sad. 
  
  Now, if I am Roger Federer, Id almost want to sue the makers of this game. Federer SHOULD be the 
 most dominating presense in this game. But here in Virtua Tennis 3, he can be easily out-hit from 
 the baseline by Lleyton Hewitt. That's right. Hewitt is one of the biggest hitters in the game. 
 That's enough said on this topic. 
  
  
  To sum up, there is just not much depth to this game. It's a pretty game of ping pong. Top Spin 
 remains, to me, the best tennis game out there, but even that game has serious flaws (the risk 
 shot, for starters) . 
  
  For big tennis fans like me, this game is a two-day rental. Nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ready2freeze
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Tennis (4 years of training) and ever since i started, i was searching for a 
 real good tennis game. Mission Completed.
  
  Firstly, I got this game for PSP, and the graphics really were impressing, actually, the best I've 
 seen so far. Then I bought the same game for PS3, and I was like "WOW".
  
  The characters were detailed to the aspect. The movements (ground-strokes, serves, volleys, etc) 
 were so accurate that at one point, i thought i was watching a real tennis match. 
  
  The way the game progresses from easy to hard is fascinating, making the player more involved MENTALLY 
 in the game.
  
  There were also many cool rackets (including the old fashioned wooden one) but i somehow didn't 
 notice REAL makes, such as HEAD and WILSON. 
  
  The hair styles were also a cool, multiple, feature, although it would be cool is you could change 
 the hair style during the career mode. 
  
  The trainings were another very cool and extremely fun parts of the career mode, very original 
 and funny. (WE WISH REAL TENNIS WAS LIKE THIS)
  
  There is one thing which really got my attention, and that is the Umpire International Calls. This 
 is probably one of the best features in this game.
  
  Also, experienced players would actually notice the difference in the surfaces, (Grass, Clay, Concrete, 
 etc) . Very good.
  
  Another thing that is also really good is the music. It "flows" with the game in an excellent way 
 (but can distract a player at some point, especially if he/she has been playing this game a long 
 time) . 
  
  I don't really have anything else to say but that this game really is the BEST EVER. (that is, 
 in the tennis categories) .
  
  BUT: I think that the developers should make it more detailed and stuff. Like contract signing, 
 more rackets and things like that. (MORE NEAR TO THE REAL LIFE TENNIS)
  
  Anyway, there is no game without a flaw.
  
  Tennis lovers, buy this game NOW.
  
  Ciao people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  I am not a fan of tennis, but Virtua Tennis has always been one of my favourite sports game genres. 
 It balances simulation and fun to create a perfect synergy.
  
  So what makes this game so appealing? Fun. The game is just plain fun, you can pick it up and play 
 with no knowledge of how it works and in a match or 2 you'll know exactly what you are doing. 3 
 simple buttons for strokes, makes it extremely easy to learn, no complex button combinations in 
 this game.
  
  Known names, another aspect that adds greatly to this game is the players. The models look exactly 
 like their real life counterparts, lots of work went into making the player models. They just look 
 awesome, the best models I have seen in a sports game so far. And it's not just the player models 
 that look fantastic, the whole graphics look great, lots of work went into everything graphical.
 
  
  World Tour, is a great single player mode. You develop a character into a tennis superstar. Play 
 matches and mini games on the road to success. You unlock various items of clothing, rackets, accessories 
 and new courts for exhibition.
  
  Multiplayer is easily the stand out for Virtua Tennis 3, if you buy this for one reason, this would 
 be it. Endless hours have been spent smashing the yellow ball against a bunch of mates. Whether 
 2 player or 4, this game is just a bunch of fun to play. Not only is there normal matches to play 
 against humans, but there is the mini games. These add lots more hours of multiplayer fun, with 
 different skills needed for each, different players shine in each.
  
  So what is missing?
  
  Unlockable mini games for multiplayer, while the mini games are great, 
 there just isn't enough. This is really a case of more is better.
  
  The lob is practically useless, if the opponent isn't standing directly at the net, you'll never 
 need this important shot. The serve is too basic. In previous Virtua Tennis games you were able 
 to control the serve alot more, which added so much to the game. What it is now, is a way to restart 
 play, you really can't use it as an attacking weapon.
  
  Not enough variety of shots, there are only 3 shots. While this is good in the beginning, it becomes 
 very limiting as you gain experience. Even one extra would add so much to this game.
  
  The last thing missing is online multiplayer, while I would never take online of offline multiplayer. 
 You need the option when you don't have a chance to play the offline version.
  
  While Virtua Tennis isn't perfect it is far and wide the best Tennis Game made to date. Hopefully 
 the next installment will fill the gaps and become the perfect tennis game.
  
  You don't need to like tennis to enjoy Virtua Tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trx07
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  i am here today to revew virtua tennis 3. ok get straight to the point.
  most of you have got the game or have allready played the game.
  The gameplay is solid and fun, 
 i have spen playing it for hours multi-player and singel player! and it get even more fun with 
 the SixAxies.
  Now the game starts of as you, an amature tennis player trying to get to the top, you go to minigames 
 to get your stats up and home to rest, you have a rank and it goes up every tournament you play, 
 plus you even got your own coach. You can play doubbles and singel matches. allthough there is 
 no online play on it you will still get about 50+ hours play on it! by yourself and with freinds 
 and family. Multiplayer is great and fun, but the SixAxies can be a little challengin for some 
 people! i recommend this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  .Virtua Tennis 3, is the best in VT series, it combines life like graphics and the same amazing 
 gameplay that VT usually offers, in VT 3 gameplay is more realistic and more fun.
  .Virtua Tennis 3 has no depth, its fun specially when playing with others, and it lacks online 
 gaming.
  .If you like tennis , you should buy VT 3, you ll love it, but after playing it several times you 
 will get bored, and start using the game when friends are invited to your house.
  .Graphics and Gameplay are the 2 strongest points of the game.
  .Graphics look great and realistic, 
 specially AI, that has been perfectly developed, players have the same movements as in real life.
 
  .Sound has been improved, if we look back and compare it with the others VT, but it could have 
 been more realistic.
  .In conclusion, Virtua Tennis 3 is fun and plays well with others, and it is a great game to pass 
 the time. If you like tennis you should give VT 3 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cag40oz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 is the best tennis game on the market. It displays real life experiences and the 
 gameplay is excellent. Practice, Vacation, Tournaments, the whole 9. This game just has everything 
 you'd expect in tennis. And I might add, i am glad they didn't try to do the superstar jig most 
 sports games get into to... That is just all washed up. You can create a player and move him/her 
 through the ranks. Perfect enough. I thought they could of put a little more into the cinematics 
 when other players speak to you though. But if you like a challenging, yet fun to play sport. This 
 game is great. I didn't even like tennis until i tried this one. Now i can actually stand to watch 
 it on T. V. and understand what is going on. AWESOME GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulioRed
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Right what to say about this game. It's a tennis game so i was never expecting anything epic like 
 GoW or MGS, but on the whole its a very solid game. I was especially impressed by the flowing of 
 the players shirts and the floor textures. But i was annoyed by the a few unrealistic additions 
 like diving, sure a tennis player will dive in a match but not 7 times in one rally and especially 
 not on hard court. It really annoyed me when i hit a perfect passing shot and the opponent would 
 just dive backwards and get a pretty decent return in. Also on the harder difficulties its even 
 more unrealistic, like Tim Henman serving 150-160mph! I also found that serve and volley players 
 like Henman can be harder to play against than brilliant players like Federer and Nadal. Ok so 
 hears the lowdown, the graphics are impressive but the crowd could be a bit better looking but 
 the textures of the laying surface and the players do look good. Also the flowing movements of 
 the players shirts are a joy to watch. Graphics 8.5.
  The sound, ok the normal grunts and groans are there, especially for the women which is fine. But 
 the in game music is the most annoying i have heard in a very long time, and it doesn't actually 
 stop playing whilst your in a game. Luckily you can remove the music in the sounds menu so it isn't 
 a huge problem. Sounds 7.0.
  Gameplay, is very good probably the best gameplay in a tennis game ever, but the regular diving 
 from the players reduces the realism the game has. But saying that the Virtua series has always 
 been more arcadey than realistic. The season made is very enjoyable and this game has some of the 
 most fun mini games i have ever played. I actually enjoyed them without thinking of them as a chore. 
 Gameplay 8.5.
  Finally i was a little disappointed by the lack of an online mode but after playing the 360's online 
 mode i have to say its like missing a tropical disease and PS3 users are really not missing anything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_nedved_br
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Tennis games usually get underrated because that sport is not a crowd-mover like soccer and football. 
 But for those who are fans of tennis, Virtua Tennis 3 is a great game to buy.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and it has the same good playability as the previous version.
  
 
  However there's nothing really new, except the career mode, which is a good start to innovate 
 things a little.
  
  The player's details are also a good point in the game, as they are pretty accurate as the players 
 in real life.
  
  Well, VT3 is a great game for tennis fans, but only enjoyable to a no-fan player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: other44
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I originally bought this game to fill in time before the big titles of 2007 come out. I DLed the 
 demo and found i got addicted pretty quickly...
  
  The main game mode of Virtua Tennis heavily reflects that of a competing title, Top Spin. You begin 
 at rank 300 and through improving your skills and beating players, your ranking increases and the 
 tournaments available to your character rise in number. However the difficulty level significantly 
 increases as well. This is one of our gripes with the game - to raise rank you beat players which 
 is fair enough, but to raise skills you need to practice. Our problem with this is that the mini 
 games dont really change all that much so it becomes quite repetitive. As well as this you need 
 to factor in rest weeks otherwise your player becomes too fatigued. The difference between rank 
 300 and 200 in difficulty is staggering and really shows how hard the game can be even after it 
 pads you into the game rather than throwing you into the deep end. Another crazy thing about the 
 career mode is that no matter what rank you are, you are always playing the professionals. So rank 
 300, you are playing stars like Hantuchova or Federer. While this allows you to get to the pros 
 straight away, it doesnt seem all that realistic and there is no reward for gaining ranks in terms 
 of gaining access to play as other players. The action is fast and furious in the doubles and singles 
 as the players have been built up with their maximum stats. If you find yourself tiring of the 
 career mode, then the exhibitions will reinvigorate the freshness of this title. It certainly did 
 for us. Its just a shame that it is only exhibition where this happens as reaching this level 
 with you player in the career mode takes around six to eight hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallyry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis is an excellent game, plain and simple. If you love tennis, this is the game for 
 you.
  
  World Tour World Tour is basically a career. You have to create your own player and try and make 
 him the best in the world in 20 years, and if you dont reach the number 1 rank in 20 years you 
 retire. Dont worry though because the years are slow and after each match you play in a tournament 
 you go up in the rankings. You start from rank 300. At first you are a rookie (thats what it says 
 above your name in matches) then, if you reach 204 you are an average player.
  After tournaments, you might get new things for example new shoes or a tennis racket. In your spare 
 time, you can train to get better at: serve; strokes (backhand and forehand) ; volleying and movement. 
 Also you get messages form your coach and sometimes other players ask for a practise match. Those 
 are fun.
  
  Tournament
  Tournament isnt World Tour, but a feature which allows you to choose a player from a big variety 
 and use him/her to try and win the tournament. There is doubles tournament. You and the computer 
 or you yourself on can travel through the tournament with your mate.
  
  Exhibition
  Exhibition is a feature where you can have singles or doubles against the computer, or against 
 your friend. You can also be with the computer against your friend and the computer.
  
  Court Games
  There is a big variety of court games to choose from including bowling and court 
 curling. It is great if you want a fun game against your best friend or even your little brother. 
 Its great fun!!
  
  Virtua Tennis is a very good and fun game. It is surely the best game in the series.
  
  I hope 
 I have explained everything to you fully. You can now say to your mum, Can I please have &pound;30 
 to get a PS3 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobz101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This will make you love tennis. No, really. Even if you loathe the sport and grit your teeth when 
 Wimbledon distorts the TV schedules, Virtua Tennis 3 is so realistic that it forces you to appreciate 
 the sports intricacies - in a stealthy education dressed as addiction. And while the latest game 
 in the much-loved series is no massive departure - its still a tennis game, for instance - theres 
 enough new gameplay tweaks and content to tempt veterans as well as newcomers.
  
  It looks like an absolute gem, with stunning dynamic lighting and some of the most impressive player 
 models yet seen on 360. Therere over 20 real competitors, including Federer, Nadal and Roddick, 
 plus the likes of Sharapova, Hingis and Hantuchova for those who prefer their tennis lady-shaped. 
 Up close in replays, these pros look almost photo-realistic - expertly capturing everything from 
 Henmans snaggled-toothed grimace to the flirty wiggle of Sharapova in her prude-baiting mini. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boy_Man07
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 is like the other Virtua Tennis games. In this new game, you can create your character 
 and play the World Tour. There, you'll try to be the best tennis player, and you'll play against 
 known tennis players, like Nadal, Sharapova, Monfils and Federer. You can also play in the tournament, 
 in the exhibition mode, and others. However, there is no online, so, you won't play online with 
 your friends. This game delivers a great experience of how you play tennis. Even those who are 
 not lovers of this sport, they'll like this game. In the World Tour, there are lots of tournaments 
 and you'll be training all the time to improve your techniques, so that you can win the tournaments. 
 It's a great experience and fun to play, but, after some time, it gets a little boring. I mean, 
 after some time, you'll stop playing this game, you'll pick up another game, play it a lot, and 
 then if you feel like playing tennis again, you'll pick up Virtua Tennis 3 and play one more match. 
 After some time, Virtua Tennis 3 will be the game that you'll play it when you have nothing to 
 do, and to do something, you'll play some matches. Still, it's worth the time you spend playing 
 it and it's cool.
  Graphics: very nice. very shiny.
  Sound: good, but too repetitive.
  Gameplay: very good. you feel like you're a tennis player. If you like tennis, you should buy this 
 game. It's very good. However, if you don't like it or like it just a little bit, rent it. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUC_22xbx360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I've played VT 1, VT 2 and VT 3. Personally the best is VT
  
  Well, I've played this game on an ARC. It was pretty cool. I was easy to play and very funny to 
 play with a friend.
  
  But now in the PS3 is more fantastic, you can play it with the SIXAXIS, yeah it's difficult and 
 sometimes frustrating, but it gets more immersion, and of course with the analog Stick.
  
  The game play is OK. Just 3 different shots. The sound is awful, the voice of the players in a 
 game are another guys acting his/her voice, for example Sharapova doesn't shout, and Nalbandian 
 in the real life doesn't shout but in the game yes.
  
  The graphics are awesome, yeah and in a normal TV too. But in a LCD or HDTV is just fantastic.
 
  
  This game is completely recommendable to buy.
  
  So if you like tennis and you want a pretty funny moment with your friends, this game is for you.
 
  
  This game offer you a lots of minigames and there are marvelous.
  
  I hope you like my review.
  
  C'ya. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  For many sports game fans, Segas Virtua Tennis series has always marked the apex of quality and 
 accessibility that so many lesser titles strive to achieve yet rarely manage to imitate. Without 
 the additional play mechanics inherent in other titles such as TopSpin 2, the Virtua Tennis team 
 somehow manages to produce a title with more depth and tactical play simply by combining deft usage 
 of the analogue sticks and a well-honed shot placement system developed over numerous iterations 
 in the arcade and home consoles. Little has changed in Virtua Tennis 3, and if the sole reason 
 your reading this review is to find out that particular fact, then stop now and go purchase your 
 copy, you wont be disappointed.
  
  The reason for the series unparalleled success has always been accessibility. Anyone can pick 
 up a pad, master the basics of VT within a few minutes and feel as if they have some genuine control 
 over the on-court proceedings. This makes multi-player a blast, as even particularly unskilled 
 friends can add enough to the proceedings to make a decent game out of any opponent. The Dreamcast 
 benefited from this realisation early on in its lifecycle, with countless systems and joypads sold 
 across the country to accommodate some of the finest 4-player action available. Further editions 
 have failed to pull in the sales numbers of the first release, but with a 5-year gap since the 
 last home version and a new console on the market, the timing seems excellent for Sega to repeat 
 the success.
  
  Graphically the series has always pushed the boundaries of its host system, and this iteration 
 is no different. Player likenesses have been improved upon considerably, with the old zombified 
 look of the protagonists replaced with some excellent character models and flowing cloth physics 
 to rival even the 2K sport series for realism. Lighting effects and texturing in the various stadia 
 are supremely realistic, with a natural hue to the sun-bathed clay courts and artificial glow to 
 the indoor arenas. Little effects such as dust flying up from your shoes as you skid around the 
 court or individual player-specific serve and shot animations are an excellent touch. These sort 
 of graphical tweaks and effects that arent immediately noticeable when playing for the first time 
 but become blindingly apparent when you switch to a lesser product or an old version.
  
  Unfortunately the same cannot be said about the audio. Whilst the on-court effects and score announcements 
 are excellent (and change language according to the country your currently playing in) , someone 
 really needs to shake Sega by the throat for inflicting the same brand of mindless electronic background 
 music thats permeated the series from its inception. Its the sort of bland electric guitar twaddle 
 that adds to the charm of the series for a moment, but will grate at every opportunity very soon 
 after. Suddenly the EA sports licensed Trax system seems desirable, and I never thought Id hear 
 myself stating that in a million years.
  
  The depth of animation in this release is superb, with new shots to be discovered long after the 
 initial foray into the career mode. The team has decided to add a nice emphasis to stronger shots, 
 with players lifting their feet a little higher and following through the ball with more emphasis. 
 Unfortunately there is still an over-reliance on the dive animation to reach difficult shots, but 
 as always this can lead to some superb comedy rallies between skilled opponents, especially in 
 doubles matches.
  
  The main meat of the game has always been the single-player World Tour mode, and VT3 is again no 
 different in this respect. Starting with a blank canvas of a player, you can utilise the very basic 
 character creation system to sculpt a physical specimen of your liking, either male or female, 
 and then choose your home territory. From this point its the usual formula of entering tournaments 
 to increase your ranking from the starting point of 300, and utilising the various minigames to 
 increase your various shot statistics.
  
  The minigames themselves are largely the same as previous versions, with some additional difficulty 
 levels tacked on towards the end to provide some nightmare challenges. There are a few additional 
 modes here, such as an excellent variation on curling, which will prove addictive long after the 
 others fade into repetition. One compelling new feature is the ability to play the majority of 
 the minigames competitively with a friend. Playing an elongated session of tennis bingo or curling 
 can quickly turn into a more interesting encounter than the main on-court action, and many hours 
 will be lost to grudge matches and re-matches long after you should probably stop playing and get 
 some fresh air.
  
  Innovation is at a premium, but the tour mode does contain a handful of new additions to keep you 
 on your toes. Injury management and player interaction pop up from time to time, and in between 
 tournaments your player will need to rest in order to build up strength in the form of an overall 
 stamina meter. A tennis academy has also been provided to teach you some of the trickier on-court 
 manoeuvres and strategies, as well as the basics for those that need them. In truth, none of the 
 new material here has a particular bearing on the way that the game is played, and feels tacked 
 on at best. Obtaining maximum stats and the number 1 position on the tour will still take a lengthy 
 campaign and a skilled player to accomplish, and feels like a genuine achievement to complete.
 
  
  Although the game provides a fantastic experience for anyone deigning to pick up the pad and start 
 playing, there are some rather glaring annoyances that really should have been ironed out before 
 the game shipped. Lobs for example, are still particularly useless. Drawing your opponent into 
 the net and looking to hit the ball high over their head inevitably results in a smash heading 
 into your back court, its almost impossible to use this tactic successfully. Whilst I appreciate 
 that this is probably a conscious design decision to keep the action flowing with more ground strokes, 
 its a bit of a glaring omission to not provide a suitable mechanism for such a staple shot. Drop 
 shots are also particularly hard to perform for the same reasons, and as such most rallies will 
 descend into deep forehand and backhand strokes, with a slice or two to mix up the pace when out 
 of position. It makes for a fun and fast-paced game as always, but such basic shots should really 
 be more effective from time to time.
  
  Of course the major omission from the PS3 version is the complete lack of any online support. Xbox 
 360 owners can look forward to taking their fully customised World Tour character online and competing 
 in a variety of tournaments, adding life and depth to the game and providing an extra impetus to 
 max out your chosen avatar. Whilst well never know the true reason for the lack of implementation 
 of online in the PS3 version, it is a kick in the teeth for Playstation owners considering all 
 the other launch titles that contain a basic network element. Hopefully as PS3 development matures 
 in coming years, this sort of situation will become completely unacceptable for gamers and dev 
 teams alike.
  
  Overall its hard to fault the graphical improvements and the superb basic mechanics on offer in 
 VT3 and without straying from the formula that tennis fans know and love Sega have provided another 
 slice of classic single and multiplayer action, fit for any console past or present. If the developer 
 takes another 5 years to provide the next version then thats fine by me, as Virtua Tennis 3 is 
 a game thats as close to refined perfection as any of us can ever expect.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atvracer26
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and for only 34.99 it is an amazing deal. Graphics are very good and gameplay 
 is great. The best thing is, is that u can set the controls to all sixaxis, now wii fans have one 
 less thing to brag about as with this conroller setting it is exactly ike the wii, u hit, serve 
 and run with the controller and u use the controller alolt like a tennis racket. but u can always 
 go back to just the regular controlls which is really fun to. overall great game to buy as ps3 
 is lacking in games right now until the fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ResidentEvil-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  One of the Sega Dreamcast bestest games is Virtua Tennis, which has got the third part. The game 
 is one of the best PS3 European launch-games.
  
  Virtua Tennis 3 hasn't got pretty much new innovations but all basic things are very good condition. 
 Good animation, great-looking players and courts and realistic moves will do a great overall.
 
  
  Playing is arcade-style and very simple but players differences appear easily. When a basic player 
 concentrates for basic shots, advanced player use versatile shots and he moves quickly. However, 
 Virtua Tennis 3 is definitely an amazing multiplayer game.
  
  Unfortunately, the single player isn't as good as multiplayer. In the beginning, the playing against 
 the AI is great but after a couple hours, the playing will be too easy. Fortunately, the ''world-tour''-mode 
 offers a lots of different minigames where you can make better your player skills. Minigames are 
 versatile and fun, especially with friends.
  
  Virtua Tennis 3 is the same good tennis game as other Virtua Tennis-parts. Music is the same than 
 previous versions, so you will probably shut down the volume. However, sound effects are pretty 
 good, just like real life. The only big change is graphics which looks even better.
  
  Virtua Tennis 3 is familiar and faithful. It's easy learn to play this game and it's really fun, 
 especially with friends. This is a great choice for you, if arcade-style tennis seems good. Unfortunately 
 the Xbox 360-version of the game includes an online game, but it missing in the PS3-version.
  
  THE GOOD
  +Great gameplay
  +Graphics are very good
  +Very fun minigames
  +Really good 
 multiplayer
  
  THE BAD
  -Slightly of innovations
  -No online game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBlackboi
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  It has great graphics running at 1080p, easy learning curve and a good single and multiplayer modes. 
 I have already maxed out my person and I still can't beat the Duke guy he's full of S*#t, I just 
 want the court to unlock, but this game delivers on all aspects way to go Sony for giving me two 
 good PS3 games in my camp. The create a plater could have had more details for the players and 
 more items to choose it's like everybody we create looks like their related. The mini games let 
 yo focus on a certain area of the game so you can really tone you skills where your slacking, It's 
 a good game to play with others we already got four joysticks so to have everyone playing is good 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootergray34
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 29, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  You will definately enjoy this game for the first few hours but once that is over, it gets repetitive 
 very quickly. If you have played one of these games before... it's basically the same thing with 
 some better graphics. the mini games are enjoyable for a little while, but once you get to such 
 a high level the mini games are almost impossible to beat... well most of them anyways. and once 
 you make it towards the end in single player mode the guys get so ridiculously hard it is so frustrating. 
 And to top it all off you don't get any online player mode, which would have made the game that 
 much better. so i would say rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppi
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I am a very casual Tennis fan, but you wouldn't know it based on how much I like playing Virtua 
 Tennis. This game is easy to learn. The mini games actually help you develop skills on the court. 
 Tennis doesn't get many accolades when it comes to video games but Virtua Tennis did a good thing 
 by being one of first releases for PS3. Had the game come out with a flurry of other games it could 
 have gone unnoticed.
  
  The doubles match ups are cool of course the singles matches are very very competitive.
  
  
 This game is worth checking out.............. you won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 15, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Although I have never been a fan of the VT series, this paricular game caught my eye (maybe with 
 the $49.99 price tag) . I decided to give the game a try and I have to say I'm enjoying myself greatly. 
 The gameplay is simple but it is still extremely enjoyable tennis. There is really no learning 
 curve to this game as there aren't too many buttons to use and it's pretty much intuitive tennis. 
 The graphics look great as each character model (except for Sharapova, shockingly the worst looking 
 character model in the game) clearly resemble their real-life counterparts. The biggest problem 
 with the characters is that they look a little too waxy to be lifelike. The biggest flaw in gameplay 
 is definitely the diving and lobs. During a game, the characters will dive numerously on occasions 
 where pros will never ever dive so hard. The lobbing is also a big problem. It is completely useless 
 to lob against a computer because all you'll get back is a hard smash to your face. Even with flaws, 
 the game shines when it comes to multiplayer gameplay. Playing this game with friends is a total 
 blast and it's a great game for some friendly (but maybe a little bet or two) competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  This will make you love tennis. No, really. Even if you loathe the sport and grit your teeth when 
 Wimbledon distorts the TV schedules, Virtua Tennis 3 is so realistic that it forces you to appreciate 
 the sports intricacies - in a stealthy education dressed as addiction. And while the latest game 
 in the much-loved series is no massive departure - its still a tennis game, for instance - theres 
 enough new gameplay tweaks and content to tempt veterans as well as newcomers.
  
  It looks like an absolute gem, with stunning dynamic lighting and some of the most impressive player 
 models yet seen on PS3. Therere over 20 real competitors, including Federer, Nadal and Roddick, 
 plus the likes of Sharapova, Hingis and Hantuchova for those who prefer their tennis lady-shaped. 
 Up close in replays, these pros look almost photo-realistic - expertly capturing everything from 
 Henmans snaggled-toothed grimace to the flirty wiggle of Sharapova in her prude-baiting mini. 
 
  
  But to accurately simulate a quick-fire sport like tennis, the animation has to be ultra-responsive 
 and VT3 delivers. Everything from a topspin lob to a desperate baseline lunge looks spot-on and 
 even if you change your mind mid-stroke - switching from a backhand down the line to a cross-court 
 volley - the animation is rapid enough to keep up with you, making for incredibly fluid gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uri1227
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 10, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  It has very good graphics.. ilike the game its just fun,, but you get bored after 2 hours playing 
 it... but its fun at least its the best game of tennis that i ever played, but id say that it not 
 THE GAME it could be better but its fun to play it, its a very good gamee,, theres many different 
 characters that you can play with, and its fun i recommend this game to people that love to play 
 tennis or any sports, cause if not it could be very 
 
  ............
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .....
  . . . . . . .. . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedJimmy
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  At first I thought VT3 was a great game, the tennis is fun to play and the minigames are an interesting 
 distraction from constant tennis games.
  
  However there isn't much after that. After completing your first year and going up the rankings 
 the tournaments stay the same and the minigames just get harder, there is nothing extra. As you 
 gain ranking you do unlock different tournaments but with the same players in both if it wasn't 
 for the different courts and different decals you would struggle to tell which tournament you were 
 playing in.
  
  My biggest gripe about this game is inconsistency between tournaments. I recorded my first defeat 
 in the 3rd year of the game after dropping into the top 100 players, to Federer. I was actually 
 glad because a) it was the most exciting match I had played so far and b) i was starting to feel 
 the game was far too easy. The next tournament I entered into was for the top 300 players so didn't 
 think i'd see Federer any time soon, however after easy making it to final, I was very excited 
 to see my opponent was Federer and this was my chance for revenge!!
  
  I beat him with only touching the ball 10 times : ( So much for any great rivalry between us. I'm 
 guessing what the game does is pick players at random and adjusts how well they play to suit the 
 tournament. IMHO its a poor move as it can mean one week beating someone like Feberer easily and 
 next week getting put out by someone who played and beat easily in your first match.
  
  So, the actual tennis games are enjoyable and the minigames would be great if they offered them 
 in the PS store on their own, but for VT4 I hope they put much more effort in to the career mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  This Game Is fun and Would Of Been Better To Play Against All The people That Have This Game Online 
 That Took Away Alot For Me. Maybe Next Year They Will Fix That Issue and i Guarantee To you That 
 There Will Be More Buyers For This Game. On The Playstation 3 Version. The Xbox 360 Has Online Play 
 so Why Did They Do This to the ps3 Family But The Game Gets 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 
 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 88 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 All 
 Across The Board 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VVatson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for a tennis fan. If you aren't a tennis fan but you are wondering if this is 
 a game for you- possibly.
  
  First off I'm going to get into the sound. This received a 7 from me because the soundtrack and 
 music can get very repetitive and annoy you after hearing it for the 30th time. There is no voice 
 acting whatsoever either. I'm sure it would have been hard to track down pros and get their voices 
 and it probably wouldn't have been so great getting fake actors for the pros so I will give this 
 the benefit of the doubt. The cool thing about the sound, however, is that the grunts and screams 
 the pros do are very accurate to the specific pro (tennis fans will know what I mean when I say 
 that Sharapova's scream is unique) .
  
  Graphics are very solid and show off the PS3's power well. Some of the models look exactly like 
 the pros when some of the others are lacking. Lighting is great and matches will look best in the 
 afternoon and evening.
  
  Gameplay is great because it is nice and simple to the point. You will not get overwhelmed with 
 punching a bunch of different buttons to do a simple shot. You simply use the right side buttons 
 ( Square, Triangle, Circle, and Cross) for your shot type and control your character and shot direction 
 with either the analog stick or D-pad. The main game objective is to become rank number one within 
 a 20 year period after starting out at rank 300. The difficulty seems somewhat flawed. I played 
 on normal difficulty from rank 300-200 and lost no matches or games at all, in fact I barely lost 
 a point ever. Then all of a sudden I hit rank 200 and started losing matches all of a sudden. The 
 mini games are fun but can get old fast.
  
  Some other cons include no online multiplayer, lacking in some pros, and character customization 
 is not amazing.
  
  Overall this is a fun game playing either the world tour mode or some exhibition matches with friends 
 and family. Definitely recommend this to tennis fans as it motivates me to go out and play the 
 real game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: americahellyeah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on a whim, i'll even admit that i simply bought for the sake of buying a new 
 game. When i opened the package and popped it in i was happily surprised, after my first match 
 i was hooked. Never having played the Virtua Tennis series before was probably for the better, 
 especially considering that all the game are very similar.
  
  -PRESENTATION-
  A snazzy menu system lets you navigate the game modes with ease, and the great TV style shot replays 
 adds a level of realism which is much appreciated. If there was one thing kind of bummed me out 
 would be the inability to turn of the display and just play with the screen free of the the various 
 stats. - GAMEPLAY -
  I'd have to say that this is one of the funnest games i have ever played, the gameplay is so streamlined 
 and smooth that it almost plays too well (if thats possible.) The first thing about the gameplay 
 was the amazing physics, you actually feel like your the one hitting the ball, and not many more 
 game moments are as satisfying as smashing the ball in your opponents face. Its simple enough enough 
 to make it accessible to the youngest or oldest of players, and feels deep enough to please even 
 the most technical of gamers.
  
  With the exception of 1 or 2 of the twelve mini games included in the game, they make for a great 
 party game or even if your by your self, there fun through and through. - GRAPHICS -
  I almost couldn't believe how smooth the animations were, from the simple bouncing of the ball 
 when your player is getting ready to server, to some of the maniacal mini game animations, from 
 something as simple as the ball hitting the ground to a player diving for the ball in a last ditch 
 effort to save the match, they all are smooth and hitch free (a very steady framerate helps in 
 this department.)
  
  The texture in the game all look top notch and the courts are beautiful and vibrant to say the 
 least, the faces of a few of the professional player could use a little work, but other than that 
 the game is a visual masterpiece.
  
  - SOUND - Not a whole lot going on with the sound, its a solid upbeat soundtrack reminiscent of 
 many lighthearted games. The umpire and announcer call are a nice touch and sound crisp and clean, 
 all the pros talk to you via text and it would have been nice to have their actual voices but its 
 still works well enough. The various sounds in the minigames from explosions to barrels falling 
 to the ground all sound great and in no way electronic or forced like alot of games.
  
  - OVERALL -
  With great pick up and play properties and a full fledged deep story mode, and tons 
 of fun distractions on the side you won't go wrong with Virtua Tennis 3. Not to mention its 10 
 dollars cheaper price tag makes it a great next gen game for only 50 buck. Even if your not remotely 
 interested in tennis this game is loads of fun for everyone.
  With the harder difficulties providing a great challenge for anyone looking for it and the offline 
 multiplayer is some of the funnest around.
  
  A great purchase for anyone looking for a fun and well rounded game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. I think it is way better then Virtua Tennis. For example, in career mode, 
 there is an e-mail system where you get e-mails from your coach and other players. Also you can 
 choose your players serving motion and receiving stance. That's neat. The graphics are extremely 
 good making the players look very real. The serving motion is also quite realistic for all the 
 professionals. However, I think that Sega could of given the players racquets that they actualy 
 have in real life. Also I think that the diving for the ball has to go. It is annoying. The mini 
 games are awsome and a lot of fun! It sucks that there is no online play. And one last thing Tim 
 Henman has to go. I mean he barely plays tennis anymore. Why don't you put someone like Murray, Djokovic, 
 Gonzalez... there are so many good new players! O well, I guess nothin is perfect. I'd recommend 
 to buy this game if you like tennis. Plus you save 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugsyb
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Hey this game has always been great. This time is no different, and the grapgics are top of the 
 line. The problem is, when I bought a PS3 I tought every game would be able to be played on-line. 
 I guess this is not the case. I don; t have people coming over all the time playing two player on 
 my ps3. I want to play on-line. I want to play my friends from other areas. Many of the games available 
 are missing one thing or another. all I ask is that a game has two player so I can play against 
 friends at home AND I want to be able to play on-line.
  
  This game is a lit of fun, don't get me wrong. The tennis players on this game are fully recognizable, 
 it's very cool. I just wish they would have stepped things up. This has always been a great game 
 and still is, it's just missing a couple of key things. Honestly if you are a Tennis fan I would 
 think you would want an announcer like Mcenroe or someone who would hear if you were to play in 
 a major Tennis tournament. Also I want to see how I rank with people around the world. Also the 
 game controls are not [erfect, they are close but I can't control the direction as much as I would 
 like.
  
  I guess since the price tag is not as high as all the other games, it's worth the price. I just 
 wanted a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyTheViking
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Tennis 3 is my first ever Tennis game (other than Pong, but I'm pretty sure these are completely 
 different games) . Its a great introduction to the sport and is very easy to play. The graphics 
 are amazing in 1080p. There are so many small details that add a very life-like experience to the 
 game, such as there being marks from the ball bouncing that will be there until the end of the 
 match. The only downside to this game is that there is no online-play. But this is still a very 
 solid game and I look forward to Virtua Tennis 4 to be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ottorod
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  By far, the best title released for PS3 ever, after Ridge Racer. Excellent game. Those who love 
 tennis will really enjoy it. On the PS3, on a TV at the fullest 1080 HD, the graphics are a whole 
 new level. There are certain moments in the game that it seems like a live TV broadcast. Minigames 
 are awesome too.
  On the downside, the realism of the playing varies at different difficulty levels.. There is not 
 a function to play online.
  I definitely recomend the game to those who love the game and want to be part of the action on 
 a tennis match.
  Thanks to SEGA for putting out probably the best PS3 title released so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say i bought the game not because i'm a tennis nut or even follow the sport. I 
 actually bought it because it's one of the few games my girlfriend likes and will play. With that 
 said... it was a pleasant surprise to find an easy to pick up, fun game with a deep career mode 
 and more addictive minigames than you can count on one hand. Four player multiplayer (offline) 
 means you can get a doubles game going with a few friends and yell at your partner i though you 
 were covering the right side! every time the other team scores. The gameplay is crisp and responsive. 
 Once you get the timing down you can pretty much put the ball where you want it with whatever type 
 of shot you want. The multi-button layout of slice, top spin, lob etc is back but you'll end up 
 hitting X most of the time to return serves and go back and forth relying more on power of stroke 
 and angle than on different swing types. The graphics are obviously the best in any tennis game 
 and the shading and details seem a bit more crisp on the PS3 than on the Xbox360. It's a minimal 
 improvement but noticeable if you're looking. The sound is as exciting as it can be (this is tennis 
 remember) so you're basically listening to multi-lingual announcers, raquets hitting the ball and 
 various grunts. The career mode is fun and pretty deep for a tennis game. The create a character 
 options are minimal and simple at best. You can get someone that looks sort of like you but it's 
 nothing like Tiger Woods, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas for the Xbox360 or even Def Jam ICON for 
 that matter. Overall a fun game that's easy to pick up and play and can offer up loads of fun beating 
 friends and playing the different minigames. No online is regretable but there's always next year. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
