-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtua Fighter 5
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/virtuafighter5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very sharp graphics.
 Terrific gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sound effects occasionally sound a bit muffled.
 Lack of single-player variety.
 No online functionality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.6, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,823 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sega-AM2
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Virtua Fighter 5 builds upon VF4 with new moves and characters, making for a great sequel. 

 
  With 14 years of history behind it, the Virtua Fighter series offers a mature fighting system 
 with plenty of characters that have been around since the beginning. Though the mode selection 
 hasn't evolved much over that of Virtua Fighter 4, this fifth installment builds upon its predecessor's 
 fighting system and is a better overall fighting game. If you're already on board with Virtua Fighter 
 and you own a PlayStation 3, that statement should be enough for you to know that you probably 
 need this game in your library. It's a fantastic fighting game with terrific characters, including 
 some solid additions to the cast. If you haven't been following the series, it's likely that this 
 game will feel arcane. It's not very beginner friendly, which may be a big deal to you if, for 
 example, you're the average PlayStation 3 owner who's just desperate for something -- anything -- new. 
 Either way, your enjoyment of VF5 is going to be a factor of your skill level as well as the number 
 of people you have nearby to play with.  

          Virtua Fighter 5's fighting is absolutely top notch.     

  Competitive gameplay is 
 what this style of game is all about, so let's start right at the top. Virtua Fighter 5 has the 
 standard array of modes you've probably come to expect from a fighting game. There's an arcade 
 mode, which gives you a score and puts you up against a boss character -- Dural specifically, the 
 same boss that the series has used all along. There's a versus mode for playing against a friend. 
 There's also a dojo section that is meant to provide training in the game's various moves. However, 
 since a fair amount of the timing in VF5 is different than its predecessors, it's almost criminal 
 that this mode doesn't have any sort of "demo this move" button that shows how the move is done. 
 The game doesn't really go out of its way to describe the different moves and stances, though the 
 manual does feature a decent moves list, where you'll see what an "offensive move" is, which you'll 
 need to know if you want to perform all of the moves in the dojo mode. There's also a mode marked 
 VF. TV, which is where you can pit any fighter against any other fighter and watch the PS3 play 
 against itself.  

  The deepest single-player mode is the quest mode, which returns from VF4 largely unchanged. You're 
 given a basic map of a few different arcades, and you can travel to any one of them and fight against 
 various  players. These players are done up to resemble real 
 people, in that the fighters are ranked, have a win/loss record, and wear various customized clothes, 
 as if you're playing against an actual person who has spent time on his or her fighter. But the 
 illusion quickly breaks down, as the fighters you're up against here never feel like actual human 
 opponents. While the higher-ranked fighters are certainly less susceptible to basic moves and traps 
 than the lower-ranked players, everything still feels very robotic. Also, there's no way to create 
 your own AI profile. The ability to create your own profiles and acquire new ones online (which 
 some other recent fighting games have done) would have given this feature a lot more meaning in 
 Virtua Fighter 5. VF. TV ends up feeling like a throwaway mode, though it could have been saved 
 if you were able to upload and download replays online.  

  Of course, once you start talking about online functionality, it's hard to ignore that Virtua Fighter 
 5 doesn't have any online play. Given the game's frame-specific nature, any amount of latency would 
 probably be unacceptable, so there's probably a technical reason why it's not present. But without 
 online play, you're limited to playing single-player, which doesn't put up an interesting, lasting 
 fight for very long, or playing against your friends, locally. If you happen to live in a hotbed 
 of Virtua Fighter activity, where you're persistently surrounded by Akira experts and your days 
 are spent rabidly discussing frame data, that's most definitely not a problem. But if you're the 
 only Virtua Fighter fan on your block, it's going to be a pretty lonely experience, especially 
 once you start customizing characters that no one else will ever see and, well, crying yourself 
 to sleep at night because your uncultured "friends" don't care that you unlocked Sarah's D costume 
 last night and immediately purchased the pink leather shorts for her to wear with it. Don't worry, 
 they're the ones with the problem, not you.  

  The gameplay in VF5 is still based around three buttons: guard, punch, and kick. Considering that 
 there are plenty of cases where you'll have to hit multiple buttons, a joystick would be the best 
 possible control option. But unless you're willing to start importing controllers, you're probably 
 going to be stuck with the default Sixaxis controller. It's certainly functional, but hitting guard 
 and kick at the same time can be tricky when you're trying some of the more timing-intensive moves, 
 forcing you to rely on shortcut commands on the shoulder buttons.  

  The entire cast of Virtua Fighter 4 returns in VF5, and that includes professional karate man, 
 Akira, who has served as the main face of the series over the years. But there's also Lau, who's 
 looking older than ever, the constantly annoying Lion, the occasionally annoying Jacky, and so 
 on. There are two new characters in VF5, as well. El Blaze is a Mexican wrestler who looks a lot 
 like Rey Mysterio Jr. and uses a lot of great-looking wrestling moves. Eileen uses the martial 
 art of kou-ken, which is just a fancy way of saying she sort of fights like a monkey. Her backstory 
 paints her as a fan of Pai's who decides to get onto the fighting circuit after seeing Pai in action. 
 Most of the existing characters play very similarly to how they've played in the past, though you 
 will find a handful of new moves in there. Also, VF5 has a much more defined sense of scale to 
 it. Huge fighters like Jeffry and Wolf look gigantic compared to someone like El Blaze or Lion. 
 You can attach data profiles to characters, which lets you track your win/loss percentage and also 
 gives you gold that can be used to purchase new costume parts for each fighter. There are plenty 
 of choices, though most of them are fairly standard variations on the existing four costumes.  
 

  Virtua Fighter 5 is a great-looking game from top to bottom. The characters look great and animate 
 well, with the lone exception of their mouths, and teeth, which just look a little off when characters 
 speak at the end of a fight. There are plenty of different backgrounds in the game, and they all 
 look great while also figuring into the fights. Some of them are walled off, giving you a surface 
 to juggle fighters up against, while others are open, letting you win by pushing your opponent 
 out of the ring if you can. The game runs at 720p on the PlayStation 3, which gives you a nice, 
 high definition to work with, though some of the characters and stages can look a little pixelated 
 in spots. Still, this looks like a perfect port of the arcade version, and it looks really nice. 
 Those graphics seem to come at a bit of a price, though, as the load times between fights can be 
 lengthy, which really slows down the action. It's a little puzzling, considering the game installs 
 more than 2GB of data to the PS3's hard drive.  

          With a few more modes and better AI, the lack of online wouldn't have hurt so much.    

  The sound effects in Virtua Fighter 5 haven't really changed much. You'll hear the same sort of 
 jetlike sweeping noises when you execute specific types of kicks, the same slam noise when you 
 jump on top of a fallen opponent, and the same treble-heavy crunches and slashes when you punch. 
 Contentwise, that's fine, though most of the game's sound, even the speech, sounds a little low 
 fidelity. The music is good across the board, with the same sorts of electronic-tinged rock that 
 you'd expect to hear from the series.  

  Virtua Fighter 5 is a great fighting game that's specifically geared toward players who have experience 
 with the series. If you've been playing Virtua Fighter for any length of time, this game is worth 
 adding to your library, especially if you have other like-minded players in your immediate vicinity. 
 But if you're a fan of other fighting games and aren't already familiar with Virtua Fighter, it's 
 likely that you're just going to keep on wondering what all the fuss is about.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (140 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is a great new installment in the Virtua Fighter saga. It has great gameplay, easy 
 controls, and great graphix. The game is very fun with many characters to choose from although the 
 attacks are very similar for all characters, most players have their own special attacks or versions 
 of the same attacks as all the other characters. There are many button combinations for each play, in 
 fact there is an entire page for each character in the instruction booklet. The graphix are nice, 
 defined, and shiny. Though it only supported up to 720p output, the graphix are very nice. This 
 is a very fun game overall but not as good as the Xbox 360 version which, although, does not have 
 quite as good graphix, does have online play which is great for a fighting game like this one and 
 is a big letdown for PS3 owners. This is overall a great game but the lack of online play is a 
 big letdown which subtracts a lot from the games overall score. But in the end, SEGA is great at 
 making these types of games and even though fighting games with super powers and attacks are very 
 fun, this game makes up for not having super powers with awesome special attacks and cool combos 
 so this game is worth a try and for twenty bucks is worth owning if you like this type of game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter five for the play station three ( and it is for the X Box three sixty and some other 
 video game consoles ) is a game with beautiful graphics, from the players faces and facial expressions 
 to the settings in the background and the arena that they are fighting in. The game is very similar 
 to Soul Caliber IV and all of the other soul caliber games, but with out swords or weapons or anything 
 like that. The camera is great and the game has some variety. The bad part about the game is that 
 it gets boring and it gets boring pretty quickly. Well, at least in my opinion, thats all. The 
 demo of the game really let me anticipate the game, but was kind of let down when it came out. 
 I would recommend this game only if you like this type of genre of these games. If you are not 
 into some what shallow fighting games, than you should not play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I have not played any of the Virtua Fighter games, and I was looking a good fighter to feed my 
 PS3. So I decided to take a chance and try VF5.....
  
  First off, the graphics and environments look nice, and fighting and combos are easy learn. 
 
  
  After about 11/2 hours of playing it, I realized that the fighting is way too easy and there was 
 absolutely no excitement in this game. It feels like just a fighter that I could of played in the 
 arcade about 15 years ago. No kicking foes though windows or throwing foes off platforms etc. Zero 
 destructable environments! 
  
  VF5 boils down to this: Beat your foe or move him outside of the circle of the ring to win.... 
 BORING!
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is pretty looking, but that's about it. I had a much better time playing Dead 
 or Alive Ultimate 2 & 3 on the original Xbox than I did with VF5. 
  
  Here's the thing that sucks the most: VF5 has NO ONLINE PLAY!!!!!!! 
  
  Playing against stupid 
 A. I. foes over and over again feels so old.... and tired. Online play is a must for every game nowadays!!!!! 
 Why even bother to make this game, Sega?
  
  Needless to say... I no longer have Virtua Fighter 5 in my PS3 game library. I gladly took the 
 $15 for it from my local game store. I give it a 5 out of 10 just based on the graphics alone. 
 Not worth renting or buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 on the Playstation 3 is one of the more beautiful games I have played. For a first 
 wave game, it does show off the graphic capability of the machine pretty damn well. The movements 
 of the characters are smooth, and the controls are spot on responsive. As far as the game play 
 goes, it is really a great example of easy to learn, difficult to master. Just like a good fighter 
 should be.
  As far as extras go? Well there are a few modes to play in, nothing you haven't seen in a fighting 
 game before. You also get points that can be spent dressing up whichever character you have chosen.
 
  The one downside, and I admit I did not read anything about this so for a very short time I was 
 fooled, There is a mode you can play that actually acts as if you are online. I went to play and 
 thought I was online, until I realised, no way a first timer would do as well as I did online. 
 Then I find out, it is just an online simulation. What a rip off.
  That is the only reason this otherwise brilliant fighter did not get a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ne0man
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter was not only the first true 3d fighting game but it was one of the first 3d games 
 out there. it was the standard for any "not street fighter like" fighting game. it set the way 
 for tekken (half of the development team was composed of ex am2 guys that went to namco after developing 
 VF) but it is a underappreciated game nowadays. This situation is compreensible since sega never 
 promoted the game well enough at least over here, cause in japan and due to the huge arcade scene 
 over there the series is as big as ever. on the western side of the planet the likes of tekken 
 and soul calibur (and even street fighter) still prevail. well its a shame that most people are 
 so biased towards tekken that will never give a chance to this game, and to be honest Tekken was 
 my favourite 3d fighting option until Virtua Fighter 4 Evolution. But to end the history class 
 (kind of) let's talk about this one:
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is at least the best 3D fighting game ever so far.
  Graphically its as good 
 as it can get. the facial expressions are realistic, the character's movements are fluid, little 
 details like people cheering on the background of some stages, the cherry blossom trees, the sunset, 
 the snow, the waterfalls... this game will stun you visually, but you can judge that for yourself 
 with the gameplay videos and screenshots provided through gamespot.
  
  Gameplay wise, it retains the 3 button layout that is still untouched from the first installment 
 until now. Guard, Punch and Kick. though this may look overly simplistic and bland you may be fooled, 
 cause what sets VF5 apart from all other franchises is how deep the combat system is. Combinations 
 of the three buttons let you grab, throw, change stances, and the combo system is one of the most 
 complex i've ever experienced. One of the things that got me caught in the game is the simple fact 
 that the more you play the more you can notice your own skill growing. another thing that sets 
 this game apart from the competition is the roster of characters, one of the most diverse and balanced 
 out there inspite of what you may have read in most user reviews. A fast and accessible character 
 like Jacky can be a lame punch-punch-punch-kick machine for novice players, a 4 hit combo- dodge 
 character, and if you're experienced it can be unbeatable due to the fast paced type of gameplay 
 that character can offer. You got a muai-thai like character, a shaolin monk, the slow but powerful 
 wrestler Wolf and its rival Jeffry, a advanced throw judo killing machine... you name it. Also this 
 installment adds two new characters to a total of 19. El Blaze and Eileen, a fast light wrestler 
 and a monkey kung fu girl respectivelly. You'll probably try your luck with a bunch of characters 
 and then you'll find the perfect one for you, and spend a lot of time practicing your skills with 
 it.
  
  The PS3 version lacks the online mode, but assured that if you have a bunch of friends to play 
 with you'll have a lot of replay value and the interaction in flesh sure gives an extra spice to 
 a tight bout. You'll find the single player arcade mode, an excelent tutorial and practice modes, 
 and the quest mode where you'll fight through arcade clubs spread through japan sparring against 
 AI characters based on real players's statistics. Here is another of the game's qualities, the 
 AI is refined and you'll encounter novice players on the first arcades and when you move to arcade 
 where experienced players meet you'll find challenging AIs that never get predictable and can detect 
 patterns in your playing style to keep you from winning with "random button smashing" and last 
 resort lame techniques. In quest mode you'll also earn money and costumes to customize your character. 
 the possibilities are almost limitless: haircuts, hair colors, necklaces, earrings, pants, boots, 
 t-shirts, contact lenses... you name it!
  
  To sum up, it is the only 3D fighting game that you need in your shelf, and it is one of the greatest 
 games of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmurphy2489
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  This is my very first time playing "Virtua Fighter", and I wanted to know if it was better than 
 the other fighting games I'd played so far. In other words, it was one huge test to see if VF5 
 is the best.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 consists of Arcade mode (goes up to probably 8 or 9 stages) , Versus mode (play 
 with your friends) , Dojo training (practice with your favorite character) , Quest mode (customizing 
 your character and winning rank battles) , VFTV mode (watch battles and promotional movies) , and 
 Online mode. Most of the modes in this games feel quite similar to the ones in Tekken 5, but in 
 a different way. Nonetheless, I'm impressed with the customization feature.
  
  I'm also amazed by the action gameplay and high-def graphics, but the one thing that concerns me 
 is that this game doesn't actually have a story feature, in the case of the Arcade mode. Plus, 
 it's less easy for me to master almost every move from any fighter I play. I tried with Akira Yuki, 
 but with due respect, he's not much compared to Jin Kazama from Tekken.
  
  Overall, Virtua Fighter 5 is one of the best fighting games I'd played. I'd forgot to mention this 
 was my sixth PS3 game experience. Nice one, Sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChainRecc359
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  OK this game has been very successful in the past but the 5th installment to the series is a load 
 of crap. It was a disappointment to me and many other people who has enjoyed the past games. I 
 find that the customizing is okay and many fighters to pick from and make moves to destroy your 
 opponent are fun and terrific but there is not much to it in this game. In the arcade mode you 
 just fight, fight, fight, fight and fight in tell you get a tournament or lose. It was fun for 
 the first couple of minutes but then it got really boring and same thing all over again and again 
 and again. The multy player mode is fun and I think it was just an okay... I really hate when you 
 just fight and fight and fight you get the point. So when (or if) they make a 6th one there better 
 be some improvements, not even some a lot. But if your a die hard fan just get the game to add 
 to your collection of virtual fighter series. I suggest you rent first but over all a okay game... 
 ( get soul caliber 6 if you want a better fighter game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnoldarm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is a fun fighter to play, and looks gorgeous. The backgrounds are really, for 
 a lack of better words, pretty, and may distract you from the actual fighting. The single player 
 mode, "Quest" is one where you have a map of arcades to choose from, which all have different tournaments 
 which you can compete in. Winning these will unlock you new items and increase your rank, but it 
 seems a bit pointless still, because there is no actual story. The backgrounds do not really fit 
 with where you are as well, your not actually fighting at the location most of the time, your off 
 in some jungle, or at a beach which has none of the arcade there. There is no arcade building or 
 arena, or audience there. Maybe if there was a story it could fit into the plot, it takes you off 
 to these places where you fight a person for information and such, and it could use the map system 
 as well. The items and different costumes could then also fit into it, as you verse tougher opponents, 
 the items and costumes may actually do something, to give you an edge, but no they are really there 
 for customization, which is fine, but I find the menu system a bit tricky at first, and now that 
 I've used it a couple of times its just to slow to use. 
  Now to the multiplayer. I feel fine with it being only 1 on 1, and not allowing more than 2 people 
 to fight at a time, but I feel there could be more modes. Such as a tag team, but with larger arenas, 
 so you can try and keep your opponent from getting to their friend, making it tougher for them 
 and you. This could also work in a co-op mode, where you can tag a friend to help take down the 
 AI, but no its still the arcade style. Which is fine, and a lot of fun at first. But it wears after 
 a while.
  No, Virtua Fighter 5 is a great game, with great visuals, but it could be more in depth, and could 
 have more modes. Its great fun, but if you want a more in depth game, wait for Tekken to come out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megavideogamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is very pick up and play maybe to easy since I have managed to do well in this one. The 
 selection of fighters is good. Some of them are pretty lame. However since this is a videogame 
 it is allowed. The graphics are bright and crisp. The usual features found in fighting games are 
 present. Unlockable costumes etc. But it is a fighting game after all. a likable one at that. Nuff 
 said a guilty pleasure, Fun to waste time playing. Just don't expect to much and enjoy Virtua fighter 
 5 for what it is. The frame rate is smooth. Controls are easy to learn. Enough things to keep you 
 going. (As fighting games go) the usual quest and arcade modes are present. In all a great fighting 
 game. at least a worthy rental. Just don't expect to much storywise. Pick a fighter and enjoy. 
 However at this time have have taken on anyone online. Still practicing.... So I cannot comment 
 if the game lags 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspirit138
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The game has got so many characters and moves, to the point of stupidity and it is highly unlikely 
 that you'll use even half of them. Personally, I found the moves boring to watch. The game is worse 
 than Tekken 2, let alone any PS3 franchise. There are loads of better games, with soul caliber 
 IV and Tekken 6 coming out, let alone dragon ball z burst limit already here. These fighting games 
 seem to be exciting with new moves, variety and new features. Virtua Fighter drives home too much 
 the pure form of martial arts to the extent of that makes the game slow to play. Just don't buy 
 it. Unless you've got 40 pounds to waste on what I ensure will just be 10 minutes playing this 
 awful game. Maybe worth it for the purist, but definitely not one for an exciting gamist. An absolutely 
 rubbish fighting player that has a awful arcade as well as a boring multi player version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is what you are looking forward to.. When i first got it, it was kind of slow but once 
 i got into it its the best.. What i like about the game s the different selections on fighting 
 styles.. The gameplay is fast enough for you to see what you are doing... It's highly addictive and 
 not like anyother fighting game.. What the developers could have done was add more new characters 
 than Elieen and El Blaze and took put the commentary.. This game is what you are looking forward 
 to.. get it now and you wont be sorry..... its not like anyother fighting game.. My favorite two 
 characters is Jacky and El Blaze, they have some traits that are good and addictive to use over 
 and over, which is what i do most is use the same moves. In quest mode i dont see why they didn't 
 put dural in it, it would have made the game even more better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  All the characters from Virtua Fighters 4, are back with even more characters, including DURAL!! 
 But im not going to go into all that stuff right now, so i'll just explain gameplay and such. The 
 gameplay is amazing, there are i believe 4 modes that you can choose from, 3 if you're doing single 
 player, and those modes are: Arcade mode (standard supposedly storyline with 8 battles Akira always 
 being the last one, and Dural being the bonus fight, meaning that you don't have to win, but it 
 would be pretty cool.) , Quest Mode (You take your favorite character, and name them, and send them 
 on quests to become the best fighter.. well, in the world! You can customize your characters looks 
 here as well. You may also go up ranks, and get new costumes foir normal characters.) Dojo Mode 
 (Basicly you take any character and train. You can practice combonations, and also dfo time attack, 
 which is where you master the combo's as fast as you can, you can also just spar with anyone you 
 want.) Thats all of the single player modes, but there is a VS mode, and thats whereyou can fight 
 one of your friends in a battle, and prove that you are the better Virtua Fighter!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Virtua fighter series has been with us for many years, starting in the arcades, than on sega saturn, 
 dreamcast, ps2 and now ps3, Virtua fighter 4 on ps2 was probably the best fighting game on the 
 console, in virtua fighter 4 was impossible to win a serious player with button mashing (this happens 
 a lot in fighting games) and that was why VF4 had so much credit, for being a really hardcore fighting 
 game. VF5 continues the work started in VF4.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As I said you really need to lose some time and do practice if you want to learn how to play VF5, 
 if you just go button mashing you're finished in no time. This is both good and bad, its good because 
 fans will be pleased and bad because there is maybe new players will say "no thx", anyway anyone 
 with the patience to learn how to play VF5 will be rewarded with the best fighting system out there.
 
  9.
  
  Graphics:
  
  VF5 has certainly the best looking fighting game out there, dead or alive 4 for example looks cool 
 but VF5 really stands out, there are beautifull arenas with gorgeous backgrounds and the characters 
 really look great.
  9,5.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  Mastering VF5 will keep you playing for a long time believe me, but the problem its that theres 
 not much to do or unlock in VF5, there is a mode where you go to championships and stuff like that 
 but doesn't really had nothing new to the gaming experience.
  The lack of a multiplayer mode its also a bad thing, you can play against another person but not 
 over the internet.
  7.
  
  Overall:
  
  VF5 its in my opinion the best fighting game out there, if you're a fan than buy it, otherwise 
 maybe a rent will be the best option.
  8,5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: west7899
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Ok... this is like the 2nd review ive done here on GS, and its like...6am and i haven't slept much, 
 so bear with me if you think it sucks.
  
  Well, i bought this game for my PS3 a while back, thinking it would be an awesome replacement for 
 Tekken.... considering the fact that VF5 looked so great on the PS3 demos at your local Game stop/Best 
 buy/Circuit City/Etc.
  Not as great as i anticipated. the graphics are great... and i mean, GREAT. They're really incredible... but 
 then again, its on a ps3... which was pretty much BUILT for graphics =P . However, i think the graphics 
 actually make up for really repetitive game play (i said in he title, "Ok game play" -- i meant without 
 the repetitive part.) ... and yes, most fighting games are like that, but this one was REALLY repetitive.... you 
 just fight, win, fight, win..... the main thing that made it repetitive was the lack of combos and 
 the choppy moves in the game, as well as a problem with the whole fighting sequence itself... instead 
 of being a "whose better at combos and who has better moves", it turns into more of a "who pushes 
 the punch button faster"... though, there are a few combos, they are generally short. and another 
 thing that just pissed me off was some of he character's moves looked really slow... i doubt that 
 really matters, but if i compared this to Tekken... Tekken would really leave this in the dust.... then 
 again, i AM a Tekken fan, and i have never really played much Virtua fighter. so i might be a bit 
 biased. 
  Now that im done stating all the bad things of this game, time for some of the great things about 
 it. I really enjoyed the Character customization thing... VF had more things to get than Tekken (well, 
 depends) , and you could WIN items.... however, there was something i hated.... the fact that it was 
 so goddamn hard to get money. but other than that, Quest mode is pretty worth it... i could get 
 like 10 wins, and walk out with a crap load of things. the VTV thing was great too (is it VTV? i 
 forgot what its called) , with the graphics, and some of the characters moves, watching the videos 
 were awesome.... well, some of them, mainly Eileen's Kou-kun demonstration thing..... i didn't like 
 the exhibition matches tho.... i just find watching fights on VF5 really boring.
  Overall, VF5 was a pretty decent game, good graphics which make up for like everything else in 
 the game, a "commentary" option which is always fun, and being able to laugh in your friends face 
 when they suck so much at this game compared to you (actually, it takes a bit of time to get good 
 at this game cuz of the choppy moves and no combo thing, so when YOU master it... kinda, and your 
 friends dont, its priceless) . 
  
  And one last thing -- About my issue on the moves..... maybe im just too hooked up on Tekken and its 
 combos lol... so you dont have to listen to that if you dont want cuz i think any Virtua FIghter 
 fan would love this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoozwah
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Virtua Fighter 5 the other day for PS3 and I just got a chance to sit down and play 
 it a few hours ago. I played it for.. well.. a few hours
  
  I've got VF2 and VF4 evo as well but I've never REALLY gotten into them. I've wanted to but been 
 distracted with other games. So I started playing VF5 and the first thing I notice is that the 
 menu is so sharp. If you've played it, you know what I'm talking about when I say the rotating 
 hexagons. One of the nicest menus I've seen to date in a game.
  
  I went straight to the dojo to get my feet wet with the fighting system. At first play it seemed 
 a bit like dead or alive but it ends up being it's own system the deeper into it you go. The genius 
 to it is it's simplicity. You've essentially got 3 buttons and a stick to work with. This ultimately 
 makes the game easy to get into but not so easy to master if you're used to a namco style system 
 or a techmo system. Each of them have their own nuances but the VF system seems to take it a bit 
 further, allowing you to almost fake out any attack, dodge from almost any position, block and 
 counter anything. It's all timing and mastery of those 3 little buttons.
  
  Punch, kick, block and combinations of them therein. Wrap your head around that and you may just 
 be a contender in the easy arcades. Which brings me to my next point. The quest mode is awesome. 
 This is basically your single player campaign. It's set up like this. You're a fun loving, thrill 
 seeking virtua fighter who travels to all the happening arcade spots in the city looking for a 
 good fight. You can choose over a half a dozen different arcade spots and there are multiple machines 
 in each arcade you can play on.
  
  You choose your machine and someone will challenge you. If you win enough times, you'll rank up. 
 You can also unlock items which you can use to customize your fighter's outfit. It's kinda pointless 
 to me. I only care about the fighting itself but for completists who want 100% on their games, 
 there's a lot to do in the quest mode. After you win x number of times, you'll be prompted that 
 there is a tourney going on in such and such arcade, do you wanna go? you can opt to leave and 
 join the tourney or you can keep going at the arcade you're at. Leaving the arcade will, like in 
 real life, end your winning streak so if you're on a roll you may wanna keep it going.
  
  You've also got your standard arcade mode and vs mode and there's also a VF TV mode which allows 
 you to view all the cinematics that you've unlocked so far in the game. Standard fare for a 3D 
 fighter anymore.
  
  If you have a 360/PS3 and like a good fighter, this one comes easily and highly recommended. The 
 fighting engine is very satisfying to use and the Quest mode is a very well done and unique addition 
 to the fighting genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter is back and better than ever........ sort of.
  
  Graphics: This is one of the many areas Virtua Fighter shines in literally. Characters pop off 
 the screen and shine like they put on baby oil before the match. Seriously though character models 
 look crazy realistic and it makes fighting look like it really hurts the characters when they get 
 hit. You can see the wrinkles and veins popping out on peoples bodies (Just look at Lei-Fei's win 
 pose for a perfect example) . Items and clothing colors look great. Stages look better than ever 
 with as much things going on in the background as there is in the fight itself.
  
  Sound: This is one of the games few flaws actually. Music as always in a Virtua Fighter game is 
 not something you will remember. The sweeps from kicks, blocked strikes, etc. sound almost the 
 same as Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution. It's not that bad, but still you will wish they changed it 
 a little more.
  
  Controls: Same as always PUNCH, KICK, GUARD. Sounds simple, but if you have played Virtua Fighter 
 games before you know it masks plenty of depth. I would recommend changing the setup to best suite 
 your play style though.
  
  Overall: Game is a giant step for graphics, but a little step back when it comes to difficultly. 
 This game is easier than previous games and you can notice it right away. I ranked up faster on 
 this game than before so it is a good thing that there is a lot of things to unlock. You do not 
 lose an orb when you lose a match anymore which makes matches less tense. I miss losing an orb 
 and having to fight all the way through the arcade searching for the person who has it. They have 
 added more item matches to counter that though which is good especially in versus matches. Waiting 
 for a match to start and seeing a item chest pop on the screen automatically makes you and your 
 friend fight harder. The biggest flaw is that PS3 OWNERS DON'T GET TO PLAY ONLINE!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Other than that great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sean_Omac
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Virtua Fighter 5 I expected 3 things - Fast paced Beat-Em Up action, the best looking 
 graphics and game play to keep me busy for hours on end. Virtua Fighter 5 delivers on 2 of the 
 3 things I thought I was going to get.
  
  The game certainly does look fantastic, with incredible detail on all of the character models and 
 the fight stages. All the clothing moves as if you would expect in real life and there are some 
 really stand out water effects on show. Also worth a mention is the Snowy Mountain stage that (as 
 the name suggests) is full of snow that reacts to the movements of your fighter. 
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 also delivers on the Beat-Em up action. All your old favourite fighters (plus 
 a couple of useful new folk) return with super hard punching and gravity defying spin kicks. The 
 combo system has been improved on previous instalments making fighting quicker and adds a lot of 
 variation into the moves you can do half way through a complex combo. The difficulty levels are 
 changeable meaning anyone new to Virtua Fighter games can turn it down and get used to pummelling 
 opponents before going in for the more challenging levels. All in all, I really enjoyed the fighting 
 experience you get with Virtua Fighter 5. The moves are sometimes impressive and I winced a few 
 times when I saw my fighter get its arm cracked or slammed into a metal fence. 
  The best improvement to this Virtua Fighter is the inclusion of El Blaze as a character. He's a 
 tiny Luchadore (Rey Mysterio Jr style) wrestler so spins and tumbles galore. It feels extremely 
 satisfying when you hit a hurricanranna and slam one of the bigger, burlier characters into the 
 fence. Skillz!
  
  The biggest let down of this game is its longevity. There are a few game modes but I couldn't find 
 a point to any of them. The traditional Arcade mode has you fight through the ranks of characters, 
 one by one, but in return what do you get? An unlockable character that has all the same moves 
 as everyone else. A really big let down. Then you have a kind of career mode where you go from 
 arcade to arcade fighting different people to earn money and different clothing for your profile 
 character. After fighting somebody 40 times and winning every time just to unlock a pair of sunglasses, 
 I lost interest. 
  The best game mode is the multi-player. For a few weeks, my buddies and me gathered around the 
 glowing screen to smash each other's faces in. It did keep us entertained and I would say that 
 if you a few friends who like Beat-Em Ups then definitely invest in this game, you wont be disappointed, 
 but if your loner and prefer to play Final Fantasy than Tekken then don't bother. You're better 
 off without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal1212
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is a sequel (duh) to the Virtua Fighter series. Right off the bat I could tell 
 you that if you like the last VF games, you willl like this.
  
  The game doesn't have much to offer. It has an Arcade Mode, VS (where you play agenenst your friends) , 
 and a story mode. Arcade mode you just randomly fight people just like the arcade, VS was just 
 explaned, and Story Mode is where you going around to diffrent "arcades" to win fights and tournaments. 
 If you just think about it, its just arcade mode expect you pick were you have you rounds. The 
 game (PS3) doesn't have online play, which is a bumber to PS3 owner and is googd for 360 owers. 
 it should be reverced but I'll leaved the bashing alone.
  
  In the end, VF5 doesn't have much to offer, but you could have fun in that short time.
  
  VF5 
 gets a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Good, but not the technical feat people make it out to be. The biggest problem for me 
 is that everyone is hairless. I know this sounds a little weird, but with the current processing 
 power available to developers it seems that they could've made the characters look a little bit 
 more realistic, not like they all shaved their legs, arms and chest before the fight. This applies 
 less to the female characters, disappoints, but literally, i dont care , (sowwy)
  
  Sound - Just awful. The background music is irritating and repetative, and voice work is AWFUL. 
 It sounds like they pulled people off the street to act in this. The voice actors should be ashamed. 
 They make William Shatner in Star Trek look oscar worthy.
  
  Gameplay - I'll break this up into three sections:
  
  Arcade Mode - Don't play it. There's 
 no reason to. There's no plot, no cut scenes and it doesn't unlock enough (I guess you unlock the 
 stone lady from the end if you beat it with everyone, but meh) .
  
  Quest Mode - Here's your meat. You go around to a handful of virtual arcades and battle ghosts 
 to gain rank, items and money. HOWEVER... you BARELY gain money, and for some reason, doing "Official 
 Tournaments" garners you nothing. No awards, no gold, no items, no nothin'.
  
  
  Fighting - Only 17 fighters. Ouch, pretty lean roster for a newer game. But, they all feel very 
 different, and all have various purchasable items to customize them, so it's alright. The actual 
 fighting IS very good. Everyone has tons of moves and stances etc. and the combos run the gamit 
 from easy to pull off for the beginner to reasonably difficult for the pro. It works pretty well. 
 I, personally, am not very good at defensive moves in games, but I can block a punch or two here, 
 so that works out well. 
  
  Overall - this is a fun game to play with. The lack of characters, the pointless arcade mode, and 
 lack of depth can be alittle lame, and ruins the game but the depth of the fighting really is very 
 good, and makes the game very playable, if not for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter was the first 3D fighter and has went on to become one of the best fighters out 
 there. Now we're here with the first next gen installment of the series, Virtua Fighter 5. For 
 those of you that don't know, Virtua Figher is more of a realistically timed fighting game where 
 you can't just button mash your way to glory. There is basically no story in Virtua Fighter, other 
 than what you read in the manual, since it focuses only on strong gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  This installment improves on the last installment, Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution and the arcade exclusive 
 VF4: Final Tuned, with 2 new characters, some improvements to quest mode, more costumes for each 
 character, and more customization. Gameplay has obviously been enhanced over previous installments 
 and is now more smooth and solid as ever. It's core controls are pretty simple with a simple punch, 
 kick, and guard button, but it's very complex to master all the combo chains and timing. Overall 
 Virtua Fighter still has some of the best gameplay in a 3D fighter to date with it's sharp controls 
 and framebased gameplay.
  
  Audio:
  Well audio is tough to call. The series has always aimed for over the top and cheesy voice acting 
 and this installment captures it perfectly, well the English voices anyway. Music is your simple 
 mix of electronics that you have become used to it fighting games. Overall this is just the cheesy 
 audio you have came to expect from the series.
  
  Graphics:
  It's graphics are very nice with it's detailed characters and slick animations. It's definitely 
 one of the best looking fighting games on the market. Compared to DOA4 it has more detail on characters 
 and both games have silky smooth animations, but environments look slightly better in DOA4, mainly 
 since there bigger, but Virtua Fighter 5 has absolutely beautiful backdrops that are definitely 
 above DOA4. Overall this is a very slick and very nice looking game and was about the best looking 
 game available for PS3 when it first came out.
  
  Closing comments:
  Overall this is a great title and a must have for any fighting fan. With sharp controls and slick 
 graphics, this is a great title that belongs in anyone looking for a great 3D fighter's library.
 
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Pros:
  Great gameplay
  Slick graphics
  Quest mode will keep you busy for awhile
  Lot's of character customization
  
  Cons:
  Silly 
 dialog and audio
  PS3 version lacks online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I was there for the beginning of this series. A little known arcade game by the name of Virtua 
 Fighter hit the scene and it was different from all the other fighting games. Fast forward to the 
 release of the Sega Saturn and PRESTO a home version. But, alas I never got the Sega Saturn due 
 to the fact that I felt wary after the 32X debacle. It took another installment in this series 
 to hook me in.
  
  The game was Virtua Fighter 2 and from first quarter it was love! I mean I was blown away by this 
 game. The graphics, the characters, this game didn't lack anything!
  
  Guess what: I missed the boat on Virtua Fighter 3 (I think)
  
  It was Virtua Fighter 4/Evolution 
 that made me forget ALL about PT2 quickly. Not since Soul Calibur have I seen such a BEAUTFIUL 
 game!: o the fighting was fast, furious, and, in my opinion, FLAWLESS.
  
  So, it goes without saying that I should look forward to Virtua Fighter 5 right? well, duh. The 
 minute this game was announced I sucked up every bit of info I could gather on this game like a 
 sponge. When I heard it was coming with new characters that was it for me. I bought this game yesterday 
 after playing the demo (and waiting for the healthy price drop) I can say that Sega and the LEGENDARY 
 AM2 had done it again.
  
  I started off with the character El Blaze which, next to Akira and Kage, is now my favorite character 
 in this game. The graphics are a 10. I mean a perfect 10 as your jaw will hit the floor when you 
 see just how beautiful the stages are. The music is about an 8 or 9 not perfect but not horrible 
 either far from it in fact. The gameplay is silky smooth with a nice fast pace to the action so 
 I shall deem this a 10 as well. I love how you can go to the arcades and enter tournaments. I haven't 
 fiddled with the customizing of a character but, the possibilities seem endless! there is always 
 a DOJO where you can train and learn the moves against a stationary or customized target for those 
 who want to get into the deep aspect of this revolutionary fighter.
  
  Everybody from the previous games plus a couple of new characters are amazing in detail. What a 
 wondeful job! I can honestly say that Virtua Fighter 5 is a showpiece for the PS3 and it is a EXCELLENT 
 fighting game not just eye candy. With the price drop to about $29.99 NEW there really is NO excuse 
 not to own this game. Matter of fact I feel guilty for not paying full price for it when it first 
 came out because it is worth the money. I can only imagine what will be in store for Virtua Fighter 
 6. Can they top 5? I think they can and will but, for now I will enjoy my highly polished fighters 
 going from a waterfall stage to a city street with cars passing by (AWESOME STAGES)
  Must Buy, Must Have for all fighting game fans and Virtua Fighter fans because this is the best 
 in the series, so far. Now Go Get It!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall_g
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 was the first game I brought for my PS3. At first time the game itself looks really 
 cool with amazing graphic details and a good sound. 
  
  Story  well most of fighting games are kind of boring or has a lack of sense when it comes about 
 the story like. This thing happens with the VF5 as well, so if you don't read the instruction book 
 then you don't know anything about it, and it looks like that SEGA isn't even trying 
  
  Gameplay's good but not the best fighting game. Mashing buttons won't make you go further and you 
 need to practice harder and master skills so you can play it well. Learning how to block moves 
 are the first step and then learn to make the combos are the next step. Here you have no fireballs, 
 fatalities or powerful moves that can destroy the entire scenario. It's only guard, punch and kick 
 and lots of combination to make you a go to the top of the VF5. However if you like to train harder 
 and to learn how to master all kinds of moves, then VF5 is the perfect game for ya. The other options 
 are great to spend some good time like the Dojo  where you can train with your character; the 
 VS mode where you can fight with a friend; and the Quest mode where you choose a fighter and go 
 for some competition. 
  
  Now the bad part of this... we have no online play, no head to head I mean nothing which is disappointing 
 
  
  Graphics are amazing, but the fight itself is reduced to a single square ring where there's also 
 the usual "ringout".
  
  Sound is really great and it fits well with this fighting game.
  
  In short this game worth only for those who love to dig into the fight skills. And it can be 
 a good way to pass some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Virtual Fighter 5 for the PS3
  
  Good: Outstand Graphics, Controls and Moves are insane!
  
  Bad: Wheres the story? Voices are horrible and the ones that are not english where the heck 
 are the subtitles??
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 x3
  Graphics: 10/10 x2
  Sound: 6/10 x2
  Storyline: 3/10 x2
  Extra's and Replay Value: 7/10 x1 (its a fighting game so its kinda hard 
 to say replay as you well thats all you do lol.)
  
  
  Virtual Fighter 5 for what it is in most cases is an amazing fighting game thats gone down enough 
 in price to make it worth a purchase. The graphics are top notch in this game and there not even 
 using the full power of the ps3. Gameplay is insane and really shows compaired to other fighters. 
 Yet in a sense thats all this game offers, with a lack of any story except the booklet that comes 
 with it and horrible voices and no subtitles, these things make this game not as good as tekken 
 or soulcalibur as a whole. I would gladly say this games combat is the best of the best for me, 
 but with these major flaws theres just crushing this game. Fix these problems, and I know the voices 
 can't be changed now but maybe some better lines as really there just super corny. Greater fighter, 
 but thats it don't expect much else otherwise you will be dissappointed. 
  
  Overall Score 75 out of 100 for a 7.5 on Gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Well virtual fighter 5 another great fighting game? Not really
  
  The Virtual Fighter Series has been going for almost 14 year and in those 14 years the series has 
 gone throw up's and Down's Virtual 4 been the Pick. But with Virtual fighter 5 I have mix reactions 
 because in one side this a great game that is identical to virtual fighter 4 and that is the main 
 problem that there is nothing new in the table. First things first the game play is great the game 
 play is virtual fighter and there is nothing to complain about that except that there is no online 
 play and that's is a big let down. Then we have the Graphics and sound, the graphics are really 
 sharp but the sound is ok, the sound is great but some times the voices and some special effects 
 are out of place. Whit that said virtual fighter is a solid fighter that is worth a rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  I'm a new guy to Virta Fighter but this game absoulty sucks because there's no story mode where's 
 a fighting game without story mode. The quest mode is way too hard because guardains on it can 
 aticpate every one of your moves are do the rightt counter 8/10 times and you have to frequently 
 guard which make it impracible and the graphics is the only good thing about it if it is a ps2 
 game. It's very hard to verse hard eniemys and not enough charator customation. It's what people 
 called awful and they need to release virtal fighter 5 improved with story mode game soon. It what 
 you call the club penquin of PS3. This game is horrid never recomdended. Trust me because if they're 
 was story mode it would still suck take of the market now.
  gameplay: 2 out of 10
  graphics: 5 out of 10
  sound: 3 out of ten sound repetative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Good, but not the technical feat people make it out to be. The biggest problem for me 
 is that everyone is hairless. I know this sounds a little weird, but with the current processing 
 power available to developers it seems that they could've made the characters look a little bit 
 more realistic, not like they all shaved their legs, arms and chest before the fight. This applies 
 less to the female characters. I guess I mean that they ignored the little touches that make a 
 character feel whole. The head hair isn't great either, since up close, it looks like Sarah has 
 a yellow head with three large yellow triangles of hair on it. Looks unpolished. The other things 
 is the water. There's a couple of battle fields that have water on the ground, and though the water 
 effects are good, they're going ten times as fast as the action. It's a little distracting from 
 the rest of the game, because the rest of the physics work fine.
  
  Sound - Just awful. The background music is irritating and repetative, and voice work is AWFUL. 
 It sounds like they pulled people off the street to act in this. The voice actors should be ashamed. 
 They make William Shatner in Star Trek look oscar worthy.
  
  Gameplay - I'll break this up into three sections:
  
  Arcade Mode - Don't play it. There's 
 no reason to. There's no plot, no cut scenes and it doesn't unlock enough (I guess you unlock the 
 stone lady from the end if you beat it with everyone, but meh) .
  
  Quest Mode - Here's your meat. You go around to a handful of virtual arcades and battle ghosts 
 to gain rank, items and money. HOWEVER... you BARELY gain money, and for some reason, doing "Official 
 Tournaments" garners you nothing. No awards, no gold, no items, no nothin'. You fight endless battles 
 to gain rank (and occasionally items) , and participate in local tournaments (which is where you 
 get gold) , but since in 100 battles I made the grand total of about 10, 000 gold in 7 tournaments, 
 these clearly don't happen enough, and when they do, you're at 10 kyu, and the tournamnets are 
 all 10th dan fighters, and they just destroy you right quick. I guess in multiple playthroughs 
 with different fighters, it'll be eaiser. The lean roster of fighters screws this up too, because 
 in that 100 fights, and fought the same characters over and over and over. Got a bit boring. 
 
  
  Fighting - Only 17 fighters. Ouch, pretty lean roster for a newer game. But, they all feel very 
 different, and all have various purchasable items to customize them, so it's alright. The actual 
 fighting IS very good. Everyone has tons of moves and stances etc. and the combos run the gamit 
 from easy to pull off for the beginner to reasonably difficult for the pro. It works pretty well. 
 I, personally, am not very good at defensive moves in games, but I can block a punch or two here, 
 so that works out well. The envirnoments range from caged matches, where there's no ring out, to 
 open rings where you CAN ring out, come in various sizes (the measurements of which the machine 
 tells you, for some reason) which adds variety, but the lack of interaction with the environment 
 feels a little boring. They look nice, though. The last thing is that your moves don't feel very 
 hard hitting. In a Tekken game, when you hit someone, it really seems powerful, but here, no so 
 much. All the punches and kicks all feel like they're the same power level, only differentiated 
 by the amount of health they remove. It's unfortunate, but not game killing.
  
  Overall - Sounds like I didn't like the game, right? Not true. I think this is a solid first effort 
 for the next gen systems, and though I prefer DOA 4 on the Xbox and a whole slew of last gen games 
 (hard to beat Tekken 5) , this is a fun game to play with. The lack of characters, the pointless 
 arcade mode, and lack of depth can be alittle jaunting, but the depth of the fighting really is 
 very good, and makes the game very playable, if not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandao25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I just got my PS3 and VF5 is my first game because it was a bonus to the 40 GB Spiderman bundle. 
 Also I bought second controller right away.
  Let me start with graphics: they are solid and very juicy. 3D objects in background won't surprise 
 anyone anymore, but still I liked it. Now physics. Actually, this aspect disapoints me a bit, but 
 not much. What I did'nt like is that sometimes fighter move as they are on ice: sliding. And that 
 + no online mode are the only things I didn't like.
  Gameplay. For me, and I am a starter, gameplay was really interesting. But 80% in this game I spend 
 in VS. mode, fighting my friends, and family memebrs.
  All trouble I had o far was to learn how to use a console controller wisely, but I learn quickly 
 =)
  So, to finish my first review about my first console game, Virtua Fighter 5 is an interesting fighting 
 game which addicts you a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smootheyes2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, the visuals are fantastic! The characterrs look real. It's especially good when you change 
 their clothes around so you make them look how you want them to. Anyway, the gameplay is fantastic. 
 The numerous different styles of fighting techniques are really good. They range from lightning 
 speed, to slow and powerful. My favourite character is Lion Rafale, who uses lightning quick moves 
 to bring his enemies down fast! The characters are hard to master, but when you know them really 
 well, it's really satisfying. As you get better, you're characters title does as well. They move 
 up through ranks, starting at the 10th Kyu. They work their way up to the 1st Dan, and so-on. Then 
 there ae the Master Titles for the very best.
  
  There is a lot of customisation in the game to make it feel your own. I like a lot of customisation 
 in games, and there is so much in Virtua Fighter 5! Hundreds of different pieces of clothing to 
 choose from!
  
  The fighting styles are very different to Soul Calibur because they use no weapons. This works 
 really well since the styles are so different. They range from Kick-Boxing to Drunken Kung-Fu! 
 Overall, it's a very fun game that will last for ages. There is so much to do. You could play for 
 a short time, or for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed playing Tekken or Dead or Alive in the past you may find Virtua Fighter a fair game 
 to play if you have a PS3. It was made by Sega becuase Virtua Fighter series did start off when 
 Sega Satean came out years during the population of Sonic fans.
  Basic gameplay just like in any fighting game where you beat up people and become world champion, 
 graphics do look good on the PS3 blue-ray and its sound and music great too. This game is enjoable 
 to play for a few hours but the bad part about it there is no online for it becuase the PS3 version 
 out longer then the 360 version that has got online battle, you can also customise your charcters 
 clothing to express yourself only 17 charcters to choose from. Fans or gamers who are into fighting 
 games may find this game abit disapointing but still getting a cheap price around 20=$20 at least. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 was a dissapointment for me. the story mode was boring to me and the fact that 
 it is not online really sucks. But the thing i like was that you can get your player up in rank 
 and get to fully coustimize your character that you have choosen. But other than that, i did not 
 like the game and the last good thing im going to say is that the graphics of this game was good 
 and the fighting style variety and the fighting movs were average to me. if i had to play a fighting 
 game, i ould play tekken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This is my first look at the Virtua Fighter series. For my first look at the series, I walked away 
 a bit disappointed.
  
  As I first turned on Virtua Fighter I saw what the PS3 is capable of, I was very happy to see the 
 graphics of this, very well made and alot of work was obviously put into. I was expecting good 
 things from Virtua Fighter, being made by Sega is usually stamp of a quality game, but not this 
 time.
  
  While Pleasing to the eye, Virtua Fighter's gameplay is very mediocre. To me it felt like a Tekken 
 clone. It is slow, lacking depth and nothing to unlock all adds up to be a pretty crappy fighting 
 game. Single player is repetitive, while it is dressed up to look like alot more, there is very 
 little to do than continuously play against the same characters in the same old stages for no reason.
 
  
  Now this could all be forgiven if multiplayer was fun, but its not. Nearly every character feels 
 like it plays the same. There is little skill involved, with button bashing usually taking out 
 the prize, that doesn't say much good for the gameplay.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is a prime example of great graphics not equaling great gameplay. A little more 
 time should have been spent on the game itself than making the arenas looking so good. If you like 
 Tekken and you need good graphics, this might be a game for you. But if you are like me and have 
 been brought up on Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat, you will feel pretty disappointed with the 
 slow and boring gameplay which is Virtua Fighter 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  But then it just got really boring, I mean I don't think there is even a story to it, it has no 
 purpose. The fighting mechanics feel more like it was meant for the arcade than the PS3, it probably 
 would have been better in arcades. I will admit though that the graphics do look really freakin 
 good. The sound isn't to great however, in fact I'm not even gonna talk about the sound because 
 it's just not worth it. There is no reason to keep playin it because this version has no online 
 play. Overall if you want a fighting game for you ps3 I'd say maybe pass on this one and wait for 
 better ones because this game will just get boring after a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk1180
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game dont get me wrong I can get over the diffculy and the steep
  learning curving even if you have played VF4 or VF4 evolution or any VF game but the one part that 
 downs this game for me the most is no ONLINE play. They made a great port of the game for the PS3 
 but if you dont have a fighting game ring of players on your block then you can get bored real 
 fast and I mean FAST. Its a good game with some flaws that the 360 fixed in there port but it is 
 a good game to have for the PS3. Overall not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  the base gameplay is great, very good, it's pretty much a 10 but the features to me aren't really 
 all that great and wish they did a lot more for the console version.
  
  no online? now thats just horrible but i can get over it, it's a great looking game and i have 
 friends, but i didn't like the career most in this game and i don't like the way you have to unlock 
 items, it really just doesn't make sense in my head. also after you beat the arcade you can't even 
 record your name for a high score, unless you keep creating new character accounts, which i find 
 awkward. overall the gameplay is good but it seems like a game they already have and just wanted 
 to release for money, doesn't feel like a lot of passion was put into the game and the ai could 
 be much better. the training was also no help at all. and it would be great if it could have online 
 even if compromises had to be else ware to make it happen. because then it would make up for the 
 crappy single player modes. for the 60 bucks, it's worth it just to go the arcade all the time. 
 like a real arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonseer439
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  The first Virtua Fighter game I played was VF3 on the Dreamcast, and I absolutely loved it. When 
 Tekken 2 came out it really raised the bar for 3D fighting games, and Sega hit back with VF3 and 
 stole the crown back, with the most advanced fighting game ever made to that point. Since then 
 both series have had their ups and downs, but now while Tekken 5 Dark Resurrection is easily the 
 best Tekken game (Im posting a review of that here too, where I explain why) , I dont believe 
 Virtua Fighter 5 has lived up to the greatness of VF3, so now Ill explain what has happened to 
 the series since.
  
  In Virtua Fighter 3 you fought in full 3d arenas, these had undulating terrain, like steps on the 
 Great Wall of China stage and even boats tied together that bobbed independently in Shuns stage. 
 If you were standing on two different rafts, they would move in the water differently, and your 
 fighters feet and legs would move perfectly with it. When Tekken 4 tried this stuff the result 
 was a glitchy mess, with infinite combos being possible and stuff. But in VF3 it was all seamless 
 and worked perfectly. But it also introduced a random element into the fight. Combos would work 
 in some situations but not others, you had to work with the environment and react to the situation 
 on the fly. Your strategy might be different if your opponent is on higher or lower ground, and 
 when you got used to it (I put in several hundred hours into VF3) it was great. But I guess Virtua 
 Fighter fans never really got used to it and complained about it though, because all that was stripped 
 out in VF4. Virtua Fighter 4 brought back the flat and square arenas from the original, and VF 
 started to rely on combos a lot more. It took the Ukemi role from Tekken 3, and crumple stuns from 
 Tekken 2, offering more combo opportunities and changing the emphasis. They also made the fighting 
 engine more complex, giving most characters new stances and things like catch throws to compensate 
 for what they took out. When I first started playing VF4 I didnt take to the changes very well 
 at all, it was a backward step in a lot of ways and also had a new style that was pretty hit 
 and miss. I think Sega knew it was going on the playstation and copied Tekken in this way too, 
 look at Goh and Brad introduced in VF4 Evo, and the horrible metal music, I guess this was supposed 
 to make more the game more extreme and broaden the appeal, I just thought it was obnoxious.
 
  
  Anyway Virtua Fighter 5 has a better style, true to the series roots, but it has inherited a lot 
 of the same problems from VF4, the same square arenas, and some questionable changes. A lot of 
 the cast in Virtua Fighter 5 I cant bear to play now, because of the changes to individual characters. 
 For example Jacky, my fav in VF3, lost his best Lightning Kick strings, these were his best moves, 
 they looked great, and lead to good mix ups. Ill never forgive Sega for taking these out, and 
 giving him countless boring punch string options instead. Another of my favs, Taka Arashi the sumo, 
 hes been missing since VF4.
  
  It is not all bad news, Akira is still the best fighting game character, period (well, maybe a 
 tie with Ryu from Street fighter) . Aoi is the most graceful, and Jeffrey the most brutal. Characters 
 like Lei Fei and Vanessa are great too. If you thought VF4 was great then you need Virtua Fighter 
 5. Its easily the best looking VF and the PS3 game is a spot on conversion. Just get an arcade 
 stick if you want to try doing Akiras stun palm of doom.
  
  Couple more things to mention about the PS3 version. First, the AI is horrible, it really isnt 
 fun to play against which is a major problem. Second, the interface is clumsy, from when you boot 
 up the game, to when you try to pick a character, it can be annoying that you cant just pick a 
 character and go. You have to scroll through a list and create a profile, you cant just use the 
 arcade select cursor, which is dumb. So the single player is lacking, but if you are going to be 
 playing VS mode in the main though, this version delivers.
  
  Just a few final thoughts about the fighting system itself, yes, it is deep and complex but there 
 are a few things that bother me. One is when you go down, you are pretty safe in most situations, 
 because attacks getting up off the ground are so strong. It leads to some weird situations where 
 you knock someone down, then backdash to get away from their possible rising attack, which is nuts. 
 There is no Okizeme game like in Tekken, where the person on the ground is at a disadvantage, and 
 has to use skill to get out of trouble (more realistic, and more of a pressure game) . Also there 
 are annoying poky low punches that are used a lot to break someones momentum, they look stupid, 
 obviously no one would crouch down to their knees and punch someones kneecap when they are charged 
 at, and this wouldnt stop them dead in their tracks. Finally there are strong attacks that lead 
 to a stagger, when this happens a waggling joystick appears onscreen, and waggle furiously you 
 must if you want to shorten the stagger and avoid a combo. This kind of mechanic worked in crappy 
 80s arcade beat em ups, but I dont think it works here. Except for these points though, the fighting 
 engine is rock solid, and you have a great range of strategies at your disposal. The throw escape 
 system, for example, is way better than Tekken - or any other fighting game for that matter.
  
  In summary, even with all these problems VF5 is still one of the best fighting games and fans 
 of the genre really have to check it out. While its disappointing to me Im probably in the minority. 
 But Ill hunt down a VF3 arcade board one day, and Tekken is going from strength to strength in 
 the meantime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 has arrived to next generation and visually it''s gorgeous, from great Chinese 
 wall to snowy mountains, the game stages and fighters look very sharp.
  
  Two new fighters have entered the field, and both are very balanced and fit the competition perfectly 
 and are very fun to play with.
  
  The game audio is good and bad. The background music is superb on many stages (River for example) , 
 while fighters who are speaking English are very poorly done, which is a total opposite of Japanese 
 and Chinese language which are short but sweet.
  In this latest installation Virtua Fighter 5 combat is even more challenging then previous titles, 
 more combinations are added and on higher difficulty level, the A. I. is brutal.
  For those who are new to the VF style of fighting should spend some time in Dojo mode to practice, 
 Virtua Fighter is quite different if you're use to games like Tekken. Counter-attacking, dodging 
 and sidestepping with proper timing of attacks is your best friend. And lets not forget the blocking, 
 you will not get far whiteout it either.
  
  The biggest downside is no online option, I'm still puzzled as of why it was not implemented as 
 it's vital for a game of this genre.
  
  Overall, Virtua Fighter 5 is a solid game that will keep you occupied for some time, especially 
 to master it. Very deep and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsuyo_Puyo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay &amp; Controls:
  This is what you bought Virtua Fighter 5 for! There are basically 3 different buttons: punch, kick, 
 block, but dont each character has a load of moves. You cannot blindly button mash on this game 
 like you can with Dead or Alive, Street Fighter, or even Tekken. Blocking and executing at the 
 right time are key in this game, and a lot of the moves require some tricky D-pad movement. This 
 is why many consider Virtua Fighter to have the most solid fighting system. Graphics:
  Its clearly evident that VF5 has the visuals worthy to be called a next-gen game. The game only 
 runs at a maximum of 720p and there are a few glitches in the game. An annoying glitch that you'll 
 see all the time is when you use Kage's diving headbutt on an opponent laying on the ground, he 
 goes right through the opponent each time! I dont recall seeing that kinda crap in Dead or Alive 
 4. Sound:
  Uhh nothing special, SFX are decent, I've played VF5 many hours, but if you played any of the stage 
 music to me, I wouldnt recognize such forgettable compositions, hmmph!
  
  Content &amp; Replay Value:
  Well the good thing is, that this game was priced like $20 less 
 than any other new PS3 when it came out. Well it was priced that way cause this game doesnt offer 
 anything more than good gameplay. Tekken, Soul Calibur, Street FIghter, King of Fighters, Dead 
 or Alive, Mortal Kombat all some sort of apparent storyline for each character (Dead or Alive's 
 and Tekken's is actually somewhat deep) . The storyline that I've concluded in Virtua Fighter 5, 
 is that there are these people that fight each other. Seriously, maybe there is more to it than 
 that, but after I beat the game with a character, I get sent back to the main Menu! No CG animated 
 ending or anything! Street Fighter 2 for the Snes offers more storyline than this game. Each character 
 has only 2 costumes... Other things you can unlock are items like sunglasses or maybe a hat for 
 a character, yay... And even to unlock those little accessories takes forever, since you have to 
 aquire money to buy it. There is a decent selection of characters but some of them really suck. 
 Like there is a white guy who looks like a Backstreet Boy and uses Bruce Lee's martial art style, 
 I never select that idiot. And the only character you can unlock is this stupid bald stone sillhouette 
 lady. I bought this game for the PS3, and there is no online gameplay! I want to fight other people, 
 since the A. I is a bit on the stupid side. So this game might get boring quick if you don't have 
 some friends who like playing these sort of games. Conclusion:
  Unless your in love with this game's more tactical fighting system, I reccommend other fighting 
 games if you want more content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_nedved_br
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I have played Virtua Fighter for the first time around the year of 1993 whe the first one was released 
 to the arcades. It was magnificent at the time and by that time standards it was wonderful in general.
 
  
  Many years have passed and Virtua Fighter still has it's name and fame.
  The fifth game on the series, for the PS3 is graphically awesome, with many improvements since 
 last generation. However it lacks an important thing I felt in those old times: Innovation.
  Don't misunderstand me. It's a great game, the outfit and the prizes are great things, but it still 
 lacks something new.
  For example, if during a fight you could use the scenery to win the fight (for example, you could 
 jump on top of a house or something like that) .
  
  But this is not a VF's con, since most classic games nowadays do not innovate that much either.
 
  
  It's a good game that allows you to have fun with your friends, and a must-have for fighting fans. 
 However it's not going to be one of the best fighting games in this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawsonboy07
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 for the PS3 is a very basic 3D Fighting game. The gameplay is very basic and easy 
 to come across but the game is let down with its lack of single player fun. Yeah there is the all 
 known arcade and versus modes but the other modes are only fun for a while. Also another arge dissapointment 
 is that there in no online game-play for this game which in my opinion makes the game less worth 
 playing. I must say though the Graphics are amazing.... The detail of the characters is very fine 
 and this shows what the PS3 can come up with. I think that Virtua Fighter 5 is a good game but 
 I if i was looking for a 3D fighting game, I must say that Tekken would be more in my favour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _MysTesO_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 finally arrives onto the PS3. This game showcases the power of the PS3, through 
 graphics and sound. Which is surprising since SEGA, or any developer hasn't really utilized the 
 PS3 engine to its fullest potential/power yet, but, still is impressive. Anyway, lets focus more 
 on the game and less on the PS3. As I've already stated graphically its pretty impressive. Then 
 there is the gameplay, which isn't hard to learn, because it has the same controls as its predecessor, 
 Virtua Fighter 4. Though the controls are simple, the amount of playable characters is a huge disapointment. 
 Compared to its competition VF virtually has an invredibly small choice of characters to choose 
 from, only 18 as a matter of fact. Now even though there is only 18 characters, the A. I. in Quest/Arcade 
 Mode, is surprisingly challenging, which in turn, makes up for the lack of characters. Finally, 
 overall, this game is great for VF fans, fighting genre fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  On the one hand, it's arguably the best, most stunning, finely crafted fighting game ever made, 
 it's a flawless conversion in technical terms, and in versus mode it's the most fun a group of 
 straight males can possibly have with each other in the same room. On the other hand, there's nothing 
 in the way of online functionality, certainly no online fighting, linear and predictable opponent 
 AI even on the harder setting, a rushed training mode and fairly limited general options. It's 
 an untouchable new-generation fighting game in its own right, there's no doubt about that, but 
 some stuff you expect from a home version is very much last-generation, and not up to the standard 
 of Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution on PS2. So judging it as a full price game for PlayStation 3 is 
 a bit of a tough one, especially when those seeking a spot of easy beat-em-up action can download 
 Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection HD from the PlayStation Network at a fraction of the price. But as 
 a reviewer, when I consider that I've been playing VF5 non-stop since January and loved every moment, 
 it's all I need to know to weight up what really matters and cough up a number at the end of this 
 writing. The bottom line is that, particularly in two-player mode and preferably with a group of 
 like-skilled friends playing together, VF5 is drugs. Really. It's the **** It's drugs off of **** 
 It's the most intuitive and balanced VF yet, and that's saying something when you think about how 
 refined VF4: Evolution (and for those who had access to it, VF4: Final Tuned) was. Granted, there 
 are still some bickerings about some characters' moves being slightly too powerful and so on, but 
 overall it would be tough to improve the VF5 formula in any major way right now. The Offensive 
 Move techniques open up the space and movement of fights - a very natural, fast-paced boost to 
 the game. New additions to the gameplay system go some way in advancing the enjoyment and depth 
 of the game, chiefly the Offensive Move and Defensive Move. It's not complicated - basically you 
 have a choice of evasive or attacking sidestep moves, executable in either direction. Learning 
 these basic moves really helps to open up the space and movement of a fight, and adds strategy 
 in terms of how you might plan to follow up after impact - Defensive Moves are pretty powerful 
 while Offensive is smaller and cheekier, setting you up to dish out more damage once you've sidestepped 
 trouble. Work out how to flow it all together and learn the connected attacks and potential follow-up 
 combos, and it feels like a very natural, extremely fast-paced boost compared to the previous VF. 
 Other refinements, meanwhile, have aimed to balance things out a little further, such as the Clash 
 system which basically means fighters have an equal advantage when colliding in certain conditions. 
 Control is precise and responsive, and the classic three-button system - guard, punch and kick 
 - is as instinctive and dynamic as ever before. Throws (G+P) , counter attacks (P+K) , quick rolls 
 (G+P+K) , reversals and so on, are easy to remember and instinctive to hammer out with directional 
 inputs, timing, and the position of your character or proximity to a wall determining the type 
 of result on screen, and the breakneck pacing is rapid enough that split-second, perhaps subconscious 
 'twitch' type choices, must be made as you fight. But what makes VF's formula so beautiful is that, 
 on one level or another, players are not forced to think deeply about the mechanical theory behind 
 the fighting system to find it natural to play, and exciting to compete - but that option is absolutely 
 there. Example - a certain intentional movement (eg. quickly moving to position correctly relative 
 to opponent and wall) allows for a deliberate opener (eg. sidekick opponent into wall to 'crumple' 
 their body, during which they're powerless for a whole second or so) allowing potential for guaranteed 
 follow up (eg. at least one bounce attack leading into a devastating wall combo - maybe half an 
 energy bar - which can change the weight of a bout in just a few seconds) . This is a very basic 
 strategic level of play, and because players can learn so much more to up their game - right down 
 to feet/body positioning or 'stance' and its relevance to combo potential - VF is a hypnotic and 
 addictive experience. Players are not forced to think deeply about the mechanical theory behind 
 the fighting system, but the option is there. Many players will be comfortable playing with the 
 regular PS3 controller - and it's actually not as bad as many arcade purists think if you just 
 put some thought into your button configuration so that fingers are positioned how they would be 
 in the arcade - try making Triangle Guard, R1 Punch, and R2 Kick - a great way to play VF comfortably 
 without getting cramp. After I'd been playing VF5 in this way for a while, my arcade sticks finally 
 arrived from Mr Importer, and of course this is the way 'purists' or anyone who's ever enjoyed 
 competitive play on any sort of fighting game in arcades will want to adopt. There's a choice of 
 three (soon to be four) arcade fighting sticks on PS3, and we've had a go on all of them. Differences 
 are not a big deal but the official Sega one - just recently released in Japan after the initial 
 launch supply was embarrassingly recalled - is our favourite. It looks nice, and it has a Sega 
 logo on it, which made my mind up. It's big, heavy, and feels expensive - and since you already 
 bought a PS3, a HDTV and the game, you may as well shell out for these at around $70 each plus 
 postage if you want the full-power VF5 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorlaxmaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 really surprised me and really got me hooked on the genre. I have never been a 
 big fan of fighting games, but after my experience with this game, i am willing to take a jab at 
 some of the other great fighting games coming up. The single player experience (although slightly 
 shallow) was a great appetizer to the real meaning of the game, multiplayer. As you would expect 
 from a game like this, the multiplayer experience filled my every need. All of the playable characters 
 were very well matched by the others. You can beat practically anyone with any character, giving 
 no one the upper hand. This allows for a much more enjoyable experience. For any who is interested 
 in a good PS3 game, this is as good a choice as any other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is a fighting game. Developed by Sega it is obviously the fifth in the series 
 and has been improved from previous Virtua Fighters. The graphics in this game are great, but if 
 you have played a PS3 or Xbox 360 game before then it won't really blow you away. The gameplay 
 is good, but if you are a newcomer to the series then it will be hard to figure out how to do some 
 of the more advanced moves. The button presses are hard to figure out as well because what they 
 refer to P is actually your X Button and so forth. It just will be a big learning curve for any 
 newcomer, though for a veteran there shouldn't be any learning curve.
  
  I agree with Gamespot that the sound is a bit muffled and I would expect higher qualitiy for a 
 next-gen game. The value is also hit as well with no online play and few modes to coose from. As 
 a newcomer this game left a sour taste in my mouth due to the steep learning curve, if a tutorial 
 would have been added it would have been helpful.
  
  My advice: If you are a Virtua Fighter fanatic or like these types of games in general then purchase 
 this game, although it might be better to wait for Tekken 6. IF you aren't in love with these types 
 of games either forget it and move on or rent it at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is action packed solid fighting game, with all the flash a game needs. The graphics 
 are probably one the best for the ps3 with crisp, clear visuals. Gameplay is fun and the combos 
 are easy to execute. (But may get repetitive doing it over and over again) Sound is prettty good, 
 and voice acting is good, but the lines in the game are really cheesy. Has a great replay value 
 esepcially with a friend. For me, this is game is worth your money but for those who aren't that 
 into fighter games, rent it first. But overall, its worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaedeDiablo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Talking about this game say a lot of things.
  
  First of All, I want to say that the original movements on ARCADES, has been enhanced and feel 
 very good on the sixaxis.
  Second the sound is very good, but didnt help to improve the game. The sound of the kicks and punch 
 sounds fine.
  
  About the time you spend playing, is more or less the time you need to enchanced every character, 
 buy clothes, and other things.
  
  Finally I want to say that this game is the better of all. The new chars have excellent charisma.
 
  
  The best: The gameplay
  The worst: The people on the stage are made it with the graphics of the First VF
  The amazing: 
 The new characters. El Blaze 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicilian4391
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  well after a week of playing the game i got sick of it. Its been siting on my game wall for 2 months 
 now not even being look at. But if you like fighers i have not played one with better graphics 
 then this. Sound is annoying and not good replay value. Also the Quest mode is a joke. I dont think 
 fighters are going to have a big impact this gen. They wil slowly die out. if you like fighters 
 and are craving a new one then this is a game for you otherwise you will get tired of it fast ... really 
 really fast. I got Mortal kombat 2 out of the playstation store and have spent more time on that 
 then this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta-SS4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is one of the best games on the PS3. This is one game that is keeping the ps3 
 alive right now. The graphics are very great and the classic gameplay is good. The 2 new characrers 
 El Blaze and Eileen (I think that's how you spell it) are 2 great characters to the franchise. The 
 quest mode is good and the moves for each character are much better. Virtua 4 Evolution was a great 
 hit too just like this one. I'll be looking forward to a Virtua Fighter 6 and i hope it's as good 
 as 5. This is a must play game for anyone that likes fighting games or are big fans of the Virtua 
 Fighter series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfoster75
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 4 and VF4: Evolution both kept me busy for night after night on my PS2, and there's 
 no doubt that VF5 is more polished and offers (generally) more, yet I'm left with the feeling that 
 it is more of an upgrade to Evolution than a full-on new title.
  
  Adding new characters is good - Eileeen and El Blaze fit right in to the mix of fighters already 
 available and offer both a technical and a quick-and-dirty entry experience to players respectively. 
 Long-time fighters have been re-tooled and fine-tuned even more than Evolution, adding stances 
 in some cases and making timing for certain moves easier or harder as the developers saw fit. Generally 
 I approve of all the little changes.
  
  Graphically, fighters in VF5 are awesome and move very realistically. It's unfortunate that certain 
 contact animations don't mesh very well (for example, there are only so many ways a person recoils 
 from impact, and sometimes characters seem to invade each-others' polygons) . Nevertheless, I wouldn't 
 hold much against them for this reason since it's still the best graphical outing for any fighter 
 I've seen on any console to date. I like the change in music from VF4's hard-rock/metal tracks. 
 Plus there seem to be a greater variety of vocal effects in VF5 than previous installments, which 
 is a nice touch. I found the play-by-play more annoying than anything, but it can easily be turned 
 off so it's a minor complaint at most.
  
  In a strange move on the devs' part, the dojo is (surprisingly) pared down from Evolution. I'm 
 not sure if this was because of some need to get the game onto store shelves sooner? The system 
 is not much worse, but it's certainly far from better, and to go backwards from the most complete 
 and effective training-ground ever in a fighting game seems bizarre.
  
  So why, if VF5 is almost all-around better than Evolution, do I still feel a little deflated by 
 the experience? Is it that VF4 was so great there was little left to improve on? I guess I could 
 be convinced of that, but it still makes me wonder if VF5 was even a necessary game to make in 
 that case. Don't get me wrong - I like VF5.. a lot! But I wish it could have been more distinctly 
 different from its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Since the beginning of the 3D era, 2 franchises have been battling it out for the title of the 
 best fighting game out there. And while Tekken 6 takes its time, the latest installment of the 
 Virtua Fighter series makes a great showcase for the first PS3 games while maintaining the great 
 gameplay its predecessors have been known for.
  
  The entire cast of Virtua Fighter 4 is back in action as well as two new characters in the form 
 of Eileen, a monkey kung fu fighter, as well as El Blaze, a Mexican wrestler, which overall makes 
 for a good crowd of quite diverse combatants and you're likely to find at least one character that 
 fits you.
  
  When it comes to the presentation, the game is clearly lacking compared to its competitors' as 
 the story, while never of much focus in fighting games, is lacklusterly told inside the manual 
 and a non-issue in the game. There are no character-specific cut scenes when you finish the arcade 
 mode and you won't unlock new characters. You can however unlock a load of different costumes, 
 clothes and accessories for each character by participating in the games quest mode which, aside 
 from the arcade mode and a VFTV dubbed mode that pits 2 A. I. opponents against each other, builds 
 the main singleplayer experience of the game.
  
  Quest mode basically simulates the life of an aspiring Virtua Fighter pro who hangs out in (virtual) 
 arcades and plays Virtua Fighter 5 all day long to one day earn the title of the best player in 
 the (virtual) world. However, while better A. I. opponents tend to block a whole lot more often 
 than easier profiles, the enemies often fall for the same combos over and over if you just tried 
 them a couple of times which can lead to some easy wins. By accumulating more and more wins you'll 
 earn items and prize money to buy more items that allow great character customization. Unless you 
 have a friend to play near you, however, your pimped out fighter with his new sunglasses and recolored 
 shoes probably won't get the attention he deserves though.
  
  It's definitely an omission that the game is lacking and online capabilities whatsoever and while 
 pro player sure would have complained about any sort of lag, it would have made the purchase of 
 the game a better deal for people just looking for a terific fighting game to play every once in 
 a while. Instead you'll have to rely on a good group of friends to come over whenever you want 
 to brag about your skills and showing off the latest combo you perfected or a new costume you earned.
 
  
  Skill and training is defintely something the fantastic fighting mechanics reward and perfecting 
 the controls over just one character can take months. The game is based around the three buttons 
 punch, kick and guard, but while the system sounds very simple, the sheer variaty of options in 
 any situation is stunning, given you have the timing to perform the right presses at the opportune 
 moment. That's not to say Virtua Fighter 5 is only enjoyable for players who are extremely passionate 
 for this type of game, when even matched, two beginners can have a great time and to improve your 
 vocabulary of moves the training mode the place to be. It's too bad the game lacks the feature 
 to watch a move being performed though as it's the best way of getting the ever so important timing 
 right.
  
  Since the PS3 version is a very straight port of the arcade version, it makes for some impressive 
 visuals with smooth animations, great looking backgrounds and a overall great framerate. If something 
 negative can be said about the graphics it's probably the somewhat stiff mouth motions of the characters 
 while talking and even with an installation of over two gigabytes onto the PS3's harddrive, load 
 times can be provokingly long.
  
  The sound of Virtua Fighter has never been the strong suit of the series and while the background 
 music is ok for this type of game, much of the voices and punch sounds feel like rehashes of previous 
 titles. To tell the truth, the whole game feels to some extent like a rehash with prettier graphics 
 and the game definitely is more of a Virtua Fighter 4.5 than a clear 5. And while this still makes 
 the game one of the best fighters currently available thanks to its great gameplay, without the 
 inclusion of an online mode, your enjoyment of the game is greatly tied to the number of friends 
 in your neighbourhood who can join up with you to play this terrific fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biocide69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter has been one of the greatest 3D fighting series ever created. And with the creation 
 of Virtua Fighter 5 they have set the bar a little higher. The grafics in the game are outstanding, 
 and with the tight controls of the PS3 the gameplay is second to none. The only set back I would 
 have to say is that while fairly easy to pick up and play. You really need a sence of the game 
 and fighting games in general to truly apreiciate the little ins and outs of the game. While the 
 casual gamer could play it for a while, they would probably become bored with it soon, and for 
 those gamers making this a rental would be best. But for those of you who enjoy fighting games 
 and Virtua Fighter in particular. Defenently buy this one.
  With the Deep fighting system and the wide array of characters, and fighting styles, there almost 
 seems to be no limit to what a person can come up with for each character. Plus the character customisation 
 option helps to add a little more drive in the quest mode. Gaining money and items doesn't come 
 cheap or easy, but once you have your character ddecked out with the color schemes and items you 
 want , it does feel like the character is truly yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blesst1
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna lie and say this game was bad, because it wasn't. I really enjoyed playing this game. 
 It is however a little over hyped. Theres nothing different from this game than many other fighters. 
 It boasts the same type of game play, block, strike combos, and go for grabs. The graphics are 
 very impressive and the HDR is simply amazing. Especially on some of the curvy females of the series. 
 The animation is smooth and the controls feel like a natural extension of the character. The learning 
 curve is not that long. The main thing is that you study your characters combos so you can unleash 
 them when the time is right. I really enjoyed the 'quest mode'. In the quest mode you travel to 
 other virtual arcades and challenge other virtual players. You then proceed to move up in the ranks 
 and get invited to tournaments where some more challenging foes await you. I was very... VERY disappointed 
 at the fact there was no online multi player. You would think, due to today's standards, that almost 
 all fighting games would have online multi player, but sadly this one does not. The mechanics of 
 the game are what kept me going, and trying to keep ranking higher. Virtua Fighter 5 is very addictive 
 and I would recommend playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I think Ive just experienced what alcoholics and evangelists often refer to as a moment of clarity. 
 Of course Im not talking about an Ive found Jesus! or My life is worth living! type of transcendental 
 vision, but a switch in perception to accommodate an overlooked gem, always there but previously 
 unperceivable and elusive. Opening yourself up to a creation youd never thought of as being yours 
 and thoroughly enjoying the experience is as good as it gets with our chosen pastime, and a timely 
 reminder as to why being an early hardware adopter is not always a bad thing.
  
  As weve begun on a truth-baring theme, Id like to confess that the splendour of Segas venerable 
 beat-em-up franchise has often been lost to me in the past. The free-flowing carnage of the Soul 
 Calibur series and the simple mechanics of the original SFII have always been my violence simulators 
 of choice, and prior to playing the game for this review, VF5 would only have been met with mild 
 curiosity and indifference. A far cry from the reverence that the title demands from its devoted 
 following in Japan and to a somewhat lesser extent in the West.
  
  In fact the title has built itself such a hardcore reputation by this point that as an outsider 
 youd presume the disc was made out of solid titanium and could only be played by a greased-up 
 ninja. Of course the actuality of the situation couldnt be further from the truth. VF5, as with 
 the other iterations, has an instantly appealing 3-button layout (block, punch, kick) thats as 
 complex or as simple as you need it to be, and simply mashing the attack buttons produces enough 
 satisfying results to keep any new player enthralled. It seems that for whatever reason Western 
 reviewers seem to constantly confuse depth for a lack of accessibility when it comes to Virtua 
 Fighter, and no doubt this has done the series far more harm than good at this point.
  
  The key to the relative overseas success of VF has always been an issue of balance. Simply put, 
 you cannot find a deeper, more technical and perfectly executed fighting system in any other game. 
 Thats rarely been a matter for dispute since VF3, and VF5 adds nothing out of place to alter that 
 fact. The addition of two small and nimble new fighters (El-Blaze and Eileen) , is a testament to 
 the fact that AM2 simply knows how to produce characters and move-sets that fit perfectly within 
 its own universe, and youll be hard-pushed to find even a hint of a mismatch amongst the entire 
 roster of 17 playable fighters.
  
  On first impressions (after the game transfers 2.5gb worth of data to your PS3 hard drive) , people 
 schooled in the three other major beat-em-up franchises will be disappointed to view the rather 
 sparse lineup of menu options. The game contains a bare-bones selection of the usual Arcade and 
 VS modes, along with a replay theatre (VF. TV) and Quest option. No unlockable versions of previous 
 titles in the series or other such frivolous diversions can be found, keeping the pure mantra 
 of the series intact at the loss of perceived value.
  
  The Quest mode is the main single-player meat of the title, taking the form of a small map from 
 which the player can choose various real-life Japanese arcades to visit. Each location is graded 
 on a scale of difficulty, and comes complete with its own virtual VF5 machines and a host of willing 
 opponents for you to beat, randomly picked from a pool of available AI characters. At first you 
 may find progress straight forward, with the various kyu levels posing little threat, but this 
 soon ramps up. 3rd dan and above becomes particularly tricky, but never feels cheap or unfair. 
 Win streaks and tournament victories are rewarded with money and alternative costume items which 
 means customising your fighter becomes the focus and drive to continue moving up through the ranks.
 
  
  The only mystery here is why in-game monetary rewards are so prevalent for finishing 2nd and 3rd 
 in a tournament, but not so much for overall victory. Its a strange decision that will often leave 
 you wondering whether its best to proceed to the final round of a tournament and risk only obtaining 
 an emblem or some other trinket, or losing on purpose to take the money for 2nd place and buy something 
 from the virtual store. Perhaps the motivation for that particular decision has been lost in translation 
 somewhat.
  
  Of course the game plays like an absolute dream. If you take the best elements of free-flowing 
 style from Soul Calibur, the depth of combination attacks from Tekken, and the visual quality of 
 DOA, youd still end up with an inferior product. Attack and defence are well balanced, and every 
 move can be countered or blocked by a skilled opponent. Variation in attack height, footwork and 
 blocking is key to advancement, and mastering the timing of the more complex attacks will take 
 months to perfect. Even then you can always come up against an opponent that will shake your perception 
 of how to approach the game and force you to re-evaluate your style. In that respect its as individually 
 expressive a title as any other to come before it.
  
  Visually VF5 is at the absolute peak of the current gaming crop. Running at a locked 60 frames 
 per second, you only need to take one look at any of the screenshots to see the leap in fidelity 
 above and beyond titles such as DOA4. Stages are designed beautifully, with fantastic lighting 
 and environmental effects, whilst character animation is a cut above any other fighter on the market. 
 The fact that any of the attack animations can seamlessly blend into another whenever you so desire 
 (Tekken please take note) is the icing on the cake, adding a flow and synergy that almost all other 
 brawlers completely miss (special dispensation for Soul Calibur, which comes close at times) .
 
  
  Audio is generally of a high standard, although sampled speech takes a hit for some reason, with 
 a lot of phrases seemingly recorded at a lower bit rate than necessary. Given the vast storage 
 quantities of Blu-Ray discs its a somewhat unfortunate situation, and can only realistically be 
 attributed as a concession to the arcade version released last year. Still, would it have killed 
 them to record two different versions at the same time? Did nobody keep the masters?
  
  The only real drawback to the PS3 version is that the Xbox 360 title is just around the corner, 
 and will no doubt feature online support in some capacity via online rankings or maybe downloadable 
 replays and player profiles. This will definitely not include online play however, so if anyone 
 is on the fence as to whether to purchase this title at the moment, theres really little point 
 in hanging around. Missing out on VF5 on whichever console you tie your allegiance to would be 
 to deny yourself one of the finest titles of this generation so far. Given the perfection of the 
 fighting engine and the leap above all titles that have come before it, you could easily argue 
 for the game to be a contender for the best fighting game of all time. Lets just hope that translates 
 into sales figures and a legion of new fans to keep the series afloat in the future. Count me in.
 
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Homer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  In terms of development, it would have been really hard to follow up Virtua Fighter 4 (and the 
 Evolution re-release) . Aside from being the first of the Virtua Fighter games to be on a non-Sega 
 console, its considered by many to be one of the greatest fighting games of all time. That being 
 said, Sega and its AM2 division (responsible for some of the greatest arcade games of all time) 
 have taken up the task and delivered a solid PS3 launch title in Virtua Fighter 5. Is it as good 
 as Virtua Fighter 4? Yes. Is it better than Virtua Fighter 4? Well, its debatable.
  
  The biggest addition to the game is the inclusion of two new characters. Youve got Eileen, a Monkey 
 Kung-Fu user who can quickly dwarf her opponents attacks with her blistering speed. And then youve 
 got El Blaze, a Rey Mysterio-esque luchador who, like Eileen, is quick, but is a deadly technical 
 fighter. As well as these two new characters, there are 15 returning characters, ranging from the 
 original eight from the first game, to the four (two in the original, two more in the re-release) 
 from Virtua Fighter 4. Each character has been excellently balanced to the point where there is 
 no one, ultimate, character. Instead, you define who that ultimate character is. And thanks to 
 the large variety of fighting styles present in each character, youll have fun experimenting who 
 is the character that suits you. Much like in previous Virtua Fighter games, there is barely any 
 reason for why these characters are present in the tournament or why the tournament is even taking 
 place, but this is a fighting game, where story isnt important at all.
  
  Nothing too major has changed, gameplay wise. This is a good thing, because Virtua Fighter has 
 one of the deepest fighting systems ever seen in any video-game. The three button setup (punch, 
 kick, guard) is still present, and free to customize (you can also customize individual buttons 
 to do combinations of buttons  very useful) . As well as this, the triangle of strike beating throw, 
 throw beating guard, and guard beating strike is still retained. The only major gameplay additions, 
 which will only really be noticed by those who are really into the game, including decreased throw 
 speeds, a clash system (which allows you to cancel an attack with a throw, leaving both players 
 at a neutral state) and a new Offensive move attack, which allows you to quickly attack when evading. 
 While most players wont notice these additions, they provide more to an already excellent game.
 
  
  Single-player wise, aside from the standard arcade mode, is the Quest mode. Following on from Virtua 
 Fighter 4: Evolution, players play in a variety of virtual arcades, where they engage in fights 
 against CPU opponents, whom take on the personalities of real-life, professional players. The biggest 
 change to the mode is that all of the arcades are initially available, so if you wanted to, you 
 could take a 10th Kyu character (the lowest ranking in the game) , and have your first fight against 
 the best players in the game. As well as this, you can now tell how far you are off from increasing 
 rank (which seemed to be more of a random event in VF4: Evo) . Again, all welcome additions to a 
 decent mode.
  
  Finally, the customization aspects introduced in Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution has returned, and 
 been completely revamped. While now you can add a personal comment to yourself, the biggest change 
 is customizing characters. The way the customization feature works here is that youre given a 
 base costume (with four per character) , and then youre to earn a large variety of parts to customize 
 it. Different parts only work for certain costumes, so choose carefully. You can earn parts by 
 winning tournaments or special fights in the Quest mode, or purchase them with your winnings. Theres 
 a limit as to what you can put on, but youll never completely overdo it to the point where you 
 cant distinguish the character anymore. Still, the results are extremely amusing (its possible 
 to make a cowboy who knows Jeet Kune Do) , and its still a great feature.
  
  Despite everything the game has going for it, there are still some problems with the game. The 
 most noticeable problem is the same problem that has plagued Virtua Fighter since its inception. 
 The game is really inaccessible to most players. Because of the games slow paced nature and extremely 
 strategic battles, most players wont see the value in it and ignore the game. As well as this, 
 the tutorial mode in Virtua Fighter 5 has really been screwed with, especially in comparison to 
 VF4: Evos, which went beyond the call of duty in terms of not only teaching players how to play 
 a character, but how to play the game. There isnt such a thing in Virtua Fighter 5. While the 
 game does teach you to play a character, thats all it does. There isnt anything else to teach 
 you how to play the game, so the only way to learn how to play Virtua Fighter is to just have experience 
 with the game.
  
  The other big problem with the game is with the Quest mode. The main issue here is that because 
 all of the arcades are available right from the get-go, you cant really make any progress in quest 
 mode. In comparison to Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution, you had to start at the arcade with the least 
 skilled players, then work your way up to the harder tournaments. By just giving players access 
 to the higher skilled arcades, it really kills off any incentive to progress throughout the mode. 
 Another annoying issue is that tournaments happen far too randomly, and there arent any specialized 
 ones (that feature special conditions, such additional wall damage or fight with an insane amount 
 of health) that were a lot of fun in Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution.
  
  In terms of graphics, Virtua Fighter 5 delivers in spades. The character models look incredible, 
 with the utmost detail present. Textures now look far better, and the addition of sweat to each 
 character also makes the fighters look more realistic. The backgrounds you fight in also feature 
 the same level of visual beauty. While some look excellent, others arent so great. There isnt 
 any interaction with the stage other than the brief moment that you get stunned when you hit a 
 wall, which, given the fifth iteration of the series, is still a disappointment. While stage interaction 
 on the level of the Dead or Alive games would completely ruin the game, some sort of visual indication 
 that youre interacting with the stage, more than just showing brief damage to a wall, wouldve 
 been nice. There are also some interesting localization differences for the English version of 
 the game (take Shun-Di, for example. Hes supposed to be drinking, given his style of drunken kung-fu, 
 but you never actually see him drinking anything  his hands are clasping something invisible) , 
 but nothing that completely ruins the game. Otherwise, for an early PS3 game, it looks incredible.
 
  
  The aural element of the game doesnt have the same level of improvement as the graphics. Traditionally, 
 Virtua Fighter has never had the best sound in a fighting game, but VF5 improves, slightly. The 
 music is listenable, and enjoyable, but its not entirely bad. The sound effects have been reused 
 from previous games, but most players wont take too much notice of this. The big issue sound-wise 
 is the voice acting. Granted, its not great, but the problem is that for the non-English characters, 
 you cant understand a word theyre saying unless you know the language. Tekken 5 included subtitles 
 for the characters who couldnt speak English, and why Sega havent followed suit is incredible. 
 But otherwise, the game sounds fine and tolerable.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is worth the investment. That is, if youre a hardcore fighting gamer. If you 
 have the time and the patience to play Virtua Fighter, then youre in for a treat. Combine a great 
 gameplay system with some of the deepest move lists in any videogame, and youve got yourself a 
 great game right there. Just make sure youve got friends around, because the single player modes 
 wont last too long. If youve got the means to play the game in Hi-Def, then youve got one of 
 the best looking Playstation 3 titles yet. Just dont expect the sound to complement the game as 
 much. Otherwise, if youre looking for a great Playstation 3 fighting game, then Virtua Fighter 
 5 is exactly what youve been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Well if your like me and you haven't really played VF much and your more used to tekken this WILL 
 take a while to get used to. First off the graphics are supurb especially in the arenas where there 
 is water. Charecter models are beautiful and if you just want to show off the ps3's power why haven't 
 you got this yet? I am not to good at reviews but i can get my point across with phrases like these 
 'F*****n awsome' or 'I did'nt tell you to that' and unfortuantley both of these apply. I am currently 
 2nd Dan in quest mode (i have been mainly playing arcade mode) and it made me enter a tournament 
 with 8th and 9th dans or if i didn't i would never be able to enter it! So this is not easy for 
 begginers but definatley worth a try. BTW What's Cracking? will have a full film review of Talledaga 
 Nights: The Balllad of Ricky Bobby, info on my top ten games that i don't own video and a chance 
 to vote for my next top ten games. (must be in my friends list to apply. if you want to be my friend 
 just track me and ill track you and we will be on each others friends list) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  first of all, virtua fighter 5 is not very beginner friendly and its very hard if you haven't played 
 any previous virtua fighter game and the fighting system is differrent from other fighting games 
 so button mashing won't make you win. it takes a lot of skill and strategy to win a fight in this 
 game but when you get the hang of it, you'll have so much fun and it'll be hard to put the controller 
 down. another good thing is the graphics. the characters and the environments are very sharp and 
 very detailed. there are some modes to play in but the best and deepest one is the quest mode. when 
 you play in this mode, you'll be given a map with some differrent arcades. you can travel to any 
 of them and fight against some enemies. you can also customize your character in this mode. virtua 
 fighter 5 has some flaws like the not so great sound and the lack of online play but that doesn't 
 stop it from being an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superyumi16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I think Virtual Fighter is game that made generations of games more efficient. Before we had really 
 bad graphics with people who look like crack-heads. But now thanks to computer technology today, 
 the company's performance on the game has been outstanding. I bet I'll still be playing this game 
 till I'm 40! Again, if you like fighting games, Rent it, if you love fighting games then you should 
 totally buy it! But remember to have a PS3. It is required. The only bad thing about it is playing 
 with someone else doesn't feel like I'm getting anything out of this game. Better playing by myself. 
 B+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorn7
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Best fighting game out. The fighting system is very intuitive and each character is completely 
 unique in how they play. You can use the same character for months and still not master every single 
 move in their arsenal, and even when you do, theres always another interesting character to tackle 
 in a way that completely changes the way you play the game. Quest mode is very fun and has TONS 
 of unlockables to customize your character with. COuld have used more story though. Graphics are 
 amazing and the animations are very fluid. Virtua Fighter has a frame based fighting system in 
 which even the smallest amount of lag would completely break the fighting system and turn the beautiful 
 fighting game into a button masher similar to something like dead or alive. Matches would be nothing 
 but punch, punch, punch, down, kick in rapid succession to see who can press the button the fastest. 
 Completely forget about the in depth counters and throws because those would be rendered completely 
 useless. This is why the game does not have an online feature. Sega themselves have said that home 
 internet connections could not pass their specs for online play, and thus no console version of 
 VF5 would receive online fighting modes. Now the 360 version will most likely end up with leaderboards 
 of VF. TV so remember if that is a deal breaker to you than this game will be coming out on the 
 360 later this year. Do not listen to the people that down this game because of the no online play 
 issue. Just because they do not have friends to come over and play with them does not mean it is 
 the game's fault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamletjsd
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 23, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I rented Virtua Fighter 5 because I had a friend coming over and needed a two player game on hand. 
 It was great for that purpose.
  
  After that person was gone, however, and I had played a few hours on my own quest mode, I was pretty 
 bored. I felt like there were no interesting unlocks (more clothes is all I will ever get?) , no 
 super cool moves that I hadn't already seen, no new characters coming, and no good reason to keep 
 playing. The graphics are pretty good and the gameplay isn't bad either, it just simply got boring 
 very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game13a13y
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter. this game literally pioneered the 3D fighting game. i still remember the first 
 day i saw this amazing 3D game at the arcade back in the days. its a love at first sight.
  
  well, till this 5th installment, the game still didn't lose any of the appeals that got me 
 into it. on this PS 3 version, you'll see exactly the same game as the arcade version. nice graphics 
 and control. the details on every fighters are simply stunning. you can literally see the fabrics 
 on their clothings. and this game is not all about look too. it has more substance than many of 
 the fighting games out there. great balance and great varitey of kung fu fight style for each fighters 
 to suit your taste. this game is not as SEXY as DOA, but who needs big boobies and such to draw 
 in players, when you have a genuinely good fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daraghp
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Let me tel you this, of your a fighting game fan, dont nothjer with this review. Just go out and 
 buy the game. It's the best game, for any fighting game fan, ever. But, unfortuantly thats the 
 factor that ends up herting Virtua fighter 5 the most. If your not to in to beat' em ups, i suggest 
 that you steer clear of Virtua fighter 5. The fighting is excellent, puishing you for mindless 
 button bashing, and rewarding you for genuine skill. The utter amount of skill needed to master 
 this game is amazing, and thats one of the reasons that make the multyplayer competitive and down 
 right fantastc at the same time. The fact that the multyplayer is so great, makes it even more 
 peculiar that Sega have decded to leave out any type of online mode. So, basically, if your a fighting 
 game fan, you will love this game, with or without an online mode, but if your not the biggest 
 fighting fan, i suggest that you steer clear off this game. if your somewhere in the middle, give 
 it a rent, you might well end up enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The Long lined series of Virtua Fighter games finally comes out in a HD gaming experience, with 
 the originals they were Arcade games now you can experience that fast past fighting frenzy on your 
 home console and in 720p.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 features 17 Characters from the Virtua Fighters Series, some are new while your 
 old favourites are still here (Lion etc) the game has a few modes shortlisted are Arcade, VS, Quest 
 and Dojo it also has VF TV which can let you view your replays...
  
  also if you like the ranking system from Tekken 5 (Kyu - Dan - Etc) you will appreciate VF5's new 
 ranking system which shows Experience Points towards a rank up and you can have 30 profiles on 
 one console which allows maximum character play through.
  
  Arcade is pretty standard fight through lesser opponents, beat a mid ranged boss then play the 
 traditional bonus stage or final final boss which in this case is Dural (other fighting game bonus 
 boses eg- Idol (KI) Omega (DOA) Jinpachi (TDR 5) etc etc Vs i think explains itself, but for those 
 of you who dont know english it means Versus, two people can fight it out on one console, while 
 VF5 lacks online play so does Tekken 5 DR so its hard to fault it in that department....
  
  Quest is pretty cool its all about punching and kicking your way through as many opponents as you 
 can to get ranks up and new outfits for your characters....
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 offers many cool gameplay experiences and is graphically superior to many games 
 so far, if your looking for an awesome fighting game for PS3 get VF5 though tekken 5 DR is worth 
 the small money it costs, it will not be a show pony game to play in front of many people and doesn't 
 show off Next Gen Graphics, also i found VF5 to be more challenging and more fun in general, nothing 
 like knocking people out of the ring ey? well it has to be better than Def Jam Icon dont u think? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is the BEST 3D fighting game EVER!!!
  even though the sixaxis's tilt motion sensor doesn't take a part in this game
  3D fighting experience 
 has never been so good, You will enjoy every second playing this game.
  Virtua Fighter 5 has an unbelievably amazing graphics, (in my opinion better graphics then every 
 ps3 game released by this far) .
  it shows the huge potential of the ps3 coming to life, even very little details look awesome. The 
 fighting is very fast, highly addictive and fun, there are 17 characters which you'll fully enjoy 
 from, the physics of the moves and streaks seems real while the voice acting in this game is pretty 
 disappointing,
  but the tunes and songs are pretty suitable.
  The lack of online play makes the game less attractive but it's still doesn't ruining the game. 
 (you can spend hours playing this game)
  
  It's even more fun to share this gaming experience with a partner though the arcade mode won't 
 let you down and you can always practise in the DOJO mode which is very similar to the practise 
 mode from Tekken 5.
  whether you like playing 3D fighting games or not BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 3, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 was one of the reasons I bought a PS3. I loved the Virtua Fighter 4 game for PS2, 
 but I never got around to buying it. Partly because the game was so frustratingly difficult at 
 the higher levels that it is the only game to ever cause me to throw my controller on the floor 
 in frustration (and something inside the controller broke, but it still works!) . So maybe buying 
 this game for a $600 console w/ fancy wireless controllers that cost $50 was not the wisest decision 
 I've ever made. But I have not broken my PS3 controller yet . . .
  
  Anyway, the game still has the same awesome fighting as in the previous game. Its still quick and 
 responsive, combat is realistic and deep, and the AI is still well balanced, providing a nice learning 
 curve that helps you get the feel for each character. But the rest of the game seems a little lackluster. 
 The Quest mode is one of the stupidest ideas I've ever seen in a video game. Basically, you play 
 in a bunch of arcades against CPU AI players to earn gold and unlockables. I know that plot/story 
 is not supposed to be all that important in a fighter, but come on! Also, I don't like how the 
 game only tracks stats for individual character profiles, rather than for the user in general. 
 Its not quite as big a deal since there is no online support, but it still would have been nice 
 especially considering how detailed the stat tracking is on Sega's 2K sports games.
  
  Unfortunately, this game feels about as bare-bones as a game could possibly be, and in my opinion, 
 does not justify a $60 price tag. If it were $30 or $40 dollars, I would say that the gameplay 
 is good enough to warrant the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukasN82
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  alright you fighting game lovers, brace yourself, sega made another classic you shouldn't forget. 
 First of all, I've had this game since release and still play up today, for it is a thing of beauty 
 and yet play like a pro. VF series isn't just another fighting game, its a game with great personality, 
 combos that can be easily mastered, great list of characters for beginners to masters. VF games 
 are always an example what fighting games should be and 5 proved that. Jaw dropping graphics, amazing 
 sounds. But like all great games theres always flaws, and that is online functionality. But nonetheless, 
 VF5 is a masterpiece you should add to your collection, oh by the way tell your buddy get that 
 second controller for you will be on for a great butt kicking time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gluonzabo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is the BEST 3D fighting game EVER!!!
  even though the sixaxis's tilt motion sensor doesn't take a part in this game
  3D fighting experience 
 has never been so good, You will enjoy every second playing this game.
  Virtua Fighter 5 has an unbelievably amazing graphics, (in my opinion better graphics then every 
 ps3 game released by this far) .
  it shows the huge potential of the ps3 coming to life, even very little details look awesome. The 
 fighting is very fast, highly addictive and fun, there are 17 characters which you'll fully enjoy 
 from, the physics of the moves and streaks seems real while the voice acting in this game is pretty 
 disappointing,
  but the tunes and songs are pretty suitable.
  The lack of online play makes the game less attractive but it's still doesn't ruining the game. 
 (you can spend hours playing this game)
  
  It's even more fun to share this gaming experience with a partner though the arcade mode won't 
 let you down and you can always practise in the DOJO mode which is very similar to the practise 
 mode from Tekken 5.
  whether you like playing 3D fighting games or not BUY IT!!!
  
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrkAngiJordi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter is one of my favorite franchises of all time. I really liked most of the games in 
 the series (save 1 and 3) . My first positive experience with VF was Virtua Fighter 2. I did play 
 a little VF1, enough to discover my character is Pai, but despite all the revolutionary technology, 
 I just couldnt get into the game. I am particularly stingy on things like frame rate and perfect 
 control, and to me VF1 didnt have either. VF2 pushed the game up to a standard I could get into 
 to. The silky smooth graphics and superb control was right up my alley. Its too bad that the game 
 was broken, but the game play was still satisfying on a casual level at least. I did play VF3 somewhat, 
 but the uneven ground and its affect on game play didnt really grab me. VF3 was too much of a 
 departure from SEGAs previous efforts and so my interest in VF fell off. VF4 and VF4Evo reignited 
 my love for VF. It was too bad that I didnt have any arcades to play competition at anymore. VF 
 definitely is a game you play with friends or in an arcade environment with random human competition. 
 So how is VF5? It is excellent. I put it on such a high pedestal that I wondered if it could actually 
 fulfill my expectations. In fact the entire reason I bought my PS3 was to play this game. Is it 
 worth it? Yes! But it is only worth it if you like fighters or Virtua Fighter. If you are a casual 
 fighting fan, then this game isnt a system seller for you. I think with the combination of this, 
 Motorstorm, and Resistance there is enough on the PS3 to play now to warrant a purchase. But VF 
 is still an excellent fighting game. VF5s system is very solid and polished. One thing about this 
 game is that SEGA doesnt follow the normal routine of say Capcom or Namco when dealing with this 
 game. Virtua Fighter 5 is still very similar to most of the past VFs. In fact I have associates 
 who havent played VF in a decade who were still able to pick up and play VF5. While the game isnt 
 noob friendly in a serious environment, it has enough casual appeal that two equally skilled noobs 
 can have a lot of fun while learning the game. The meat of the game though is in the high level 
 competitive play, and in that sense it delivers big time. Virtua Fighter 5 has the best fighting 
 system to date. I have played many other 2D and 3D fighters, and it is hard to discount the very 
 detailed and well thought out balances and techniques incorporated in Virtua Fighter 5. This game 
 is made for the serious 3D fighting fan. And yes, for all you Americans out there, the game is 
 different from Tekken in many ways, but dont be discouraged by this. SEGA puts far more effort 
 into this game than Namcos make it and forget it strategy. The attention to balance and flow 
 in the game shows even on the highest level play. The game doesnt stagnate into a simple pattern 
 versus pattern play system. There are always choices in this game. As you can tell, competition 
 is the lifeblood of a good fighter for me. This would be a game I really would enjoy in an arcade. 
 But the game is feature rich for the single player as well. There is a return of the quest mode 
 from Virtua Fighter 4 where you go around arcades and play virtua versions of real players from 
 Japan and abroad. It plays like a role playing game where you are an arcade gamer trying to be 
 the best there is. You can earn money and customize your characters look with it. There is a pretty 
 good training mode, although it is missing many of the elements that made VF4Evos training dojo 
 so awesome, like the advance training of expert techniques and such. It is sad to see that go, 
 but with the lack of interest in VF here in the states, I can understand why SEGA chose to work 
 on elements that would entertain casual fans over hardcore fans. Now most people whine that the 
 lack of online play is a killer. But frankly since online fighters have yet to really be good, 
 this is an understandable decision for SEGA. I guess casually most gamers would enjoy it more, 
 but most online fighters are nothing more than lag abuser friendly environments. Most of the advance 
 techniques of offline fighters are lost in even the most lagless matches. The problem is that fighting 
 games require instantaneous reaction time to really get the full potential out of a well-designed 
 fighting system. While a minute amount of latency is fine for many other type of online games, 
 it really is bad for fighters. Graphically, Virtua Fighter 5 is a tour de force of graphics fidelity. 
 Every bit as detailed, as Dead or Alive 4, seeing this game in 720p will make you never want to 
 play this game in Standard Definition ever again. The sound is also very nice and the control is 
 spot on. I have very little to complain about for this game. There are features that this game 
 lacks which are both puzzling and disappointing, like the lack of being able to take your customized 
 character with you to other peoples houses and such. But in the end, it is a solid purchase if 
 you have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on the first of its released date . I really was enjoyed at the beginning . After 
 hours of playing it.... I felt that I'm wasting my time in front of silly gameplay . There is no 
 good things like Tekken Series .... There is only clothes unlocker mode . When you defeat 100 character 
 or less you will be able to let your character wear a new shoes :) What really nice prize ... There 
 is no unlockable characters .... I bough this game just because a good graphics ... I thought It's 
 going to be a great when i use to playing It ...... I hopes that I can exchange it with any other 
 game ...... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Vurtua Fighter 5 is pretty cool, you have two modes of play. Arcade: just like in the arcades... about 
 ten levels, and Quest mode: Where you can build your character up, personalise them, you get graded 
 and everything... plus there are so many different varieties of costumes and bits you can get, so 
 many that you can pretty much change the whole apperance of your character, and you get to keep 
 your wardrobe you have collected, leaving you the ability to change your costume around if you 
 get sick of it. The moves and some of the combos you can do are hard to master, but when you do, 
 they are way cool. The pace is fast and you can really lay into someone once you master the combos, 
 dropping your opponent in, well, my record is 6 seconds! I think this is far better than any of 
 the Mortal Kombat series and I have been playing it to death! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex1889
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is an excellent fighter that plays just like its prequal but even better. The 
 new characters add debt to the game and the classic charcters still have their same excellent moves. 
 The surroundings and stages are reall nice. The games customization system is exstensive and good. 
 The quest mode is addictive and fun. The games graphics are beautiful, espiaclly in HD. Its sad 
 that theres no online but the game is still fun and it is fun to go head to head against your friends. 
 The practice mode is good. The game lets you treak the settings well. This game can be kind of 
 hard on default against the Arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazy-Kingdom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  In 1995, Sega released a game that would go on to become the standard for all future fighting games: 
 Virtua Fighter. It was the first 3D fighting game, and the first to introduce a sequential combo 
 system.
  
  In the coming years, all existing franchises  including Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat, which 
 had singular (non-combo) and minor juggle attack methods  added a sequential combo system. They 
 left their cartoon and digitized roots in the past, opting for polygon-based characters. Countless 
 3D fighters were born, giving way to a new generation of gaming. Virtua Fighter, with its brilliant 
 ideas and revolutionary gameplay, had forever changed the fighting genre.
  
  Twelve years later and the series is ready to return for its fifth installment, this time on the 
 most powerful console available: PlayStation 3. Remaking a Classic
  
  The most striking difference between Virtua Fighter 5 and its predecessors is undoubtedly the graphics, 
 but Ill save the poly praise for later. Hardcore fighting fans are most curious about the gameplay. 
 Has it changed? Is it more advanced?
  
  Those of you who first played the Virtua Fighter series in the arcade or on Sega Saturn shouldnt 
 be surprised by the lack of change. Change does not mean better, mind you  only different. Therefore 
 it is unlikely that if you werent a fan in 95 that youll be a fan in 07. Those who were fans, 
 however, should board up their windows and turn off their phones in preparation for the series 
 best sequel. The Perfect Combination Virtua Fighter 5 does not leave behind its primitive attack 
 layout for modern times. Two attack buttons are all youll have access to: one punch and one kick. 
 Theres only so far a game can go without adding more buttons, but the developers have given a 
 strong argument to the contrary. You will perform more moves with those two buttons than you could 
 have ever imagined. Nearly every combination (PPK, PKP, KPK, etc.) is used along with the D-pad 
 and guard button.
  
  Need to learn some moves? Read the manual, access the in-game move list (via pause menu) , or play 
 the tutorial. The tutorial is a great resource that can be finished in a couple of minutes. Unappealing 
 moves may be skipped (you may pause the game and select a different move to learn at any time) . 
 But youre better off learning as much as possible. Virtua Fighter 5 isnt as massive an undertaking 
 as Tekken or Mortal Kombat, but you will want to learn every attack. The bonus stage with Dural 
 guarantees that.
  
  The controls and basic gameplay mechanics have not changed. Fighters still work on the principle 
 that a fallen enemy should receive a jump kick to the chest. A few of the characters are faster 
 than before. But the game itself moves at the same pace as its predecessors. Where Virtua Fighter 
 5 differs from the rest (except for, in part, Virtua Fighter 4) is how juggles are applied. Players 
 can attack and nearly slaughter  albeit without any blood, bruises, or other visual damage  their 
 opponents just by striking them before they land after an airborne assault. The results are spectacular. 
 There hasnt been a game that emphasized juggle combos this much since Mortal Kombat 3. Tekken 
 and the more recent Mortal Kombat titles include juggle capabilities, but they have not been the 
 focus of those games. Their execution is entirely based on the patience of the player.
  
  These juggle combos take patience, but not to the point where youll be pulling your hair out  
 just to the point where youll be banging your head against the wall, wondering why that last punch 
 or kick didnt connect.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5s juggles greatly expand the depth of a game that can be mastered (mostly) in 
 about a week. You wont feel like youre facing a colossal challenge, but will have something intricate 
 to work hard on perfecting in the coming months. Arcade Memories
  
  The arcade mode is no different from any other fighting game: its a port of the single-player 
 experience found in arcades. The new quest mode, however, is not a typical addition. Pick one fighter 
 and take him or her through hundreds (or thousands, if you wish to play that long) of battles across 
 several virtual arcades. Some of the arcades are based on real Sega-owned amusement centers in 
 Japan. Theyre accessed via the games world map screen, which allows you to jump between arcades 
 very quickly.
  
  Three opponents are listed at each location. Its a fantasy situation. Three arcade machines are 
 available at station. If you challenge a virtual player and win, other AI challengers will follow.
 
  
  The game records every win and loss, generating a win ratio for bragging rights. Most wins give 
 you an item to customize the appearance of your fighters. Change their hair (color and style) , 
 add new accessories (jewelry for the ladies) , and alter their costumes.
  
  Tournaments are occasionally offered, and they too will increase your bragging rights, as well 
 as your inventory. PS3 Power
  
  Whether youre a fan of the series or just a PS3 owner searching for the next big game, the expectations 
 for Virtua Fighter 5s graphics are insurmountably high. It cant just be another pretty face  
 no, it must be the best-looking fighting game ever made. Though it may be hard to hold onto as 
 fall approaches, for the time being, Virtua Fighter 5 has claimed that title.
  
  These screenshots, while beautiful and detailed, only show a fraction of the games beauty. Its 
 clear that the fighters are entirely rendered  smooth and realistic like a CG movies cast. The 
 backgrounds also show detail, though you wont know how much until you see the game in action. 
 Water ripples, splashes, and reflects. Snow clumps and produces hundreds (thousands!?) of particles. 
 Shadows, lighting, and skin texture  three things that are very difficult to improve  are made 
 more realistic in this game than in Madden 07.
  
  Theres almost a slight contradiction with the characters, who arent necessarily realistic but 
 have several features that make them appear to be alive. Facial and body hair have been added so 
 intricately that youll swear there are thousands of individual follicles involved. Hair sways 
 and bounces accurately with every motion. Deep textures have been applied to every garment, with 
 impeccable animations to ensure a realistic reaction to every attack.
  
  Most stages are enclosed, preventing ring-outs while introducing an interesting escape option. 
 Walls can be a nightmare: get cornered by the wrong player and youre toast. But if your opponent 
 likes to perform a lot of lengthy grab moves, lure him toward the wall before he gets close. Then 
 if he attempts to grab and toss you around, the wall will get in the way and break his move. If 
 he throws you into a wall, theres a chance the wall will break your fall, preventing any further 
 damage from being incurred when you finally hit the ground.
  
  Review Scoring Details for Virtua Fighter 5 Gameplay: 8.9
  The closest Sega has come to creating 
 the perfect Virtua Fighter sequel. Virtua Fighter 5s fast-paced, in-your-face combat harkens back 
 to the original. Under next-gen status (and 12 years of developer experience) , the series has evolved 
 its combos to include massive, unblockable juggle moves. Airborne fighters are lucky if they retain 
 half their life meter by the time they reach the ground. Its a great, tension-rising system that 
 separates the strong from the weak at the start of each battle.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Rich and stunning. Fighters are bigger, more defined, and have an abundance of realistic touches. 
 Environment interactions are minimal (ring out, walk through snow, damage certain fences, etc.) , 
 but their detail is impossible to overlook. Whereas the standard for fighting games has been to 
 produce a pretty backdrop, these worlds couldve been created for an RPG. You cant jump in and 
 explore them, but it looks like you can.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Smooth beats and jingles that favor the series past.
  
  Difficulty: Easy/Medium
  Three buttons: 
 punch, kick, and guard. That doesnt leave much room for long-term depth  youll feel like a master 
 within the first week of playing. Juggle moves are fairly involved but will not pose a big challenge 
 to Virtua Fighters core audience, who grew up playing juggle-heavy games like Tekken and Mortal 
 Kombat.
  
  Concept: 7.7
  More of a remake than a sequel, Virtua Fighter 5 does not veer far from the path first taken in 
 1995.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.0
  The absence of an online component is a little disappointing. I wasnt expecting (but hoping for) 
 such a feature  most great fighting games skip it in favor of speed and continuity, which isnt 
 guaranteed in an online environment. That said, what Virtua Fighter 5 does offline is astonishing. 
 The fast-paced, cant-stop-playing-it combat will turn the thought of spring and summer into a 
 distant memory. Warm weather? Sunny skies? Who needs that when youve got a great fighting game?
 
  
  Overall: 8.9
  Virtua Fighter 5 is an amazingly fun, must-own sequel for every fan of the series. The single-player 
 options are limited, but the two-player battles  the area where every great fighter shines  make 
 owning a second SIXAXIS controller a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afg1988
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, Virtua Fighter hasn't always been my cup of tex fighting game. I recently just rented this 
 game for PLAYSTATION 3. After waiting for the game to load I was completely blown away by the graphical 
 quality of the game and it was truely mind blowing. I then played the arcade mode and I was just 
 stunned by the amazing detail and the great fighting mechanic. It grew on me. The fighting mechanic 
 has been around for nearly a decade, but as a newcomer to the Virtua Fighter series, I was impressed. 
 While i did enjoy the game, I have a few problems with it. My first and foremost problem was the 
 fact that this game doesn't support online play! Well, hopefully they'll get it down for the next 
 iteration.
  
  On the whole, I really liked this game. The game has high production values and is a definate for 
 both causal fighting game fans and Virtua Fighter fans. Virtua Fighter 5 is a great fighting game, 
 but its not perfect. It may turn off the gore-seeking MK fans, but I think it stands alone as a 
 fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolidan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Hey whats up guys this is my review for virtua fighter 5 released by Sega and released on February 
 2007 it is made for the PS3 and soon to be n the Xbox 360.
  
  Following in Virtua Fighter tradition, the next incarnation of VF showcases two new characters, 
 El Blaze and Eileen, each representing unique fighting styles to the series, and as any fighting 
 game fan would expect, all the extras and graphical polish are better than ever. Sega is one of 
 the original pioneers of 3D fighters, and needless to say, the PS3 has been blessed with it's first 
 quality fighting game to say the very least. If you've seen VF5 on a good HDTV, you'd agree that 
 the visuals are beyond groundbreaking. Simply put, the character models, lighting effects, clothing 
 effects, and textures are incredible eye candy. The backgrounds are nicely designed and are among 
 the best of the series; but if you look closely in some backgrounds, you actually might be able 
 to notice a few bad textures here or there. That's just nitpicking, and it's not important, since 
 the focus is mainly on the characters themselves, which do look awesome. Many character animations 
 from the prequels have been tweaked and definitely look better than before. Among the most noticeable 
 are the basic walking animations, which are incredibly smooth and are likely best of any 3D fighting 
 game (or 2D for that matter) . Throws and counters also look incredible for the most part, but some 
 are actually awkward looking (especially some of Lau's) . As avid VF player would hope, they brought 
 back the customizable item selection and made it more detailed. But *sigh* ... So expensive! You 
 can earn money to buy new clothing items from the shop by playing through the 1 player Quest Mode. 
 This mode pits you against countless computer AI challengers as you continue to achieve higher 
 ranks. There's also Arcade mode where you try to obtain the highest score, and also Training mode 
 with Command training (imperative for beginners) . So VF is a fun 1 player game at the worst? It's 
 not bad at all. What about 2 player? Can I play it online? No online mode, so you'll only have 
 your friends to challenge. Can I at least take my customizable characters to my friends house? 
 Unfortunately no. Not a huge deal, but definitely a disappointment. Anyhow, the classic VS mode 
 is still fun enough for casual play. You can save up to 30 characters on 1 PS3 memory save. Winner 
 get's a prize and Ranking Matches are the most fun part about VF5's VS mode, along with the large 
 stage selection, which consist of free standing squares and a few caged in areas ... Wow. So what's 
 this big square in the middle of this mall? Ohh I know! It's a Virtua Fighter ring!!! Heh. None 
 the less, the backdrops are gorgeous once again, and really show off the PS3's off graphical shininess.
 
  
  My Comment
  Over all virtua fighter is a breath taking game with astonishing visuals kick ass gameplay and 
 great characters. Its defiantly a must have or must play for ps3 owners or fighting game fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  With Virtua Fighter 5, you get pretty much what you'd expect if you're a fan of the series. Solid 
 fighting with remarkably smooth combat controls. Graphics are good but not as touched as I had 
 assumed it would be. D-Pad can be a bit frustrating but if you've played the others in the series, 
 you don't find much trouble. Simple punches, kicks, and small combos are easy to learn; but learning 
 how to use them and string them together is difficult. Combat moves sheet during battle is nice 
 during single player. Very nice if you have other friends who like the game; however, AI gets next 
 to impossible when it comes to even the beginning of arcade.
  
  Campaign isn't very impressive but starts off helping people learning combos which you will need 
 to learn if you are hoping to advance to the second rate where blocking and combinations are key. 
 Problem with AI is that it in no way prepares you for playing an actual person because they don't 
 grab very much and just block and wait for you to attack; unlike most people who will just go on 
 an all out offensive button mashing assault.
  
  Overall a good first release on a console although it dosen't capitalize on the processing speed 
 with slow loading times between fights. If you are a fan of Virtua Fighter, this is a very strong 
 recommendation but Tekken 5: Dark Resurrect is a much cheaper way to go if you don't have any other 
 type of fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 16, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Best fighting game
  
  Fantastic launch game.
  
  17 Characters is a lot, esspecialy when the fighting mechanics are so complex. The only bad thing 
 is the training just doesnt teach you how complex this game actually is like past installments.
 
  
  Choose your character and find one that best suits your style of play and spend a very long time 
 mastering the moves let alone the whole complexity of the actual fighting mechanics.
  
  Doesnt matter who you choose as each and every character are so finely tuned that even a beginner 
 character can win a master character.
  Thats how finely blanced this game is.
  
  Full 3d movement with precise controll gives you the best fighting engine out there. The graphics 
 are extremely detailed, especially the detail on the characters like the fabric on the clothes 
 on the pores in the fighters skin. The levels are also extremely well lit with superb effects in 
 the snow or the rain or sun glare etc. The levels have some destructable enviroments such as breakable 
 walls or tiles in the floor.
  
  The sound effects are very good, voice acting cheesy but overal very good.
  The music is good 
 too.
  
  Each character has their own theme and level which you can fight on with any character.
  
  
 The gameplay is lengthy starting out on quest mode, its here where you fight a series of openets 
 to become the champion earning money and prizes to ket your character out in outfits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is the greatest fighting game ever made. I say that with no hesitation, no doubts 
 at all, VF5 has the best fighting system. Unlike other reviews that spend time on aspects of the 
 game that are not included *cough*Jeff*cough*, I will focus on what is there. VF5 is a refinement 
 of the VF4 fighting system. Its not just a few tweaks like VF4 Evo, there are plenty of big changes 
 that are instantly recognizable. The most important addition is the new evasion system put into 
 place. Now there are defensive evades and offensive evades. The standard side step evade is now 
 handled by simply pressing up or down when an attack is about to hit, much easier than the up + 
 P+G+K of VF4. But that previous move is still included as well, now called an offensive evade it 
 will send your character to the side and toward the opponent. Movement is now a much larger part 
 of the fighting system, blocking is still as important as ever but you must master both to hold 
 your own.
  
  Each character also has many new moves, some even have brand new stances. Even if you played with 
 one character in VF4 you will find plenty of new ways to use them in VF5. The entire fighting system 
 seems to have been sped up, everything about it is more smooth, more fluid. A fight between to 
 masters will look like art; no other fighting game comes close to beauty of a VF fight. Like all 
 VF games, this one is perfectly balanced between all characters. No character is replica with a 
 new skin, each is totally unique and can hold their own against any other. This game introduces 
 two new characters, El Blaze and Eileen, both introduce a brand new fighting style. There are so 
 many styles to choose from than any one can find a fighter that works for them. While the fighting 
 system is the deepest and hardest to master, its still very easy for a new player to just pick 
 a fighter and have fun. The gameplay is as good as it gets for a fighting game, it just manages 
 to work on every single level, beginner or master. VF5 includes the standard arcade mode, vs. mode, 
 training and quest mode. Here is where there is criticism of the game, for whatever reason it seems 
 features have been taken out which were in VF4 Evo. You would figure it would just build upon what 
 is there but that is not the case. The training mode is basically just for learning moves now. 
 Quest mode is still as huge and amazing as ever but some features were taken out. In Evo you had 
 different missions to complete as you played, like perform a 6 hit combo or win without throwing, 
 that is missing. Also the game would keep amazing stats of your character, all that is gone as 
 well. By far the biggest hit is that the A. I. does not seem to be as well done as in Evo. In Evo 
 they had A. I.'s from the best of Japan, it felt like you were playing a different unique fighter 
 each match. In VF5 it feels a lot more like standard computer A. I., basically its much easier to 
 do well in this game. The only improvement on quest mode is the amount of character customizable 
 options you have, it's insane. That being said you will not find a better single player mode in 
 any fighting game, well except for Evo.
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful. Its not as big a jump as say the first time you saw VF3 but 
 its probably the first arcade perfect port. The sound is standard VF stuff but with some awesome 
 music, easily the best in the series. Much is said about the lack of online modes, it seems weird 
 that the arcades have a ton of online features like leaderboards and match replays but this version 
 does not. In the end there could have been more effort put into the different modes of the game. 
 The fact that it took away features that where once there before does hurt the overall score. But 
 gameplay wise, there is no fighter that is better. Its noticeably better than VF4, this is not 
 some expansion, you will marvel at the fighting system. You can spend many many hours playing this 
 game on your own, it's that damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game for 7 bucks and feel I wasted my money. It seems these people spent so much 
 time working on the graphics (which by the way ARE incredible) and forgot the main part: the game! 
 for being a PS3 game it is ridiculous that the game is played on the directional pads rather than 
 the L3 stick! I have more fun playing the old Street fighter than I will ever have playing this 
 game! The voice acting is also corny and boring! Here's a message to the creators: get out of the 
 80's and come to the 21st century! Make a game worth spending 60 dollars on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageAnomie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  To start off the game is beautiful, and still one of the best fighters out there. Some of the short 
 comings of the game include the lack of decent A. I when compared to the other VF games. It is quite 
 easy to blow through quest mode and reach the master ranking . Also the lack of online play. Although 
 I can excuse that, after all every fighting game that has had online play for the next gen games 
 has always came up short. (DOA im talking to you mostly.) Other than those two things. Id say its 
 a pretty good game. I am quite happy it has not reverted to a button mashing type of fighting game. 
 (Tekken) I do however beleive that this game is not worth $60. Wait for a price drop, or just go 
 buy VF4 Evolution which was much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thegame1456
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Before I played the Virtual Fighter 5 I was so excited because iI though that it will be a good 
 game....... but i was wrong!! The new SEGA'S game it's simply dissapointing..... Firts of all, I have 
 to begin to tell you about the gamemplay of the game which is disastrous and the worst gameplay 
 I have ever seen general in a game!! The gameplay is so difficult that makes you to hate the game........... The 
 graphics is the only good part of the game. Now for the sound section I have to say that is terrible 
 without nothing special. And the value of the game is too short. As a conclusion Firtual Fighter 
 5 one of the worst games I have ever played in my life!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I got to say tht this game really sucks. (I'll make this short) The game is bear button mashing 
 with bad voice actors which don't suit the character. Next I'll the graphics credit because it 
 was good. Also there is a fake ass lookin Ryu as the main character. Also they made a big deal 
 about 17 character, which is not alot and most of them have horriblr fighting styles.
  
  If they think they can compete with other fighter games like tekken (which is my favorite) they 
 better off selling oranges. Furthermore the combos suck and some of the women in there look like 
 a dude.
  
  So this is a game I'm going to sell since I bought it in Florida and live in New York (Bad move, 
 I know) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  let me just say first and foremost that Virtua Fighter 5 is a good fighting game and also a great 
 example of the potential that has yet to be tapped on the PS3 graphically. with that said... my 
 feelings on this title are mixed because... though it's an excellent game. I can get something that 
 is in my opinion more fun and a better fighting game for 1/3 of the price (Tekken 5 via PSN dowload 
 service) . when reviewing something you have to take into account what else is out there. the only 
 way to know what the best fighting game on the PS3 is... is to compare them against one another. 
 And for $64.99 Virtua Fighter should be leaps and bounds ahead of Tekken 5... which it isn't. VF5 
 is the best so far in the VF series with all the usual suspects accounted for. The controls are 
 responsive (even though some of the moves are awkward to pull off) and smooth. The graphics are 
 crisp and all of the backgrounds look incredible. The sound leaves something to be desired as it 
 can occassionaly just not be up to par with the graphical level of the game. If you're a VF fan 
 then you'll be happy with this installment. That's honestly the only reason for choosing this over 
 anything else on the PS3. I mean... for an additional $45 i would at least liked to get some online 
 play. So, if you're just looking for a good fighting game to beat people up and show off your PS3 
 then there's other... cheaper and in my opinion better... options out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  But thats a good thing. Playing quest mode. And of course its just as hard as it was in VF4. I 
 will never have anything bad to say about this game why? Cuz, I have been one with this game since 
 its inception and since whooping much booty at the arcades oh some double digit odd years ago. 
 They have done it again, givin me a true fighting game. Lets face it folks I have been King of 
 the iron fist tournament since I was able to pull off Lee's everlasting kick So after the 3rd installment 
 of that I was done. I moved heavly into VF at that point. Been there ever since. Heres my breakdown 
 on this new thraser...
  
  Graphics: Oh come on! How crisp does crisp get. I mean I had to pause it just to see the impact 
 of Akira back thrust on Pai's daddy (I hate him, so I dont use his name) So Beautiful the colors 
 make you throw up. EXCELLENT GRAPHICS
  
  Gameplay: its... a... fighting game. If the gameplay aint there then it.. would not be... a..... fighting 
 game. Like I said, its pissin me off, and this is a good thing!
  
  Sound: Well, I had to check my speakers a couple of times, but overall is cool, is it me or is 
 the dsp processor in this game having issues?
  
  Value: It took VF2 (saturn) to make me stop going to the arcade to play 2 and 1. It took VF3 to 
 make me stop playing 2 (and tekken) It took 3 To make want 4 and it took 5 for me to retire my 
 decked out Akira in 4. Will I buy the 360 version.? Of course! why ONLINE BUT KICKIN'. So the value 
 for me is High either way
  
  Go pick this up, give the second controller to your girl friend or lil brother, lil ones whatever, 
 let them mash away and whoop that hynee with skills. Its fun to do, plus they enjoy the fast pace 
 fluid moves also, maybe not the booty handwraped in a box and delivered though :)
  
  QUEST MODE ROCKS! but very hard once you move up in the ranks, better be perfect... man this game 
 is pissin me off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Is it just me, or does it seem as if this game is just one long demo? I never played a game that 
 had no objective. Tekken and Dead or Alive each reward you when you pass the game by giving you 
 a unique ending for each character. You also unlock different costumes or characters in Tekken 
 or Dead or Alive. In Virtua Fighter 5 you just get credits at the end. What gives me the motivation 
 to pass the game with each character? They do offer a quest mode that has no end, you just keep 
 fighting at different arcades and tournaments earning money to modify your characters outfit and 
 increasing your rank. It seems as if the game was made just for vs battles, not much thought in 
 single player. Oh wait, they didn't really think about the vs mode either since there is no online 
 multiplayer. Hopefully, the Xbox 360 will add the online feature and with achievements it may give 
 players an incentive to play the game. As for the game itself, the graphics are as good as Dead 
 or Alive 4. However, the stages are kind of boring. The fighters are not really as cool as Tekken 
 or Dead or Alive. The fighting controls are great though, you don't see as many cheap combos in 
 this game as you do in Tekken or Dead or Alive. This may be the only thing I liked about the game. 
 If you own a PS3 download Tekken: Dark Resurrection. If you also own a Xbox 360 you may want to 
 wait and see if it offers online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8 because of the lack of gameplay features like online mode, or a story mode outside 
 the random arcade visiting setup. With those two things I would have given it a 10. And because 
 its just not easy to get into like Tekken is. Some attacks were just plain hard to perform, especially 
 around hard AI.
  
  Graphics: 9 I believe this is one the best looking fighting games made period on any system. And 
 the artist style of VF series carries over into this one nicely. I believe it is possible to achieve 
 even cleaner looking environments and characters so I'll hold back a point due to the idea of VF6 
 would look like real people, hopefully.
  
  Sound: 8 because I can't add songs my PS3 yet; however, the beats in game stil rocked and I never 
 disliked any tunes. But none of the music stays with me when I'm not playing anymore like Mortal 
 Kombat does. The hits and punches are perfect except for some voices.
  
  Value: 7 Beat the game and your done and visit some arcades, enough said. Not alot going on, and 
 yes I understand why its not online due to the slowness of the internet would hinder good fighters 
 from performing movies that take millisecond timing. But it lakcks here regardless. Reviews Tilt: 
 Because I'm simply not a VF fan and I'm not hooked on the series. I rented this game and tried 
 to beat it once but couldn't due to the fact the final boss you only get one shot or its gameover 
 which is grusome and should have been taken out of the series years ago. Finally, this game just 
 didn't reel me in. Though it was beautiful to take in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duo_Haggard
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter is a great game. The characters and fighting system are awesome and the customization 
 is really cool. But what good is a customization feature without online play. Virtua Fighter 5 
 would get a 10 from me if it had these two things. First --- Online Play
  All fighters should have online play. Fighting the CPU every time can get a little boring. And 
 the AI isn't all that great either.
  
  Second --- A Storyline.
  The game has no storyline. You just fight fight fight. and fight fight fight. and some more fighting. 
 Very boring.
  
  The quest mode could be great with online play. The game overall could be great with a story mode.
 
  
  Just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimate-Playa
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this title, I was determinted to play this game as a novice knowingly that this 
 is a hardcore fighting title. But I never thought when I bought this, that this title is VERY unwelcoming 
 to newcomers, you have to learn arbitrary moves that are just overly scripted and you have to memorize 
 the moves or you'll always lose, and the AI is also overpowered, they'll just beat you when THEY 
 want to, you cant do anything about it. Graphics is good but not used to the full potential considering 
 it is a multiplat title, and released within time constraits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  After hearing nothing, but good things about Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution, I gave it a try. It was 
 good, but not as good as people made it out to be and I was disappointed by that. I recently decided 
 to give Virtua Fighter another chance with Virtua Fighter 5 and it's quite good!
  
  Well, the gameplay hasn't really evolved, but something about this game made me interested. Maybe 
 because it's on Playstation 3 or because the new characters rock. Eileen and El Blaze are great 
 additions to the series and are some of my favorite characters yet. Eileen reminds me of Ling from 
 Tekken and El Blaze reminds me of King from Tekken.
  
  The graphics are also a nice improvement. The characters looks pretty real. The music and themes 
 are cool too. That only adds coolness to this game.
  
  The Tournaments and customization from VF4 thankfully makes a return too. It starts out easy, but 
 then it get's pretty hard. Speaking of hard, I found Dural at the end of the Arcade mode to be 
 pretty hard. She seems to do more damage and everything. I was only able to beat her once and it 
 took me awhile.
  
  Overall, if you own a PS3 and want a fighting game (Other than Tekken: DR) , this game would obviously 
 be the best choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Virtual fighter is back with new characters and different game modes that a true fan will be happy 
 with. New comers might down the game, but I cant say anything bad about the game except one thing. 
 NO ONLINE. But is this really there fault, yes and no but thats another subject.
  
  Gameplay  nothings changed and thats the way it should have been. 3 button combinations allow 
 the user to perform there own combinations. This game really is a multiplayer game so having someone 
 to play with a great but if you cant, you can go to the arcade mode that the developers have created 
 to simulate playing another player. Its as close as your going to get but its really not that bad. 
 Its helps you improve you skills later when you do have to fight someone.
  
  Overall  if you have someone to play this game with, your good to go. Playing this game by yourself 
 makes it really difficult to enjoy the game unless youre a super fan of the game. At least you 
 can enjoy the great graphics this game produces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickshot2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  This version of Virtua Fighter is dead on. Visually, it is stunning with awesome fighter models 
 and extremely detailed backgrounds. The fighting system is fairly easy for the beginner to pick 
 up and start fighting, however the later matches in the arcade mode will destroy most beginners 
 until they learn the more advanced fighting techniques. The only thing that I have to say negative 
 about this game is that it is too much like VF4 evo. I would like to have seen some additional 
 modes of play (online anyone?) . But I consider this complaint to be very minor and does not take 
 away from how good this game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Even though i wasnt a big fan of VF4 i decided i would give VF5 a chance i dont regret buying the 
 game but im not thrilled either
  
  VF5 is a beautiful game to look at the characters dont have that weird shiny look as they did in 
 VF4
  
  Me being a big Tekken/Soul Calibur fan i kinda felt the gameplay to be kinda slow but youll get 
 used to it after awhile to me the only big flaw this game has like all the other VF games there 
 is no sense of accomplishment when you beat the game you just beat a certain amount of fighters 
 then its just GAME OVER i wish they would have some kind of story with the characters like what 
 has been done with other fighters
  
  But besides that its still a great game to play with a few friends i recommend it to any fighter 
 fan like i am 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fifhter 5's graphics are a close, nearly indiscernible approximation of the arcade version's 
 Lindbergh-powered visuals, which is to say they're awesome. While the backgrounds can often feel 
 a little flat and don't mesh as well with the foregrounds as well as the backdrops in Tekken 5 
 or Dead or Alive 4 do, they still look nice, with bright lighting effects and nice detailing, like 
 the Chihiro restaurant (an homage to Sega's previous arcade board) from one nighttime stage. The 
 characters, though, are easily the best-looking fighters in a videogame yet, with beautifully sculpted 
 models that practically drip with sweat or come bundled in flowing garments. That they animate 
 as smoothly as they look adds to the overall nimble feel of the controls. Viewed on a normal CRT 
 TV screen, Virtua Fighter 5 is impressive, but when spread out over a widescreen HDTV at 720p, 
 it looks simply magnificent. The colors saturate and the high-contrast shadowing makes the duelers 
 look like they were cut out of real life. the controls our smooth and easy to learn but the lack 
 of multiplayer is the biggest dissapointment you will find in the game. Gameplay mechanics work 
 great with the game. So in closing, Virtua Fighter 5 is a great game with top-noch graphics and 
 extended gameplay that will keep you busy enough till tekken 5 comes out . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: So_Young
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 was the first ps3 game that I waited so long and big hype due to the fact that 
 I loved fighting games and I loved my ps3 technically speaking.
  
  For a technical point, the game is perfect. The graphics are top notch for this game and characters 
 looks great too. Sure they look a little plastic but its very good for me. The music is also better 
 than the last installement so the game had the potential to become a perfect fighting game.
  
  So then, what's the bad thing about this one? Simply the lack of single player experience. 
 The game feels incomplete in many ways. The arcamode mode feels useless beause there's no story, 
 no cut scene, just nothing to reward you to complete this mode so, where's the point to play this 
 mode? Also, the basic fighting games mode are not there (Survival, time attack etc)
  
  So the only mode left for your single player experience is the Quest mode. Sure, this mode is good 
 in some wars but it can be repetitive very quickly. You have to participate in many match to unlock 
 new tournament, the only way to make cash so its very time consuming.
  
  Another thing I dont like is the fact that the characters looks cold and uninspired due to the 
 fact that the game doesnt have a single story line on it so except the character you will choose 
 at the beginning of the game, you'll not use or even look at the other characters because its seems 
 useless to master a new one.
  
  In conclusion, Virtua Fighter 5 is a good game, but not a great game. The serious lack of single 
 player mode and online will hurt the value of this game. Sure the combat is deep and tactical, 
 but the reward the game gives you for your effort mastering a character is so little for the time 
 you take to perform it. If you are searching for a good fighting game for the ps3, wait for Tekken 
 Dark Resurrection and you will have the same experience for only 20$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Even mentioning the name Virtua Fighter is going to spark debate amongst many serious and casual 
 fighting gamers alike. One thing you can't deny is the amount of depth and the huge learning curve 
 associated with it. Virtua Fighter 5 has finally arrived on the PS3 and the core game is nothing 
 short of spectacular some of the bells and whistles (even some seen in previous versions of the 
 series) are noticeably absent making this game more for the already established crowd of VF die-hards 
 then casual fighting game fans.
  
  The mechanics in this game are second to none. The movelists for each character are impressive, 
 but thats nothing new for most 3D fighters nowadays. You'll want to spend a lot of time going from 
 the quick arcade mode and Dojo before you get into the real meat of single player known as quest 
 mode. Not all is perfect in the game mode department though as a few things from Virtua Fighter 
 4: EVO have been taken out. First is the Dojo Mode which is essentially your practice mode. What 
 set Virtua Fighter 4 apart from other fighting games at the time was how the training mode actually 
 did more then just provide a list of moves and have you go back and forth between the command list 
 and the game. It offered an option called command training which has you going through each move 
 in a characters vast repertoire automatically queuing the next move once you performed the last. 
 This mode still exists buts its toned down a bit. It no longer keeps track of what moves you have 
 performed, and only certain moves are demoed for you. Its puzzling to say the least. Many of the 
 moves the game gives you a demo for don't require that much skill while some that may require weird 
 timing for which a demo could be useful can't be demoed. Also unlike the previous game it does 
 nothing to teach you the basic gameplay techniques and strategies. You have to open up the manual 
 for that and who does that anymore. Aside from the basic arcade and versus modes, there is VF. TV 
 where you can watch replays and exhibition matches.
  
  As mentioned above Quest mode is back and pretty much the same. You compete in tournaments against 
 simulated top players from Japan and get new items and costumes for your characters. However this 
 time around getting these items takes much longer with money to buy all these cool goodies being 
 very hard to come by. If your a completion-ist you'll definitely spend many hours trying to get 
 all the cool stuff for your characters.
  
  Truly amazing. Even in Standard Definition this game looks awesome. The animation on the fighters 
 moves is just so much more fluid now. The detail on the different characters is the best in any 
 fighter yet. Clothes, hair and objects act very realistically in this game from swaying hair in 
 the breeze to Lei Fei's garb waving as he executes relentless combos on his opponent, to the super 
 detailed textures on the characters, it's all so beautifully done. The backgrounds look breathtaking. 
 Snow is pushed around as you fight in it (it stays that way through the rounds to) ; The sunrise peaking 
 over great wall; (which also shows damage from the opponents getting knocked into the ground) ; even 
 the norther lights are shown in exquisite detail in one stage. These are all just a small example 
 of the the amazing detail put into this game. The sounds in the game have stayed consistent from 
 VF4 and while they are not bad they aren't always as loud or explosive as the move they are associated 
 with would seem. Some moves look pretty punishing but the sound is a loud slap rather then the 
 vast majority of Akiras moves which sound awesome and damaging. The Music is a pretty standard 
 affair as well with a few outstanding tracks like Kage's stage or Aoi's stage which are reminiscent 
 of there VF4 counterparts which were better still. Sound design hasn't seemed to change throughout 
 the series and that is neither a bad thing nor an improvement. Virtua Fighter 5 is a demanding 
 game and those who get into there fighting games will find many hours of enjoyment and probably 
 be playing this till Virtua Fighter 6, but as far a home port of an arcade game goes its pretty 
 bare-bones. While Quest mode is quite extensive in the number of matches and items to get, its 
 a single player experience and most casual fans will just not want to put much work into it to 
 get items and costumes for there customizable character. Especially since you don't really have 
 anyway to show anybody else but those friends that enjoy Virtua Fighter and frequent your home. 
 Since the game is much more demanding of time and effort then others in the genre the list of friends 
 that fit into the Virtua Fighter category are probably dismal. You can't use the PS3 network to 
 share replays or anything of the sort with your fellow Virtua Fighters around the world either. 
 Its all on the hard drive and thats where it will stay. While no online versus wasn't surprising 
 the lack of any kind of data sharing through replays, stats, or even ghost data is disappointing. 
 For instance Virtua Fighter 4 had an AI training mode where you do exactly that. You teach a computer 
 controlled character moves and show them replays of you fighting and they will develop into a force 
 to be reckoned with. You then could save this character and pit it against your friends and see 
 if they could beat it. This mode was also absent from evo but since that was more of an expansion 
 to 4 then a sequel its understandable. This feature could have really been fleshed out more and 
 with the PS3s network capability could of been a great substitution for actual online play.
  
  As was the case with Virtua Fighter 4, Virtua Fighter 5 is for the hardcore gamers first and 
 casual fighting game fans second (a distant second) . The lack of options just doesn't help this 
 either. It sports some of the most spectacular visuals yet on the PS3 coupled with one of the most 
 fine tuned and indepth fighting systems. Too bad what makes Virtua Fighter so great is part of 
 what keeps others away. If your a fan of Virtua Fighter you most likely have this game already 
 and if your on the fence perhaps looking for a fighter to really get deep and sink your teeth into 
 Virtua Fighter 5 may just be the game you have been waiting for. Casual fans will continue to ignore 
 and fans will adore Virtua Fighter 5 for what it offers. A perfect arcade port of a fantastic fighting 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtymar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Can you believe how old this franchise is? It feels like ages ago when fighting games went 3D with 
 the introduction of Virtua Fighter. And here we are years later, as Virtua Fighter 5 gives the 
 PS3 its first real must-buy app. Yes I said it. Now let me first say that this game is mostly for 
 serious fighting game freaks. It's nothing like Dead or Alive 4 on the Xbox. This is a serious 
 ass kicker that has a simple to learn, but insane to master mentality to it ever since the series's 
 birth. The control scheme may seem simple. D-pad, 3 buttons. Guard, punch, and kick. But its the 
 combination of these things that leads to deep move lists for each character. Thankfully, the very 
 useful training mode within the game shows how each move is done, the timing involved in each move, 
 and with use of the ghost system, can show you ways to apply each move. So even those new to the 
 franchise can learn at a good pace to hang with the big boys.
  
  Those who have been playing VF for years will be happy to see many of the characters unchanged, 
 and with more moves. Some toned down for some balance issues, others given more improvements. Add 
 to that more depth to VF4: Evolution newbies Goh and Brad which was much needed, and new additions 
 El Blaze and Eileen. Each with their own new styles of play that will give serious VF experts a 
 new toy to play with.
  
  Presentation is what we all expect from the PS3. Beautiful. Environments are highly detailed, and 
 distracting to look at as you focus on combos. But amazing nonetheless. Do try the desert stage, 
 complete with its puddled floor, for some amazing rippled water effects. Even the characters sport 
 some detail that is truly high-def. There's a bit of lip-sync issues when they do talk, but its 
 forgiveable.
  
  Returning to the series is the Quest mode which lets you fight against highly developed AI's to 
 duel against. While it's still the computer fighting you in essence, it can help tune your game 
 for more intense battles with VF pros. As you progress in Quest mode, you will earn a plethora 
 of items to customize your fighter with. Some cool, others downright zany.
  
  So, you got a simple but deep game system, customizable characters, new fighters, next gen graphics. 
 Only thing missing is an online mode, which is fine, cause something this precise can't have any 
 lag. I forgive you Sega. So if you are one of those few who own a PS3 to actually own it and not 
 make a quick buck online... BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombino
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Quite good, of course the lack of online play does hurt, but the tilt factor eases the pain a bit, 
 as long as you have at least a few others to play with. The quality in which the stages are rendered 
 in is great.. very nice display of RSX's capability.. especially the water stage. The character 
 customization is a nice touch as well, however the quest mode leaves something to be desired. Gameplay 
 is fast and flowing between challengers, but the whole human opponent AI scheme irks me a bit. 
 This should have been a fairly easy game to get online, while timing is very important to the game, 
 the overhead associated should be quite low. I do see the possibility of issues for users w/ excessive 
 latency, but that can be said about many online sports games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARAKAN
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Not bad but it lose Tekken 5. speed is hight i can't play combo in mid air as Tekken. Character 
 is nice but combo ..... . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . 
 . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCNewYork87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I wanted a good fighter for my new PS3 and it turned out to be just 
 that.... Good but not great. Besides the graphics being really good (excluding the characters skin) 
 there is nothing special about this game. The AI gets pretty cheap with the blocking and counters 
 at the higher difficulty levels and the controls seem to be slightly less responsive than you would 
 hope. If you like fighting games i would recommend buying this but don't expect too much. Its not 
 the greatest but it is pretty good and has lasting appeal. If you are expecting a great fighting 
 game i would wait for something else to be released because this just isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics for this game are satisfactory considering the console gen we are in I was expecting 
 more impressive graphics and collision effects. The gameplay is the same 3 button system as was 
 in part 1. The game automatically gives you all the characters which left me with hardly any interest 
 to play or beat the game. The controls are some what laggy and this is certainly no replacement 
 for Tekken. I was over all unimpressed. To top it all off this game is just plain boring unless 
 your a fan of this series dont waste your time. I think this is like Mayonaise and Miracle Whip 
 you love one and hate the other Virtua Fighter is the other 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinHendre
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on launch day and liked it a lot, I continued playing it a little bit at a time 
 and now have realized it is a game that just reamains timeless, Since VF1 back in the day the characters 
 have remained true to thier style and this game is just right on par with tekken. It has amazingly 
 deep gameplay that doesn't allow graceful moves just for button mashers, you must get into the 
 deeper button mechanics and learn combo's, once you do this, if you have a worth opponent you will 
 see some true martial arts. The style and graphics makes dead or alive series look like a kids 
 game, and I will probably still be playing this one in a year just trying to master a select few 
 characters. The value here is amazingly high and can provide at least a good hour of fun on a daily 
 basis if you handle that much fast paced head spinning action. WORTH EVERY PENNY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Out of the few fighting games out there, Virtua FIghter easily takes the cake for being the most 
 technical and training oriented game. Although Tekken is the more famous of the two, Virtua Fighter 
 gives you more satisfaction for even mastering one character opposed to Tekken's relative ease 
 in gameplay. The game has great graphics also as the Virtua Fighter series always has and that 
 adds so much to the gaming experience. Even after you spend 40 - 50 hours in the training mode, 
 your chances of having completely mastered a character to be used efficiently in battle is very 
 slim. The difficulty of each character varies greatly also. Even though all characters are pretty 
 good and there is not much of a separation between them, the difficulty difference in controlling 
 them is huge. For instance, Jacky is probably the easiest (very good still) characters in the game 
 and Akira is the downright hardest to play. Controlling these two characters and pulling off some 
 cool moves will be extremely different. The biggest disappointment with this game as stated before 
 by many is the lack of online. Although SEGA's view is understandable, the thought of fighting 
 people online still excites me. Regardless, this game is a must-buy for any PS3 owner (especially 
 if you always have people at your house playing games with you) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xavier14
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  i agree 110% with anybody that says 2 make this game last longer add online play. i mean come on 
 ppl lets be real offline only fighting games are dead now. online is a must have. ok so what some 
 games might be laggy slow down or whatever but... not every match is going 2 be like that it will 
 run smooth and play great just watch out 4 those stupid laggers. i played every vf game that came 
 out and this 1 piised me off with no online play i beat the game did some really nice combos now 
 i want 2 show it off so let me go online and do that. oh wait i can't it has no online play in 
 it. i don't care whats sega excuse with not adding online play just add it . online play sells. 
 this game will not do well without it. but every thing else about the game is great but that 1 
 part needs 2 be worked on. i'm going 2 be real with you mortal kombat is my first fav fighting 
 game and doa series is my sec and vf is my 3rd midway and tecmo/team ninja got smart they added 
 online 2 there games. they even have online 2 an old butt game umk3 that i love so much. that online 
 adding more value. and with doa4 if that didn't have online i would of bought it played it beat 
 it and droped it and be like ok next. but no it has this thing called and online mode and i have 
 been still playing doa4 online and sometimes offline but mostly online ever since it came out. 
 thats over a year and some change. thats good. i'm glad vf5 is comming 2 the 360 maybe sega will 
 get smart this time and add the best online service there is. Xbox live. sony will never beat xbox 
 live i'm sorry i'm an xbox fan 4 life cause they are smart and the games are great i love them 
 i own about 30 of them and counting. i sold my ps3 like 4 days ago. cause i was dissapointed by 
 sonys ego, the games, teh controller, and that horrible thing they call and online service lol its 
 horrible. doa will always be ahead of its comp. namco needs 2 add online 4 tekken 6 even tho i 
 hate tekken the infinite combo game i call it. an di hate soul calibur. add onlie 2 that and then 
 i might buy them and make them 4 360 aswell. ur make more money on the 360. if u don't agree with 
 me about fighting games need 2 have online in it even if ur not going online with it then i think 
 something is wrong with ya lol but at least make it online 4 other ppl like me and millions. anyway 
 can't wait 4 the 360 version. MAKE IT ONLINE SEGA PLZ!!!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjoasil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I was going to write this game off because of no online play, but after renting it, it is definitely 
 a most have for fighting fans. The game is surprisingly good. I'm starting to think gamespot is 
 biased against PS3. The review of the game said that the sound was muffled but not on my sound 
 system. It also said that the load times were bad, but not on my PS3.
  The only thing that this game sadly lacks is online play. If this was a feature, Virtua fighter 
 5 would be a game as big as Gears of war etc. But the game is still great though, and definitely 
 next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soiree
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  The Virtua Fighter series returns with some new fighters, and more heavy hitting fighting moves. 
 The graphics took a huge leap in greatness as well. Beautiful sound too. The gameplay is still 
 the same, but a little different. You decide on what the difference to you is. There are also a 
 lot more customizations for all the characters. As well as two extra costumes for them.
  
  The new characters.
  
  Ladies first, heh.
  
  Eileen is a very energetic, and eccentric 
 fighter. Not to mention she uses the style, Monkey . Mmm, she's a whole mess of goodness. She isn't 
 too difficult to master. In fact, if you master her, you'll be a very annoying person to fight. 
 She's a quick fighter in you're looking for one of those to play. Eileen, Pai, and El Blaze would 
 be a good choice. Everyone is fast really. Take your pick. Anyway, back to Eileen. She lost her 
 parents at young age, and was raised by her grandfather. Who is also a martial arts master. Her 
 grandfather taught her martial arts too. She's also into Opera. She joined a troupe. Anyway, one 
 day she say a martial arts demonstration by Pai Chan. Eileen couldn't believe the beauty, and grace 
 of Pai's movements. Since then, she has only thought about ways to approach her. That's a fight 
 I would love to see :D.
  
  El Blaze is a high flying, sonic bomb of pain. He uses grabs to make his opponent tap, or just 
 to defeat them. He also uses attacks as well. He's a balanced fighter really. Probably not for 
 beginners. But like Eileen, you'll be really tough to beat if you master El Blaze. Anyway, El Blaze 
 was jealous of my main man Wolf, and he was also tired of seeing victory after victory for Wolf. 
 So, he entered the Virtua Fighter 5 tournament to tech Wolf a lesson. You guys will like playing 
 him. If you like Ray Mysterio, you'll like him.
  
  The game is really impressive, and plays very well. I mean, spinning in all types of different 
 directions. Whoo! This game is guaranteed to keep you happy for a long time. You'll enjoy, and 
 will be glad you added it to your gaming collection. Give it a chance. Ahh, the memories you all 
 will create. Soiree gives Virtua fighter 5 for the Playstation 3, a 9.4! Remember kids, this is 
 Virtua Fighter. So it's not like any other fighting game. You can't just pick up a character and 
 go beat someone up. Training is the word of the day. It'll save your life out there in the world 
 of Virtua Fighter. Plus, those arcade players are mercyless. Good luck.
  
  YEAAAHHH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrazenone
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  the game's backgrounds are extremely boring, and the lazy computer a. i. won't challenge veteran 
 players - aside from these two issues, virtua fighter 5 is everthying one could realistically expect 
 out of a next generation fighter at this stage. the primary fighting modes in the game are dojo 
 and quest. there's also arcade and versus options. they all work well and serve their purpose, 
 but there's no on-line component and that hurts only because of the lazy a. i.
  
  if you are a beginner, understanding the basic game mechanics and move lists really does require 
 a portable guide (e. g., the black book (jap) or brady strategy guide (eng) ) - only then can you 
 truly appreciate how much work is expected of you to become even an intermediate player. chances 
 are, however, even if you don't have an aide that you tote around town studying religiously at 
 every opportunity, you'll be able to have fun with some (only some) of the combatants in the game.
 
  
  that's because virtua fighter 5 (more so than previous installments) encourages a quick and aggressive 
 pace to matches and really does have more of an exciting overall feel to it than any other virtua 
 fighter. while the movement speed varies from combatant to combatant, some of the lighter, faster 
 characters can move very quickly towards and (more importantly) away from their opponent - much 
 quicker than what you might find in other 3d fighters. also, many jumps have been given either 
 more height or range. couple the aforementioned with new (mostly athletic) animations and this 
 game really doesn't feel anything like virtua fighter evo despite only having really two new characters 
 to choose from. the two new characters are welcomed additions, although it does seem as if eileen 
 is a concession to soul calibur and tekken players worldwide. not a bad thing, but certainly interesting.
 
  
  the sound and graphics are what you would expect - classic virtua fighter. the only noteworthy 
 addition is the commentary option, which i sometimes turn on just because it is hilarious.
  
  at the end of the day some people will conclude that virtua fighter 5 takes too much of a time 
 investment to be worthwhile and even then they don't have anyone to play nearby, but you owe it 
 to yourself to give it a serious try before arriving at that conclusion since it is one of the 
 top 5 fighters ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VegetaFr20
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with high expectations, and I am defnitely not let down. Much. The fighting 
 system is deep, and relentless, once you master the basics, you are throwing people around with 
 ease. However, with the lack of online play, im seriously offended because, you know this game 
 is going to be online for the 360. And no 1080p? Hogwash. With all of this said, the game is worth 
 a rent, or going over to your friends to play, since you cant play them online. And honestly, with 
 the utilization of 50 gb blu ray discs, im expecting to see alot more from playstation 3 games 
 than ANY other console.... More characters and more costumes and stages. Overall, VF5 is a disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejoe1986
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, where is online play? This game could've been saved from feeling like VF4evo all 
 over again if it were for this one feature. Sony already put the online network in place... why 
 did Sega choose to make their fighter limited in scope by this terrible decision not to include 
 online competition.
  
  Though my complaints about gameplay are limited, and would simply repeat what the Gamespot review 
 already established, my biggest complaint other than the lack of online play would be the originalities 
 of the game. Sure, the game is balanced well, and sure it plays smoothly, but where's the innovation? 
 No longer can a game rest on the fact that it's refined, we got that figured out at the end of 
 the PS2's lifespan.
  
  I'll end this review here, as it seems I've established everything I need to. Heres to hoping Tekken 
 6 can bring new life to a tired tired genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guile_charlie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The VF fanbase is very die-hard. If you come up to someone playing VF 5 in the arcade in Japan 
 and say you'd rather play Tekken, then they'd probably kung-fu your butt across the room. With 
 that said, they really have a great reason to flock to VF 5 (too bad it isn't destined show up 
 in U. S. arcades) .
  
  If you are familiar with the VF series, you'll feel almost immediately at home. If you are only 
 a casual player, though, it will take a while to get used to. This game does very little in the 
 way of a Practice mode which is sad because 4: Evolution had the absolutely most intrusive Practice 
 mode ever made for any fighting game in history. This game is much more difficult than it's predecessor, 
 so that same practice mode would have been a greater help in 5 than in 4: Evo. This game's combo 
 system has been revamped to make juggling easier by allowing the float-time of the opponent to 
 be extended a little from the last game, but the ground moves are still either easily done by button-mashing 
 or they are intricate, multiple-direction inputs with multiple, simultaneous button presses depending 
 on the character, and the controller still feels awkward compared to the standard arcade joy stick. 
 Character's move lists have been expanded upon by adding new, diverse moves, and tweaking exsisting 
 moves, so every character is even more unique and lets you spend time trying to figure out even 
 more new strategies with characters you've dominated with in 4: Evolution. The two new characters, 
 El Blaze and Eileen look and play like they belong in the series, that's about all that needs to 
 be said about them.
  
  This is a Playstation 3 game, so everyone basically expects this game to have terrific graphics, 
 and it does. This game is nearly photo-realistic, especially with the environments. Very, very 
 little in the way of jaggies and awkward body shapes (completely unnoticeable unless you actually 
 take the time to marvel at the character and background models) . Snow and sand deform and water 
 splashes around even more realistically than in 4: Evolution, which is a great step up considering 
 how great it was in its predecessor. Even when compared to it's flawless arcade counterpart, Virtua 
 Fighter 5 is just a great looking game, simply put. The animations to this game are even more fluid 
 and natural looking than ever before, so moves not only look flashier, but seem more effective.
 
  
  One aspect that the game has really disappointed me with is the fact that some of the hit effects 
 sound like crap and a half, usually making me say something like "that's not supposed to sound 
 like that", but then there are times where I say to myself "now, that's more like it!". Recycled 
 hit effects, recycled character voices, except for the two new characters, obviously and some new 
 dialogue of course don't make the sound any better for me than in the last game. Voice acting is 
 either decent or cheesy as hell, depending on the character. El Blaze's voice over actor is simply 
 hilarious, you gotta hear this guy, oh my God!!! The announcer sounds indecipherable from the last 
 game and is still as annoying as always. What's good, though is a lot of the stage music, although 
 still forgetable, is really fitting and not so annoying.
  
  Now, one of the most important parts about this game, the replay value has two things that help 
 it, and three things that just kill it. The first thing is the ability to Customize your character's 
 looks, just like in 4: Evolution. The item count has increased immensely and is more diverse and 
 wacky than ever! It's fun as hell and it gives your character so much personality. The second thing 
 that helps it is the Quest Mode. Just like in VF4: Evolution you choose a character, input your 
 name, and fight in a handful of in-game arcades to raise your ranking and earn G. The characters 
 are ghosts taken from the top VF5 players in the Japanese arcades, so two Akira opponents won't 
 necessarily play exactly the same, although they don't really differ that much from character to 
 character as there is usually only a couple best ways to play with each character and they mostly 
 likely will all use those same strategies, but it's still great to have that variety when you take 
 into account the lack of online-play. The first thing that hurts the replay value is the fact that 
 playing against the CPU gets boring and, in turn Quest gets tedious and seems more and more like 
 a chore as you go on. What would help this is if you could play online, but you can't and that's 
 the most important exclusion of the game. The thing that got me, though was the fact that if you 
 have a friend who has the game, you have no way of loading your character on their system because 
 of the lack of a memory peripheral of some sort, so they don't get to see your creation and the 
 progress with it unless they come over to your place, and that is another reason why online is 
 a much needed component for this game. Just add online multi-player and some fun and challenging 
 achievement missions and you've got THE game Fighting enthusiasts will shell out the cash to play. 
 Too bad.... I really don't blame Sega for the lack of online playability when they first released 
 as Sony's Playstation Network wasn't up to par with XBOX live, but it would be worth a shot to 
 release some sort of patch now, especially since VF5 is online for 360.
  
  All in all, this game will please fans of Virtua Fighter just looking to play an updated versions 
 of their favorite game and maybe get to know the two new characters, but if you are just desperate 
 for a fighting game on the PS3 and already have Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution, then just keep playing 
 existing fighters until Tekken 6 comes out or untill they decide to give this game online play 
 for PS3. ; ) If you have both next-gen consoles though, the 360 version of VF5 is where it's at 
 and is a definet must... at least for now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrkinsey1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I may be a little biased. Im a fan of the Virtual Fighter series.
  
  With that out of the way.. here is the evaluation.
  
  The graphics look great on HDTV. It is 
 the first game for the PS3 that shows off the system (Im tired of trying to compare titles between 
 different systemsand yes, I have a 360 and Wii) . Segas AM2 team did a great job. The game play 
 is great. For those unfamiliar with the series, it is a pseudo-button masher fest. The controller 
 is responsive (like playing a PS2 title) . The varying level of difficulty appeases to the button 
 masher (Very Easy to Easy) to the fighting strategist (Normal +) . The counter and counter of a 
 counter system is great. The different choices of game play (Arcade, dojo, and Character Development 
 (Story Mode) ,, etc) lets you have fun by yourself or with others (2nd player or internet) . The 
 characters are NOT BALANCED. Everyone is tired of playing different versions of the same characterperiod. 
 Different strategies are required depending on the character you chose. If you choose a striker 
 (Punch and Kicker) you want to avoid getting close and personal, shift and attack. If you choose 
 a grappler (self explanatory) you want to get as close as possible to your opponent. If you choose 
 a mixed martial artist (not really a specialist at striking or grappling) , you want to change it 
 up depending on your opponent. It is not the style, but how the fighter uses that style. There 
 is a huge learning curve associated with this game. Each character has a crap load of moves (even 
 though the button combinations may be similar between characters, the actual effectiveness of those 
 moves depend on the character. see last paragraph) . Segas AM2 team does a good job on their How 
 its done option in the dojo. You can see what the developers were looking for on specific moves. 
 The following sums up the game: Have fun getting your butt kicked then have fun kicking butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  After all this time, Virtua Fighter is still going. PS3 owners have been waiting for this game, 
 and with good reason. For one, There is a lack of original (meaning not available elsewhere) content 
 available for the system right now. Plus, Virtua Fighter has always been one of the best fighting 
 games to ever grace a home or arcade. VF5 is no different. It is a very good fighting game from 
 a mechanics standpoint. However, while playing the game, you can't help but feel that something 
 is missing here. Although Sega definitely has a great fighting sysem on their hands, I think that 
 they forgot that they were bringing a game to a console and NOT an arcade cabinet. When it comes 
 to console fighting games, it has become normal for developers to add a lot of options and modes 
 to their games in order to lengthen its replay value. These days, you can't just have a bare-bones 
 arcade mode, with no sort of fanfare or fireworks to speak of, and expect the game to last very 
 long. And this is one problem I have with this game. The arcade mode is, in a word, pointless. 
 You pick your character, fight your way to latest version of Dural, and win or lose its game over. 
 Okay, time for FMV ending? No. Alright, how about some storyline text? No. Where's the story? Not 
 here that's for sure. Play the arcade mode, beat or lose to Dural and then its game over, roll 
 credits. Yes, its true to the arcade version, this is not an arcade. Why would you give me lengthy 
 profile descriptions of characters and their reasons for entering the tournament if there is no 
 resolution for this in the game itself? Okay, so now you're left with VF tv, in which you don't 
 play at all. Also, there is vs, which won't do you much good if you don't have anyone to come over 
 and play the game with you. Dojo let's you practice, which is standard. Then there is Quest mode. 
 Quest mode is probably the only real worthwile mode to be found here as it offers a very long single 
 player experience in which you challenge different oppenents at in game arcades for cash, items, 
 and rankings. One thing that has been of great debate about this game is its lack of online play. 
 You know, I can understand why Sega felt that putting this game online would kill the experience 
 of playing this game correctly. However, why did they make that decision for us? Laggy or not, 
 having an online compenent for a multiplayer focused fighting game can only add to the longevity 
 of said game. Arcades are almost non-existent here in the US. PS3 are not widely available in homes, 
 and even a smaller amount probably have this game. So, unless we have a lot VF fans surrounding 
 our households, we are basically stuck with a solid fighting game that will only last as long as 
 we want to practice our skills and beat up on the CPU. So, all in all, if you own this game, you're 
 probably going to be extremely satisfied and just happy for a new VF game that looks pretty on 
 the PS3, or someone who is dissapointed by the lack of potential content this game so rightfully 
 deserves. As for me, I'm somewhere in the middle of the pack. With Dark Resurection right around 
 the corner, Sega may have missed an opportunity here. As you compare this 60 dollar game to a downloadable 
 game with more characters and a much, much cheaper price, its hard to reccomend VF5 to anyone except 
 hardcore fighing enthusiasts. Its a great game on its own, but when stacked up against some of 
 the competition, VF5 comes out fighting hard, but ends up coming up short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Virtual Fighter was the game that opened the world of 3D gaming. It was the first fighting game 
 to be seen in 3D, and for the first time, gamers were able to experiance their dreams of being 
 martial artist... sort of. However, since then the series had some major improvements, but went 
 against the trend, and it finally caught up after more than 10 years of the series existance. The 
 most unusual thing you would notice when you first pop your Virtual Fighter 5 Blu-Ray disc into 
 your PS3, is that it has absolutely no online mode. It was expected since the developers said it 
 won't have online features, but at this day and age, not having online features on fighting game 
 is quite a bit of flaw. If Virtual Fighter 5 had many gameplay modes, the lack of online feature 
 wouldn't be so noticeable. However, the game has basically 2 modes of single player experiance. 
 Arcade and Quest. There is Dojo mode but that is basically a practice mode. Nice thing to have, 
 but it doesn't count much towards to single player gameplay experiance. After being spoiled by 
 Tekken, Mortal Kombat, and other 3D fighting games, Virtual Fighter 5 seems very shallow when it 
 comes to multiple gameplay modes. It doesn't even have the basic ones like Survival mode. Shame 
 on you Sega, shame. Another big hit Virtual Fighter 5 takes is from A. I. I am far from being good 
 Virtual Fighter player. I never won a tornament in Virtual Fighter EVO in the quest mode (in normal 
 difficulty setting) , but in Virtual Fighter 5 (also in normal difficulty setting) , I barely break 
 a sweat winning those tornaments. Even against 10th dan, I usually have the upper hand. Even at 
 higher difficulty setting, I tend to have even match with A. I. In EVO, I would've had my butt handed 
 to me on silver plate. I found myself having more difficult time with my noob friend who haven't 
 played Virtual Fighter in the 2nd one, which is bit alarming. You will often find A. I falling for 
 simple pattern and 2 or 3 of those pattern can get you through with most of the matches. How long 
 can you play single player mode in this game when A. I is like this? If a poor Virtual Fighter player 
 can play like this, I wonder how well experianced players would do against these A. I. Considering 
 the amount of skill you can use in this game, online mode was needed desperately. Those aren't 
 the only reason why Virtual Fighter 5 needed online mode. Another critical aspect of current 3D 
 fighting trend Virtual Fighter failed to keep up with is story. 99% of the fighting game fans don't 
 care about the story of the game, but nonetheless it does keep the game more interesting. Tekkan 
 often has beautiful CGs waiting for you at the end, and it does motivate the players to play as 
 characters they would never think of using. Little things like that just makes the game more interesting 
 to play the game. The only positive thing about Virtual Fighter 5 has with gameplay is the deep 
 fighting engine it has. Of course it is the most important part of any fighting game, but those 
 extras could've seriously helped this game. Also deep fighting system means nothing if you don't 
 have anyone to play it with. Lack of online feature and gameplay modes is too big of a blow for 
 this game. Well let's get into other details that is actually in the game. Graphically this is 
 one looks pretty good. However, the graphics look a bit off most of the times. Most of the characters 
 look like plastic figures, especially the female characters. Sarah's hair look like ridiculous 
 plastic wig. The textures of the skin often look too shiny to be real person. Tanned and muscular 
 characters does look better like El Blaze and Wolf, but after seeing games like Gears of War, Fight 
 Night round 3, etc, the character details doesn't look that impressive. The animation of the game 
 is also a bit off. The transition from move to move seems to skip something. Mostly it is due to 
 speed, but some of the animation seem unnatural. Once again Sarah i the biggest victim. Her stance 
 tend to jump front and back, and instead of looking like a person, she looks like rubber model 
 that is bouncing front and back. Most of the animation looks quite smooth and realistic, but some 
 animation like that just throws it off. Then there is background. Mostly it is just stunning to 
 look at, and water effects are fairly good. However, that is also not perfect. The water effect 
 might look good, but it just doesn't seem right. The rippling water tends to look more like clear 
 plastic than a real water. Also the snow haven't improved at all from Virtual Figther 4 EVO. It 
 was impressive then, but now it just looks off. Moving on to the sound. The music of this game 
 I have to say doesn't fit the very well. Tekkan often had music that seems dramtic in quite melo 
 area, and in others it is quite exciting. The music fits the stage and gives that music that fits 
 the setting of 1on1 fights. Virtual Fighter tends to ignore that mood. The music does fit the setting 
 of the stage well, but it doesn't integrate well with fights.
  
  Then there is player's voices. There isn't many thing wrong with voice acting, except that their 
 voice doesn't sound clear as you want it to be. With the amount of info Blu-Ray disc can hold, 
 it is odd why Sega didn't put in higher quality sound. Also there is commentary. Now this is very 
 good idea Sega had, but executed poorly. None of the comments are very insightful and mostly just 
 stating the obvious. Also due to the pace of the game, by the time comments come by, it is said 
 in way different situation. With little more effort and much more insightful comments, this could 
 be very positive addition to the game, however in this version it is not. Well now let's talk about 
 actual fighting. Virtual Fighter 5 is very much the blue-print of current 3D fighting games. simple 
 combination of buttons results in quick and highly effective combos. Many 3D fighter like Dead 
 or Alive tends to follow this system, except none of them are refined as Virtual Figther. Virtual 
 Fighter has good evasion system. Just simply tapping up or down results in your character side 
 stepping to avoid attacks. Simple idea, but other fighting games tend to not utilize this simple 
 concept very well and side stepping tends to be not very useful. That's not the case in Virtual 
 Fighter. Virtual Fighter is more of combo based game. The mix of high, mid, and low attacks is 
 what most players would be aiming for, and if opponent is too busy guarding, add throws. It has 
 this dynamic gameplay where it is more about tricking your opponents rather than techinical moves. 
 Most of your moves will be mixture of simple combos to keep opponent busy and mix some technical 
 moves to throw them off. Or you can just mix simple combos with high and low attacks and that will 
 work too, which is why Virtual Figther becomes easy to start, but difficult to master type of figther. 
 There is many games like this out there, but what seperates Virtual Figther is the careful balance 
 of characters and move. There is opening to every move and a way to use it as your own benefit. 
 A. I might not take this to their advantage fully, but experianced players will undoubtly make you 
 pay for showing him same patterns over and over. Unlike Tekkan, which is more of technical game 
 where the player who knows more moves and how well they execute them usually determines the winner, 
 and Dead or Alive which is more of dynmaic game where it is more of battle of the wits than technical 
 skills that determines the winner, Virtual Fighter relies on both at least against experianced 
 players. However, that doesn't mean Virtual Figther doesn't have it's flaws in gameplay. The counter 
 system is quite difficult to execute. The speed of the game is quite fast, faster than before, 
 so it is difficult to time your counters, and not only that, there is specific counter move sets 
 for high attacks, mid, and low. This makes counter moves much more difficult to execute compared 
 to other fighting games where they usually allow you to counter high and low with single counter 
 move. Also not all the characters have counter moves. The game would have more depth if the counter 
 holds as strong part of the game, but unfortunately is isn't. That doesn't mean counter is useless 
 and impossible to execute, but it doesn't hold big of a threat compared to other part of the game 
 such as throws and combos. If counter holds equal level of importance as those two, the game would 
 have more depth. Overall, Virtual FIgther 5 is well made fighter. The lack of single player mode 
 it provides and lack of online feature ultimately kills large part of replay value, and if you 
 don't have friend who is at equally skill level as you, this game probably won't last you very 
 long. Sega is a company I really like, but they seriously need to follow some trends. Show some 
 virtual figther chicks skins. Their outfit is often too proper. Be shameless Sega, like Tecmo. 
 No one can deny the success of Dead or Alive has largely to do with those polygon chicks. Also 
 keep up with the generations and give us online mode. It is better to release it later than to 
 disappoint fans. Also learn from Capcom. They made Street Figther Alpha, to retell the Street Figther 
 story well. The fans of Virtual Figther had to find the story out by reading manuals, which is 
 not a correct way to find out the story. Video game is a method of story telling, let the game 
 tell the story, not manuals. We need Virtual Figther Alpha. Also give us more extras. Quest mode 
 is okay but it really doesn't add that much of variety. And lastly, give us sequal to Panzer Dragoon 
 Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  VF5 for the PS3 is a golden fighting game. The game display at 720p and looks stunning. The physics 
 and controls are on point. I've put about 2hrs. of gameplay into it so far. I can say that this 
 game plays well. The control is responsive and you can pull of combos better that ever. There are 
 enough modes to keep you into this one for a long time. The only flaw in this game is the lack 
 of online play. You'll find yourself burning time real quick playin' this game. Before you even 
 know it two hours already passed by. In the graphics dept., hte characters are highly detailed 
 and their moves are very fluid. The stages compliment the characters very well with background 
 effects. I definitely refer this game to anyone who owns a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: collum1987
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter returns in glorious HD and in a fifth installment in Virtua Fighter 5 for PlayStation 
 3.
  
  New in this installment are two new characters, Eileen who uses a Monkey Kung Fu fighting style 
 and El Blaze, a Mucho Libre wrestler who is a rival of one of Virtua Fighter's original characters 
 Wolf. It may not be as many as the roster in Tekken 5 DR but the movelists for the characters will 
 be a challenge to master and give the gameplay a true fighting edge compared to other 3D fighters.
 
  
  The changes from VF4 is bigger character customization. Players now have more objects, clothing 
 colors, and clothing styles to obtain; therefore, you can make your character look like anyone 
 you want. Also in this game introduced into the gameplay is the Clash System, allowing players 
 to cancel an attack with a throw and Offensive Move.
  
  The graphics for this game are obsolutely stunning, this game supports 480p, 720p, 1080i 1080p 
 so for those with Full HDTV's and interested in this game, your eyes are in for a treat. The backgrounds, 
 water, light, shading effects are amazing and really are a positive to mention about in this game.
 
  
  The gameplay consists of three buttons and a joystick. Punch, Kick and Guard. It may be limited 
 buttons to work with but with the complex command list and precision required to execute attacks, 
 throws, evasions and recoveries, it gives the gamer a very challenging task of getting to know 
 how the game works and it can be difficult to start off on this game. You need to give yourself 
 a good couple of hours or days to get used to the gameplay of this game, once you've done that 
 it gets fun and becomes a great game to play.
  
  It offers a Quest Mode, basically in this mode you go around the Map challenging all sorts of players 
 at all levels to improve your rank, compete in tournaments and customize your character. Its a 
 fun mode if you wish to improve at this game and will help train you if you plan to kick your mates 
 ass at this game.
  
  However, the bad side to this mode is when your on a unit playing VF5 in Quest Mode, you can't 
 get off until you get prompted about an upcoming tournament, fustrating after a while but doesnt 
 really bother me as I'm willing to play VF5.
  
  Dojo is essentially Training Mode, allowing you to practice commands, juggles etc. Its a brilliant 
 place to start if your a beginner and you can demo the moves if you are stuck on trying to pull 
 it off so its a great feature in the game.
  
  Of course, this game offers multiplayer. I'm happy its just two player because to be honest, after 
 playing fighting games on XBOX Live and experiencing lags most of the time and delays, it wouldnt 
 suit this game at all as this game requires precise input in the correct timing and it would fustrate 
 gamers whilst playing online.
  
  It could have done with a Player Feature where you can trade your ghost character so you can play 
 againest other people's characters which they have used and play againest their method's and strategies. 
 Other than that, multiplayer is generally good, you can also save replays in this game to save 
 those moments of a good asskicking.
  
  Finally, the commentary is a new addition also. To sum things up, its annoying and the best thing 
 about this feature is, you can turn it off :) So, you don't have to get annoyed by an annoying 
 voice!
  
  For those looking for THAT GOOD PS3 GAME right now and really in search of use for your $599 or 
 &pound;425 console, this is the game to get. This game looks good, has amazing replay value and 
 plays just like the arcade version.
  
  For beginners and those new to VF5, it'll take a while to get into it but it is worth the games 
 RRP. GO AND GET IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynastyfan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay engine is one of the more deeper engines in a fighting game.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are stunning all the animations are amazing the charecter models are well 
 detailed and the stages look great.
  
  Sound-The sound aint the best from the cheesy voice acting to the repetive music and the annoying 
 commentary (which is fun to listen to sometimes I think (also the grunts and take this when fighting 
 get old fast)
  
  Value- The single player modes are sort of empty theres arcade and quest mode but quest mode is 
 higly addicting and i wish there was some type of online element to the game. Overall I think VF 
 5 is a must buy for fighting fans and virtua fighter fans and maybe rent it first if you dont like 
 fighting games that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slaveng3r08
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Virtue Fighter 5, is an amazing game that offers a real fun enjoyable experience for fans, the 
 average joe, or someone who just wants to beat up some other guy, the numerous combos an special 
 movies will keep you entertained for quite some time, but after it you have had enough of quest 
 mode, an arcade mode is getting a little boring, what do you do? Id advice grabbing a friend and 
 playing together, that is what will keep the dust of this game for me. But all in all its a great 
 fighting game a great addition to the series, i only give it an 8.9 because of the lack of options 
 available to single player, would of liked a little more in single player, than just arcades you 
 go to an fight. So there you have it, my opinion of this game, so take it or leave it, all in all 
 id give this a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Being a fighting fan, and with the lack of games in my Playstaion 3's library, I decided to pick 
 up Virtua Fighter 5. I was skeptical about it at the start, but I'm glad I picked it up. Though 
 not without flaws, any fighting game fan owes it to them selves to get this. Virtua Fighter 5 is 
 really just an outstanding game. The amount of combos for each character will take weeks if not 
 months to master. There are 17 fighters in total, each having a variety of combos. People like 
 Akira will take months to master, but people like Brad are easy to pick up and play. Virtua Fighter 
 5 is by no means a button masher. You'll OFTEN need to know what you're pressing.
  
  Although the lack of online is truly a disappointment, the quest mode and character customization 
 are pretty cool. The way you add items in this game on your character is actually really good, 
 unlike the one in Tekken 5. Also, who needs online if you go a family member or a couple of friends 
 at your place to play? Playing this with another human is awesome, and is enough reason to pick 
 up another Sixaxis.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 looks incredible. From the character models of the players, to the environments 
 they play in. I play it on standard TV and it looks great, I still haven't tried it on my HD, but 
 I'm pretty sure it'll look beyond amazing. The weather in the arenas look awesome also. For example, 
 the snow, its stuff like this that really impresses you. The only other real downside to the game 
 I can say is the lack of story. There isnt an ending for anyone after beating the arcade mode. 
 But oh well, youll get over it. Virtua Fighter 5 is an outstanding achievement. This is my FIRST 
 game into the series, so I can only imagine how fan's of the game will react. But, all in all, 
 VF5 is a great game. So, if you're a fighting fan, or just someone looking for a new game for their 
 Playstation 3, Virtua Fighter 5 fits the bill perfectly. It stands out as one of the best fighting 
 games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf249
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Unless you've been living under a rock the past few years, there's no doubt with each passing installment 
 the Virtua Fighter series has been regarded as one of the best fighting game franchises available, 
 with it's hard-hitting combos, spectacular visuals, and it's like able cast of fighters ultimately 
 formed some of the best fighting games in recent memory. With Sega's latest outing for Sony's next-generation 
 console Virtua Fighter 5 is a fantastic sequel, but a few elements hold it from becoming a spectacular 
 fighting game.
  
  As with any fighting game, the game modes are very simple including arcade mode, where you'll be 
 able to choose from seventeen playable characters. While finishing them doesn't offer any incentive, 
 it's a great mode to get adjusted to Virtua Fighter's unique gameplay. There is also a versus mode 
 where you'll be able to play against your own friends, while this adds replay value to the game, 
 and the dojo section where you can practice your fighting skills, and learn new moves to help yourself 
 progress through some of the more difficult battles in the game. While the game modes don't offer 
 a lot, and without the inclusion of online play is rather disheartening but if your a fan of the 
 series you'll simply enjoy Virtua Fighter 5's beefed up gameplay from top-to-bottom which has really 
 improved everything Virtua Fighter 4 offered. There's also other game modes such as VF. TV where 
 you can watch your PS3 duke it out, or watch some of the promotional content.
  
  The quest mode is largely unchanged from it's predecessor, although you'll probably spend most 
 of your time here, as you'll battle against artificial intelligence controlled fighters, you'll 
 notice they will all have their own user names, and comments but the fighting in the game doesn't 
 feel as if you're fighting against another human opponent. Some of the fighting is brought up a 
 notch, but even that makes it feel rather uninteresting. You'll also earn currency, engage in tournaments, 
 and given the option to customize your fighter. While the customization option has a few nice items 
 here and there, it's inevitably something that feels rather incomplete and not all too enticing.
 
  
  The gameplay for Virtua Fighter 5 is virtually unchanged as you'll be using the kick, punch, guard, 
 and grapple button to perform some combos. The SIXAXIS controller works fine, but if you're a huge 
 fighting fan you might want to import some type of joystick. Overall there's a few new combos which 
 are a joy to watch, and it's slick and fast fluid action really makes it Virtua Fighter 5's most 
 appealing feature.
  
  The game's like able cast returns with two new characters, and you'll be glad to see some of the 
 more familiar faces such as the games main character Akira, Lau, and Lion. The games two new characters 
 El Blaze is overall a solid addition to the series and is a Mexican wrestler, while Eileen is no 
 slouch either with her fighting style, which can be extremely effective. Virtua Fighter 5's older 
 players haven't changed much with the inclusion of a few new combos, and there's something for 
 everyone to choose from which is a plus, considering Virtua Fighter's characters are smaller compared 
 to some of it's counterparts like Tekken. Virtua Fighter 5 in case you haven't noticed is a gorgeously 
 fast-paced fighting game, that animates well and the character models are well done. You can definitely 
 see the difference between some of the smaller and more bigger characters. And if you have a high-definition 
 TV you'll certainly enjoy it as it outputs 720p. You'll notice some of your character's attire 
 waves smoothly in the air like Akira's headband which is a nice touch, and some of the games environment's 
 are extremely gorgeous for a fighting game. Some of the effects like the water movements when your 
 character moves in and around the area are spectacular, and some of the games scenery and backdrop 
 are extremely detailed and vibrant. It's safe to say, it's easily the best looking fighting game 
 available.
  
  As for the sound effects there hasn't been a lot of change, as you'll hear the same stuff you've 
 become accustomed too in the past such as the sound of pulling of a combo or pulling off a grapple 
 move, and all the characters speak their native language which adds a nice touch to the sound department, 
 but some of the cheesy lines said throughout the game is a bit disturbing, and comical. Overall 
 the music is something you'd expect from the series through it's electronic rock trance music.
 
  
  In the end Virtua Fighter 5 is a fantastic fighting game from top-to-bottom but with no inclusion 
 of online play really shatters it's replay value, and banks heavily on you having a buddy over 
 to play it to truly get the most out of Virtua Fighter 5. If you're a long-time fan of one of the 
 most regarded fighting game franchises you should approach Virtua Fighter 5 with the least amount 
 of caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This is everything you would expect the next-gen VF to offer minus one fallacy of not having any 
 online playability. If you can strike that from your mind the game plays out nicely. Virtua Fighter 
 keeps to its tradition of strategic gameplay and punishing button mashers. The quest mode is simply 
 to expand your wardrobe and give the player a feel for being at an arcade.
  This game is visually stunning, especially for a fighting game. This game truely brings out the 
 next-gen graphics we have been looking for.
  The sounds are like any fighting game, the bigger the sound of a hit, the larger its impact.
 
  All and all, this is a game worth having. Competing with your friends and working on your W-L 
 record will help you kill off many hours with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboyx5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Really. this game is by far one of the best out there.... i did not like the fact it got rated under 
 9.0.... this game is addictive, 2 new characters that have amazing moves.... and the levels are 
 amazing i really like the power of the PS3.... so far comparing DOA 4 vs. Virtual Fighter 5, there 
 is no doubt that Virtual Fighter 5 is by far the better more realistic game, and better looking, 
 it does not matter if the game has online, because if people can pick only on character and do 
 exactly the same move on and on just to be you is sad.... in virtual fighter the fighting styles 
 prohibit you from doing that ofcourse some one can go a head and do that, but u can counter attack. 
 and stop them. since i saw Virtual Fighter 2 for the first time, i loved it. I am a hardcore fan 
 because of its realism... the sound can be a little better, because it sounds them same like usual, 
 maybe change the characters phrases once in a while or just take that sound off when you hit some 
 one it sounds like an old Bruce lee movie pah poh punches don't have sounds!! but i guess the got 
 to make the game more dramatic.......
  great game overall !!!
  i give it a 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is the 5th game in the long-running Virtua Fighter series. It has 17 characters, 
 a wide range of levels, 2 player functionality, 2 different single player modes, and some deep 
 customization on all the characters. Though this game does have its flaws though. Beating Arcade 
 mode is the least rewarding thing in all of fightin game history. You play for about 40 minutes 
 trying to beat the overly hard characters. Then, after you beat the final stage, which is usually 
 just some other charcter, you get to go to a bonus stage and fight Dural, who is VERY HARD, their 
 are no continues on the bonus stage. Afetr you beat arcade mode, its goes directly to the credits, 
 their is no Congratulations on winning the fifth world fighting tournament . After the credits, 
 you charcter get 1,500G to spend on customizing him or her. 1,500G can buy about a glove or a necklace, 
 but thats it. I have not yet beaten quest mode, in which you go around to different arcades trying 
 to be the best VF player in the world. In quest, it is altmost the same as arcade mode, but with 
 alot more battle, item battles, ranking matchs, and National and local tournaments. The graphics 
 are a very high point for this title. You can see every detail, from the glittering water, to the 
 sweat rolling down the fighters face. But for such a difficult, repetive game, i think they should 
 asked $50, maybe even $40. All-in-all, VF5 is a wonderful advancement in the series, but its raging 
 difficulty, lack of online play, and boring arcade and mode make this game from being perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigga1142
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Leading Sony's relaunch of the PS3 comes the latest in it batch of stellar titles, Virtua Fighter 
 5. While the play mechanics for a virtua fighter game can't get any better than sega's latest offering 
 coupled by an uncanny amount of graphical detail, I couldn't help but to be somewhat dissappointed 
 by the complete lack of online playability. With this said, what good is having a ranking system 
 when you can't even get online in the game anyways? you can see how you rank against your friends?? 
 HUH??!! Also, with what began in VF 3, I thought sega would add motion blur back into the game 
 for which they didn't but it isn't missed either. Having the most characters of any previous VF 
 game, all the characters are extremely well balanced. the learning curve in VF certainly adds enough 
 depth for seasoned vets to polish their skills and amateur button mashers to easily adapt to. The 
 voice-overs leave much to be desired and sound as if they came from a b movie .. Buyer beware.. Should 
 you also own a 360 but need your VF fix now and don't care for online gameplay, this is the version 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunk32
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 is the next game in the much anticipated series that has been highly praised sense 
 its debut. It is the series first jump into Next-Gen and one quick look of the game will ensure 
 you of this. Obviously the graphics are some of the best to ever be seen on a gaming console. Graphics 
 aside, does this game old up to the highly acclaimed king of fighting genre? The short answer to 
 the question is, yes. The gameplay in Virtua Fighter 5 is similar to the sibling games. It takes 
 the If it aint broke dont fix it approach. With two new characters, and a robust fighting system, 
 you have enough to keep you busy for quite some time. The gameplays core is identical to its predecessors, 
 it has just been restored with more of the same. This would be a bad thing, but it is the gameplay 
 many know and love, so it stands on its own merits. If you enjoy fighting games or if you are a 
 fighting game virgin, Virtua Fighter 5 will have many options to appeal to you without you getting 
 overwhelmed by its complexity. The graphics in Virtua Fighter 5 are self explanatory. I need not 
 ramble on the breath taking beauty that they entail. Take a look at the screen shots and see for 
 yourself. They are simply remarkable. Sound in a fighting game has always consisted of cheesy dialog 
 with recycled combat sounds. Although Virtua Fighter has many examples of this, the commentary 
 is a welcomed change. The execution may have been poor, but you can not deny the leap that Sega 
 took which may come to be a standard in fighting games in the future. Other then that, the recognizable 
 fighting sounds along with the cheesy dialog are still prevalently here. The longevity of fighting 
 games has been prominently dominated on their multiplayer attributes. It is infamously known that 
 this game does not support any online matches or leader boards. Although this cripples a lot of 
 the value, the side by side play is arguably the most enjoyable experience. If you play alone, 
 the quest mode holds entertainment for quite some time, although after a while you will feel like 
 you are just playing another arcane mode. Do not expect a fighting game revolution from this. Instead, 
 expect more of the same with slight improvements of a highly regarded series. Virtua Fighter 5 
 lives up to its name and fans of the series will rejoice of Segas classic series make another 
 hard hitting success. Fans of other series will find this a highly enjoyable ride as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastic1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS
  This is where the game really gets good. The graphics are amazing. I even played it on a non HD 
 tv and it was still great. But on an HD tv its just revolutionary. You can see sweat, veins everything. 
 And the extra gear that you put on your charecter doesnt just awkwordly slap on like it might in 
 other game. But really most of the good graphics is in the cut scenes and backgrounds. The actually 
 fighting graphics arnt that great.
  
  STORY
  THe story wasnt really as good as it was original. Instead of the usual every player has his own 
 story you are actually playing a person that is going to arcades and playing people in virtua fighter. 
 You wont actually find yourself getting into the story but still you have to give some points for 
 originality.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Definantly amazing. Not like your regular console fighters this one seems really out of the arcade 
 perfect. And if you have the joystick thats even better. The combos are very smooth and interesting 
 and its fun using your environment in certain places. Definantly superior to most fighting games.
 
  
  AI
  This is where the game isnt that good. YOu see when the opponents get higher in rank, its not really 
 that they get more skilled and are more like your playing a real person. It seems like the more 
 you go up that they just throw more and block more. But there are lots of problems with AI in almost 
 every fighting game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  It geels just like it does when your at an arcade fighting random people at tekken. There arnt 
 really any cheap players which keeps out bloodbaths at parties and it plays out very smoothly and 
 not repetitivly. If only it had online then we could test our skills with people other than family 
 members.
  
  RENT BUY OR SKIP
  If you have a PS3 you should definantly buy this game. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacksbored
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  i just picked up virtua fighter 5 and all i can say it its amazing the grafixs are top notch sound 
 is good other than laughably bad voice overs i mean 80s kung fu movies have better voice overs 
 seriously. you have your standard modes arcade training but the real fun is in quest mode u go around 
 simulated arcades and fight simulated people which is full of great customizable things like clothing 
 sunglasses etc plus u can build in rank in quest mode its all very kool stuff i would have prefered 
 fighting online [which the game doesnt have] but quest is the next best thing my only complaint 
 is all u have is punch kick and block there are many moves that u have by using combinations of 
 these 3 buttons but it feels very old school its not like theres very many next gen fighters this 
 and DOA4 on 360 i dont count fight night thats a boxing game not fighting so i cant really be picky 
 but i still think i prefer DOA more considering it has online play but the more i play virtua fighter 
 5 the more its growing on me so i have to say i consider it almost as good but in a world of 2 
 next gen fighters u take what u can get and u enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBlackboi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Team Sega did a wonderful job of bringing and arcade game to the home consoles, from the backgrounds 
 to the wooden board on Akira's back this game is a MASTERPIECE. We got it on release and it has 
 took hostage of my PS3, the only let down was the absence of online play so my little brother gonna 
 catch it. The Quest mode is like going to the arcade and a boost in difficulty will supply more 
 than enough of a challenge. With a deep customazition field you can make a fighter all your own. 
 The frame rate holds up well for a 780p display and the sound goes well with the action. This is 
 a very well done game that really defines what the PS3 can do. Virtual Fighter 5 is priceless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawDowFX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  When theres a time to get excited for PlayStation 3 owners or fans of fighting games in general, 
 that time is just about now. Just recently Sega-AM2 has released one of their best arcade games 
 onto the Sony Playstation 3. Before I say anything else; the actual game, from its graphics, sound 
 to its gameplay are ported just perfect onto the console. But sadly, that is pretty much the only 
 good part out of the whole game.
  
  One of the things that people look forward in a video game is how much content and options a player 
 has in the game. Unfortunately, this game has next to nothing when it comes to content and options. 
 When you turn on your game for the first time, the first thing you will see in the main menu are; 
 Arcade, Dojo, Quest, VF. TV, Versus, Customization and Options.
  
  The Arcade mode for Virtua Fighter 5 is pretty much goes on with comparison to Tekken: Dark Resurrections 
 Quick Battle mode. This section gives the player some simple matches. The more matches you win, 
 the harder your next opponent becomes. An obvious change that Virtua Fighter 5 has that wasnt 
 in Virtua Fighter 4, was the box on the bottom left that told you how many combos you have preformed. 
 Sadly, something that is greatly missed in the game, are the side missions that you got in Virtua 
 Fighter 4. For instance; you will get a mission where you are suppose to defeat your opponent with 
 out blocking, defeat him in a certain time limit or so on. These side missions gave the player 
 more options, more enjoyment in playing the game.
  
  After you have defeated a certain amount of opponents you are suppose to fight, Dural, a naked 
 woman who is suppose to be the end boss of the game. If youre completely new to the series, you 
 wont have any luck on defeating her. Shes pretty much next to impossible to win, because she uses 
 various of attacks from other fighters. But what makes her more troublesome is her combinations 
 she throws at you. But, this isnt certainly a bad thing, its more of the lack of skill you have 
 if you let her attack you with such moves.
  
  Next we have the Quest Mode; this is the section where you will spend most of your time in. The 
 quest mode is where you will create a file with a certain character you pick from the Character 
 Selection scene. From there, you will use this character through out the whole game by taking him/her 
 to these Japanese Arcades that are laid out to you, through this simple map interface. Unlike Virtua 
 Fighter 4, Virtua Fighter 5 has all the Arcades unlocked from the start. So you can pretty much 
 select an Arcade, choose out of three people and fight that persons Ghost Data that was recorded 
 from this Japanese Arcade.
  
  Each match you win in the Quest Mode; you will ether win some Gold, or Items to customize your 
 character. But you will eventually find yourself playing the Quest Mode to solemnly rank up your 
 character as high as possible. As boring as it sounds, it is always satisfying to see your costume 
 clothed character with a high rank always getting into the ring.
  
  Next we have the Dojo mode, this is the section where it truly lost some major points to the game. 
 Besides the fact that the game only gives you two options, which are Command Training and Free 
 Training; unlike its predecessor that gave you four options to choose from. This game doesnt even 
 bother to explain to you on how to execute some of your characters defense moves, throws or even 
 on how to plainly brake through the enemys defense. To make matters even worse, Sega only added 
 the option to view some character moves on how you are suppose to execute them but the other moves, 
 you are just plainly have to figure it out for yourself.
  
  Besides the Quest Mode and Dojo Mode in Virtua Fighter 5, this game really doesnt have much to 
 offer when it comes to terms of content. Even with the story; If you dont bother to read the Games 
 Manual or go onto the internet and search for Virtua Fighter 5 storyline, then, you will never 
 see anything of it in the actual game. Even by today, Sega hasnt even realized that the fans have 
 been asking for a simple story line for many years, just so the player can get more in touch with 
 their character.
  
  Virtua Fighter 5 is a solid game, each character has their own large amount of moves and combos. 
 Each attack always requires the player to know how long a certain attack will take. Which is basically 
 known as frame count. Frame count is the term of how many frames does each move have. So, in 
 other words, if one attack has 10 frames, while another attack has 5 frames. That means the 5 frame 
 attack will be quicker. But, this confuses a lot of users, especially new comers to the game. You 
 don't really see the frames , you just see how fast they pull off the attack. The faster the move 
 is, that means there is less frames is in his/her attack. So, let's take this as for an example; 
 Jacky throws a forward punch. It's quick and usually you can press the punch button three times 
 and he'll do three forward punches quickly. While, with Lei-Fei, you press the punch button three 
 times; he'll take longer to execute his move. Because the way his body is positioned, it requires 
 him to use more frames. So, the player has to pretty much remember his opponents attacks, know 
 how long, how many frames, does each attack take so you can counter it by giving out an attack 
 that has fewer frames. There is so much you need to learn on how to play virtua fighter, that this 
 is one of those reasons the game got the reputation for being a very deep game to play. But, because 
 of this, it is still inexcusable for sega to not even add some sort of online connectivity for 
 the game, or even the option to download other players ghost data like in Tekken: Dark Resurrection, 
 for the Sony PSP. Luckily, fans of the game have found a way to share their replay files with other 
 users who have the same countrys region of the game; but the sad part about it, is that it is 
 quite difficult to transfer the files.
  
  Over all, the game looks beautiful, the graphics are the best of any other next generation fighter 
 out there. The backgrounds are spectacular to look at, sometimes you just want to stop fighting 
 and look at the scenery of each stage. The music is now much more enjoyable than Virtua Fighter 
 4: Evolution. But the fighters outcries and grunts have been recycled from VF4, which is kind of 
 awkward to hear Jacky Bryants deeper voice in VF5, but still screams with his vf4 squeaky voice 
 during the match.
  
  For those who arent fans of fighting games, give this game a rental, for those who are fans of 
 fighting games in general, buy it. Its a great game to be added into your collection, despite 
 the lack of Online and Content. The game in many ways can be admired from how much detail the developers 
 added into each character, stage, how you can customize each character, how their clothing reacts 
 to each stage.
  
  8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: born2befly
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I expected more from this game due to the previous reviews. But after a few sessions of button 
 mashing I am left feeling a little empty.
  
  PLEASE PS3 game developers, take your time! I kind of expected this for VF5 because of past versions 
 and it happens to be the first to be available.
  
  The items are nice, but perhaps a bit much considering what you make when you win a tourney, without 
 cheats it would take a long, really long time.
  
  I guess in general, I just expected too much from the new games for the PS3.
  
  I hope I am 
 proven wrong in the future, because these consoles are capable of much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drim_vells
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  I have to admit before I go on with this review that I am relatively new to the fighting game genre. 
 I have played a few fighting games but only once or twice. This fifth installment of Virtua Fighter 
 has me hooked. Out of all of the fighting games I have played, this is the best. The others just 
 bored me.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. I believe my first match was in the city and seeing the water droplets 
 fly off my character with every punch and kick was great. It seemed like every level has at least 
 one graphic detail that wow'd me. The animations flow smoothly from one move to another which impressed 
 me.
  
  The sound was a bit off with the voices of each character. If they had fixed that then sound would've 
 gotten a better grade.
  
  Value is great (considering I got the game for a little less than $25) . A couple of friends have 
 come over to play and we had a blast. Not to mention they had never played the PS3 (except for store 
 demo) so they were amazed and decided they were getting their own very soon. Of course this is 
 the best way to play (with friends) but playing solo isn't too bad. AI is a bit redundant. Also 
 they will either be easy or annoyingly hard. There seems to be no transition, or a least to me. 
 The final thing I want to address is the lack of online multiplayer. I believe this was a good 
 move on the part of Sega-AM2. Fighting games have had a history (at least to my knowledge) of being 
 really laggy when it comes to online mode. I'm glad Sega-AM2 realized this and avoided the issue 
 altogether. Overall this is a great game. Rent it if you aren't sure if you'll like it but I believe 
 this is one of the best fighters made to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxx9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  This is another game for your PS3 collection , a very good fightning game with great graphics .... 
 !
  
  The gameplay is very playable and just right , not to easy and not ot hard
  
  The graphics are really amazing , very colorful and great special effects , also very sharp ...
 
  
  The sound is also great with very good voices and background sounds but sometimes a little boring 
 ...
  
  You can play this game very much without getting bored ... and thats so great about it What can 
 i say more , just buy this game if you want to play very much and if you like fight-games with 
 good graphics ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashmodai69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  I was very excited to get a new game for my PS3, i havent really played it much lately. This is 
 a must have for any fighting game fan. The graphics are very sharp, the character models are beautiful 
 and the level design is just as good. The sound is pretty good, seems kinda muffled sometimes but 
 it is just a fighting game. As for the value of the game, the lack of online doesnt really bother 
 me, i would rather see the look on my friends face when i pwn him., but it seems kinda silly nowadays 
 not to have online available in most every game. In summary this is a VERY solid tilte and a great 
 addition to any PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olimcool
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because there arent many good games for the ps3 and i was hoping so badly that 
 i could enjoy it and write a good review, but i cant. Honestly, this game is not worth 60 bucks. 
 The beginning is slow and takes some button mashing. Personally I just think this game is boring, 
 there is nothing new or special about it. If you do think you will like it, I strongly suggest 
 that you rent it first because i sure wish i did. I don't know if I am over looking something or 
 if people are just wanting the ps3 to have a great game so badly that their minds are causing them 
 to think this game is better than it is. As for a fun factor i would not give this game any higher 
 than a 1/5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafuyu1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Figter 5, is a truly in depthy fighting game, with stunning graphics, and great model textures. 
 Thje only negative side of the game, is that the character models a bit shiny, which make the game 
 more cartoony, than realistic. But overall, the game's graphics, are the best, so far, for the ps3. 
 The next majior factor of the game's presentain, are the meenus. This game's menu are amazing, 
 and make you want to play the game. And to also add. This game's fighting engine is the best fighting 
 engine in any fighting game, and if you are the type of person, that are a custom of button mashing 
 in games, I stronly advise that you don't play this game. Because you'll get easily defeated in 
 a match. but if you're a person that wants to master moves, and be the type of person that when 
 you go to your friend's house, and do a nearly impossoble move, and brag about it, this game IS 
 FOR YOU! The game modes aren't the best in the world. Arcade mode, is your typical mode where you 
 climb up the ladder of coompetitors, until you have to defeat the boss, Dural. Dojo (training mode) 
 allows you to practice your moves. But it would have been nice if you could see how toperform moves. 
 VF TV is where you can store matches thsat the computers fight, and watch as much as it is. And 
 versus is where you fight a buddy, and fight them. But the main mode, is Quest mode, where you 
 go to different arcades, where are actual locations in Japan, and where you fight different competeors, 
 to be the king of the arcade. An d the customization, is where you can change your caharacter with 
 different clothes and asscerrioes, and way that you want (Which you get playing quest mode) . But 
 the thing everybody is upset about is the unavaiblity of online play. Even thopugh many, better 
 yet, most people are upset about it, it really doesn't matter, knowing that thwe game is is absolutely 
 spectacular. in conclusiopn, if you want a game where you can have an even chance against an oppodent 
 because of eweapons, or button mashing, Virtua Fighter 5 isn't for you. But if you want an in-depth 
 game of timing, knowing and mastering moves, Virtua Fighter 5 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  wow i havent had i fighting game that i didnt take out of the disc drive after 30mintues until 
 i played this at a friends house he said lets play this and i said i really dont like fighting 
 games lets play resistance: fall of man he said nah i said fine ok so i watched him play it then 
 i noticed the graphics looked amazing and that i kind of wanted to play it so he gave me a go and 
 i said wow this is really fun and i have never played a more addictive fighting game ever before 
 as much as this one. the graphics are really good and the controls fit the game perfect and the 
 punching and brawling of fighting sounds very good and its pretty fun and not to easy and not to 
 hard we spent about 4 hours playing until i had to go home and why am i typing this iam freaking 
 gonna go play right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdjohnst
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like any other fighting game, but is a little broke in some areas. The graphics 
 are pretty good, in fact above average, but the game just doesn't seem next gen. It is alright 
 for a while, but then you start to notice some of the game's flaws, such as repetitive gameplay 
 and the computer's AI is not the best. It is not that hard to play, but once in a while the computer 
 gets a real cheap shot, which can really frustrate you. Overall, if you like boring, repetitive 
 fighting games by all means get it. But if you also have a 360, just stick with Dead or Alive 4. 
 Same difference! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I was not expecting to see a loading screen from the start-up for a good 5 minutes.... but I guess 
 thats the price I pay for expensive games. This is a great looking game and resembles Virtua Fighter 
 Evolution.... with the sounds and motions... I was expecting something a little more umph if you 
 will. I was hoping for a couple downloadable something, or on-line options.... OR AT LEAST ONLINE 
 chat? I was hoping for a run on XBOX LIVE by this time... but no go. If you are buying this game 
 and have a PS3.... looking for multi-player online/online scoreboards.... you will be disapointed. 
 NOW about the game..... Visuals are great.... Sounds are what you would expect from a Virtua Fighter 
 game. Frame-rate never falls.... replay value for a $60 game is hard to say... pending on how many 
 people come over to play it. If the XBox 360 version can boost this game for a few on-line opions, 
 this will be the premier fighting game on the 360. The lack of rumble-feedback that I was used 
 to on the PS2 in Virtua Fighter is missed dearly. I have not nocticed or read if the motion movement 
 of the controller is used at all. If you have someone that plays fighting games around you and 
 will get more multi-player replay... this is one of the main reasons to own it. Other than that, 
 I feel it is kind of flat and NON-NEXTGENERATION due to non-online anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashim91
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. This is my first VF game.
  Gameplay: 10/10Deepest fighting game I've ever played. It is difficult and takes a long time to 
 master which is why I love it. Being a VF noob, this game have me going online to search for moves 
 and combos which I'm enjoying every second trying them out. As this game is heavily frame-based, 
 any lag will spoil the gameplay.
  SEGA AM2 actually tried putting in online but they took it out because it wouldn't work. Funny 
 how gamespot mention how online will break the gameplay, yet minus points for not having online. 
 If SEGA released the game with broken online gameplay, gamepot will still minus points for that.
 
  Graphics: 10/10VF5 has the best graphics for any 3D fighters right now. Not only the fighters 
 are in high detail, but so are its backgrounds. One of the best part of the graphics are how the 
 muddy water animations react with player movements, complete with reflections. The lighting in 
 the game is also stunning. VF5 graphics will appeal to anyone.
  Gamespot mentioned that this game, the US ver, is in 720p. I have the Japanese/Asia ver which has 
 full English and Japanese, supports all resolutions including 1080i/p. This has been confirmed 
 by the US SEGA producer that the game can output 
  Sound: 8/10Music and sound in this game are not spectacular. The English commentary is bad. I switched 
 the game to Japanese and it sounds so much better. This can be done by setting your system to Japanese. 
 I felt that they could have worked on sound more.
  Value: 10/10I'm going to spend more time on this game even more than RPGs as it will take months 
 to fully master a character. Mastering all characters are gonna take years.
  Bottom line is Virtua Fighter 5 is the most in depth and beautiful 3D fighting game available. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow Wow Wow... That's all I have to say about this Virtua Fighter 5 game it's simply just amazing 
 how great this game looks and how tight the controls are it's just incredible. I was really looking 
 forward for a good fighting game since I already invested my money on the PS3 Arcade stick. The 
 main reason why I got it was for VF5 and Tekken 6 which might be out later this year. But I just 
 really happy that this game is finally out. I think a lot of PS3 owners will get a lot out of this 
 game. This game comes with 3 different modes which are Arcade mode, Vs Mode, and Quest mode. You 
 also can customize your fighters in quest mode when you start joining local tournaments which are 
 held there to level up and customize your character which is pretty cool. The tournaments are pretty 
 long and deep. But the one disappointment that me and probably 90% of the gamers looking for to 
 the game is that there's no online mode. This would of been a really cool feature. I just hope 
 that for future installments they do include this feature. If your a fan of figthing games and 
 are looking for your next fighting game fix than look no further Virtua Fighter 5 will do the job. 
 This is a must buy for any PS3 owner or fighting game fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelercub
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I used to manage an arcade in the early 90's and so the Virtua Fighter series has always been near 
 and dear to my heart. But because Sega hasn't really upgraded the overall game mechanics in 14 
 years, I can't give it anything above a 6.0 in good conscious. Back in the day when 2D fighters 
 ruled, Virtua Fighter surprised all of us by adding an element to fighting that we never anticipated. 
 It was the first truly 3D games to hit arcades that wasn't just a digitized 2D image. My friends 
 and I played for hours on end, stayed after hours kicking each other's butts, and were shocked 
 at the realism of it's motion capture combat moves and throws. Since then, the game has been re-released 
 several times and is finally gracing us with version 5 which totes incredibly beautiful backgrounds, 
 enhanced character graphics, additional playable characters, and more special moves then ever. 
 Unfortunately the updates are only skin deep because the real meat of VF5 hasn't really changed 
 since the first version of the game hit arcades in 1993. Don't believe me? Take a look at the classic 
 character moves. The skins over the characters may look a thousand times better, but with the exception 
 of some of the jaggies being cleaned up, the actual motion capture animation is nearly identical 
 to the original game for many of the classic moves. Some people love this about the game for nostalgic 
 reasons, but I'm the type of person who prefers realism in character movement. I want to feel the 
 impact of the punches and throws. Sega did do some good animations for a few of the new characters, 
 but unfortunately it appears that they used alot of animators over a healthy combination of animation 
 and motion capture. As a result the characters move unrealistically too fast and look like a college 
 student's animation project. Almost like they are lifeless puppets. Even the juggles in the game 
 need to be upgraded with more weight because they currently fall to the ground like an empty plastic 
 bag.
  
  Which brings me to the issue of sound... The sound effects are also lifeless unfortunately. And 
 they could use a huge upgrade. Even the voice acting feels not only forced, but we can hardly hear 
 what they're saying most of the time. But the most important thing is that when characters get 
 hit, they sound like either a fly swatter or a paper bag popping. I hope in the next version they 
 resample their sound effects.
  
  The controls of Virtua Fighter have always been a major problem with the series. Punch, Kick, Block 
 is a system that is long overdue for a make over. If VF could revamp to a 4 button system such 
 as the one found in the Tekken series, I think the character moves would be alot more enjoyable 
 to use as well as being easier to remember. Left Punch, Right Punch, Left Kick, Right Kick, and 
 of course, hold backward to Block - how much simpler can you get. The best part about it is that 
 the characters movments actually map to which button/limb you're pressing along with which direction 
 your press on the joystick which essentially controls your character's body weight distribution. 
 Unfortunately, until they look at this major design flaw, the game will always have problems.
 
  
  All that said, the backgrounds of the game are amazing and never looked better. Additionally, the 
 clothing on the characters looks great also. But as I mentioned earlier this isn't enough to make 
 up for the poor control system, horrible sound effects, and terrible motion capture. Plus, where's 
 the online play? It's 2007 for heck sake!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best in the series. The game offers alot of different modes like Quest mode, 
 VS, Tourny, Training, and others. You get to pick a character as your main fighter and you have 
 to build his or hers ranking. The rankings are saved along with your record. You can customize 
 each fighter with lots of extras that you need to unlock or purchase with money made from each 
 fight. Quest mode is great because there are lots of tournaments to play in and you can improve 
 your skills by going to different arcades. Each arcade offers different level opponents and you 
 do this while waiting for the next tournament to open up.
  
  Graphics
  Top notch graphics really make this game one of the prettiest games out there. The fighters appear 
 lifelike and the backrounds are stunning.
  
  Sound
  The music isnt the best but the sound effects in the game are great. Throw in the Dolby Digital 
 and you will be rockin some serious sound effects.
  
  Value
  With so many modes and all the unlockables, this game will keep you playing for some time.
  
 
  Overall
  I give this game a score of 9/10. I would have liked to see some 1080p action from the game but 
 the game looks outstanding in 720p none the less. The controls are very smooth and everything seems 
 to work just right. This is a must for any fighting fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  great game tons of fun worth every penny you pay you know what i mean great gameplay you know what 
 i mean kind of hard you know what i mean but what ever its a long game you know what i mean you 
 know what i mean its not all that hard to learn how to catch on how to play this game its worth 
 playing get the game if you just got a ps3 your most likely your going to like it if you like the 
 series you know what i mean its a must have game in the series you know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. This is my first VF game.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Deepest fighting game I've ever played. It is difficult and takes a long time 
 to master which is why I love it. Being a VF noob, this game have me going online to search for 
 moves and combos which I'm enjoying every second trying them out. As this game is heavily frame-based, 
 any lag will spoil the gameplay.
  
  SEGA AM2 actually tried putting in online but they took it out because it wouldn't work. Funny 
 how gamespot mention how online will break the gameplay, yet minus points for not having online. 
 If SEGA released the game with broken online gameplay, gamepot will still minus points for that.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  VF5 has the best graphics for any 3D fighters right now. Not only the fighters are in high detail, 
 but so are its backgrounds. One of the best part of the graphics are how the muddy water animations 
 react with player movements, complete with reflections. The lighting in the game is also stunning. 
 VF5 graphics will appeal to anyone.
  
  Gamespot mentioned that this game, the US ver, is in 720p. I have the Japanese/Asia ver which has 
 full English and Japanese, supports all resolutions including 1080i/p. This has been confirmed 
 by the US SEGA producer that the game can output 1080i/p.
  http://www. sega. com/gamesite/vf5/
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Music and sound in this game are not spectacular. 
 The English commentary is bad. I switched the game to Japanese and it sounds so much better. This 
 can be done by setting your system to Japanese. I felt that they could have worked on sound more.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  I'm going to spend more time on this game even more than RPGs as it will take months to fully master 
 a character. Mastering all characters are gonna take years.
  
  Bottom line is Virtua Fighter 5 is the most in depth and beautiful 3D fighting game available. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdripper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter 5 comes home on the PS3 looking pretty much pixel-perfect to it's arcade counterpart. 
 With the patented fighting system that has been play-tested for over a year in Japan and several 
 home-only single player incentives, VF5 looks to give fighting enthusiasts a thorough beating on 
 their shiny black consoles. What can be said about VF5's looks? On a regular TV, VF5 will impress 
 you. But check this out on a good HD-TV, and you'll be scrambling to grab your jaw off the floor. 
 Character models simply astound with some of the most life-like detail yet, rivalling that of characters 
 in CG movies. In comparison, DOA4's fighters look cartoony and simple. The VF5 fighters also animate 
 perfectly, with beautiful martial arts moves and pained reactions to hits that look so real, you'll 
 wince yourself despite the Sixaxis' lack of force feedback.
  
  The backgrounds are varied and detailed as well, showing off wonderful effects like reflective 
 floors and water rippllng (though it would have been perfect to see reflections in the water as 
 well) . In motion, handled by competent players, a VF5 match rivals the fight choreography of real 
 martial arts films. As always, the VF5 system is simple to get into, but challenging to master. 
 A compliment to the latest game is the way it makes the fighting a lot more playable and accessible 
 for newcomers than previous installments. The pace of combat is faster and rewards offensive players, 
 but still remains amazingly intuitive, letting even novices with marginal knowledge have a chance. 
 Still, this game is about knowing your moves, that of your enemy, and thinking from second to second. 
 Training and practice is rewarded not only with improved play but cool items aplenty to customize 
 your character.
  
  The modes, unfortunately, are a bit on the bare side, with the main Arcade and Quest Mode being 
 probably the mode of choice for single play. The Dojo Mode is adequate for training newbies, but 
 could have done better with more detailed options. The VF TV mode, which is little more than a 
 glorified Replay or Watch Mode, has limited appeal. Customize will surely interest those wanting 
 to give their favorite characters a personal touch, and VF5's customization feature is probably 
 the best yet in a fighting game (and surely will be copied or emulated by fighting games that follow) . 
 VF5's array of tunes fit each of the stages and characters they represent perfectly, though I'm 
 pretty sure there will be as many players who like the music as those who don't. At least all the 
 tunes do well to accompany the fighting action onscreen without being obtrusive. The character 
 voices are usually well-acted, but have the occasional cheezy delivery (usually in english) which 
 is actually endearing if not just hilarious. The hard-hitting sound effects for major hits and 
 blows are characteristic of the VF series, and do well to make you feel better or worse depending 
 on who's on the losing end of the blows.
  
  The most painful sounds though in the game are the bored, inadequate tones of the english commentary 
 voiceovers, who are best left turned off- I wish there was a way to just have the Japanese commentators 
 for my game instead without turning everything Japanese. On just arcade-perfect looks and great 
 animation alone, VF5 should be on top of any fighting game fan's Must Have list. The gameplay is 
 challenging, fun and addictive, rewarding repeated play with improved performance and unlockable 
 items aplenty to customize your favorite fighters. If there are any gripes though, it's with the 
 game's lack of any online functionality. While Sega's adamant stance on online play not being possible 
 is understandable, it is quite glaring for the game to lack any way of updating character items 
 and customizations, to post rankings and fight data or to show off match videos online. By itself, 
 VF5 is a pure fighter, near perfect in looks and gameplay. Having a little bit more could have 
 made it perfect, period. Despite the few but glaring nitpicks, it still remains that Virtua Fighter 
 5 is a fighting gamer's reason to get a PS3- one of the best, if not the best, home fighting games 
 you can get. This game is a work of art, though you will have to pay a hefty price to enjoy it 
 to the fullest. If you can afford it though, this is the Roll's Royce of fighting games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
