-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wanted: Weapons of Fate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/wanted/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bending bullets around corners is cool.
 Slow-motion sequences look great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Enemies are predictable and lack variety.
 Inconsistent frame rate.
 Cutscenes look awful.
 Playing as unlockable bosses adds nothing to the game.
 Takes less than six hours to beat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 25, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: GRIN
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This movie-inspired shooter is fun for a while, but the action becomes repetitive long before you 
 reach the end of the six-hour story. 

  Set shortly after the events of last year's  Wanted  movie, Weapons of Fate is a stylish third-person 
 shooter in which you play predominantly as movie protagonist Wesley Gibson. Armed with skills inherited 
 from your also-playable super-assassin father, you spend much of the game gunning down goons while 
 effortlessly moving between positions of cover, bending bullets around corners, and slowing down 
 time so dramatically that you can shoot enemies' bullets out of the air. This is as fun as it sounds, 
 but the action becomes repetitive after a couple of hours, and after five or six you'll have avenged 
 your mother's murder, beaten the game, and have little reason to ever pick it up again.        

  Suppressing and subsequently flanking enemies is another key to success, particularly in the levels 
 prior to when you learn how to bend bullets. When you fire blindly from behind an object in the 
 direction of an enemy, you invariably force that enemy to take cover, which affords you an opportunity 
 (clearly indicated by an unnecessary glow around the edge of your screen) to move to a different 
 position unseen. It's satisfying to outmaneuver enemies in this way, especially when you can clearly 
 see them still firing on your previous position, but it also feels a little too easy and mechanical 
 at times, given that almost every enemy will fall for the exact same trick.  

  That's because many of the enemies in Weapons of Fate exhibit similar and ultimately very predictable 
 behavior. Enemies who look the same also behave the same, so you quickly learn which guys are going 
 to pop in and out of cover, which have the ability to dodge bullets  Matrix -style, and which are 
 crazy enough to charge at you and initiate a button-mashing melee minigame. Enemies also habitually 
 hide out close to exploding barrels or, when aboard a doomed passenger plane in one of the more 
 memorable levels, explosive fire extinguishers. Occasionally you'll encounter snipers whose laser 
 sights you have to avoid while moving in close enough to kill them, and there are a handful of 
 undemanding bosses to take down, but though the scenery changes, the action, sadly, does not.  
 

           Even cover that doesn't look up to the task will keep you safe from enemy attacks.    
   

  What variety there is comes courtesy of turret, sniper, and slow-motion sequences, but there aren't 
 many and they're not always a lot of fun. The problem with turret and sniper sequences is that, 
 by default, you spend all of your time in cover and can't see much of what's going on around you. 
 Consequently, when you pop up to take your shots, you're not entirely sure what's waiting at the 
 dangerous end of your crosshair. Oddly, though you're required to clear an area of enemies in these 
 sequences, there's never any real sense of urgency, so you can regenerate health by ducking back 
 into cover as often as you like. Slow-motion sequences look impressive; they're over-the-top enough 
 that playing them at regular speed would be impossible. Typically, when the action slows down to 
 a crawl, you have to shoot down bullets that are headed your way as well as take down the enemies 
 who fired them. The problem is that, looking past the flashy visuals, all you're doing is moving 
 a crosshair around the screen to target a number of barely moving objects before a timer runs out. 
 Any challenge in these sequences comes not from needing fast reflexes but from struggling to locate 
 enemies in the often dimly lit locales.  

  Even the most satisfying kills in Weapons of Fate -- bending bullets and being treated to slow-motion 
 close-ups of them spiraling through the air -- are rarely challenging. Killing just one enemy the 
 old-fashioned way earns you enough adrenaline (which is also the resource for slowing time) to 
 use the bullet-bending skill, and at that point you can even lock on to enemies who are completely 
 hidden. Then, while locked on, you simply use the analog stick to find a curved trajectory that 
 will reach your intended target without hitting anything else en route. This can be tricky if your 
 enemy is moving around a lot, but the enemies you use this skill to eliminate tend to be those 
 who stubbornly stay in cover.  

  Additionally, you might need to use bullet curving if, for some reason, your aiming reticle disappears 
 completely -- a bug that we experienced toward the end of the game, but which was corrected after 
 we resorted to using a bullet-bending shot to kill an enemy directly in front of us. You won't 
 necessarily encounter that same bug or any other when you play through the game, but technically 
 Weapons of Fate is a bit of a mess regardless. Visuals are uniformly rough around the edges (more 
 so on the Xbox 360 than on the PS3) , dead bodies occasionally writhe around on the ground, the 
 frame rate is inconsistent, and the load times are just long and frequent enough to be irritating. 
 Cutscenes recorded in-engine look noticeably worse than actual gameplay because they're compressed 
 to the point that, at times, they look like mosaics. Those same cutscenes also detract from the 
 unlockable option to play through the game as bosses that you've defeated; regardless of who you 
 play as, you always appear as Wesley in the cutscenes. This is sadly fitting, though, because regardless 
 of who you play as, you always use the exact same moves and weapons as Wesley -- a missed opportunity 
 for sure.  

           Melee kills are far more brutal than you might expect given how effortless it is to perform 
 them.      

  Playable bosses don't add much to the replay value, but if you're a completionist, you might at 
 least have some fun tracking down unlockable pieces of concept art and comic-book covers that are 
 hidden around every level. Finding one triggers a sound effect that all but mutes the more useful 
 sound effects in the world (a nearby explosion, for example) and, unfortunately, that's indicative 
 of how lackluster the sound design is throughout. Wesley singing softly to himself during a sniper 
 sequence muffles the otherwise loud noise of gunfire, the voice acting is unremarkable, and the 
 soundtrack is heavy-handed in the way that it rises and falls to let you know when the action is 
 about to heat up or has come to an end. There's no chance of you feeling any suspense as you progress 
 through an area after a gunfight, unsure of whether or not you got everyone, because the second 
 you kill the last enemy, the music dramatically changes.  

  Wanted: Weapons of Fate isn't just a short game; it's an easy one. Checkpoints are scattered liberally 
 throughout each of the linear levels, but given the prevalence of cover and the predictability 
 of enemies, you'll rarely need to use them. Even the unlikely event of running out of ammo doesn't 
 pose a big problem because, if you can get close enough to an enemy to melee him, just a single 
 button press is enough to kill. There's undoubtedly some fun to be had in Wanted: Weapons of Fate, 
 but there are so many superior shooters giving you more bang for your buck out there that it's 
 tough to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ryland04
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Wanted: Weapons of Fate... where do i begin...
  
  Well this game had a lot of potential but sadly it fails to astound. One of the major issues that's 
 wrong with this game is the gameplay, it is short, repetitive and graphics at some points can be 
 just horrible, but there is two parts of this game that I actually enjoyed, 1. The Slow-Mo Playable 
 Cut Scenes but there was only about 3 of them in the whole game and 2. Curving Bullets which was 
 the only reason i didnt put my controller down. Curving Bullets was probably the best this game 
 had to offer, but once you get bored of curving bullets, you might as well throw your game in the 
 bin because you will have no other use for it.
  
  But there are still some people out there that actually like the game so if you have read all this 
 and still think you need to play it make sure you, RENT IT OR play the demo over and over again 
 because that's pretty much all Wanted has to offer. Sadly i didnt do any of these and I am paying 
 the consequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Having played both demos (360 and PS3) I was expecting quite a bit more from this game. I've ultimately 
 decided to go with the PS3 version of the final game.
  
  The PS3 version looks and works fine - it's at least as good as the 360 version, if not better 
 in some regards, which is rare among multi-platform releases.
  
  Technically the game seems pretty polished: the graphics are good, and I found no significant glitches. 
 Occasionally there are some problems with disappearing sounds (for example when you melee an enemy 
 - sometimes there are no sounds corresponding to your actions) , but overall the sound is also pretty 
 good.
  
  I was surprised to find that all the cut scenes are pre-rendered, even though they seem to have 
 been made within the game engine. That sucks. What sucks even more is that in-game engine seems 
 to be doing a much better job at rendering fluid animation than the pre-rendered video does, and 
 overall quality of the video is pretty mediocre. But then again, it seems that the video cut scenes 
 are actually loading screens, which might explain why they've decided to use the pre-rendered segments 
 instead of in-engine ones.
  
  The game itself is fun, but it's ridiculously short: it took me about 3 hours to beat the game 
 on the hardest difficulty! Besides, when a game has a trophy for completing it in under 1 hour 
 and 12 minuites - there's definitely something wrong with it. Add lack of variety to the gameplay 
 to that - and you have the shortest game in history with nearly zero replayability. You're forced 
 to replay the game in order to get certain trophies - like melee-only, of headshot-only, or time 
 attack modes. Some trophies just don't make sense - like the ones where you have to take down one 
 boss with different unlockable characters: the only thing that changes is the appearance of your 
 character, nothing else.
  
  That's not to say that the game is not fun - it is, but only for a very short period of time, which 
 certainly does not justify spending $60 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard the reviews and saw the game I knew it would not be that great, I saw it at 
 my local video rental store and decided "what the hell, I'll give it a try."
  I get home, put it in and begin to play. The main point of this game is pure action, things like 
 slow motion dives, curving bullets and blasting away hordes of enemies is easy to do with just 
 a few buttons. While there is a lot of action going on there is also the implemented cover system, 
 if you use this right you may survive, especially against bosses, use it wrong or not using it 
 at all can result in death.
  The story expands on that of the movie Wanted released last year, after you taken down a double 
 crossing organisation known as the fraternity and killed Morgan Freeman you precede to getting 
 attacked by the French branch of the fraternity, this leads to uncovering why your mother died, 
 why your father was considered a traitor and why you are being hunted. For an action game the story 
 seems pretty good, the game should take 5 hours making it rental friendly.
  There are a few extra's, if you finish the game you can go back through as some of the characters 
 you unlocked, this does not change the game at all and can sort of make the game feel odd at times 
 but if you want to play as someone else then this will feel just right for you.
  In all I give the game a 7.5, great for a rental but only buy if you are a die hard fan of the 
 wanted movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMRgamer3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Being based from the movie it was surprisingly good, and was fun to play. The graphics look awesome 
 and there was good detail. Has a great cover system, the fact you can jump from cover to cover 
 is cool, I enjoyed curving bullets, especially when using the two sub machine guns. Has good gameplay, 
 the controls were good, but what didn't like that shoot was R2 instead of R1, and aiming was L2 
 instead of L1. It didn't feel right using those buttons. That was the only thing I didn't like.
 
  
  Liked the story, gets humorous at times, never got boring. Sometimes playing it gets repetitive 
 at times. Playing the assassin difficulty was quite easy at times, the only thing that got me some 
 of the time was when the bad guy with the knives runs at you, you have to use the L analog stick, 
 the direction it shows on the screen while pressing circle. The bosses on the game are super easy 
 and repetitive, first you shoot a bunch of bad guys to fill up your adrenaline meter, and then 
 use your abilities to kill the bosses. Overall this was a good game, could have been better, but 
 is still a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  Games based on a popular comic book series and film, tend to have unique concepts that either feel 
 misplaced, and put in entirely the wrong game (Batman Begins: The Game) , or some do try, but techincal 
 difficulty hampers their full potential (Force Unleashed) . Whilst Wanted: Weapons of Fate doesn't 
 change these facts entirely, Weapons of Fate does do a surprisingly solid job at genuinely putting 
 the player in the feel of the film, with the player actually controlling the over-the-top action 
 from the film, but Weapons of Fate is a bit too expected in the gameplay department at times for 
 it's own good, but it's generally short, and surprsingly satisfying.
  
  Wanted: Weapons of Fate picks up about 5 hours after the events of the Wanted film. One of the 
 film's main porotagnists, Wesley Gibson is still undergoing his training to become a fully-fledged 
 assasin and leader of a secret assasin group. Wesley Gibson then gets opted a new quest. He has 
 to seek out the French chapter of the Fraternity, hunt down the Immortal, and discover the dark 
 past behind his family. 
  
  Wanted: Weapons of Fate's story is seemingly in the same leaque of the film, it overcomes substance 
 with melodramtic action sequences, and silly, yet loveable characters to make the game's ridiclous 
 antics easy enough to just shrug and go along with the B-movie action plot. Wanted Weapons of Fate 
 is a standard action-movie, and, funnily enough, a standard action-game plot at heart, delievered 
 with solid if not, cinema-cheese style production values to make the silliness at least admirable. 
 And when you consider the predictable and hokey script here, in this case, I was thankful for Weapon 
 of Fate's lack of narrative innovation.
  
  The gameplay of Weapons of Fate is where the game both innovates and bores, both to great extents. 
 The gameplay of Weapons of Fate requires the player to play as Wesley Gibson in the midst of the 
 on-screen chaos comparable to the film. Weapons of Fate has an adereline meter, and the adereline 
 meter records how many enemies you take out. You gain each point py accurately pulling of a gun 
 kill, or a knife kill. When the meter is full, the player will be allowed the moves to dodge directing 
 bullets from your foes, by adujusting your general line of fire.
  
  Weapons of Fate also contains a bullet-time mode comprable to classic action games such as Max 
 Payne, which is operarated when the player is hidden under cover.
  
  Wanted: Weapons of Fate contains many moments where it feels like the benchmark of action games. 
 The sadly brief segments of dodging bullets in motion is when Wanted boldly shows how licsensed 
 action games are meant to be. The clever camera pereceptions, coupled with the tight controls and 
 snazzy ways to execute your fire, Weapons of Fate has those moments where it really reaches it's 
 all time high. But however, the bullet time segements is where Wanted feels like a standard action 
 game. Weapons of Fate adds tired, dated action gameplay that merely feels like a gameplay extension. 
 Fortunately enough, Weapons of Fate gives us more of the innovation, but when the inspired bullet 
 time segemts come in, Wanted turns from a great, unique game, to still a great, unique game with 
 a slightly uneven gameplay mechanic.
  
  Oddly enough and sadly enough, for a game with such expansive ideas, and creative ways to play, 
 Wanted lacks very little else after when you've beat the main core of the game. Wanted lacks any 
 bonus addition after the short-lived nine levels that the campaign has to offer. Perhaps, a head-to-head 
 multiplayer with unlocked characters from the film would've been nice, or maybe, even a leaderboard 
 on who had the best bullet time. Weapons of Fate, for generally a cool game at heart, hinders at 
 that point for the game merely feeling rushed, but, whilst short-lived, at least the core game 
 here is fun, and that's more than a game would need.
  
  Wanted: Weapons of Fate does suffer from a lack of options or variety, linear level design and 
 some (to be frank) cheap AI, but, Wanted at one level challenges the perception on how action games 
 play. With the unique bullet dodging moments smoothly sliding with the game's general progession, 
 Weapons of Fate does show a thing or two about how modern action games can find their relevance 
 in gaming. The flaws do hamper Wanted down quite a bit, but the potential is here, and a solid 
 starting point for a Wanted action game franchise that could quite possibly give the tired action 
 game genre it's well-needed wake-up call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Story: Wanted: Weapons of Fate places you in control of the deadly assassins Wesley and Cross, 
 as you uncover a tangled tale of betrayal, murder, and revenge. It's story follows the events of 
 the film, and continues to depict Wesley's transformation from ordinary shmoe to relentless killer. 
 
  
  Wesley is greeted each night by the same dream, depicting his mothers assassination while she's 
 holding him in her arms. And it always ends the same way. from the perspective of the killer. Early 
 on, Wesley's house is invaded by a group of SWAT like officers, and Wesley sees one of them defacing 
 a picture of his mother, finding behind it in the frame an assassins kill order with her name on 
 it. He then is told by an ex-assassin that worked with his father that his mothers killer was none 
 other then an assassin known only as The Immortal, thus sparking Wesley's travels to France to 
 destroy the French sect of the Fraternity and exact his revenge. Throughout the game, you also 
 get to take control of Cross, Wesley's father, in flashback type missions that flesh out further 
 details of the story. Along the way, your taken to many unique locations such as an airplane (mid 
 flight!) , an assassins tomb deep in the heart of French town, and a mountain top. The ending had 
 quite an excellent twist, and a satisfying outcome. 
  
  Another notably awesome aspect to the story is the dialogue. I thought it was outrageous, but in 
 a good way. Explicit, over done, but always either hilarious, or at the least, entertaining. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The game at its core is a standard over the shoulder shooter, coupled with some unique 
 elements like Bullet Curving, Shrapnel Explosion, and Quick Movement (essentially bullet time) actions 
 when you move between cover. These abilities really spice up the gameplay, and for me kept it from 
 becoming stale. I never got tired of curving a round behind cover and hitting 3 goons simultaneously. 
 A very well implemented cover system is also present, allowing you to slide between cover pieces, 
 advance on targets while behind the protection of movable cover, and even suppressing fire for 
 enemies you just can't seem to get a shot on. You also have the ability to get in close to your 
 opponent and perform a brutal knife kill that usually involves broken bones or groin stabs. Did 
 I mention they were brutal? 
  
  At certain points your thrust into slow motion segments in which you must shoot not only the enemy 
 in front of you, but the bullets that they've fired which are now flying at you. If you fail to 
 shoot both the bullet/s and the enemy, you are killed instantly. These events added a fair amount 
 of excitement when they pop up, which is far to infrequently for my taste. You also occasionally 
 take control of mounted machine guns and sniper rifles to eliminate a set amount of enemies, but 
 these segments feel tacked on for the most part. 
  
  Unfortunately, the game is terribly short, ending when you would expect it to be hitting its stride. 
 The gameplay can also be very repetitive if you don't particularly get a kick out of the bullet 
 curving or shrapnel explosion, as these are just about the only variations you get. Your arsenal 
 is limited to 3 different types of handguns, and a pair of fully auto sub-machine gun like handguns. 
 Not a shotgun or grenade in sight. This makes me a sad panda. 
  
  Technical: Facial animations are mediocre at best, but the movement animations are very well done. 
 Fluid and realistic. The graphics are acceptable for the most part, though the cut scenes have 
 a very blocky, compressed look. In game is noticeably better, but when the locations are very vast, 
 objects in the distance are blurred out. It can become obtrusive at times, but other times you 
 won't even notice this effect. Sound design was poor, featuring mostly generic score pieces and 
 a couple tracks performed by the group UNKLE. Through out the missions, there's a calm track that 
 plays when you are moving about, and a faster track that plays when in a fire fight. This transition 
 between tracks grew highly annoying to me. I actually had to turn down the games music. The credits 
 song ("Little Things" by UNKLE) was the only truly pleasing track. 
  
  The rest of it: Wanted offers you many extras to encourage further play throughs, including multiple 
 characters and trophies associated with fulfilling certain acts as each of them, two new modes: 
 Headshot and Close Combat, which require you to meet a head shot and knife kill quota respectively, 
 an unlockable difficulty, and gobs of extras like concept art, crew quotes, videos, comic book 
 covers, etc. Problem is, with how short, easy, and repetitive the game is, you may not feel all 
 that inspired to do so. 
  
  The verdict: Wanted is, for most, a rent and forget type of game. It makes a few exciting new adjustments 
 to a tired genre and is successful for the most part, but it doesn't set itself far enough apart 
 to warrant a purchase unless you wait a few months and pick it up off the bargain shelf. However, 
 it is WELL worth that rent. Don't write it off. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
