-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhawk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/warhawk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great flight control.
 Different tactics feel like they've been balanced out pretty well.
 Plenty of map configuration options give the game a lot of different looks.
 Rank and medal system gives you something to shoot for as you play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 In-game help isn't especially effective.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 5,685 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Incognito
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whether you do your best work on foot, in a tank, or in the air, you will have plenty of exciting 
 options to choose from in Warhawk. 

  Warhawk is a 32-player, multiplayer-only shooter from Sony. It has ties back to another Warhawk, 
 an early game for the original PlayStation that focused on the warhawk itself, a fighter jet that 
 can convert to hover mode and back again. You probably don't remember it, which hardly matters, 
 because the multiplayer focus of the PlayStation 3 Warhawk game leaves it with no real story and 
 no real sense of the war you're fighting. This game has a stripped-down feel, but the exciting 
 gameplay certainly makes up for those feelings. This is blue versus red across multiple modes and 
 maps, in the land or in the air. And it's excellent fun.  

           You definitely don't need to know anything about the old PlayStation 1 Warhawk game to 
 play this one.      

  The real story of Warhawk isn't about the epic conflict between two opposing sides. It's about 
 how this game has been made available. If you want it immediately, it's a downloadable purchase 
 from the PlayStation Store for $39.99. If you're desperately in need of more things to put on shelves, 
 or if you want a voice-chat device, you can buy the game in stores for the standard $59.99 in a 
 package that comes with a wireless headset, some behind-the-scenes video, and a full manual. There's 
 no functional difference between the two games, so it really comes down to personal preference. 
 The downloadable version does not come with instructions at all, which is sort of messed up. Other 
 games on the PlayStation 3 have had Web browser links built in to load up offsite manuals and things 
 like that, but Warhawk has none. So the only way you'd know that you need to push the L3 button 
 to talk or find out about the zones mode is to fumble around for yourself or go to Sony's site, 
 where it has a downloadable manual available. But even that manual, which comes in the box with 
 the retail version, doesn't explain everything, such as some of the terms used in the ranking screen. 

  It's a good thing, then, that most of Warhawk is incredibly straightforward. It's easy to jump 
 right into a game using the game's server browser, and there seem to already be plenty of people 
 playing at all hours. If you've ever played something like Battlefield 2 or Star Wars: Battlefront, 
 you'll probably take to Warhawk's brand of team-based multiplayer shooting quickly, as it's a simplified 
 take on that experience. The maps have bases strewn about that your team can capture. Capturing 
 them gives you a place to spawn, or if you're playing in the zones mode, it'll help you earn points 
 toward winning the game. You spawn on foot, with nothing but a lowly pistol and a couple of grenades. 
 But at bases and spawn points, you can usually find a host of weapons. These include an assault 
 rifle, flamethrower, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, and binoculars, some of which you can use to 
 call in air strikes. You'll also find plenty of vehicles, such as jeeps, tanks, and the warhawk 
 itself. And in some fortified areas, you'll find turrets that shoot flak or homing missiles, which 
 are very, very effective against incoming aircraft. All of this balances out nicely because the 
 ground troops can take out vehicles with the homing rockets from the rocket launcher, the turrets 
 can defend base positions against air -- but not as well against other vehicles -- and the tanks are 
 usually sitting ducks for warhawks to plink away at with swarm missiles or cluster bombs.  

  One of the major gameplay differences between Warhawk and other similar shooters is that you'll 
 find a ton of aircraft on most of the maps. Sometimes you'll feel as if half of the game's 32-player 
 limit is buzzing around, dogfighting overhead, or attempting to strafe ground targets. This gives 
 it a unique feel, and it's a lot of fun. Warhawk controls well regardless of what you're piloting 
 too. You can play around with controller sensitivity to get things just right, and, if you like, 
 you can fly the warhawk using the tilt sensing of the Sixaxis controller. However, the tilt support 
 never feels responsive enough to be useful in tense situations.  

  Warhawk comes with five different maps. Before you get all up in arms about how low that number 
 looks, each map can be configured for different game sizes, so there are configurations for small, 
 medium, and large-sized games. Each map also has a dogfight configuration, giving you more warhawks 
 to use. The different configurations make the maps feel totally different, giving you different 
 strategies to work with and so on. This means that playing in an eight-player game can be just 
 as thrilling as a 32-player fracas. There are also multiple modes. Team deathmatch works as you 
 would expect, with control-point captures giving you new places to spawn but no real points benefit. 
 Capture the flag is a standard two-flag CTF mode that puts flags in each team's main base. Zones 
 mode creates colored circles around each base, and the goal is to earn points faster than the other 
 guys by holding more zones than the other team. The zones link together if you hold the right ones 
 and level up your control over them to make the colored circles bigger, which brings in even more 
 points. Lastly, there's a deathmatch mode, which can be fun for dogfights, but this is very much 
 a team-based game, so playing with no team to back you up isn't as much fun. You can also play 
 online with a split-screen, which allows multiple players to play online from the same machine. 
 On top of playing on the Internet, the game has support for LAN games.  

  Outside of the game, you can chart your progress to look at your rank and medals. You'll earn ribbons 
 for a variety of round-specific accomplishments, such as finishing first on the winning team, getting 
 10 antiair kills, not shooting your teammates, and so on. Badges and medals also take your global 
 counts into consideration, giving you awards, such as a meritorious service medal. You'll get this 
 award for capturing the flag 100 times, defending 100 zones, capturing 500 zones, and then getting 
 two flag captures in the same game. That's sort of steep, but it certainly gives you something 
 to shoot for as you play. As you rise in rank, you'll unlock additional head, shirt, and pants 
 types for your soldiers, giving you a clear way on the battlefield to see if someone's totally 
 raw or a honed online killing machine.  

           Warhawks aren't fragile, but a few well-placed shots from a homing rocket launcher will 
 bring one down, so be careful.      

  Warhawk will run in 480p, 720p, or 1080i, and the game looks really nice overall. Its greatest 
 visual feature is that you have a very long draw distance, giving you a clear view of things that 
 are really far away. For example, on one map, which is made up of a series of high islands, you 
 can sit in your base and see turrets moving in bases far, far in the distance. Armed with a sniper 
 rifle, you can practically reach across the entire map and knock fools out. The equipment looks 
 good, and it also blasts apart really well. Exploding warhawks cause burning hunks of metal to 
 fall out of the sky, and it looks great. The game sound is also effective, with good weapon noises 
 and explosions. Warhawk, unlike most online PlayStation 3 games, has voice chat, which comes in 
 handy.  

  Regardless of how you get it, Warhawk is a great multiplayer shooter and one of the first of its 
 kind to land on the still-new PlayStation 3. It offers just enough content to justify its price 
 tag, but more importantly, it plays well, with just the right mix of tactical considerations and 
 finger-on-the-trigger action. With hooks in there for additional map downloads, it'll be interesting 
 to see how this one develops from here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (485 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:39 am PT
Review:  So I'd heard alot of things about Warhawk prior to finally picking it up at a very reasonable price. 
 (I'm in the UK, I got it for I think 10 which I think is $20 in the US) And to be honest, the 
 first time I started playing the game I had many mixed reactions, the game was ridiculously hard 
 for me at first but the more and more I played, the better I got. This is a game that requires 
 a lot of patients and determination, it's very challenging for a newcomer and just when I was starting 
 to give up, I started to get good strangely enough, let me split this review into the main sections 
 for you....
  
  
  
  
  STORY: SORRY! no story, Warhawk is a purely online based game, if you're looking for a game with 
 a good story, I suggest looking elsewhere :)
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS: Warhawk has a very distinctive, unique look to it, A look that I haven't seen in many 
 video games, the Graphics seem Cell Shaded like Crackdown, they also remind me of Ratchet and Clank, 
 they are quite cartoony which isn't necessarily a bad thing at all, Everything it well detailed 
 and considering how big the maps are in the game I can't complain too much, the character models 
 are flexible and look great too, which in turn means the physcis in the game are great.
  
  Even with 40 people playing on a map at once online, the framerate never dips and everything runs 
 smoothly in the game at all times.
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: The Gameplay in Warhawk is different to other games, it takes quite a while to get used 
 to with pretty much every button being used on the PS3 controller at some point, it will take you 
 a while to know exactly what does what but once you get the hang of it you'll become better and 
 start to enjoy the game alot more.
  
  Unfortunately there are NO bots in Warhawk, so if you don't have an internet connection, I wouldn't 
 get Warhawk if I were you.
  
  as for the actual gameplay, it IS infact alot of fun, this is a third person shooting game, there 
 are a large variety of different weapons and vehicles to choose from in the game in gigantic maps 
 that can hold up to 40 people (I think) some of these weapons include a basic knife that can kill 
 an enemy groundtrooper in a single hit but is quite hard to pull off, you also get a pistol that 
 can shoot as fast as your index finger can bash the R1 button, there's also a sniper rifle and 
 more. The weapons are very balanced in the game overall, for example, the sniper rifle is hard 
 to aim but is a one hit kill weapon.
  
  As for the vehicles, you get Jeeps, Tanks but the most impressive vehicle and the one that the 
 game is named after, is the Warhawk, a Jet that can corkscrew in the air like a rollercoaster, 
 or hover like a chopper, the Warhawk has many different abilities and weapons which must be collected 
 throughout the map, you start off with some swarm missiles and Chaff's which basically destroy 
 someones lock on to you, you also get machine guns which have unlimited ammo in the Warhawks.
 
  
  You can also find Homing missiles for the Warhawk as well as mines and other beauties.
  
  There is also customisation available to you for both the Warhawks and your groundtroopers.
 
  
  
  
  
  SOUND: The soundtrack in the game is great, the music suits the environments and war like atmosphere 
 and the weapons sound realistic enough for my liking as do the vehicles.
  
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER: The multiplayer option in the game is great, I've already explained alot of the things 
 you can do above in the gameplay section though... lol
  
  Well the modes available to you in the game are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and 
 Zones which is basically a King of the Hill Scenario with certain zones you have to take over across 
 the huge maps, there is also alot of configuration available, when making a game you can make it 
 Dogfight only in Warhawks for example.
  
  To voice chat in the game all you need to do is click the left analog stick in (L3) and hold it 
 until you've finished speaking, you can take this off though in the options menu so you don't have 
 to press anything.
  
  There are always plenty of people playing Warhawk online so you have no worries in that department.
 
  
  
  
  REPLAY VALUE: This is a game that has alot of replay value, there is alot to do with huge maps 
 to do it all on, there are also a lot of maps available to download in the PS Store, the downfall 
 of this however is that the maps aren't free... _ this probably isn't a problem for some people 
 but I'm a teenager and my mother is very reluctant to buy stuff online for some stupid reason...
 
  
  Anyway, yes so there is alot to do in Warhawk, plenty of people playing, it's just alot of fun 
 to play.
  
  
  
  CONCLUSION: So overall, I'd say give this game a shot for sure, it's definitely worthy of attention 
 and it's one of the best exclusives on the PS3, it takes a while to get good at though, keep that 
 in mind before you have a fit from getting killed too many times ;D
  
  Thanks for Reading this review and take care!
  
  
  Lokizarro
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuDoKaI546
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: From the clouds to the water everything in warhawk just looks incredible and the maps 
 r so huge and the impressive part is that the game can still maintain the graphics at such a large 
 scale. evrything is physics based and water is never completley flat (although the only form of 
 water is lakes and oceans) , grass moves like grass , clouds float like clouds and so on due to 
 the awesome engine although bullets look cheesy. 9.5/10
  
  Replay Value: The main part is getting good at the game which is frankly hard. Getting into clan 
 and participating in large matches will always keep u coming for more there r numerous plane finishes 
 and troop custimizations to unlock for bragging rights and they may help u gameplay wise.8/10
 
  
  price: 20 dollars need ii say more and it doesnt have campaign but it does have a story ( sort of) . 
 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay: lag and glitches r present but the only real annoyance is the grenade problem other than 
 that it amazing flight control is perfect weapon switching and overall balance between vehicles 
 infantry weapons air combat and anti air combat works fine the game modes r basics ctf teamdeathmatch 
 dm and zones which is new it is like capturing and holding a position with a warhawk twist to it 
 collection is like multi target ctf and hero is like vip.9/10
  
  overall/anythingelse: just buy it!
  
  overall/everything else:
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenmats
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Well i dont actually own this game ( lack a ps3 ) well i played a well amount of time so i can 
 actualy write a review. ( just because i dont own this game doesnt mean i didnt play it i actually 
 played this game )
  Well this game is really awsome. It is really fun, and its online mode is freckin awsome. I think 
 there was microphone on this game, im not sure
  ( i saw some girl talking online. well i heard her voice ) Oh yea and also, 
  that this game 
 is really addicting. I play this game for 10hours straight at my friends sleep over. Since this 
 gamewas so awsome, we were immendiatly hooked into it. Couldnt sleep. Played from 6 to 4 in the 
 morning.
  We said "ok this is the last game werre gonna do." after the battle. "wait lets do another one." 
 after that match. OK THIS IS THE LAST BaTTLE WERE VER GONNA DO OK!?!? after that match. oh nvm 
 lets play 15 more matches.
  Dude this game is that fun
  get this game
  its worth the wait and the money, and its highly addictive
  Replay value is really high 
  GET 
 THE GAME! I HIGHLY RECOMMEND YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikicobra
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Chances are you've played shooters before and expect to jump into WarHawk as easy as jumping into 
 your shoes. And chances are if you think that, you're wrong. WarHawk is a game that requires a 
 good deal of time to learn, and even longer to master  considering you can master it at all. Those 
 without the patience to become accustom to a new (and somewhat awkward) control scheme might as 
 well back up and leave WarHawk alone. However if you're willing to put some time and effort into 
 the game, it's probably worth it, because while it might be just another shooter at its core, when 
 you dig deep you could very well discover a fun new addiction. That said, WarHawk isn't for everyone, 
 and even those willing to learn it might discover that their time has been wasted.
  
  The thing about WarHawk's gameplay that makes it so different is that the control layout is noticeably 
 different from other shooters, and the actual shooting can sometimes feel a bit wonky. Additionally, 
 the vehicle controls are awkward and WarHawk movement can be frustrating. And in the end, the different 
 control scheme just makes guns feel a lot less fun to shoot, and that, in a war game, is not something 
 to be taken lightly. If you adjust to the gameplay you might protest, but ultimately, the game 
 just doesn't give off that good of a first impression.
  
  WarHawk is a pretty game, with great textures and character models, large maps, and good looking 
 vehicles. The art isn't half bad either. The main problems with the graphics is that while the 
 maps look different, there's nothing about any of them that make them unique. Every map plays the 
 same way, and despite the size difference, there's no reason to prefer one over the other. They 
 all involve small buildings and trees, and the color of the sky doesn't help add any more variety. 
 The weather is always the same, as well. There are no rainy levels, no snowy levels, just grassy 
 levels.
  
  The tutorials are mostly helpful, but some of them are down-right infuriating, making you dodge 
 heat-seeking missiles and destroy sentry bots shooting at you from all directions. While most tutorials 
 might help the player, or even encourage the player to play the game any further, WarHawk's feel 
 like they would discourage players, if anything at all. The inventory system is also cumbersome, 
 using the directional buttons to select weapons. It's a pain to select corner weapons because you 
 have to press on two buttons at once, which can be frustrating in the middle of a battle. Aiming 
 is a pain as well because there's no way to zoom in with your weapon, and you're somewhat far from 
 the crosshair by default.
  
  The character customization gives you very little to start with, and nothing you receive really 
 looks that interesting. There's also way more insignias than there should be, making it difficult 
 to find what you're looking for. You can customize your WarHawk, but it's not that fun and as WarHawks 
 are somewhat weak and hard to control, it's more a waste of time than anything. And overall, character 
 customization isn't as fun as other games, and you can't really combine that much and still manage 
 to make your character look good. It's a small complaint, but it's there.
  
  The game sounds good for the most part. There's some really epic and catchy music on the title 
 screen, as well as good explosion and gunfire sounds throughout. The jeep sounds and WarHawk zooms 
 are good, but not memorably so. There's no voice acting of any kind, which is a bummer, because 
 tutorials would be much more interesting told through dialog rather than text. Gunfire sounds  
 mostly the pistol  can get annoying after a while, sadly.
  
  WarHawk is fun, though repetitive, and will offer hours of fun for people with the patience to 
 learn its controls. It's not the most memorable shooter there is, mostly because of its dull maps, 
 somewhat lame weapons and poor WarHawk control, but if you're looking for some good mayhem, then 
 this is a good game to consider. However, there are other online shooters that would definitely 
 give you more of a bang for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habbox77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  With the games release it was a new aproach to shooters, it didnt have a campaign and was 100% 
 multiplaye, untill, hat training patch came, but overall the gam has great online, almost lag free 
 and is really fun to play. Off the bat you will realize that it is really hard with all the good 
 players on, but people will get the hang of it in less than a week, there are a lot of modes in 
 the game giving you a variaty of options to go with, and they also have diferent map layouts so 
 almost every game is a little unique.
  
  Now the point of the game isnt just to run around in games, killing people and then at the end 
 of the game ask yourself "what did I get out of this?" and the answer would be "NOTHING" instad 
 the dev team has put milestones where after playing a few ranked games you get a new rank and some 
 cuztomization options so you look cooler and same with your plane. Although after a while you get 
 3 ranks up easily and think "It will be so easy to get to General, (the highest rank) but no! in 
 fact you need exactly 275000 points for General and all you got is 500, so it will take time and 
 lots of effort. As well as having the ranking system, the game also includes an awards system wich 
 consists of 3 things: Ribbons, Badges and Medals ribbons being super easy to get and medals being 
 the hardest.
  
  With only 5 maps in the game it does feel a little repetitive, but thre are 3 booster packs available 
 adding 3 maps and more options for each map layout, wich is fun if you consider getting a jetpack, 
 going all the way up to the statue in eucadia then jumping down to death right when a freind is 
 there, as if to scare him.
  
  another notable thing about the game is you can be whatever you want, a sniper a trooper a tank, 
 and the much wanted warhawk.
  The game also features what a lot of games have: clans, of course somebody had the pleasure of 
 making a cla called ASS, so its not as good as it sounds, 
  in some gaes tho you may feel the maps are to repetitive, in the badlands and archipilago, the 
 centre base feel exactly the same, only ones in an island area in the middle of nowhere, and the 
 others in the canyons of who knows where.
  
  There are 2 factions: the Chernovans, and the Eucadians, (red and blue teams respectively) off 
 the bat you think Eucadians=good while Chernovans=evil well your wrong, neither is good or bad 
 because there is no story in the game, but I have a pretty goodidea what it was like: two guys 
 from each side had nothing to do and started a war for no apparent reason, sounds fair doesnt it? 
 if they ever mae a campaign mode (wich I highly doubt) it would be to easy with all the crack pots 
 running around online, if you doubt that well name 1 game that hd multiplayer easier than singleplayer
 
  
  To sum it up: Warhawk is a great game for all bthose shooter lovers out there and should be gotten 
 for the playstation store just cause its only 20.00 (30 if you get the boosters) the only reason 
 I wouldnt like this game would be the repetiveness of some games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  Great game in every way. If you want more than just a gun, then this is your game. If you like 
 seeing everything from a bird's eye view just before you annihilate the enemy, then jump in a plane 
 and enjoy. If you speeding through dirt roads with someone chasing, it's got that. If you to go 
 around armored, get in a tank. Or if you just want to gun around on foot, then you can do just 
 that. No matter what you like, you will never be severely disadvantaged. Split-screen is perhaps 
 the best feature of all. You can take three friends of yours, and, with a bit of teamwork, be one 
 the most feared squads in the game. There is no story mode, but this is not important. This game 
 is simply meant for friends and foes alike to have a good time. Landscape graphics are not splendid, 
 but when you're shooting and/or being shot at, you dont have much time to look anyway. You do not 
 have to be as sneaky as most shooters have you do. Actually, some people make their name on just 
 driving into the enemy's base wreaking havoc until they die. Learning may take awhile, mainly because 
 there are so many things you must know to be successful in this game, and you must learn while 
 being shot at and bombed on. This game is more than just running and shooting however, you must 
 plan your attack carefully in Capture the flag or Zones. One thing is certain: in these kind of 
 modes, teamwork is needed. No one can win in these modes by himself. Warhawk never gets old, and 
 you cannot let your guard down for a moment. If you do, you can get snipered, shot, ran over, airstruck, 
 stabbed or bombed. If you hate planes and tanks, dont fret, there are many ways to take them down. 
 Bazookas can hone in on them, and there are huge anti-aircraft guns that are extremely effective 
 against planes. Also, wrenches can utterly devastate a tank if you can get close enough. 
  In short, Warhawk is huge and broad, with plenty of options to choose from, with lots of trophies 
 and ranks to shoot for to keep your playing experience objective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ze_Common_Cold
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my opinon, isn't that great. I really do think it's me, and I've played it around 
 5 hours, so I'll be reviewing this game from a newbs view. However, this game is tough. Like, military 
 tough. The tutorial's in the beginning of the game may be slightly help-ful, however if you are 
 planning to buy this game, most people are battle-hardened veterans for the game, and will eat 
 up. Learning is pretty diffucult, and it does probably take a while. The graphics are splendid 
 however, and is an awesome feeling to fly through the smothering ashes of an enemies destroyed 
 warhawk. The online community can be annoying sometimes, just outright chasing you down knifing 
 you. Expect friendly fire a lot. Either newbs will be running around with knifes aiming for the 
 enemies (knifes are insta-kills) or seasoned vets sending you to the respawn every minute. The 
 controls, to me, are very poor. The right stick is used for camera, and in my opinon way too sensitive. 
 I bet there is a way to change that in options, so maybe my argument is flawed. However, it is 
 just dandy when you are aiming at two enemies with a machine gun, and you end up looking at the 
 ground and by the time you pull the camera facing foward, Mr. Stabby comes by and knifes your little 
 Warhawk Man.
  
  Obviously there is no plot, just red vs blue pretty much. Maybe I've been to hard on the game. 
 When people show some respect, and play the game, it can be pretty fun sometimes. Online has 16 
 player matches (correct me if I'm wrong) some modes are fun, like TDM and CTF. When I can actually 
 land a kill, you feel a good inside, and know that you're next enemy is around the corner waiting 
 to be torched. It's a good game, really. But if you are the crowd that gets fed up easily, you 
 might wanna stay away. At this point, anyone who stills play the game just got it for the headset, 
 or are in clans. I'll have to play some more to truly score this, but for now it gets a 7.4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a brand new IP from Sony. it is an online only game so is this Sony's killer online 
 shooter or does the hawk fall
  
  Warhawk is an online game made by incognito. It is very fast paced and has 32 online online battles...
 
  
  Warhawk isn't Your average game well for starters its online only but its very quick paced with 
 a ton of vehicles. Its not made out to be the next big thing. When you first play a game of warhawk 
 there is a VERY steep learning curve. You will die all the time. The thing is its like you either 
 VERY good or your bad at it. i for one am hopeless at it but still even when your hopeless it still 
 can be fun. There are only a handful of game modes. Death match, team death match, zones {king 
 of the hill} , hero, nodes. There are also only a few maps. but its not a bad thing because the 
 maps are just huge. it would take 20 mins to get form one side to the other on foot. you might 
 think o no hardly any fights but for some reason even though its such a big map there are fights 
 everywhere. The guns are really wildly imaginative but that's fine you dont need a laser blade 
 pistol flame thrower. you get a machine gun, sniper, blade, pistol, flame thrower, rocket launcher 
 etc
  
  the graphics in warhawk aren't going to make gears of metal gear solid 4 blush. but it gets the 
 job done in my opinion. There is some fantastic lighting and a cartoony fell that goes great with 
 the fast paced action.
  
  the sound in warhawk is fairly good surprisingly. machine gun fire sounds good, and the sniper 
 sounds painful. tank fire is good and the jeeps mini gun is also good. so the sound is good but 
 its not the best out there.
  
  Graphics: 8.6
  Sound:8.0
  Gameplay:9.3
  
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  This game is full of different weapons, different for air, and land.
  Expansions keep this game from getting old.
  Multiplayer is seemless.
  Nice and simple setup, 
 learning curve is about 20 minutes.
  
  The Bad:
  Game lacks single player campaign which would have probably been a lot of fun.
  Without expansions, 
 you'll quickly know every rock and groove of the three maps you start out with.
  
  Review: 
  The game is very easy to learn, in twenty minutes anyone will know how to play, and 
 with an hour or two of practice you should be on par with most people online. However, there is 
 always someone online that will challenge you, so it never really gets boring, there are several 
 different playing modes that really keep you on your feet. Lot's of people aren't as good with 
 all of them as they are will a specific one, so if you alternate, you are balancing the playing 
 field a lot. 
  
  Bottom line:
  I recommend this game. It's really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought for 30 bucks thinking it would be a nice bargain game.
  Well it blew me away.
  First off its packed full of adrenaline. On foot or vehicle its good but in a warhawk its just 
 amazing. The frame rate never ever drops and the maps are small but it gives you the illusion that 
 your aircraft is going super fast. It is awesome. Multiplayer is lag free which is great for this 
 type of game. One of my favorite perks is that this is one of the few games which lets you play 
 music from the XMB. It is awesome and works flawlessly. You can also customize the look of your 
 aircraft. The game is full of cool designs and insignias to choose from which gives you individuality 
 on the battlefield. One minor problem is that everything seems kind of generic, with no pizzaz. 
 But this is easily over looked. If you have a Ps3 and want a quick adrenaline packed game this 
 is your ticket!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3d3c3ption
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk takes place into another world that looks like ours where two countries fight each other. 
 Those countries are called Eucadia, and Chernova (or Chernovan) . there are no stories to this game 
 I think. Well I'm not sure about that, well anyways the the graphics in this online multiplayer 
 game is pretty cool, and the music in the game sounds like some roman gladiator battles which I'm 
 not saying it sucks. I kinda finding it nice. The matches in the game brings you those classic 
 matches like te other online or off-line multiplayer games like: T. D. ( Team Dathmatch ) , Deathmatch 
 (a. k. a.: a free for all battle) , and C. T. F. or Capture the Flag of what they called it before. 
 Those were the good news. Now the bad news. Everytime you play a match, there are sometimes an 
 internet errors, or a network shutdown, or lagging if you have a poor signal. For that to happen, 
 there are numbers of signs. 1.) you notice the players freezing and makes it easier for you to 
 shoot them but not. 2.) entering a vehicle which is not working. And 3.) the players moving awkwardly. 
 That ticks me off everytime I play a match in Warhawk. But there's another good thing about it 
 is whenever you rank up you get new stuff to customize your character or your aircraft, oh did 
 I forget to mention about the new emblems when you rank up and you could adjust the coloring on 
 the plane you like or your character's emblem? If you notice the booter packs insignia on those 
 new maps and it's locked. That means you don't have it. You have to buy them at the PS3 network 
 store when you're at the PS3 home page. I forgot to tell ya about the gameplay, its awesome! here's 
 my overall: The online game have some difficulties like what I said but who cares maybe some people 
 but hey it's still fun, I may show some emotions when theres an error I still had fun with that 
 game so I gave it a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinx3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  A note to all n0obs who buy this game, or try it and then never play it again because they get 
 Pwn3d all the time. Stick with it and take the pain and suffering for a few hardcore weeks of game 
 play. This game has a learning curve.. Once you learn aerial and troop techniques, how to be stealthy 
 and evade being overtaken and out numbered.. You will appreciate the mechanics and challenge this 
 game can offer. When I first got it, I was getting demolished all the time, b/c I had the standard 
 war game mentality of charge and kill.. but in this game you can't do that if you want to be successful 
 at it. Being able to use vehicles, warhawks, or ground combat is definitely a plus.. You can do 
 almost anything to kill your opponent, trick the opposition, or control the entire level and have 
 all bases to your vantage. I think the new add-ons should be concentrated on more weapons, and 
 alternate aircraft, and different settings for game play.. ie. rain, snow, night, day.. that would 
 be cool to change it up a bit. Other than that I love it the way it is and probably will never 
 put that damn controller down as long as Warhawk is in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunWithMatches
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is great simply because it has so many possible roles for players to fill. Jump on the 
 wings of a team member's warhawk to get dropped off across the map, dogfight and control the skies, 
 do some long distance sniping or air strikes, storm square into the enemy base in a tank and wreak 
 havoc, or go off roading in a 4X4: you can do all of this and more with warhawk.
  
  While ultimately full of so many possibilities, it is VERY difficult to master each section of 
 combat. Personally I love that its difficult. The best way to get good however is not to practice 
 for hours and hours, rather grab a mic and start talking. Have fun with this game and grab others 
 in the server and ride in a jeep together to rush the enemy flags and zones. Leapfrog in the warhawks 
 from flag to flag and get those valuable capture points. 
  
  Warhawk is the perfect mix of Battlefield style gameplay with dogfighting that reminds me of the 
 truly awesome rogue squadron games. Very easy to pick up and play, but still enough depth to take 
 time to master all the pro-flight moves and attacks. 
  
  With 3 expansion packs, this game offers more and more variety. Rocket packs and dropships are 
 a great change of momentum. If you're on the fence even over a year now after release, buy this 
 game! There are still players who rejoin to play (I'm one of them, did my fare share with COD4 
 and now its back to warhawk) and the rookie servers have been pretty full since the demo release. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_manga400
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  On August 28th, 2008, my cousin got this game on opening day. But i never got to play it with him, 
 because on that same day I moved back to Canada. But when he came to my house for Christmas on 
 that same year, he bought Warhawk. When I first played this game... oh my god... it was too fun. 
 It was highly addciting, and...32 players online! My god, this is the best multiplayer experience 
 anyone could ask for.
  
  ______________
  
  LOCAL GAMES
  ______________
  
  Local games are up to 4 players. You can select from either Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture 
 the Flag, Zones, or Collection Matches. Local Multiplayer is so fun, no lag, no flaws, its perfect! 
 
  
  SCORE FOR LOCAL GAMES: 10
  
  _____________
  
  ONLINE GAMES
  
  _____________
  
  Online games, as I mentioned before, are up to 32 players. However, unlike 
 Local Multiplayer, there are ranks that you can earn by playing ranked matches. The only thing 
 about ranked matches, is that there is no split-screen. On regular matches online, the person that 
 is hosting the game can choose to have a split-screen match or not. Online games do however have 
 glitches and lag. For example, if you would kill someone with a knife, that person would not die, 
 instead of it being a 1 hit kill. You would have to hit him multiple times with the knife before 
 you get the kill. Also for lag, you would see other players jump up and down like crazy, and making 
 it imposible to hit. 
  Also in online, you can choose to talk to other people via the bluetooth headset.
  Overall, online 
 play is awesome, and fun for everyone.
  
  SCORE FOR ONLINE GAMES: 8/10
  
  ________________
  
  EXTRA FEATURES
  
  ________________
  
  In online mode, there are 
 tons of extra features that you can fight for. There are medals, that can be earned for the type 
 of game you play. So you can get a Capture the Flag medal, but you can get it if you play excellent 
 CTF games.
  There are also badges that can be earned for weapons, aircraft weapons, cars, etc. Badges can be 
 earned to increase your rank.
  Ribbons can also be earned in play. Ribbons can give you extra points at the end of a game. Like 
 Badges, ribbons can also be earned to increase your rank.
  
  OVERALL SCORE FOR EXTRA FEATURES: 10/10
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9/10
  
  I highly recommend this 
 game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoDofWaR7845
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  now Warhawk is exclusivly for the Playstation3 and im glad it is, it is an amazing experience when 
 you play online. just plain fun! controlls are decent, graphics are decent, its just a game where 
 you dont really think, just go in, find a match (really fast) and just start! this game supports 
 up to 32 people online which is impressive. if you like air combat, this game's got it all, if 
 your a ground trooper kind of person, you can do it too, dont mind which? you can go in and out 
 whenever you want. and just enjoy it! this game also supports trophy collections, and you can also 
 customize your character and aircraft, by getting higher ranks (which is very hard to do) you get 
 more points which level you up, and you can join more matches, and get more customization to your 
 character. or just to show off that you'r a higher level then somebody else, this game also has 
 clans which you can form or join. which really hypes up the competition. if your a multiplayer 
 fan, and you own a ps3, and you want a game that dosnt cost that much and its just put in and play. 
 this is the right game for you. buy this game! if your not that sure.. rent it, then buy it if you 
 like it... good game 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game can only be described as one word and here it is AMAZING BUT theres some issues such 
 as the graphics not the best graphics for a next-gen game for the ps3. This game is also not very 
 realistic such as when a tank blows up a jet and the jet takes like 5 minutes to blow up the tank 
 not realistic. Other than that this game is amazing. Its a fun online game and its really cool 
 how you can speed up with the jets. If you want a good game and cool thats under 30 dollars this 
 is the game you want. At first i looked at the graphics and thought to myself wow this is a ps3 
 game it wont be fun and then i played it and this game might not have the graphics of call of duty 
 or the orange box or heavenly sword or anything but this game is fun and amazing so get this game 
 if you can theres just no other game from 2007 thats better this game and the only other fun game 
 thats online that compares to this game is the new game little big planet but this is better if 
 your in to killing people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Warhawk? Holy s***, this is one game you want for christmas!! At first i was hesitant to pick this 
 game up to be honest, but i became interested when it showed up on a top 10 ps3 exclusives list 
 on another gaming website: Thanks screwattack. com for convincing me to pick this game up!
  
  My personal first problem with this game? No single player, all multiplayer, although i heard 
 there was originally going to be a single player option but that was scraped due to the fact the 
 developers felt that single player was inferior to multiplayer. I don`t have a problem with no 
 single player but still, it makes up on terms of gameplay. There is virtually NO PLOT, all you 
 need to know is this: the other team is your enemy, they need to die.
  
  Onto the actual gameplay, im pleased to at last see a third-person multiplayer game as preety much 
 the only games with multiplayer in them at the moment are the FPSs, im not saying FPS games are 
 bad but its just a breath of fresh air to see multiplayer in a third-person game.
  
  The graphics look awesome, there are just simply no draw distance issues at all. You just have 
 to play the game to know what i mean.
  
  The gameplay is excelent: just running around shooting up the other team. I love senseless violence, 
 don`t you?
  
  "I know i do..."
  
  Yes, text also really likes this game as much as i do. And on that note, it`s worth mentioning 
 that there`s also a split screen mode so you can play alongside (or against) your buddy offline.
 
  
  There`s 6 game modes: deathmatch and team deathmatch are self explanatory, so is capture the flag. 
 Then we have zones, where you have to capture zones and keep them while of course keeping your 
 enemy`s team base zone to a mininum to score, hero mode where a team memeber is the hero and you 
 have to kill the other team`s hero to score and colector mode where you have to pick up these scoring 
 things (can`t remember what they are called) and take them back to your base.
  
  There are of course vehicles in this game, you can fight on foot, you can hp in a tank or a jeep 
 or hop in the 2 planes: the nemesis and the warhawk itself although both planes are preety much 
 the same. And the best thing is is that you can hop in and out of these vehicles at anytime and 
 not ever feel left out on the action.
  
  The sound is awesome!! You can hear the planes zooming around overhead, the guns all have sound 
 effects which fit in well with the individual guns, its just all really good!
  
  Overall, i say you NEED TO PLAY THIS GAME if you own a PS3. Im gonna go own some noobs now.
  
 
  Final score:
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  
  Sound: 4/5
  
  Gameplay: 4/5
  
  Entertainment: 5/5
  
  Overall: 18/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  although only being a online game. ones that i usually don't pick up. im glad i got this game. 
 it's one of sony's greatest hits now and i just recently just got my ps3 i decided what the its 
 cheap. i would have full price for this it was so good. i like the strategy required. every game 
 is totally different then the next. it took me a while to get the flying controls down but once 
 i got the hang of it i was having a blast. There are tonnes of awards and commendations to collect. 
 ranks that put you in a new zone of people with your experience. it's not a game that you can wizz 
 through it actually takes alot of time to move forward in the game. all i can say is its a fantastic 
 game and now that its cheap i highly recommend anyone with a PS3 to pick it up tonnes and tonnes 
 of fun. any way hope to see you all out there in the clouds! ok korny i know i know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_milo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is an amzing online multiplayer game that enables up to 4 player splitscreen online and 
 also aloows players to play music while playing warhawk.
  
  Warhawks graphics are decent and are comparable to many others, but in warhawks case, graphics are 
 the last thing youre thinking about. The vehicle designs in warhawk are amazing. The aircraft designs 
 being dominant, especially the dropships. The gameplay is incredible and highly amusing.
  
  I ahve no more ideas and got sidetracled by a movie so i am now going to spam dowfh [oqdoqd dnqdijqbdqdb 
 qdiuqdqnduqbdq dqdbqdbqw dqd quwd bqwid qwudqwud qwi dqou diqw doquw dq dqd uqwd qdqwiu d qw diuqwd 
 quwd qid qid qud qudiqwdiw qdqwdqqd qi dqdq qd qdq didnqowqdo qw dwqodqooi doq do q oqo doqd oqdnqiodnq 
 wiodqnwdow dqwndqw odqowqio qowdnd qowndwnd oqw dwqoqw nd doqwd qonw dwno qwdoqwn ndn dowqdnwq 
 wondownq doqwdo wqndo wd odwqnd nwqod wqno do qn dnqwooqw d odnq wn dnowq owq qowdn owqd nnd qwnodnqw 
 oidwoq dqw dwqodnqwoodqw qw do qdw dwqow dqo dqwd qowdoq wdwikwo dnqwod dqwdiwd wo [dniwn dnqwdinq 
 odw dwodnwnd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a quick overview of the games pros and cons for those who hate to read long reviews PROS: warhawk 
 has a nice replay value and is a great game for multiplayer. a complex rank system. You can play 
 the game basically any way you want. no scripted combat style almost no lag ever! HUGE MAPS
  
  CONS: no singleplayer. not the most intense multiplayer fell that some gamers expect from a 
 game. only 8 weapons none of which are anything new. only 5 vehicles
  
  Warhawk could be your game or it might torture to you. If you are used to multiplayer expirences 
 like Call of Duty 4 or Resistance 2 you won't like the action. If you like less intense action 
 than this is a good choice. Even still this has great level design and balanced combat. Whatever 
 you might like in a mulitplayer expirence this is worth a try (note: there is a demo version out) 
 Hope this helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game, I logged in, and totally got owned. This was a surprise to me as I am 
 usually good at most games. At first it felt like a waste of money, but I was giving up too easily. 
 I tried everything from land to air, to find my strong point, which was with the warhawks. This 
 game gives you plenty to choose from, from blowing people to bits in a tank, to an intense dog 
 fight in the air. 
  
  One of the best parts about the game is the splitscreen feature, me and my friends have a lot of 
 fun playing together, bringing new strategies to our game. This game was made by a great company, 
 it gets patches, updates, and downloadable content quite often. As soon as trophies and in game 
 music came out, the producers went ahead and made a patch to support those features.
  
  All in all this game is worth the $20 it is now, and you should definitely get it if you are getting 
 bored of some of your other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAKYON
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  warhawk its truly an awesome and highly addictive game, specially if you are a war game type guy.
 
  
  This game delivers everything you can image, from nice, well done, huge and gorgeous maps to an 
 incredible diversity and gameplay style.
  
  You can pretty much do whatever you want in this game and you can use any tactics you thinks its 
 convenient to win the match. There is a lot of stuff to say about this game but its late and I 
 feel lazy so I will make this short.
  
  Good 
  
  Gameplay : I don't know how to describe it, its perfect, the controls mechanics are great and very 
 easy to learn the curves to be a pro but that doesn't mean its easy to win a match or that you 
 will get bored that easily. Like I said before the controls mechanics feels good, easy to use if 
 you are driving a tank or a 4x4 , or if you are flying in the sky in the well design aircrafts 
 or simple running around. So fun to to use turrets to take down enemies planes or tanks. 
  
  Sound effects: just like gamespot saidsound just like it supposed to sound, like an explosion 
nicely done; even if you are attacking your enemy with a knife you will listen the swing on the 
 knife, just perfect.
  
  Graphics: perfect, amazing, gorgeous, awesome etc. no too great on weapons but nicely done on vehicles 
 and maps 
  
  Online : so many game modes to pick , so many players to fight against, so many variety of maps, 
 believe its impossible to get bored. No to mention that this game don't have a single player campaign 
 but still rocks.
  
  Bad
  
  ?????
  
  That word doesn't even exist in this game, and I'm serious 
  
  In general, you can't miss this 
 game, fun to play, easy to learn curves, impossible to get bored, so many trophies to earn through 
 this game.
  
  My score obviously is 10 !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  Music: 9.0
  Not much music, but when there is music, it's good...
  
  Sounds: 9.5
  Great sounds, especially in the planes
  
  Gameplay: 8.9
  Can get repeditive, but there is 
 no way to fix that in an online game, pitty there aren't very many maps. It's good that when you 
 advance in rank you have better costimizable options for your plane and character. Probably one 
 of the top 5 online games of mine.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Not the best graphics of all time, but great graphics anyway. Great detail in the cliffs and landscape 
 and rocks and all that stuff.
  
  Replay Value: 8.0
  
  Value: 8.5
  
  PROS:
  Sounds
  Music
  Planes
  
  CONS:
  Crappy walking around with character
  sorta repeditive
 
  
  Ignore the rest: (need more characters)
  no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I've been dodging this game for awhile since I didn't have a strong and constant connection to 
 PSN; but that I fixed that problem, I've been looking for online games to play on my Ps3, and Warhawk 
 is at the top of the list! 
  
  Reading around with reviews and on forums, you'll probably see people talking about a "learning 
 curve" and how extreme it is. Let me tell you what I did. I bought the game; brought it home, popped 
 it in, looked at the thing that said "Training", laughed, and went straight online. If you can't 
 figure out what do while just a person, then you shouldn't be playing games. After I hopped in 
 my first warhawk, it took me a second to realize I should be playing use the Sixaxis; tweaked the 
 sensitivity; and I was off! It takes you all of ten minutes of flying to get the hang of it; after 
 that you start to fall into your own style. Air combat has the be the best part of this game! Sometimes 
 though I'll just run around as infantry and pick up rocket launchers, which has to be annoying 
 to people; when they're concentrating on other planes, to find a rocket heading for them.
  
  The servers are abundant, and inside; there's always action, it's like being in a war zone, 
 constantly explosions and flyby's keep the game intense! 
  
  I wish that the beginning had more customization options; but as you get more ranks, you'll get 
 more options. Took me about an hour to get airmen rank; and from by that time, you'll be flying 
 around picking off people who are on foot.
  
  All in all this is an amazing multilayer game; I hope there's a sequel or more expansions soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufflezoom
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is an online game exclusively for the Playstation3 and has plenty of options for you like 
 riding a tank or a jeep, justwalking and the most fun option in the game. But in the end is this 
 a flying ace or a crash for this exclusive?
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics certainely look preety in this game and the battlefield is very detailed. But the promblem 
 is that there is no physics engine wahtesover so if you carsh into a tree its gonna stay there. Also 
 some glitches may occur.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay is preety much the best thing about this game. You have three options to do in this 
 game. You can either walk, drive or fly which is definently the best part even though some frustrations 
 may occur. You can play with up to 32 players online in six modes. Death 
  Match, TeamDeathMatch, Capture the Flag, Zones and Hero. The best mode is Capture the Flag since its 
 tactical and puts the playstation headset that comes with the game to good use.
  
  Overall 9/10
  Warhawk is a fun, addictive online game that will keep you playing for weeks. With 
 some techinal glitches there and there this game can give some frustration but send these promblems 
 away and you get a fun awesome experience with Warhawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purplepreschool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Just an outstanding game for the game play and all of the accrocies you can get for it, you won't 
 want to put it down after you get it. Hard at the beginning but after you get used to it it can 
 be one of the best games for the ps3. - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - 
 - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- 
 - - - - -- - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -- - 
 - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheClown24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a great game and is almost faultless, so ill get the faults over with. The physics has 
 a strange delay, you throw a grenade and it explodes at someones feet and it explodes, but he is 
 fine for about 1/2 a second longer and then he will die and fly a couple of meters. The people 
 walk weirdly, i dont know how to describe it but they just do, you will know what i mean when if 
 you see it. There are a few invisible walls but they are very rare and dont affect the game at 
 all. Now on to the good stuff, The whole game is extremely well thought out, nothing dominates 
 anything else the weapons are nicely balanced, as are the vehicles. The graphics are quite nice 
 and the explosians look great, everything is very clear and you will never get mixed up on whats 
 what. The game does sacrifice realism for gameplay, i see this as a good thing but make a decision 
 on that yourself because if you want realism dont get this. The controls as a whole are great wether 
 your on foot, in a tank or flying a warhawk they never feel anything but fluent. There are many 
 different weapons on foot or in the air, and each has strengths and weaknesses. The ranking system 
 in this game is second to none, there are many different ranks (20 to be precise) and you will need 
 to get certain numbers of points overall or in a round and different medals and ribbons to advance 
 between them. There are also trophies for things like destroying a warhawk with a tank or killing 
 someone with a sniper from 2,500 meters away. The sniping is one of the games best features, you 
 can kill someone from the other end of the map, and the maps are small by no means. The maps are 
 another great feature and each one just seems to work so well in everyway, i myself do like some 
 more than others, but i like them all which is a very rare thing in a game. At first, i would have 
 said the learning curve in this game is one of its worst features, there were no tutorials and 
 you had to learn most things as you go along. But then in an update the tutorials came, and they 
 teach you everything you need to know. The updates are common and booster packs are released every 
 so often, each with a new vehicle and map, there have been 3 so far, and it will cost you an extra 
 7 for them all.
  You can either buy this game in box, or from the playstation store, i recomend the latter as the 
 mic that comes with the shop bought version is not worth 10.
  
  All in all warhawk is one of the best games ive ever played, and a must buy for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  Its a shorty. Thats why the short review, because theres really nothing to talk about. It seemed 
 a very good game, but turned out a huge dissapointment
  
  
  Gameplay
  For first time players its very frustrating to play this game. you will die after every 5 seconds 
 of your respawn. I didnt find the point to run around. I liked to fly and shoot, but even with 
 heavily equiped i only took down few enemys, it all felt terrible wrong. I have tried for days 
 to figure it out,. Weapons feel weak, i tried to kill a unarmed man with my jet who just ran on 
 ground but i was surprised how hard it was. And it wasnt better on air, i locked the target and 
 then sent the missiles on the way but it did almost nothing. Your ber weapon is sword, which takes 
 down a enemy with a single swing towards him! 
  
  Dont get me wrong i have played it days but Warhawk is so unbalanced. And i play such games like 
 cod 4, battlefield bad company, tf2. Now bioshock, soon FC2 and they are way easier. One of the 
 Unbalanced ingame system i have ever seen.
  
  Graphics
  Visually its good, especially the water textures. But keep in mind its online game, so theres nothing 
 mind blowing here, and you probably will see that graphics are outdated, but they are enough sharp 
 to be playable.
  
  Summary
  Could be alot easier. You probably will get bored and frustrated very quickly. Weapons and the 
 unbalanced system makes Warhawk dissapointment. No singleplayer. I thought to say something positive 
 about this game, but theres so many flaws that i must admit, its almost first time when i feel 
 bad aspects overshadow good!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwenaellp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  To respond to the last person who reviewed the game, the actual strength of this game is how well 
 balanced the gameplay is.
  There is no magic weapon that will kill everything, you will have to use the right one for the 
 right situation.
  And it's not just about firing at will, the game demand from players that they actually think before 
 moving around the map and be aware of what is going on around them.
  There are different modes of game and it never becomes boring.
  I have to agree with the last 
 person that someone new to the game might find online play hard, because people like me have been 
 playing the game since august 2007 and we all know the maps very well, but sticking around will 
 pay off and they will experience a very intense online gameplay.
  I am part of the old generation that likes to think before I shoot and plan my attacks, like placing 
 personal mines in strategic places and this game demand that kind of gameplay to be succesful, 
 it's not like halo where being faster on the controler will be enough.
  I have played video games since the 70's and i have played on every platforms that have existed 
 since then, including pc and I can count on my hands the games I have really been addicted to ( 
 pac-man, populous, sonic the hedgehog, mario, civilization.....) and a few more and Warhawk on 
 ps3 is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dream_Clock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game on day one, having no idea what to expect and I have to tell you, this was 
 worth every penny I spent in it. Excellent gameplay, lots of fun, and there is something for everyone. 
 It is true that this game is multiplayer only, but even if you have one person playing with you, 
 you will have a blast. It's intense, fun, and even funny at times. There are three expansion packs 
 at the moment, and they probably will not be expanded upon anymore. You got trophy support and 
 in-game music, but when it really comes down to it, the game sure rocks. There are 5 maps that 
 come with the game with different layouts (small, large etc.) and I have to say they are mostly 
 very engaging and fun. Probably one of the best games of the PS3 if not the best.
  
  So after two years, I still come back to this game and I have to tell you that this is a must buy 
 for you especially at a price of $30. It might take you awhile to get used to the game, but hell 
 it pays when you get the hang of it. So if you don't have it already, go and get it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unhollykilla
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Considering the fact that Warhawk is practically half a game because of the lack of single player, 
 it did extremly well. You almost forget about single player because you so into the thrilling multiplayer 
 battles. The most amazing thing is that there are so man different ways to combat in this game. 
 We can take the speedy warhawk, the powerful tank, the sneaky vehicule or we can kamikaze by foot. 
 There are diffrent types of guns that you can use such as the assault rifle, this fire rirle, grenades, 
 sniper rifle, and some others. But I have to say my favourite is the rocket launcher as it has 
 the best penetration. It just blasts you off the planet. 
  The graphics in this game are definatly next gen. I love the fact that you can see the shadows 
 of the warhawks on the ground. Evrytime you see one your first thought is, shoot i better run for 
 cover. 
  The sound is also quite neat. No stupid gun sounds, no stupid voices. They even made it so that 
 you have to press a button to talk so that you wont hear people breathing or swearing in some language. 
 
  I am very satisfied with this game, definatly a classic in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game came out awhile back and i just bought this about a month and a half back, the gameplay 
 is extremely arcade-like which can be annoying at some points but also gives it a cool feel. The 
 graphics are only ok but the maps are massive which i guess is the reason why. There aren't many 
 weapons when your on the ground but enough to keep you satisfied, on the other hand, when your 
 in a plane the weapons and missiles you can get are fantastic. The vehicles are pretty good and 
 have a realistic feel to them. One thing i found really annoying was how flippin hard this game 
 is, now ive been playing for over a month now about 10-20 hours in total and i have not once gotten 
 more kills than deaths. Yea, maybe its because i suck but iv'e heard that from a lot of people; 
 This game is really hard. Anyways, if you don't have this game i'd suggest not buying it because 
 you'll probably get bored if u have any other good online game like COD4 or GTA4.
  
  Overall: Great map sizes, Great vehicles but to hard to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdonisCharming
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Well... I was all excited because the Warhawk on PS One was awesome, and I could not wait to see 
 this game on the PS3. First of all the graphics and the stages are great looking and go beyond 
 what I expected; The water especially looked vibrant and immersing. The Detail of the planes were 
 all good. The things that I didn't like were very simple; There is no D$#@ story!!!! What up with 
 a game that thas nothing for single players to play solo through. Just flying around is only fun 
 for about 5 minutes and the online play is so hard you cant have any fun! I'm sure that Warhawk 
 is the rave for big online players; and I can see why for that matter; but, My problem is that 
 Warhawk isn't balanced for single player action and that joined with hard controls makes Warhawk 
 for PS3 a miss to me. Ok, so for something positive to say, the ground action was a great touch 
 for the gamer it gives a little variety to an unbalanced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucash94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the quality for become a great game. It's not a simple TPS (Third-Person Shooter) . 
 Warhawk is very hard for who started lately to play it, but with time the novice can become a General, 
 too! Negative Impressions: Hard, if played hour after hour can become boring, very hard to control 
 the Warhawk (airplane) , only multiplayer.
  Positive Impressions: It's fun, for the novice you can go on the rookie server, it's very original, 
 maybe the unic FTPS (Futuristic Third-Person Shooter) only in multiplayer! Very important are the 
 expansions pack in PS Store. There are many large maps, many vehicles different, 32 Gamers in Multiplayer 
 in a server. The hardest part of the game is to earn all Decoration, Grades and Medal! This game 
 can become a very great game if expansion pack will be free: my dream! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JosephMal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is amazing addictive and amazing fun. With combat in Warhawks, ground vehicles, and land, 
 this is the all-in-one shooter game. Although the weapons are fairly limited and a bit confusing 
 to switch to, it is a minor detail in an otherwise great game. The graphics are great, but can 
 still be a bit better. The Warhawks are simply amazing to fly and is full of surprises, due to 
 the multiplayer aspect of this game. The ground combat is in third person and has a great online 
 split screen feature similar to Halo 3. It allows for a friend to quickly jump into a game with 
 you and is incredibly fluid. I found the tutorials to be very informative, although they didn't 
 prepare you very well for online play. The controls for everything are excellent and simple to 
 use. The game is very similar to many shooters, but has a unique feel to it that differentiates 
 it from others of the same genre. This is the game that every PS3 user should have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteCouncilor
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, I read the reviews on the game. Some people said the maps were way too big. In my opinion, 
 there not too big. Because if you are only playing with 12 people you could adjust the map that 
 fits the amount of people. Another problem people were having balance issues, meaning if I jump 
 in a tank and your on foot it would be unbalanced which is wrong because there are ways to destroy 
 the tank on foot. There is also a ranking system, that gives you a rank from recurit to a general. 
 But if your a general, there's no physical difference from you and a recurit. The only difference 
 is uniforms. But note, it will take about... 2,000 hours to be a general (that was not a joke.) 
 The last thing is that you could be a pilot, or a tank driver, or a infantry guy carrying a flamethrower, 
 sniper, machine gun, knife, radio, and etc. you can basically do anything you want to win. So that's 
 warhawk, if you have any problems contact me.
  
  
  EliteCouncilor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eskimo630
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  When people are considering to buy this game I either say that they will absolutely love it or 
 absolutely hate it. There really is no in between. When I first bought this game it was ok, but 
 when I played it more and more I started having withdraws when I wasn't playing (a bit of exaggeration 
 there) . But It really grew on me. Now there really is no difficulty considering that it is an online 
 only game. Even with the training it doesn't count as a regular game. I would say that online only 
 just gives warhawk its unique identity. Now if your a kind of person that enjoys high end graphics 
 this is actually for you. now I very much know that its not realistic but it is really amazing 
 to look at. If you have a ps3 I would say this is a "have to get" game weather you like playing 
 it or not. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxymandias
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Been wondering about buying this game for ages, so last week when Sony offered the PSN 3 for one 
 deal I decided I buy it and all of the additional content. Download took a couple of hours (I've 
 only got 5meg Broadband) . Install took about 5 mins and I'd already downloaded the Warhawk manual 
 so I knew what to expect from the controls.
  
  Went through the very easy tutorial nice and easy.. step by step explains all of the controls etc. 
 The final step is to try your flying skills against an Ireland invested by missile firing drones. 
 This is very hard and I skipped it but as my flying skills have improved I note I last longer and 
 longer at this mode. So I'd recommend that you return to this if you want to improve you skills.
 
  
  Now the meat of this game is multiplayer and expect to get killed in so many ways to begin with 
 that you'll start to loose faith. Fear not.. take it easy and pick your fights.. This is not a 
 game that most people will master in 15 mins this is the sort of game that's mastered over days 
 and weeks. Start with turrets, tanks etc. and it will be quite rewarding.. That said its a bit 
 demoralizing if your killed every 30 seconds so I suggest that if you find yourself outclassed 
 in a game quit and find one where your actually learning something.
  
  Weapons:- Knife, Proximity mine, Riffle, Pistol, Flame thrower, RPG, Snipper Riffle, Binoculars 
 etc.
  Vehicles:- Jeep, Tank, Warhawk, APC, Jetpack
  Misc:- Turret, Machine guns etc.
  
  Games modes: Death match, Zones, Collection, Flag capture etc.
  
  One of the feature I love 
 about this game is the split screen mode, Can have may mates over and four people can play on the 
 same team (or against each other) . This requires a good sized screen IMHO. But its great fun. 
 Also makes team comms easy enough if your all sitting around the same TV.
  
  So the ramp up is harsh.. But its so addictive.. You can sneak up to an enemy and gut him with 
 your knife or use a snipper rifle from miles away. Much fun.
  
  its a game that's hard to fault.. The ramp up and learning curve are very steep but then that makes 
 the game worth playing. The lack of a manual on the downloaded version is probably my only gripe.. 
 Would not have taken much to have included it as part of the game!!.
  
  I've never played anything but the V1.5 version so stuff like the trophies where there from day 
 dot. Nice feature keeps you interested.. Love the fact that you can override the martial background 
 music with your own tracks or playlist. Much better playing to Prodigy or Sex Pistols. ;)
  
  Also you know when your doing well when you kill the host of a game so many times they pull 
 the plug on the game or kick you ;. Not happened very often but it is most amusing.
  
  Would recommend this game to anyone that likes playing alone or in a group that likes mindless 
 death on a grand scale. For people that learn from their experiences and get back in an do something 
 different.
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashking777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Well let me just say i really just cant get enough of this game its like i dont have the free will 
 to turn it off my dad has to come and say ''get off the game''. Ok lets talk about it's pros. well 
 warhawk is a multipayer online shooter game were you can face tonsand tons of challenges since 
 it just added its thropy section and a training sectio nthey have your basic weapons rageging from 
 your pistol to your RPG EVEN A JETPACK yes they have jetpacks now pple. This game is just near perfect 
 i would give it a 10 but just theres one con that makes this game imperfect and  
 this dosent happen often but if your in the lead or something or your doing good and the connection 
 fails and screw you up theres no use in goin back to the server now i shoulnd't be to mad at this 
 con but still it happens and hey thats life. Anyway this game is out of this world it really is 
 i give it a 9.9 even so it says 9.5 for my review rating. Now you all might be asking hows the graphics 
 and gapeplay/controls for the game. well theres just one answer for that AWSOME!!!!!!!!!!. It well 
 passes todays standerdes of gameplay and grapics earning it a place on my top 10 favorate games. 
 now its time to wrap up this review.
  
  conept:10/10
  gameplay:9.9/10
  graphics:10/10
  controls:10/10
  
  replay vaule: SUPER-DUPER HIGH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaughingManX23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I was referred to this game by a friend. Downloaded it to my HDD. (Nice little feature as well. 
 I can play Warhawk and jump straight to metal gear online with having to pop another disc in.)
 
  At first I was a little skeptical and thought I wasted my money. But, after I got the controls 
 down and learned a few of the tricks I've been playing this game quite often. Awesome weapons, vehicles, controls.
 
  Nice ranking system. From Recruit to Generals and plenty of badges to earn to show off what you 
 can do. Warhawk (jets) fights are nothing like I imagined it and quite fun. And with the newest firmware 
 of trophies and ability to play music from your XMB. It makes it a must have for those with the 
 extra cash.
  
  I'd suggest this game to anyone whose into online fighting games.
  
  And I haven't even bought the expansion of more weapons, vehicles, and customizations! Which has 
 a nice price of 15.99 for all 3 on the PS Store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Around spring 2006 they launched the Warhawk website, I was so exited about this game, I could 
 watch the gameplay and development movies over and over again, there was just something about the 
 proud music, the beautiful graphics, and the planes that made this the first PS3 game that I really 
 wanted to own. Then, around July or August they announced that they were no longer working on a 
 single player campain, but were now focusing all there work on one huge multiplayer experience. 
 I was hugely disapointed. 
  
  The graphics are just as good as I remember from the videos from spring '06. I just want to say 
 that the water effects in the oceans are really good and realistic.
  
  The multiplayer gameplay, while is done well, is hard to get into with more experienced players 
 pwning you every 2 seconds while you know virtually nothing about the controls.
  
  Honestly, I want to see a Warhawk 2, and there really needs to be a single player campain mode. 
 Incognito has made a promising game that needs and should be expanded upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
  
  This is one of the PS3's claims to faim when it comes to the PSN online play. Warhawk delivers 
 high-quality entertainment on all levels.
  
  There's pretty much no story here really. There are two sides of an endless battle, the Eucadians 
 and the Chernovians. One side is blue, one is red. That's pretty much all you need to know.
  
  Warhawk can be purchased two different ways. You can download the game for $29.99 on the PSN 
 Store, or you can buy the game from a game store of course. There is the Warhawk pack that also 
 comes with a headset, and then there's just the game and its case itself. Either way, you get the 
 same thing.
  
  Warhawk is a multiplayer-only shooter that supports up to 32 players in a single match. Its very 
 easy to jump right into a game once you start up. You choose to either side with the Eucadians 
 (red team) or the Chernovians (blue team) and the match begins. However, there's a downside to 
 this which is the first major flaw at first for the game. A new player is thrown into a match with 
 probably much more experienced players without a clue what to do. The only tutorials you receive 
 are small side articles when you pick up a weapon, but other than that, you're on your own to figure 
 out what to do. The controls are standard shooter-controls though, so it's not to difficult to 
 pick up the pace after about half an hour or so. However, it may take a new player a while to also 
 get used to the direct invert camera controls. You can also play via split screen with up to 4 
 friends. 
  
  Update: A new Warhawk update has provided training sessions that teach all about weapons, vehicles 
 and flying Warhawks. This new update also includes the PSN Trophy System, although most Warhawk 
 trophies are quite difficult to attain and usually require some extremely lucky moments to take 
 place.
  
  There are team deathmatches, deathmatches, capture the flag, and zone mode. Maps are varied and 
 huge in the game, and they're designed for different vehicular levels. Some are designed only for 
 dogfights in the sky, while others are vast ground areas with all types of bases and vehicles. 
 The matches are all very similar, you kill other players to gain points, and the team or player 
 with the most points at the end of a match wins. There are 20 levels to rank up to by gaining points. 
 During a match, you can gain spawn points for you or your team by capturing zones across a map. 
 Advanced players or clans can take advantage of the spawning system by closing out the other spawn 
 points of an opposite team and sniping them out as soon as a player spawns. This can get frustrating 
 if you're new to the game, but there are always holes in the plans of other teams. Hopefully. 
 
  
  Warhawk is very team-based. Having a headset and using it to communicate with your team works much 
 better in achieving victory than running off by yourself, but you can play the game however you 
 want. 
  
  When you first spawn, you start out with just a pistol and some grenades, but if you look around 
 a bit, you'll usually find many different weapons for a trooper to use. While fighting on foot, 
 you can use assault rifles, grenades, snipers, claymores, flamethrowers and RPGs. You can stay 
 locked on to an enemy foot soldier if you land a few shots on them, so you don't have to worry 
 about missing too much when it comes to assault rifles. Sniping is quite difficult most of the 
 time, mainly because other players are moving around so often. RPGs are used to help foot soldiers 
 take out planes flying above the map. You press and hold R1 and wait to lock on to a target, then 
 release and you should get a good hit. It may take a couple of good shots with an RPG to take out 
 a plane or tank.
  
  Vehicles are spread all over maps. Tanks can mostly be found in large garages with some smaller 
 vehicles. The controls for all vehicles are tight and well-balanced, and all have their own advantages 
 and disadvantages. Tanks are powerful machines that are good for taking out teams of ground soldiers 
 and jeeps, but can also take out a plane with a well-placed shot. Two players can get in a tank 
 at once, one mans the main gun and drives while the other player can man a turret, or open the 
 top hatch and shoot at other ground enemies. It's definitely another way the game supports cooperative 
 play. All vehicles take damage over short periods of time, and tanks can be sitting ducks for Warhawk 
 and missile-launcher rockets. 
  
  You can drive small 4x4 jeeps with turrets as well. These are very useful in matches like Capture 
 the Flag, where you need to get somewhere and go back fast. Another player can use the turret to 
 take out opponents as someone drives, similar to the tanks. Jeeps are fast but very weak when it 
 comes to taking damage from machine gun fire. 
  
  Then there are the Warhawk planes, one of the biggest vehicle aspects of the game. You can hop 
 into a plane and take off right away, then soar across as you please. There are two different flying 
 modes, hover and flight. Flight mode is for moving and maneuvering fast while getting from Point 
 A to Point B, and if you need to dodge a missile, you want to be able to duck, flip, dodge and 
 roll. Machine gun fire is especially effective against other planes while in this mode. If you 
 really want to do some damage to enemies on the ground, you pretty much are forced to go into hover 
 mode, where you're hovering in the air and slowly move around. You can lock on and launch missiles 
 at enemies and use your machine guns to take them out. This of course leaves you more vulnerable 
 to missiles and tank shots though, so be always be careful in this mode, and don't stay in one 
 spot too long. There are different missiles and weapons spread througout the sky which you can 
 pick up as you're flying along. Planes aren't necessarily weak when it comes to damage, but one 
 or two good shots with a missile launcher can get the job done. When you've got a missile locked 
 on to you, they're pretty hard to shake off, but it can be done. The best effective is to swoop 
 down then roll back up when in flight mode. You can pick up a health item in the air to replenish 
 the damage your plane has taken. Landing isn't especially effective, since you can't get out of 
 a plane until you're completely touching the ground, which leaves you again vulnerable to ground 
 fighters.
  
  Of course, there are all types of stationary ground weapons at your disposal, spread throughout 
 a map. The main weapons found on the ground are small submachine guns, large flak guns and missile-launchers. 
 Foot soldiers can use these to lock onto planes or tanks and take them out.
  
  As with most online shooters, Warhawk comes with a few expansion packs to take your experiences 
 to the next level. New vehicles, maps and gear are the main products you'll have to use after a 
 purchase. Some trophies in the game absolutely require buying one of these expansion packs! 
  
  Here are some of the new vehicles and gear you can get with an expansion pack. There is a new 
 armored car vehicle that you can drive by purchasing the online expansion pack. It supports up 
 to 8 players in a single vehicle with a lot of hatches on the top. Big dropships can be used to 
 pick up any vehicle and place it anywhere on the map. You've also got new jetpacks for an infantry 
 soldier to use, which control well and prove to be very useful when equipped with an RPG or other 
 powerful weapon. 
  
  Warhawk has great visuals. The large environments and vehicles all look good and realistic enough, 
 although production values don't quite meet up. Soldiers look a bit cartoonish, but this is very 
 forgiveable since the game is meant to be much more fun than realistic anyways. Heavy sound effects 
 increase intensity in matches, along with some good music to top it off. 
  Warhawk's pick-up-and-play gameplay, wide variety of tactics and huge matches make this shooter 
 a must-play for any PS3 owner.
  
  Pros:
  -Wide varitey of combat tactics and vehicles
  -Good-looking environments and vehicles
  -Great flight and vehicle control
  -Wide selection 
 of weapons 
  -Fast-paced and entertaining combat
  -Huge maps and matches with up to 32 players
  -Very straight forward, easy to jump into a match
 
  -New trophy system and expansion pack
  
  Cons:
  -Poor tutorials and in-game help
  -No story or idea of what's going on
  -Slightly cartoonish character models
  
  Gameplay: 
 9.4
  Graphics: 8.8
  Sound: 8.0
  Replay Value: 10
  Concept: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmarine08
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Warhawk? It is one of the best multiplayer games ever made. The graphics are 
 stunning, there is no lag even in 32 player matches, and the gameplay is incrediable. The controls 
 are very easy once you get use to them, and the combat is great. Ground combat is solid and it 
 is very unique with how it goes with the game. Vehicles are a blast to use. Tanks, jeeps, warhawks, 
 what more could you ask for. You can also play spilt-screen online. So you can play with up to 
 4 players at once. So you can have a friend over and play spilt-screen online with other people. 
 One of the best parts about this game is that you can play with up to 32 players, and when you 
 do this you are in for one intense battle. The warhawk is the star of the game. Once you get use 
 to the warhawk it is very powerful and a force to reckon with. If you have the chance, I strongly 
 suggest you get this game. You won't be dissapointed. I rate this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_hippo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This game was a b day gift to me. ive logged about 35 hours on and i am going to share my opinions. 
 Warhawk is a well rounded 3rd person shooter for the playstation 3. you can fight in warhawks which 
 shoot a selection of nine weapeons that can be collected py picking them up on the map as well 
 as infinite machine gun ammo ( although it can overheat) . you can also go on foot with a selection 
 of 9 weapons and unlimited pistol ammo. there are also other vehicles like the 4x4 and tank which 
 can do there fair share of damage but you cannot pick up special weapons in them. 
  
  I liked that you could play with up to four player online on one ps3. i found that the sensitivity 
 and reaction to moving the analog was a little off but the flight controls were perfect. there 
 was also a broad ranking system wich has me hooked and wanting more. if you own a ps3 be sure to 
 pick up warhawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  A big learning curve may scare some away, but those up to the challenge will be rewarded! I've 
 owned Warhawk for about half a week now, and I love the game. I still haven't really gotten the 
 hang of flying yet, so I try to stay away from the warhawks.
  
  I found land vehicles (specifically) tanks to be lacking the power that you see them have in other 
 war games. I only use the jeeps for transportation really. The character customization for the 
 game is extremely cool, one of the better features I've seen in a online videogame in a while. 
 I thought there were too few maps, but the good part is you can only play part of each map at a 
 time. I may have missed it, but I'm disappointed that you can't play the entire map at once, and 
 another thing that I didn't like, was that it costs $8 to get a new map and 2 new vehicles... rip-off 
 much?
  
  Other than a couple flaws, Warhawk is just plain fun, once you have learned how to play it. My 
 tip on how to make the game easier. Turn "Invert Up/Down" off. ;) If you aren't able to go online... 
 you can't play this. If you can, it's only $30 now, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseystryker
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  If you look at the various reviews of Warhawk, you'll notice a fairly large discrepancy in scores. 
 It seems that people either love it or hate it. Lets break it down and try to figure out if this 
 game is for you.
  First off, the game has a nice wartime graphical feel to it. It manages to nicely capture the feel 
 of a fantasy war in a far off land. Some may complain that the graphics look, for lack of a better 
 term, perhaps too "cartoony", though I feel that graphics rendered any other way just wouldn't 
 fit the bill that this game has accrued. 
  Obviously the meat of almost every online game out there is the gameplay. If done right it pushes 
 the game to another level, if done wrong then it can completely ruin an otherwise stellar game. 
 The controls are extremely tight and intuitive. You have somewhat limited control customization 
 options, but really they're so well laid out in the first place that you won't need/want to change 
 them too much to start with.
  Probably the most incredible thing about this game is the overall balance of the vehicles and weapons 
 in general. Virtually every weapon has another weapon that can counter it if used in the proper 
 situation. The thing that makes this game so difficult and gives it perhaps one of the steepest 
 learning curves I've ever seen is trying to figure out when and what situations to use what weapons. 
 Unfortunately this may lead to a lot of frustration for the impatient, but trust me, you'll be 
 greatly rewarded it you stick it out and take the time to learn the ropes. 
  The maps are huge, some are almost too big at times, but the plus side is that there are tons of 
 map variations of different sizes that can easily be set in order to accommodate as few as 8 players 
 all the way up to 32, and trust me, nothing beats the feeling of being in a closely contested Capture 
 the Flag game with 32 players duking it out.
  Another unique feature of this game is the overall freedom you have. You can literally do whatever 
 you want to do. You want to specialize as a sniper and stealth tactics, do it. If you want to be 
 an ace pilot and mow every living thing down from the air, do it. If you want to be a base defender 
 and protect the homeland, do it. If you want to pound the front-lines as a soldier and be the the 
 first to battle, do it. If you want to specialize in the heavy artillery and man a tank shooting 
 howitzers at the enemy, by all means do it.
  Overall this game is about the freedom to do what you want, when you want it, and with a huge online 
 community, this game rarely seems stale or gets old. Trust me, I'm speaking from over 700 hours 
 of play time. This game is just that good, and with the continual support from Incognito and new 
 booster packs coming out every few months, you just can't go wrong with this game if you're looking 
 for an incredible "online only" experience. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  My experience with Warhawk was soured at first. I had many connection problems with the servers, 
 although having a pretty good internet connection. I also just had trouble getting used to the 
 game. It has a steep learning curve, but when you get over the hump, its a great game to play, 
 and also very addicting. A patch has improved server stability, so I have an easier time connecting 
 to games now.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is your choice. Play Warhawk how you want to play it. You can run around 
 in tanks, jeeps, turrets, and of course Warhawks. Warhawks are jets that can also hover. While 
 it seems like the Warhawks would overpower every other opponent in the game, everything is very 
 balanced. Warhawks can be taken out by Anti Aircraft Towers, and they can in turn take out those 
 AA towers. Warhawks can take out tanks and vice versa. Every weapon has a counter, which makes 
 Warhawk to be like a frenetic, fast paced game of warfare chess. Its great. 
  There are many maps, many game modes, many customization options. Warhawk is intended to keep you 
 into it for the long haul.
  
  Graphics/Sound- The graphics are good, not great. Watching a Warhawk explode from an AA tower and 
 seeing the pilot drop to the ground is a visceral pleasure. The models of the vehicles and characters 
 arent astounding, everything fits well, and the environments are done very well with a cool artistic 
 style. The sound is pretty good. From the rumbles of the vehicle's engines, to the gun sounds, 
 its all done well. The soundtrack is average, typical war game music, but well done.
  
  Fun/value- This game has a steep learning curve. You'll get your ass handed to you for awhile, 
 but once you get good, this game is excellent. There are enough game modes and replayability to 
 keep you coming back for more. And free updates along with the expansion packs add more value to 
 the game.
  
  Conclusion- If you like War games, and you like multiplayer mayhem, Warhawk is definetly for you. 
 Give yourself some time to get good, and you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Uber_Diablo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Once you start playing, it's hard to get used to because you get in and your already being massacred 
 by all the elite players that have been playing for a year or more, but now incognito is coming 
 out with the new patch on the twenty-seventh with training modes for each of the types of things 
 that you play in . . . (foot, ground vehicles, and flying) It's a great game, great graphics, lots 
 of people playing so you don't have to wait forever to find a game that you want to play in, and 
 they have the awards that you can earn along with promotions, and you have to get the awards to 
 go up in the ranks. Another thing along with the upcoming patch is the trophies to keep you going 
 even longer! I highly recommend getting this game if you like online games and earning things with 
 a challenge!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Well i had been playing RFOM and i loved the multiplayer for a long time, so when i got Warhawk 
 i felt at home. This game has some really cool things that set it aside from other games. Planes, 
 tanks, jeeps, drop-ships, tons of weapons, turrents and so much more.
  The game features open world combat and it has some great, modes: hero, CTF, team d, death match, 
 Zones and collection. This game also features guests, you can paly with up to 3 other friends online 
 in one PS3. This gives all some great intense battles of 32 players LAG FREE!! yes LAG FREE.... how, 
 well Sony has exclusive servers and they never go down or lag, so you can play for hours and hours 
 and never lag. This game has tons of Medals, ribbons, badges, and great player customization. Not 
 to mention upcoming trophies Agu 27.
  
  Over all its a great game worth every penny.... so buy it its only 29 now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csqwared
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Warhawk is a great example of what people want out of this generation of consoles. A great 
 online game, with intense battles! There is a great selection of weapons, and vehicles, and the 
 rank system is well built. Although it can be slow paced at times, that can change immediately 
 when a plane, or jeep shows up. If you are interested in Third Person Shooters, or online games 
 in general than this will not dissapoint. The only problem is the learning curve can be somewhat 
 steep.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  +Environments are huge, and look great!
  -Kind of a cartoony feel to it.
  -------------------------
  Graphics Description:
  Warhawk 
 isn't meant to be as gritty as games like KILLZONE 2, or Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, it has 
 more of a cartoony feel to it. Almost like Team Fortress 2, but a bit less. The maps are huge, 
 and looks great. I don't think you could really pick this game up just based on graphics alone, 
 but the graphics definitely shouldn't stop you from picking it up.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  +Awesome vehicles!
  +Can inspire nice teamwork.
  -Steeper learning curve to be truly 'great.'
 
  -------------------------
  Gameplay Description:
  The gameplay in Warhawk isn't as tactical as other games like SOCOM, or Metal Gear Online, but 
 it does kind of set you in a team spirit. The vehicles are some of the best ever put into a game. 
 The planes handle great, and the land vehicles are setup perfectly. Although it can be some-what 
 unfair when a plane goes and attacks a ground troop, as long as you play it right you can have 
 a fair fight just about anywhere you go. It can take a while to become a pro at this game, and 
 since some people have had it for so long it can get kind of frustrating, but you can always find 
 someone of your own level if you look hard enough.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  +The music almost always suits the mood of the map.
  +Vehicle sounds are great.
  -Sometimes 
 there just isn't enough excitement in the music.
  -------------------------
  Sound Description:
  The vehicle sounds in Warhawk are extremely well done, and the music for 
 the maps is almost always spot on. But sometimes you just need something else. There really isn't 
 much wrong as far as sound goes, it could just have a bit more of a variety in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a brilliant example of online gaming. Warhawk pits gamers against each on 3 different 
 fronts: on foot, in ground vehicles and by air. There are many different kinds of weaponry in Warhawk 
 like flame-throwers, auto rifles and mines all of which can prove useful and a bit annoying depending 
 on which situation you're in. For instance if you're in a tank you're totally on a role pwning 
 everyone up with its canon and the you get to some guy. You try to shoot him but he gets too close 
 and deposits a mine on the hull. It takes about 2 seconds to activate and even if you get out of 
 the tank in time the subsequent explosion spreads far enough to blow you away. The planes are fun 
 but I tend to avoid them as much as possible. In the plane it's best to play it safe and keep to 
 the side of the battle in hover mode. The missiles in the plane can mash other planes up but unfortunately 
 once you're in a plane someone locks a missile onto you and they're bloody hard to shake off. On 
 foot however the game is considerably easier. With a lot of the weapons once you fire on someone 
 the reticule looks on to them meaning you don't have to worry about them moving and yourself developing 
 lead thumbs and over shifting the aim. This is quite good when shooting but not so hot when being 
 shot. Explosives like grenades are handy when taking on other just aim in front of them or you'll 
 miss them totally. Grenades are good against trucks. when someone is in the back of one at the 
 turret just pop one off in the back of the truck and BOOM!
  The servers are excellent. Throughout all the time I've played Warhawk the servers have never once 
 lagged noticeably. Also unlike some games which have lesser graphics in their online to make it 
 run better, Warhawk has stunning graphics and the servers still run incredibly well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  While it's not perfect, its incredible depth and balanced gameplay will more than make up for some 
 of its more apparent issues.
  
  Immediately upon starting the game as a new recruit, you'll set up your basic character model appearance 
 in battle for both your soldier and your Warhawk. Here, you'll select a specific side that you'd 
 like to appear as during your various battles: the Eucadians and the Chernovans. The Eucadians 
 appear to be much more early and mid-20th century in appearance, while the Chernovans seem to be 
 more technological and futuristic. The choice that you make is purely cosmetic, and doesn't really 
 have any impact upon the title whatsoever, especially without the plot. It could've been red versus 
 blue, pirates versus ninjas or any other classic showdown for the ages. All you need to know is 
 that you're enemy is anyone that isn't on your team, and you want to blow them out of the sky and 
 off the face of the earth.
  
  To that end, you'll engage up to 31 other players across five different worlds, each of which can 
 be segmented into as large or as small a stage as you want for tight, hectic firefights or protracted 
 strategic advances and counters. You'll take on your opponents in one of four different gameplay 
 modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and Nodes play. Veterans of multiplayer games 
 will know the mechanics behind Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag by heart, although 
 there are two mild twists on the standards. First of all, if you decide to play a dogfight only 
 game, you're engaging in only Deathmatch or Team Deathmatch; there doesn't seem to be any sense 
 in Capture the Flag or Nodes when you never touch the ground in that mode without exploding. Secondly, 
 scattered across every single map are a number of sub-bases and mini-checkpoints. Capturing these 
 bases allows you to create a spawn point for anyone on your team, who can then warp to any checkpoint 
 or base in that territory as long as it's in your control. It also generates new weapons, turrets 
 and vehicles for you and your allies to use. What makes the twist so interesting is that it helps 
 ease you into the understanding behind the new Nodes Play feature.
  
  In Nodes play, your entire goal is to capture bases and remain within the boundaries of that territory, 
 "growing" its strength and power from your troop presence. The more troops that you have in that 
 vicinity, the larger your turf becomes, which generates points for your team that you need to win 
 the game. If you manage to link together two or more nodes, you get a bonus on the number of points, 
 as well as increase the number of weapons your team can use. The other side benefit of building 
 your turf is that it makes it harder for an opposing team to enter your boundaries and take land 
 back, giving you a opportunity to repel the invaders.
  
  Speaking of repelling invaders, Warhawk gives players myriad ways to eliminate their opponents. 
 There are seven aerial weapons and nine ground weapons that compliment the three vehicles found 
 in the game as well as the three turret types that players can get behind. Incognito went through 
 a ton of time and dozens of adjustments from the beta and earlier play sessions to get the weaponry 
 set up just right. I could literally go into pages upon pages of detail as to tactics and different 
 ways that these weapons could be used, but perhaps one of the most striking elements about the 
 weapon system within Warhawk is just how incredibly balanced the entire game system is. Practically 
 every weapon has a specific counter or counter situation. For instance, laid mines can be destroyed 
 with bursts from a flame thrower. Extremely powerful weapons, such as the homing missile, rocket 
 launcher turret and the laser targeting binoculars take time to achieve a lock or unload their 
 full power. Faster weapons, like swarm missiles, rifle bullets and heavy machine gun nests are 
 faster but do less damage, requiring successive hits to destroy their intended target. That also 
 discounts everything from playing with stealth and surprise, such as sniping an enemy from half 
 a map away, or going in guns blazing on a jeep and deploying right in the midst of an enemy base.
 
  
  The same can be said about the balance between ground troops, ground vehicles and turrets, and 
 Warhawks (or Nemesis Gliders if you happen to roll Chernovan) . In a way, there's almost a rock-paper-scissors 
 setup between the three classes: Ground troops aren't heavily armored, and can go down to a mounted 
 turret, aerial attack or be run over by a vehicle. However, they're nimble enough to avoid many 
 of these attacks, and can potentially destroy either turrets or planes with an assortment of arms. 
 Turrets are powerful weapons, but as soon as you fire them, everyone pretty much knows where you 
 are, and since they're fixed embankments, they're often sitting ducks for Warhawks or soldiers 
 that dare to get up close (typically as the turret is reloading) . Warhawks, on the other hand, 
 can destroy anything in the air, but to truly be effective against soldiers, vehicles and turrets 
 without dropping a cluster bomb on the run, the planes have to hover in place. This leaves them 
 open to any number of attacks provided that their opponents are intelligent enough to take advantage 
 enough of it.
  
  As a result of the balance of firepower, battles between experienced Warhawk players often turn 
 into an adrenaline-fueled bullet and bomb ridden ballet of strategic warfare. Attacks and defensive 
 plans of key bases to take and hold are more apparent to everyone for specific maps, making it 
 easier for you and everyone on your team to immediately know what they need to accomplish to help 
 their side claim victory over the other. This is the fast paced play that Incognito was aiming 
 for, and it's quite a rush to engage in. For example, one game I played in was an intense firefight 
 in which at least seven explosions and ten players died around me in what was a dangerous but necessary 
 corridor to another checkpoint. It was insane, it was hectic, and it was awesome to survive.
  
  Another thing that's impressive in the midst of battles is the control scheme, which is tight 
 and responsive. Players have a number of options to adjust their controls, including inverting 
 the analog sticks and even engaging Sixaxis control function for the ground vehicles and aircraft. 
 It's nice to know that you have the option to turn that mode on and off at will instead of being 
 stuck with it as your sole mode of operation. Personally, I found it to be a little loose for my 
 control tastes, but I know some people that swear by it because it frees up your hands for aiming, 
 so it's one of those things that may work for some players and not for others.
  
  Regardless of your experience with the game, you'll be evaluated at the end of a match with your 
 stats and performance on the battlefield. If you happen to be playing a ranked match, the points 
 for the actions you did will add up and allow you to be promoted in rank. This will also let you 
 receive medals and ribbons such as killing enemies with a specific weapon or capturing a base with 
 your teammates a set number of times. There are at least twenty separate ranks that players can 
 acquire, starting at the lowly recruit and moving all the way up to General. Gaining the first 
 few promotions are relatively easy to do, particularly if you blast every opponent that gets in 
 your sights, but as time goes on, the requirements get tougher, making it much harder to acquire 
 new ranks.
  
  Apart from bragging rights, the ranks can be used to unlock new costume skins for your character 
 model. Also, depending on how a server is set up, ranks can restrict players from servers where 
 they'd easily blow away less skilled warriors, since you have to meet that player ranking or lower 
 to be eligible to enter a room. I did manage to run into one strange quirk with the player ranking 
 system. Every now and then, the game would accidentally lose my progress, demoting me to a recruit 
 when I'd already climbed up several ranks. I don't know if it's a launch time glitch or a significant 
 issue, but it was strange to have to continually reload my profile to remind the server that I'd 
 put in several hours of work.
  
  Now, even with the finely honed balance that Incognito put into Warhawk, there are some things 
 that stand out when it comes to jumping into a game and testing your skill against the rest of 
 the world. With the exception of some hints that pop up during certain game situations (like the 
 first time you pick up a weapon) , there are no tutorials, training missions, bots or other introductory 
 steps into the online space of Warhawk. As a result, even if players generate a local game to learn 
 the layout of the maps, most players will sink instead of swim for at least the first hour until 
 they start to get the hang of the various nuances of the game. During that time, they will most 
 likely run into the largest issue that plagues any multiplayer game: rampant spawn camping that 
 can have missiles quickly being rocketed in a novice's direction as soon as they return to the 
 game. 
  
  It does sound improbable, especially because the establishing of bases, checkpoints and nodes that 
 allow killed players to respawn should eliminate this issue. However, if you ever happen to be 
 in a game with a skilled group of players or even a clan that goes up against a group of relative 
 newcomers (particularly on a General ranked board, which means anyone can play) , you'll quickly 
 discover how lopsided this can become. Having experienced it from both sides, you'll notice that 
 the skilled players establish their forward bases and then set up a solid defense network of turrets, 
 tanks and players focused on keeping enemies at bay. The attack force moves forward, recaptures 
 opposing nodes and eventually reduces their opponents to their sole checkpoint, hovering and sniping 
 away at the unlucky team continually walking into this virtual killing field. Thankfully, a rival 
 can't completely overrun and capture an enemy's base, or many games would be over before some teams 
 knew what hit them
  
  I know it doesn't exist in the current version, but I do wonder if part of the newbie issue could 
 be reduced by the inclusion of an observer mode in future updates, so newcomers could choose to 
 be a spectator on pre-existing matches and gain an idea of what veteran players are doing. This 
 way, when they step onto the field for the first time, they have a sense of what works and doesn't 
 work well without constantly being shot. It won't reduce the spawn camping problem, but it may 
 give some newcomers ideas of what they'll need to do to avoid constantly being crushed handily 
 by their opponents, unless they're willing to filter their games by their personal rank or create 
 their own servers and host their own games.
  
  Creating your servers to host games or clan matches is incredibly easy thanks to Warhawk's robust 
 options. Players can immediately decide if their server will be a player server if they want to 
 play non-ranked games, dedicated if they want to host but not play non-ranked games or ranked dedicated 
 if they want to play on their server but not participate in ranked games. What's more, players 
 can set everything from passwords for clan meetings to friendly fire damage and spawn delays, and 
 save these settings for future gameplay sessions. In fact, hosts can have their games up and running 
 the way they want in five minutes or less, which is pretty impressive right out of the box without 
 any significant or massive adjustments for the PSN. 
  
  What players will experience as they enter the five worlds of Warhawk is a visual feast for the 
 eyes. I've seen the game evolve from its earlier builds through the beta into the final stages, 
 and the little nuances never fail to impress me. There are things like cartwheeling bodies from 
 explosions that rock turrets, vehicles and aircraft, lighting effects that cast shadows across 
 the environment as they streak to their target and other nice touches. Since character models can 
 change based on a player's rank and their personal tastes with their outfits, you may not see the 
 same person twice in a game. You will, on the other hand, get quite accustomed to the landscape 
 since there are only five worlds. However, the environments are quite lush and the fact that a 
 map can be splintered into different arrangements makes it one of those things that should hopefully 
 keep the experience fresh.
  
  Sound effects are quite excellent as well. Often, you will find yourself using weapon reports to 
 cue in on where an attack is coming from via their sound effects. For instance, if it's the crackle 
 of electricity or the whoosh of a flame thrower, you have an idea of what it is and who could've 
 been firing it. The explosions are quite raucous, particularly when you encounter a string of them 
 that rock the battlefield, and the vehicles sound incredibly powerful and dangerous. This is supported 
 by a nicely paired soundtrack, which gives you a feeling of being in a military movie with a dramatic 
 underscoring the action.
  
  Now, for players that don't want to download Warhawk, or prefer to have the game physically in 
 hand, the package deal of the game is available for $60 dollars instead of the $40 on the store. 
 The retail version included a Blu-ray disc with some extra video content as well as a Jabra headset, 
 which could be used for the game. The headset charges up quickly (in about an hour, even though 
 the documentation says two) and works as well as any other headset that we've previously used for 
 the game; in fact, we tested it with the packed in Bluetooth and a Logitech USB headset and sensed 
 no discernible difference. It really comes down to a matter of personal preference: would you rather 
 download the game or have a physical copy of it? The headset is a nice extra, but it's understandable 
 that some people may not want it if they'd rather have a downloadable copy of the game or if there's 
 another headset that they prefer to use. One short note, however: after a couple of hours with 
 the Jabra in my ear, it did get a little uncomfortable, so you may want to take that into consideration 
 and switch sides if you're going for marathon Warhawk sessions.
  
  It may be multiplayer only, it may not have bots, and it may have a steep learning curve, but Warhawk 
 lives up to its billing: a AAA experience that is an adrenaline rush for online fans. Large worlds, 
 balanced combat mechanics and impressively deep server mechanics help this fast paced game soar. 
 Regardless if you happen to prefer the retail version or the downloadable PSN title, this Sony 
 exclusive shouldn't pass PS3 owners by.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakkro
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is an online multi-player game for the PS3 as you might know. When you first get the game 
 the manual isn't much of a help, so you have to learn everything from basic experience. On your 
 first day, or maybe first few days, you will have to adjust to all of the controls -- but as you 
 are doing that, you get to see how you will be playing the game for most of your spent time: air 
 combat or ground combat. As a new player, it might seem hard to accomplish winning any game rounds, 
 mostly because the maps are generally very large and expansive, and also because there are 1-16 
 people on the other team trying to defeat you. 
  
  The gameplay is extremely fast paced, so every player is constantly engaged in intense infantry, 
 vehicle, and air combat. The graphics are fantastic, and you will become adapted to seeing objects 
 explode right before you. You can use a microphone headset to interact with other players during 
 online play. (Which can come in handy when you are coordinating with your team for an even higher 
 level of strategic gameplay.) There is a ranking system that depends on how many points and/or 
 medals, ribbons, and badges you have earned. After you achieve the next rank, you can choose new 
 customization options for your avatar. You will find yourself ranking up quickly as you first start 
 to play the game, but higher ranks require more time and patience.
  
  Each round you play in calls for a balanced level of air and infantry/vehicle dominance. Sometimes 
 you might end up trying to survive as you and your team are being chased from tanks, trucks, turrets, 
 and warhawks. (This happens during a very unbalanced game.)
  
  There are official servers that are automatically set-up in the Warhawk community for players to 
 join. Players can also make their own public or private matches to suit their own likings.
  
  As a troop, you can choose from a variety of infantry weapons which are laid out across the 
 map for any player to acquire them. You can jump into a heavily armored tank with deadly firepower (holds 
 up to two people) , or a truck which isn't as well protected as the tank, but is much speedier. 
 (Truck includes machine gun in the back seat and holds up to three people.) The warhawk is probably 
 the most deadly weapon in the game, which is why some rounds may be very unbalanced due to the 
 other team overloading with warhawks. The warhawk also has many deadly weapons, but these weapons 
 are also laid out across the sky. 
  
  There are 6 different game modes: Capture the Flag, Zones, Team Death Match, Death Match, Hero, 
 and Collection. Each mode requires its own unique level of teamwork, so once you have tested each 
 one -- you can decide which modes you will expertise in.
  
  Warhawk is a magnificent game for gamer' s who adore intense online shooters. (Warhawk is an online 
 game only and does not have a story line or tutorial option.)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeye1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is an intense fully online multiplayer game. The game has 2 factions, Eucadia and Chernova, 
 who are at war with each other. The game features a use of fighter jets, attack jeeps and tanks.
 
  
  When you first start playing Warhawk it is incredibly unforgiving, you get shot to pieces every 
 2 seconds (or it would seem) . But when you get used to the controls and intensity of fighting it 
 becomes a lot easier and you start getting your own back on everyone who made your Warhawk experience 
 hell.
  
  In my opinion Warhawk can be quite fun because it gives you get a chance to fight against other 
 people rather than AI.
  
  The graphics for Warhawk are quite good, especially the water because water is usually quite hard 
 to make look realistic. However one thing which is a bit odd is the fact that when you die you 
 go flying around although it is funny when you get shot by a sniper and you go flying into things.
 
  
  All in all I'd say Warhawk is an interesting and different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game. The graphics are great, the gameplay is polished and the features are 
 really impressive. Character customization, plane customization, civilization selection...
  
  This game is great in every aspect. For those who have a stable internet connection on their 
 PlayStation, that is. This game also feels like those very cool arcade games, you know? With a 
 stick you occasionally push and pull and tilt left or right. It's also very intuitive, and the 
 acrobatics system is very creative.
  
  The air combat is something that you can tell: The producers didn't have a clue what they were 
 doing, but it turned out really cool. It's very simple, fast paced and luckily for us, unrealystic. 
 If it was realystic like other crappy games like Halo (in the air combat aspect with the banshee, 
 I mean) , In which you're flying in circles, hoping to hit the enemy and not get hit by him/her, 
 it would be really boring.
  
  While you're on the ground, it feels like a simple third-person shooter, like you walk and shoot 
 with a slight aim-assist, which thank God it's there, cuz the enemies are mostly too far away and 
 moving too fast for you to be able to hit them, not to mention they take forever to die, so the 
 aim assist is necessary. But the game wouldn't feel like a complete game if there was only the 
 simple-as-it-can-possibly-be ground combat (which is not bad, I actually love it) , so that's why 
 it has awesome aerial combat and fast-paced action with turrets, vehicles and machine guns.
  
  It's an amazing game, the ribbon and medal stuff that you get when you accomplish certain things 
 are cool also. For example, when you get the one you needed to advance in rank you feel so happy, 
 especially if you've been trying for hours. I did, at least.
  
  Another thing that I like about this game is that you never feel inferior to anyone. A machine 
 gun can take out an airplane easily, and vice-versa, for example. So people don't go out owning 
 everybody just because they got the plane first, a ground troop is really dangerous with a rocket 
 launcher. In fact, I think it's the best kind of missile in the game. So you always feel equal 
 to everybody else in this game, which kinda cheers you up even more.
  
  To sum up, this is a VERY good multiplayer game that I think everyone that has a Ps3 should have. 
 It's like one of the Ps3 "main guns". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfire709
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  There are not many video games that completely focus on multiplayer and playing against others 
 online, but Warhawk really shines as a perfect game for people who have plenty of game-loving friends. 
 The first great aspect of Warhawk is that it is completely played online against others around 
 the globe. Instead of playing on a linear and straight forward single player campaign, you play 
 with skilled gamers that will offer a different gaming experience every time. Warhawk isn't just 
 for gamers that can sling a gun up faster then others, players can choose to wage war on foot, 
 in a vehicle, or in an aircraft. The different weapons and vehicles allow players to choose which 
 kind of combat they really excel in. A Warhawk team needs all types of players, skillful pilots 
 to maintain the skies, quick drivers and gunners to keep the advance going, and expert infantry 
 to capture strategic points on the map.
  Warhawk is an excellent game, but is not without a few flaws. You will probably run into lag problems 
 during matches since it is completely online. Experience of players are mostly judged by their 
 rank. Going from Recruit to Airman to Sergeant is not too difficult, but reaching ranks of Lieutenant, 
 Commanders and Generals requires constant game play. Along with the hard-to-reach ranks, medal 
 require the exact same thing. Ribbons and badges can be acquired more easily but medals really 
 show the veterancy of a player. Despite these difficult requirements for rewards and ranks, they 
 do set a goal for more hardcore players.
  Despite unpopularity compared to other games, Warhawk is a real great multiplayer game. Make sure 
 to join a clan for full cooperative game play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballinup
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Although Warhawk takes from 30 minutes-1 hour to start to full understand the game and the variety 
 of the weapons and their uses, this game has to be the best online game.
  
  The ability to use aircrafts, vehicles and infantry will blow your mind. Once you learn how to 
 use them, you will realize how well balanced each weapon in the game, so no vehicle or warhawk 
 can completely obliterate infantry. To take out a tank its as easy as whacking it a few times with 
 a wrench which is unlike other games where a tank might seem to be unstoppable. 
  
  The controls for each weapon works very well, definatly how each ground weapon has a different 
 use. The driving is usual and is easy to learn. But i was most suprised how easy the warhawk was 
 to use. Even when locked on you can shake off the missles by spinning out.
  
  Warhawk is a must buy. Once you start playing i wish you luck on trying to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twoleggedpirate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  BUY IT... its amazing and dont hate it until you play it for a while cuz you probably would bc 
 your being owned... but that should only last for like 2 rankings then you get the hang of it.... its 
 the best multiplayer ever just unbelievable... i wish i knew the story though XD Blut clan is the 
 best...... we just need some more good players... anywaysss about the game... its the perfect deal 
 for the price and just a great game. There is always someone online... well always alot of someones 
 =O ulimited play and to be honest not hyped enough aha, i bought it because of the cover and i 
 didnt even know about the supposed "hype" and i just .... its the best way better than resistance 
 and halo (ive played both) and no im not a fanboy im just a mexican, i just wish i was general 
 = (... but get it and be patience cuz youll need it at first but then after that you'll love destroying 
 others and laugh as they get angry on the mic aha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skittle621
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  With a lot of first person shooters under my belt, I had to play warhawk. While its fun at some 
 points, its irritating in others.
  
  The gameplay is fine, not the best, but it will do. I like the idea of air and land, but it leads 
 to problems, such as "air whores", or people who decide to spend the entire match in a plane. While 
 this is not the developer's fault, i just feel it causes unbalance in those who like the close 
 quarters combat on foot.
  
  The graphics are nice, lots of detail in the planes and tanks. The game is set in a third person 
 view, and the characters and vehicle models look cartoonish, in my opinion, but that adds to the 
 arcadey feel that i enjoy about warhawk.
  
  All in all, this is another shooter worth taking a look at, its ONLINE ONLY, so there is not single 
 player, and no tutorial, so you must jump right in, but its easy to get into, and very difficult 
 to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shlomiki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  
  Warhawk is a great game, it packs some enjoyable online with cool (although not stunningly realistic) 
 weapons and a variety of vehicles to choose from. It's a great online action experience: ground-assaults 
 being conducted with a variety of well thought-out tactics and Warhawks waging fierce fights in 
 the air; making this game one that you'll definitely wan't to check.
  
  Warhawks ever-populated servers are easy to access and play smoothly due to their great technical 
 support. That means no lag in this game.
  
  The game features some great ranking systems (tough they won't always be that clear and/or easy 
 to use) , and a nice range of unlockable faces and uniforms. You'll also earn ribbons for special 
 achievements. You'll be able to recognize if one is a newb, or a hardened veteran, by the appearance 
 of that person.
  
  One thing you'll find frustrating as a new soldier to the Warhawk- community, is the lack of a 
 decent manual. The downloadable version of the game doesn't feature any manual, and the retail 
 version includes a poor instruction booklet that doesn't explain the in-game mechanics and controls 
 very well. It's a sad thing that the developers didn't create a decent manual, cause newcomers 
 will have a hard time getting into the game.
  But - the game's simple (yet deep) gameplay makes the lack of a manual not all that bad.
  
 
  
  Closing comments:
  
  Warhawk is a great online shooter and certainly makes up for the spent money. - A great mix between 
 action and tactic to keep you busy for many, many hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poodle_hat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics : Warhawk doesn't exactly have the most breathtaking graphics on the PS3 as it goes for 
 a cartoony feel. Not a bad thing though, just not a strong point of the game.
  
  Story : -
  
  Gameplay - Just to let you know Warhawk is online only and no single player campaigns 
 are available, but it's probably more fun killing people online with things like a warhawk, tank, 
 jeep, flamethrower (just to name a few) . 
  You can also go split screen online which is a nice addition if you and your buddy are fighting 
 for a go. Apart from the set maps on the game there are 3 maps you can currently download from 
 the Playstation storefor 9.99 which all add different vehicles. 
  
  Overall : Great online game you should definitely try out. Though if your looking for a single 
 player experience, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic187
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When i downloaded it from ps store i thought it should be fun but when i started up the game and 
 started playing i saw a warhawk. i hopped in and after 5 second of flight i was pwnded. When i 
 see the warning... missile i know im going to die, be mutiladed and torn to pieces in less then 
 a 00,1 of a second. If i do the same thing, the other guy escapes or when hit, he wont die. well 
 since i think the warhawk is crap, i see a stationary rocket launcher. it has a guided function 
 and soon i get my first kills with just a rocket, no fun. i get back in the warhawk i get owned 
 again. then i pick up a rocked launcher and to the same as with the stationary rocket. at the end 
 of the match i had abseluteley no fun and got 12 kills and alot more deaths. maybe if i get good 
 at warhawk, ill actually find it fun but since its so extremeley frustrating getting owned by nerds 
 over again and having no fun and its difficultry and beying unbalanced make this game not alot 
 of much fun for me. yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dredge27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game totally owns if ur thinking about getting it get it! it takes a while to get the controls 
 down but after that is very very fun. now walk to the nearest store in the area that sells it and 
 buy it or else live without the game. o ya theres no lock on which kinda sucks unless ur gonna lock 
 on to planes with a rocket launcher the whole entire time. which i dont. And try to learn how to 
 fly first because the planes can be devestating to noob infantry. now begone with u to walmart 
 go or else regret it forever! seriously im not kidding . and this is to waste up space l l ll l 
 l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l l l ll l ll l ll 1 1 1 l l ll l l l l l ll l 
 l k hj g h k h kjk l ll jj h g d g j l ; k k kk k k kl l ll l llllll l ll l l l l ll l l ll l l 
 l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l ll l l l l llll lll lll lll llll lll llll lll llll llll lll l ll l 
 l l ll l l l l l l l ll ll ll ll l lll lll ll ll l ll l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l 
 l l l ll l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l ll l l l l 
 l ll l l l l l ll l l l l l ll l l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l ll l l l l ll l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  First off Warhawk is a multiplayer only game that is focused on team effort and intense fighting. 
 What makes Warhawk so fun is the constant fight to survive and achieve your goal. There is team 
 death match, death match, zones, and my favorite capture the flag. Personally I only like capture 
 the flag but it's so fun that you only have to like at least one mode to love the game. Warhawk 
 also features 4 player splitscreen co-op which is the best way to play. But splitscreen can only 
 be played on an unranked server so you wont find a 32 player game with splitscreen (the max you 
 can get with co-op is 24 players which is still great) . This though is Warhawks only flaw. It can 
 sometimes be hard to find a decent co-op enabled game. Sony has official servers that have 32 player 
 matches but there all ranked so users have to make their own games with splitscreen unranked matches. 
 If sony had official unranked splitscreen enabled servers the game would be a ten. But anyway the 
 game is fast paced and a constant thrill. You will never get bored. 
  
  GAME FACTS:
  There are 3 vehicles: Tank, Jeep and Warhawk 
  Weapons: Pistol, Machine Gun, Knife, Grenade, Rench, 
 Air Strike (binoculars) , Mines, Bio Health Pack, Sniper Rifle, Flame Thrower
  Game Modes: Team Death Match, Death Match, Zones, Capture The Flag
  
  Q & A:
  
  Q: Is Warhawk 
 all about flying?
  A: Warhawk has flying but ground combat is the main function of the game. If you are buying this 
 game to fly planes only then you shouldnt get Warhawk. There are dog fights though.
  
  Q: Is Warhawk intense?
  A: Warhawk's intensity puts COD4's to shame. It is ridiculous how intense 
 tis game is. I have played a game that had an explosion every 10 seconds. It's a battle to say 
 the least.
  
  Q: Is it hard?
  A: Warhawk does have a slight learning curve. You can adjust all controls to your liking though 
 to help you out. Your first games you will suck but if you are good at games through time you will 
 shine. Regardless though you will find your place in the battlefield.
  
  Q: Is there lagging problems?
  A: On sony servers there is no lag what so ever and on user created 
 servers there is rarely any lag but you may get disconnected on user servers. This isnt often but 
 can happen.
  
  Q: Is this game childish and cartoony?
  A: The graphics are slighty on the cartoony side but it is no where near childish. It has sort 
 of Battalion Wars animation but intense and satisfying combat. It is a brutal fight.
  
  Q: Is this game as fun by myself?
  A: This game isnt as fun by yourself. It is still fun by yourself 
 but it is at it's greatest with a friend or family member.
  
  Q: Expansions?
  A: Get the expansion no matter what. If you dont have the Expansions it will be alot harder to 
 get inyo a match (unless its a sony server) .
  
  Q: How are the graphics?
  A: The graphics are crisp and clean and in High Def it is even more stunning. It supports 720p 
 and 1080i high def resolution and it looks great even in standard def. Everything is beautiful 
 in Warhawk.
  
  Q: Is this really the best game for the PS3?
  A: I havent played every PS3 game but I have played the best PS3 games ( Oblivion, COD4, NBA2K8, 
 and The Orange Box) and I can say Without a doubt that Warhawk is the best. 4 player splitscreen, 
 32 players online, voice communication, great graphics, infinate replay value, downloadable content, 
 customization of everything, explosions and straight action make this game the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi-kaho
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Time spent playing is more then 100 or more it is about 500 or more.
  
  Graphics are supurb
  Truck wheals arnt so good but that doesnt matter
  
  Best multiplayer 
 ever
  
  There is no single player
  
  You should have internet huck up though.
  
  UPGRADES AMAZING
  
  1. Alean Place: Prity good, better to play at then use the veicals at another 
 map.
  
  2. Snow Place: Fine, Better to play with the veicals in a differnt place.
  
  3. Brand new jet pack place: 10000000/10 amazing is the only word to describe. use it in other 
 maps is funner though, but flying without anything is amazing.
  
  Buy ths game pm me if Q's or email me at b_chugg@hotmail. com
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumedh7
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst I have ever played. This multiplayer only game actually sucked more 
 thsn Haze. A PS2 game looks better than this and there is a steep learning curves. New players 
 don't stand a chance. Luckily I was not one of them. The combat is sub-par but after playing CoD4, 
 I miss the reality of killing someone with only a few bullets rather than getting killed by one 
 whack from a wrench or a guy not dying after 20 bullets from a machine gun. The feel of the weopons 
 are not at all realistic and sound is mediocre. The battles to get intense at some point but these 
 are few and far between. However, the warhawks are moderately fun. This game is for people that 
 have played evry other worthwile game and have nothing else to play. This game is anything but 
 worhtwile but is one of the toppers in the bad game list. However if its a multiplayer experience 
 y0u seek, CoD 4, GRAW 2, and Vegas 2 are better choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Never has the clich 'organised chaos' been more fitting when applied to a game. Warhawk, the PlayStation 
 3's first multiplayer-only release, lets you take to the skies in agile flying tanks, and indulge 
 in frenzied battles with dozens of other PSN users. While the sky may be the limit, you can also 
 fight from the ground, harnessing the power of heavily armoured cars and off-road vehicles, or 
 even brave it on foot, and initially the experience is overwhelming at best.
  
  Leaping between control schemes of each vehicle, keeping your eye on your rivals and gaining a 
 grasp on the huge array of offensive and defensive weapons will at first test the reflexes of even 
 the most experienced online gamers, leaving them longing for extra fingers and the reflexes of 
 a fighter pilot.
  
  Yet just an hour or two into the experience provided by developer Incognito, and Warhawk actually 
 reveals a serene inner beauty, underpinned by an incredibly well considered balance, both of firepower 
 and vehicular diversity. Perhaps best described as a high impact crash between Ace Combat and Mario 
 Kart's battle mode, Warhawk is unpretentious, unadulterated fun; something the PS3 is largely starved 
 of, and despite its current standing as something of a sleeper hit, it has all the potential to 
 become a crown prince of PSN.
  
  The emphasis is firmly on the aeronautical dog fighting that fills the skies with explosions and 
 debris, and the flavour is speed. The Warhawks themselves should be lumbering birds, as they are 
 laden with weapons and encased in bulky protection, but in fact they are delightfully agile. They 
 can switch between a 'plane' and 'helicopter' mode with a quick jab of the triangle button, though 
 the former generally dominates proceedings. While the right stick handles the basic steering while 
 you take the form of a traditional jet fighter, the left triggers nimble pirouettes and loops, 
 equally satisfying when applied to showing off as you run rings round newbies as when used to evade 
 doggedly locked-on missiles. The shoulder buttons meanwhile take responsibility for your air speed, 
 and the constant spurt of payload that pours from your undercarriage.
  
  The helicopter mode is more sedated, and best used to hang high above the carnage, effectively 
 sniping. The problem is that suddenly the shoulder buttons that moments before caused you to accelerate 
 and decelerate, now send you soaring up and down. Since the earliest 2D days of Grand Theft Auto, 
 the secret that linked the on-foot and in-car violence was the congruity of control. Run became 
 accelerate as you leapt from sidewalk to foot well.
  
  Not so with Warhawk, but after a few hours you do get the sense the developers always knew their 
 controls would work, and inconceivably, there is something magical and instinctive about Warhawk; 
 a flow and cadence that is hard to pin down, but that allows for an unbelievable tempo as you rip 
 the sky open like a sheet.
  
  Much of the credit, it must be said, must fall at the feet of the weapons. Again, at first the 
 sheer volume of options befuddles, especially as there is but one primary slot for both offensive 
 projectiles, and defensive gadgetry such as chaff, with a near redundant machine gun permanently 
 welded into the secondary slot. The ammunitions themselves are scattered round each of the levels, 
 highlighted in neon in an otherwise sombre world.
  
  While basic missile pick-ups may linger in the game's huge, open arenas of airspace between mountains, 
 more devastating explosives that can fell a Warhawk with a single blast are tucked away beneath 
 bridges or round behind a nest of pylons, demanding some daring acrobatics. Each weapon, while 
 seemingly indistinguishable to the amateur, has a heavy tactical focus, and in no time you will 
 be thoughtlessly letting out an air mine or taking on several foes with a swarm of missiles.
  
  Meanwhile, stranded pilots dominate the action on the ground as they scrabble for a respawning 
 hawk. While it is all too easy to belittle the combat that takes place at surface level, and demean 
 each level's geographical focus on aerial hiding places, the exchanges that take place on the terra 
 firma are punctuated by a hugely gratifying sneakiness.
  
  While the Warhawks above have an extremely limited ability to deliver any devastation to the ground, 
 the troops below can spray death into the sky, using tanks, fixed SAM turrets, and a generous supply 
 of shoulder-mounted RPGs. The prevailing feeling as you explore the planet on foot or at the wheel 
 of a jeep is that you are almost playing a separate game from the one above you, but at any given 
 time you can pop a delightfully cowardly shot into that other world, to the dismay and confusion 
 of your victim.
  
  Visually Warhawk has the same appealing chunkiness as a Tonka truck; it may not be hugely realistic 
 or technical, but its toy-like charm is hard to resist, and the game really does feel like playing 
 a real war with plastic soldiers and die-cast models of the kind of detail a child could only dream 
 of. The musical score is perfectly pitched too, simultaneously evoking the solemn military tones 
 of Medal of Honor with the futuristic optimism of Star Trek.
  
  At 20 as a downloadable and 40 in store with a bundled Bluetooth headset, Incognito's latest 
 is another death knell for the retail store, but an encouraging sign as to the future of downloadable 
 gaming. Some will bemoan Warhawk's slender level count of just five and others may feel it is a 
 little basic, but that is just where it succeeds. It is a next-generation title at a last-generation 
 price that boils gaming down to its purist form. Warhawk is a cheerily violent and fantastically 
 developed version of playing with a dusty box of army-themed toys, and it is enormous fun.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Just 
 brilliant fun to play.
  - Ably balances simplicity and depth.
  - A superb musical score.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - May be too basic for some 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatchetKill
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk Is certainly not what I expected it would be when I picked up the case, I was originally 
 just wanting to purchase a headset for my PS3 when I discovered Warhawk. Since the game came with 
 a headset I purchased it for the mic only, then I was A bit bored with the games I had so I threw 
 Warhawk in the console and started it up... WOW the BEST online game I have ever encounted, Ghaphics 
 were well detailed, game play was fast and right into the action of things, It suits so many different 
 styles of game play, wheather you prefer staelth tactics, to running in head first. It takes a 
 little while to get use to the controls, then you are away laughing. This seems to have all standard 
 & a few original war weapons and vechiles, from planes to two man tanks to running around on foot 
 with a rocket laucher, flame thrower etc... Myself , I am a person whom seems to clock or finish 
 games really fast then never pick them up again, warhawk doesnt seem to finish, then when I think 
 im sick of playing the same thing, I try other games but they dont seem to have the punch and addiction 
 that warhawk has. This game has been out for a while now and I myself will be on it for some time 
 to come, its great there are more and more updates, and downloads coming out for this game all 
 the time. Dont think about buying this game, JUST DO IT. HatchetKill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is definitely an AAA experience in the bigger flight of it all. There are nuances in animation 
 such as rolling bodies to realistic explosions, vehicles and Warhawks, unbelievable lighting effects 
 that cast mind-boggling effects as they cast on the environment and other nice touches. Character 
 models change based on a player's rank and their personal preferences with their outfits, so you 
 will definitely see a lot of variety in terms of warfare player setting. To top it all off, the 
 environments are quite verdant and the fact that a map can be sectioned into many different ways 
 makes it one of those things that keep the replayability virtually endless. With all of these various 
 features, combined with a balanced gameplay core, and utterly beautiful graphics, everyone can 
 be rest assured that Warhawk is one heck of a flight no one wants off of.
  Warhawk is an amazing multiplayer experience. Almost everything is spot on, and players will have 
 a lot of fun taking on different roles and trying out different tactics to reach their objectives. 
 This title is a must-have for PS3 owners
  Warhawk is an amazing multiplayer experience. Almost everything is spot on, and players will have 
 a lot of fun taking on different roles and trying out different tactics to reach their objectives. 
 This title is a must-have for PS3 owners. Pros
  + Simplistic menus and descriptions will help anyone become a server host and ranked pilot. 
 
  + There's a ton of ranks, ribbons and medals to earn. 
  + Graphics are beautifully enticing.
  Cons
  - Steep learning curve without documentation or 
 tutorials. 
  - Only works on one PSN account if you download 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicboy129
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk isnt your average game. It is one of the most exilirating online gaming experiences I have 
 ever had the privilage of playing. It could easily be played for hundreds of hours with out a single 
 dull moment. What helps keep the action alive is the extensive customization options and a cool 
 rank system that lets you unlock more options for your character
  
  The gameplay consists of mostly team based action with your usual online modes. What makes it stand 
 out, is the amount of strategy and team coop that can be applied. To get around in the huge battle 
 fields you have 3 major vehicles at your disposal. although there are only 2 'factions' in the 
 game, they both handle the same. the vehicles and turrets might look different, but thay are all 
 the same. All the weapons in the game play differently though. there are the basics, machine gun, 
 pistol, grenades, and a rocket launcher. then there are some more creative ones like a pair of 
 binoculars that can call in an air-strike or a little emplacement that lets you regenerate health 
 faster than a person can shoot. though at times it might seem unfair when your enemy has a rocket 
 launcher and you have a pistol; all weapons have a counter measure and are easily balanced
  
  Though the game doesnt bring a real manual, or have a single player tutorial, it only takes 
 a match or two to get used to the controls and techniques of the game. the in-game tips, that pop 
 up while you do the action the explain, can sometimes do more evil than good, for the messege box 
 covers half the screen (if not played on HD) . so everytime you enter a plane of climb a ladder 
 a huge box appears and says "to climb into a plane, press square".
  
  Over all, this is a game that any shooter fanatic, or online gurus alike, should not miss, for 
 it will hook you in and keep you into it until you rot with the controller in your hands. besides 
 from not having a single player, or those annoying 'help' messeges (which you can disable once 
 you read them once or twice) , this is defently one of the most exiting online experinces on the 
 market for the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is a must buy for the PS3! Graphics are great! Game play is awesome! When you are in 
 a Warhawk flying at high speeds, and you get a missile lock on reading, you know that you must 
 boost as fast as you can and do a flip or barrel roll! I just VERY recently got a PS3, this is 
 the only game I own.... AND I AM VERY GLAD I BOUGHT IT!!!!!!!!!!! BUY THIS GAME!!! It is so incredibly 
 fun. There are skins and different armor you can get to customize your character, and your warhawk. 
 I ONLY HAVE ONE PROBLEM WITH THIS GAME, some of the weapons are way to powerful, but there are 
 only 2 weapons that I have problems with. Those are the knife and the one type of missile.
  OVERALL this is a MUST BUY for the Playstation 3. Oh and did I mention it comes with a blu-ray 
 microphone?? Well it does (yes I do realize that the game it's self is 40 bucks without the microphone, 
 but still...) I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO BUY THIS GAME, IT IS SO FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is an online only gam first off and its sweet getting the headset free with this game, 
 just proves how provided Sony is. This game is play straight fun, the maps are very well done and 
 are in decent size. The weapons are limited for the land lovers but in air your arsenal is massive 
 and playing on any map is a field day. Controls are a little strange at first but a few plays and 
 your skill will be ever so increasing. Now ranks are used in this game and it is somewhat difficult 
 at first to rank up. But again its time spent. Respawn in this game is quite fast. Alot of my buddies 
 hate playing this for a stupid reason and its the same as Team Fortress, they don't like the cartoon-like 
 graphics (Stupid reason) . The only negative thing on this game is chatter. Its a lame reason but 
 ever game Ive ever been in there are at least 2 people who have there headset on and there breathing 
 in the entire game, it makes me what to switch teams and hunt them down. But again this game is 
 simply fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackey18
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  Fast paced, great customisation, works on a slow broadband connection without any trouble, fun 
 and addictive, some nice game modes, a nice style of graphics, nice array of badges to be earned, 
 great whilst you are in a warhawk (a plane) with good extra pickups for the warhawk and finaly 
 great fixed gun emplacements e. g AA guns and machine guns.
  
  CONS:
  Takes far to long to gain a rank, only around 8 weapons 1 being a machine gun and 1 a pistol the 
 rest are mines and snipers e. t. c, after all the time you spend trying to level your character your 
 only reward is new clothes for you character and a new paint job for your warhawk, i find it takes 
 a long time to kill someone with a machine gun or pistol without using a grenade, there are only 
 3 vehicles (the tank, 4x4 and the warhawk) could do with a few more and finaly no zoom on guns 
 other than the sniper e. g looking through down a sight on a maghine gun.
  
  Generally i think its a great game and although there are many CONS i think what they have got 
 is great, one thing i can say is that the game was obviously made for flying the warhawk and everything 
 else was just built around that. This games is purely online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a 3rd person shooter played entirely online. What this should mean first and foremost 
 is that the game is extremely hard to get into. Newbies will be thrown whole heartedly into a fray 
 that has been going on for some time now, meaning everybody else will know how to play the game, 
 be comfortable with it, ultimately blowing you to bits in no time. The learning curve is huge. 
 But once you get the hang of it, Warhawk is pretty fun. It's instant and non-stop action. You can 
 load the game and be right in the thick of it within 5 minutes or less. And to offset all the blowing 
 ups, the game is presented in a lighthearted, slightly cartoonish way that works well.
  
  The game also looks really nice. If people are put off by the comical nature of things, walking 
 around a bit and taking in the scenery will reveal lavishly detailed and colored environments. 
 In fact, hop into a Warhawk (and get blown out of the sky or face plant into a hill right away 
 or maybe even simultaneously if it's your first time) and fly around the battlefield to take in 
 pure eye candy. From up in the sky the game looks amazing.
  
  Besides that the game plays really nice. I prefer to go on foot or by plane, but you can even jump 
 into a tank if you want. Both in the warhawk planes or on foot you have access to an extended array 
 of weapons = automatic rifles, flame throwers, rocket launchers, even artillery bombs to cluster 
 rockets, homing and player guided missiles, lightning guns, and even cloaking devices.
  
  The game also plays in a variaty of modes like deathmatch, capture the flag, and zones where you 
 battle for strategic points on the map. I myself have only played the death and team deathmatch 
 modes so far but am having a total blast.
  
  So if you want fun, fast-paced, instant action, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorillamo
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Really, I bought this game mostly for the mic which would normally cost $52 or I could buy it with 
 the game for $60. I was surprised, but this game actually wasn't too bad despite what I heard.
 
  
  This game is focused entirely on online multiplayer gaming (you must go online to play it, there 
 is no single player campaign) . One major feature that I love about this game is the massive maps; 
 it actually takes a few minutes to walk all the way across it. Of course, you don't need to walk 
 as this game has vehicles everywhere you look: tanks, jeeps, and planes. There is also a large 
 array of weapons that ranges from your basic sniper rifles and assault rifles to using a wrench 
 to club your enemies to death. There is also a large range of maps and game modes, and if you want 
 more, there are more map packs available for a small price on Playstation Network. Another feature 
 that this game has that not many PS3 games have is the ability to have multiplayer internet play 
 from the same system. This way you don't have to take turns playing online with a friend, you can 
 both play at the same time (supports up to 4 players) .
  
  The sound effects and music in this game is nothing special, it's just what you would expect in 
 any game. Although the graphics are not very good (looks more like a PS2 game than a PS3 game) , 
 it supports up to 1080i High-Definition screen resolution.
  
  Pros: Awesome to play with up to 4 friends, massive maps, many different transportation methods 
 and weapons.
  
  Cons: If it didn't come with the mic, it wouldn't have been worth the money, graphics aren't very 
 good.
  
  In all, this is a great game that you could play for hours with a friend, but you will get bored 
 quickly if you play it alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterlala2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I was craving an online game for the ps3, and due to being bored of resistance fall of man i fugued 
 warhawk was a great choice ... and it was!
  
  This game has everything an online shooter game should have! You get to choice many types of army 
 vehicles, tanks, planes, and other useful weapons, and the great thing is, un like other online 
 games currently on the ps3. this has THOUSANDs of people playing, so your never alone waiting for 
 players or in a map of only 2 people or something sad like that!
  
  The online ranking system is great, and i love how the ps3 saves the names of people you have played 
 against and with, so you can add them to your friends list and play a game with them in the future!. 
 
  
  Sadly there is no offline game, but thats not really needed because the online play is JUST SUPERB! 
 
  
  There is no real tutorial how to use things or weapons or what things do .. you the only problem 
 is that you have to figure it all out ... which isn't that bad, because its easy!
  
  Definitely get this game people! and i hope to verse you guy's / gurls in the future! i am ' peteypeeps 
 ' of the REZZ clan so ... yeah, GREAT game, worth the $50AUS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 19, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Its has its points where it shines but at the same time I found it to be not too great. I found 
 it to be interesting of a game instead of good. The gameplay almost seems outdated like battlefield 
 2 but worse. It doesnt have as much depth as other games like this. Warhawk seems to make its needs 
 when it comes to the air combat but the ground combat seems very poor. Also what found to be very 
 strange is in a capture the flag mode. It was strangely to easy to get the flag. All I had to do 
 was literally take a jeep drive it to the flag get out pick up and drive it back I didnt even have 
 one person shoot at me. There is a small amount of customization and you unlock more the better 
 you get. I found it to be kind of cool but it didnt make up for the gameplay. Warhawk was nothing 
 that I expected it to be many will like this game but I think it is just a waste of online gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavGeno
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game for the PS3 yet! The only reason people would hate it is because they 
 suck at it. Some people don't like it because the maps are too big, than find a map configuration 
 that only covers a small part of a map. If you buy the game and say its too hard, keep playing 
 and you'll get good! Any way, this is a great game, if your looking for a game that has every-thing 
 in it, from airplanes to flame throwers, this game has it all. and the head set and add-ons make 
 the game even better. Who needs single player anymore? Multiplayer is the best part of games. Must 
 buy. ___________ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ 
 _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____ 
 _____ _____ _____ _____ ____ _____ ______ _____ ____ _____ _____ _____ ____ ______ _____ _____ 
 _____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ _____ ____ ______ _____ _____ _____ ___ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is super awesome, the six axis controls for air combat works perfectly, the split screen 
 online feature is super awesome, and all around the game is amazing, now, the game does not have 
 a single player game at all, not even a tutorial, just flat out multiplayer carnage, this game 
 is amazing, and must be played by any multiplayer fan that owns a ps3, it will be a worthy addition 
 to your collection!
  
  Graphics- 10 The graphics have a nice crisp shine ot them, yet cartoony, it makes you understand 
 not to take the game too seriously.
  
  Sound: 10 you can not only hear gunshots in the distance, all the sounds for everything is perfect, 
 it even has awesome music.
  
  Gameplay- 10 the gameplay concists of three diffrent styles, ground combat, vehicle combat, and 
 air combat, the ground combat plays like your usual shooter, run in, and start some fights, the 
 vehicle combat is so you can get from one place to another, or add a bit more fire power, and the 
 air combat is just plain out fun, I have never had so much fun in a flying game in my life, sorry 
 starfox, youve been beaten.
  
  Value- Full price, I beleive that this game is worth every cent if you like multiplayer games in 
 general, and, since I love multiplayer games, I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruckuskromm
Rating: 5
Date: May 14, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  As much as I wanted to like the game. I really did want to, I even bought both booster packs and 
 still didn't do anything for me. To me the maps are way too big. Sure people will say that it's 
 because of the Warhawks. But that's not what I was expecting. I mean you can play the whole entire 
 match not bumping into anybody. It almost makes you feel as if your not part of the battle.
  
  Even when I ended up having a good game. I still didn't feel like it was fun at all. Maybe 
 because every map to me feels like just a TDM. and the fact the most TDM puts most a oppenents 
 together so that players always feel that there's constant danger. These always makes me feels 
 distance. Regardless of the game mode. All of it feels the same. There's no urgency to win a match. 
 It's like everyone is just sitting back and drinking beers or somthing.
  
  Sure I'm the best player around in this game, but usaully I at least get into a game enough to 
 be above average. I just couldn't get motivated enough.
  This was that same feeling I had when all my friends were praising Socom 1 and at the time I was 
 playing CS 1.6. When I tried to play Socom, I thought that game was over hyped. 
  
  I don't want to keep talking about things that don't have anything to do with the game. So I will 
 end it with this. I just wish that Sony was brave enough to put out a Demo of the game in order 
 to allow people to see how the game was. instead of forcing them to purchase it. 
  
  I bought the retail version with the mic for $60 plus the Booster packs $11. and now it's collecting 
 dust. What a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDiff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  The game has many maps, from an Icy glacier," vapour-field glacier", to A huge island, "Island 
 outpost" (Halo players will find this similar as it is quite similar to death island)
  The game itself is similar to Halo, but a little better, depending on what you like. There are 
 many vehicles: A jeep (Similar to the warthog) A tank (Scorpion) A Warhawk (Plane) - This is nothing 
 like the banshee, the banshee is more of a hover-craft. (Although the warhawk has a hover feature) 
 The APC, and An omega Dropship (Similar to a pelican I suppose?)
  
  Whether you ar enew to the game, or are a veteran, there is a match for you. there are several 
 ranks (Recruit all the way up to General) And some matches will only let a certain rank or lower 
 in, to stop noobs losing hopelessly to more experienced players.
  
  There are many game modes: CTF, Death match, team deathmatch and "zone's". Zone's is where two 
 teams try and capture each enemy base.
  
  The game is definitely worth getting, my favourite online game for the PS3 (Although I haven't 
 tried COD4) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  I see other people giving this game rave reviews but truly I don't get all the hype about this 
 game. I bought this game on the sole information of my friends, they'd said how fun and great this 
 game was, so I purchased and I'm still disappointed. The game isn't exactly helpful in showing 
 you the controls and it all seems kinda too cartoonish to be taken seriously as an online gaming 
 giant. I do appreciate the open worlds, variety in vehicles, and the seemingly unending ranks and 
 awards. But it seemed to me that there was too much emphasis put upon the actual aircraft. It seemed 
 that most times (though this is realistic) he who controls the skies controlled the map. This just 
 seemed to draw away from the gameplay, so say to me what you will but I doubt my opinion of this 
 game will be changing any time in the near future unless they bring out something better then the 
 Omega Dawn pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berlinORbust45
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Whether you are a sharpshooter, rolling thunder, death from above or anything in between, this 
 game is for you. Warhawk offers great battlefield versatility because the battles can rage in the 
 fields and hilltops to soaring in the clouds. The game gives the players a chance to play using 
 their personnel strengths to dominate the board or assist their fellow teammates. Maps can range 
 fom exchanging rifle fire between two outposts to raging across a valley landscape in tanks. Despite 
 only three types of vehicles, all have their own use in combat. Jeeps allow for quick transportation 
 while tanks allow players to crush infantry and dominate the streets. The mainstay vehicle of the 
 game is the Warhawk itself. The Warhawk lets players move across the map with ease, dominate others 
 with 9 air weapons, and dogfight others for air superiority. 9 unique ground weapons allow for 
 veteran shooters to rip other players apart. Get up close with a flamethrower, pick off other players 
 from a distance with a sniper rile, or blow up a tank with the rocket launcher. In the end, Warhawk 
 is a very versatile game which give all types of players a different experience. Infantryman? Gunner? 
 Pilot? Doesn't matter, wage war on the ground or in the air in the fast-paced game of Warhawk! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrbednarz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  While some people may enjoy Halo 3, or Call of Duty 4 (I own both as well) , 
  Warhawk offers something completely different from both.
  
  Warhawk's main selling point is 
 its extremely expansive and well-designed maps which offer different varying setups depending upon 
 the game-type and the number of players.
  
  While Halo 3 does offer some vehicular action, it doesn't come close to Warhawk. Call of Duty's 
 action on foot just can't be matched, but sometimes, that isn't everything in a game. Whether you 
 want to fly a Warhawk, drive a tank, drive a jeep, it's all up to you. And they just keep spawning. 
 It's not like in Halo 3 where you can never find the vehicle you want. Or maybe you just want to 
 travel on foot. Then there are the number of new vehicles related to the expansion packs which 
 make for a more interesting experience including a larger vehicle capable of carrying multiple 
 players which functions as a moving spawn point.
  
  I keep finding myself coming back to Warhawk even though I own both Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 because 
 there is just something about it that makes it more engaging and fun than those two. Warhawk's 
 Zones mode is what does it for me. It is basically just a game mode where you attempt to capture 
 and hold zones of the map. 
  
  While it cannot compete with Xbox 360's XBL profiles, etc., I like Warhawk's old-school approach 
 to selecting what game you want to enter. None of that Matchmaking stuff... find the map you want 
 to play on, and play it.
  
  This is a game that has been overlooked, and it deserves more attention than it has received. I 
 really enjoy it: even more Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatloaf1993
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the best online game I have ever played with longer lasting appeal than COD4 and more 
 purposeful than Burnout Paradise. All the DLC so far have actually added stuff that is worth forking 
 out for (Or "borrowing" from other PS3 users) . Everything about this game is good expect... It takes 
 ages to go up a single rank which is highly frustrating and then there is the highly unbalanced 
 TOW missile, actually I lied there are a few things in this game bad but with all the good things 
 they are very easy to overlook. The whole point of this game is shooting things, shooting things 
 is fun especially when you know that you just did a brilliant kill, someone, somewhere in the world 
 will probably be swearing at you even if you can't here it and if you can then there is always 
 the mute button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drag00n91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first hear of this game I thought it was a rip off of battlefield but when you sit down 
 and play it you'll see that this is so much more. At first you will have a problem playing because 
 there isn't much help for you. Just some text messages that pop up in the game. But after maybe 
 an hour or so you will totally pick it up. 
  
  This game is an online only game and features two teams. None of them is really evil or good but 
 one is blue an one is red. These two teams fight hugh battles with rocketlunchers, flamethrowers, 
 mines, off-map artillery, sniper rifles, jeeps, tanks, machine guns, air planes and anti air/ground 
 turrets. 
  
  From what I've played it's a great game with nice teamworking players and solid gameplay. The sound 
 from the guns sounds good and when you get in too a tank and you hear the engine roar you feel 
 pretty damn powerfull. So if you like blowing up people in huge battles on huge maps you should 
 get this now of download it from playstation store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokescreen_5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since February 27th and I just can't pull myself away from it!!! It's 
 so addicting. So many things to work for whether its just for the fun, having fun with teammates, 
 or shooting for the goal of getting Warhawk badges, Medals, and ranking up! Best of it all, nobody 
 can ever cheat on this game, and if they find a way to cheat, I'm sure the creators of the game 
 have a way of banning the person from playing. Thats fine by me because I don't need any cheaters! 
 On top of that, theres always things being added that can be downloaded (for a small fee of course) . 
 Such as the Omega Dawn pack which I've played a few times.. It's dark and mysterious and you can 
 get lost real easy on the map but its fun! Now theres a new map called Operation Broken Mirror 
 that I'm just now downloading and I can't wait to try it out! Also with new versions that come 
 out, comes new things in your arsenal such as a wrench which can fix your vehicles or destroy your 
 enemies. A bio agent mine that can heal your teammmates and hurt your enemies. With the new booster 
 pack comes the APC ground vehicle which holds up to 7 people in the Operation Broken Mirror pack, 
 and with the Omega Zone pack comes a flying vehicle called the Dropship, which holds up to 10 people. 
 1 Pilot, 6 turret monkeys, and if you carry a jeep with you holding 3 people, you have your 10 
 people!! Hope to see more people playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say? I stayed on the fence for this game since last August when it was released. 
 But, am I ever glad that I decided to go ahead and pick it up for 30.00, as I have yet to find 
 an online game that is more addictive and just flat out fun than this one is.
  
  One of the best aspects of this game is the overall variety that it offers. For instance, if you 
 are not in the mood to fly a Warhawk, you can find a tank to do some serious damage in. Not in 
 the mood for a tank, either? Then hop on an anti-aricraft gun or missile launcher and pick opposing 
 Warhawks out of the sky and blast any approching ground forces away. If you get tired of that, 
 take it to the others on foot with a variety of plentiful weapons.
  
  The maps are huge and varied, the artstyle is great. The controls are superb and completely customizable, 
 as is the look you want for your character and Warhawk. And offered incentives for gaining ranks 
 is that you will unlock more of these customizable options, as well as get awarded medals, badges, 
 and ribbons for all kinds of different ACHIEVEMENTS shall we say, lol.
  
  This is just a game with so much depth, and is so addictively FUN, that I do not see myself ever 
 getting tired of it, and that takes a rare breed of a game indeed for me to say that about it.... trust 
 me. As I am more of a single player gamer, but this game offers so much fun and variety, I can 
 see why Incognito felt that there was no need for a campaign.
  
  The best online experience on consoles right now in my opinion. I am just sorry that I was late 
 to the party. I will take this over another FPS fragfest ANY DAY.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Now, I decided to buy this game the night I got my Playstation 3. I just remembered that Warhawk 
 was amazing on PS so I was like what the hell, might as well buy it. So I buy it, and start to 
 play it. I thought there was going to be a single player story like the PS one, but there wasn't, 
 which was a HUGE let down for me. So I decided to try the multiplayer, (well yeah, kind of had 
 to since... That's all there is...) and it is pretty fun. It is basically like Battlefield, with 
 Warhawks. The online community is still going strong also. There is expansion packs, but in my 
 opinion, are not worth it, the amount of content that is added seems to be just not enough. I am 
 not into multiplayer games on the console, I really just play them on PC, but this one was pretty 
 good for the time that I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guerillaKZ2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  THE FIRST THING ABOUT WARHAWK THAT MAKES IT KIND OF BAD IS THE FACT THAT THERE IS PRACTICALLY NO 
 SINGLE PLAYER CAMPGAIN OR TUTORIAL. BUT THE BEST THING ABOUT WARHAWK IS THAT WELL ALL THE WEAPONS 
 ARE SOOO PERFECTLY BALANCED. THE GRAPHICS AND FRAMERATE ARE REALLY GREAT. THE BULLETS, EFFECTS 
 REALLY ADD UP TO MAKE A REALLY GREAT EXPERIANCE. MOST PEOPLE WILL SPEND THE WHOLE TIME THAT THEY 
 PLAY THIS GAME ONLINE AND BECAUSE THE WEAPONS ARE SO BALANCED THAT THE DIFFICULTY JUST RIGHT. THERE 
 ARE PRETTY COOL BONUSES AND UNLOCKABLES. THE SOUND AFFECTS AREN'T PARTICULARLY GOOD BUT THEY WILL 
 STILL MAKE YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'RE WRECKING HAVOK EVERY WHERE. UNFORTUNATELY THERE IS NO STORY TO 
 THE GAME, BUT THAT WON'T BE AN ISSUE TO MOST PEOPLE MOST OF YOUR TIME [IF NOT ALL OF IT] IS SPENT 
 ONLINE. THE WHOLE GAME JUST ADDS UP TO BE A GAME THAT ALL PS3 OWNERS SHOULD HAVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Now this is interesting because it has taken all this time for it to come out. Warhawk is online 
 only but you can invite some mates round and play spLitscreen. This is so good because of the shear 
 action. It just dosnt stop planes fly overhead bullets fly everywhere and it really makes you feel 
 like your in a war. There is also a good amount of choice in the game. You can choose between fighting 
 on foot or getting in a jet . Both are very well balanced and never feel as powerful as the other. 
 The enviroments look very nice because of their layout and war torn nature. The only downside to 
 the game is that it can be frustrating and there is no tutorial level. This will last you for a 
 very long time because there will always be people online and lots of downloadable content. If 
 you want something off playstation store then get warhawk or if you need a headset get the retail 
 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdwhitby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  the game will have you being blown up, knifed and shot from all directions and at first it will 
 be difficult with a steep learning curve you'll have to work to rule the skies. however dont let 
 this throw you off because no matter how big a learning curve there are always others in your situation 
 and servers devoted to "newbies". the gameplay is smooth no lag at all even with 32 player online 
 no framerate issues either. the vehicles and weapons are all very well balanced none feel over 
 or underpowered making for fast exiting gameplay. the game modes consist of deathmatch, team-deathmatch, zones 
 and capture the flag which all work well and are fun to play. the vehicles consist of a 4x4, tank 
 and of coarse the warhawk wich has a complete arsenal of weapons to unleash on your opponents. 
 of coarse there is ground combat as soldiers where the weaponry ranges from your average pistol 
 to flamethrowers nothing really out of the normal but the all work well and effectively. there 
 is also a ranking system that will last you for a good long time; im really talking long so you 
 will really have to work to get to the top rank; as you go up ranks you unlock new paintjobs for 
 your warhawks and clothes for your character. this is one of the best multiplayer games i've ever 
 played but if the absence of single player i give it an 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwarrior89
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  A great game for everyone that enjoys to play games online, with frequent updates and booster packs 
 being released online can only get better. This is a must buy for any hardcore Playstation 3 gamer 
 that loves to play online. This game has many great features such as ground combat (on foot or 
 in a tank) or if your the flying type you can take to the skies and blast away your enemies with 
 your warhawk. With more and more players joining everyday you will have an easy time finding a 
 match, also for you beginners there are servers which have rank limits (If you are a certain rank 
 or higher you cannot join) so you dont have to worry about dying every 5 seconds loll. There are 
 many game types such as Total Death Match, Capture the Flag and Zones so that you don't get bored 
 of the same old types of matches. I hope you enjoyed my review, PM meif you got any question or 
 want to add me in Warhawk. My PSN is Nwarrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --KillJoy --
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Before anything else, I'd like to thank Incognito for their marvelous work on this one. Everything 
 in the game's so great, even though there are a few flaws, and noobs (like me :P) get pwned all 
 the time, the whole gaming experience is fantastic!
  
  First, it's not an FPS, and that's what I like the most about it. It's like a human version of 
 Ratchet and Clank online. You can build an arsenal that can go up to 8 weapons; flamethrower, sniper 
 rifle, wrench, rocket launcher, etc. The reflexes of your character are great, and if you get used 
 to the physics and gravity of the world of Warhawk, no one'll stop you!
  
  I must also talk about the vehicles. Flight mode is similar to the one in R&C too (don't you think 
 the similarities between the two games are too much of a coincidence?) , and you can get many weapons 
 on the hoverplane, too, like homing missiles and cluster bombs. The tank and 4x4 car are also great 
 to play with, especially when you're going against enemies on-foot :P
  
  The cons of this game are these: the help log aren't so... helpful, you gotta discover things yourself 
 - The shifting between driver and shooter in a 4x4 vehicle (for example) takes too long, you'd 
 be dead by the time you shift - anyone can kill you while you're in a hoverplane; anyone with a 
 rocket launcher, a tank, a heavy machine gun, a ground-to-air defense system, or even another hoverplane 
 can get send you to the moon in a second or two, so you need to practice flying a LOT to get used 
 to it.
  
  Finally, lemme tell you something... I'll make ya an offer ya can't refuse :P no really, if you 
 played BF2 or Counter Strike or Call of Duty 4 online or whatever, you'll definitely love this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex22neo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  I have to say, for the people who rated this game low, it's because they complain the games is 
 hard or the game doesnt look good or doesn't play out. If you don't like the graphics, just don't 
 play period, theres no way getting around that. If you think the game is too hard, keep trying, 
 play in non-ranked matches, it won't effect your rank and you'll have a blast. I know from experience, 
 when i first bought the game, I didn't know what the chaffs were for, i didn't know how to reload, 
 how to detect mines by their sounds and what pro-flight mode was. It' was a hard game to master 
 and by the time I gave up, I got call of duty 4. I stop playing it because it was boring and hard 
 to say, but it was almost too easy. Then I replayed warhawk knowing what the chaffs were for, learn 
 new missile dodging techniques, and you could blow up mines with grenades. When I came back, it 
 was such a blast because I felt like selling warhawk, good thing ebgames only buys it for 15$, 
 which i thought it was better keeping. Then I bougt the omega dawn package, it felt like a rip, 
 but it was a good investment as I could join al the games with my rank. There is one thing that 
 drives me crazy in warhawk. Teamwork. If your team is all bunching ogether, don, t know how to share 
 vechicles, doesn't capture specific spawn points, having everyone fight at one point. It pisses 
 me off. I can tell and admit if the enemy team is far surpior then ours, but i can also tell if 
 my teammates are just plain dumb for one example, i was having a 1 v 1 gun battle, and my teammate 
 was just watching, teabagging the air and both of us got killed and it was a very important point 
 that made us lose. But that usually doesn; t happen much. Thankfully i can say that the game is 
 hard and understanind your teammates is even harder. Thankfully the gameplay itself is top-notch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contracts420
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is quick and fun no matter how your style of play is. You can fly around in a jet or 
 boot around in a tank depending on how you like. The graphics aint nothing special but they get 
 the job done. The sound is good but not great... the vehicles can sound a little iffy but thats 
 alright. Now the gameplay is where it shines... its plays much like star wars batlefront and ends 
 up feeling like an enhanced version of it. The shooting is fairly simple and throwing grenades 
 is easy as well. All the vehicles control well but the game does take a little getting used to 
 at first esp since your not given any tutorial before you go into combat but in the end the game 
 is well rounded and has plenty of weapons and vehicles to play around with. This game should keep 
 you busy for awhile so wether you get it on blueray or from the PSN store you will have a blast. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  this game seems much better when you play with friends split screen (or atleast make sure you have 
 friends who you can play with online) than it is to play alone. its very social and team work is 
 extremely important. its a ton of fun to explore the game when you first get as the maps are absolutely 
 massive and even though the graphics aren't top notch, its hard to argue that when comparing it 
 to the sheer size of the maps- which make you like the graphics more than other photo-realistic 
 games. its also worth noting that the graphics have a realy cool look too them, everything has 
 this well established look and feel that gives its world a coolness and uniqueness to it (very 
 retro modern which i've always liked- like the animated movies steamboy and metropolis!) 
  it doesn't get top honors because i feel like playing it by myself and not knowing anyone im playing 
 against isn't nearly as fun as playing with your pals, and of course there is no sngle payer campaign. 
 but for me, and 8.5 is a great score and if you own a ps3 you'd be a fool not to own this. its 
 pretty cheap and it has so much to do you'll never get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk was the first online game that I have gotten into in depth; while I have played Halo, Resistance, 
 the Battlefield Series at length none of them are to me what Warhawk became. Enough of my rantings; 
 to the review.
  
  First time you pick up the controller you may feel a bit overwhelmed. There is no real tutorial 
 to speak of but its fairly well offset if you take a few minutes to learn the controls in a game 
 you make yourself on the local network.
  
  The troop handles quite well, if not a little realistic in response time to changing directions. 
 The weapon selection is quite expansive, just don't go into battle without grenades and a rifle 
 or you will find yourself dead.
  
  The jeep, being the best way to get somewhere fast on the ground handles correctly and is very 
 responsive to the controller. The machine gun on the back is great for either damaging tanks or 
 harassing planes.
  
  The tank is faster than it looks and packs quite a punch, killing troops if the shot is close enough. 
 If you are feeling ambitious and accurate you can take planes out of the sky with one well placed 
 shot.
  
  The planes are, in my opinion, the best part. It has enough variety to be a game unto itself. The 
 controls take some getting used to but if you get good enough no amount of anything can take you 
 out... unless you get sloppy and hit an air mine.
  
  Overall, a very involving game, worth the buy, if not then the rent. Being a third person shooter 
 it takes time to get acquainted but when you do its all worth it. Plus the developers are adding 
 new content all the time so the purchase gets better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpig07
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure how to start this review, so I'll start with the good than end with the bad. First 
 I really appreciate the very nice, cartoony graphics. No joke, I actually kinda of like games that 
 do that, and with games like TF2 and Warhawk doing it, mabey they will start a trend? Also What 
 I like about Warhawk is its nice air combat system. There are 2 ways to fly. You can just boost 
 through the air in nice intense dogfights, collecting power ups and such along the way. (Also you 
 can use the sixaxis to control it like a real air plain, which does work very well.) Or you can 
 simply hover above the ground, picking off ground troops with your missiles. Thus leading me to 
 the next, and much longer part of the review, the bad stuff.
  
  Where to start? Well let me just say this. The makers of Warhawk had an idea to make a nice third 
 person shooter where you could choose to fight as a ground trooper, a person in a tank or other 
 war machine, or as a person in a plane. Many other games have pulled this off, making sure its 
 not unbalanced or to hard for people to do what they want ,so, why didn't Warhawk? I don't know, 
 but they didn't. I personally like to do my work on ground, but you just cant. Tanks missiles are 
 to hard to dodge because tanks are fast are reloading a tank shell takes about half a second. Jeeps 
 will run you over. Warhawks (the plains) will mow you down with a machine gun or missile you to 
 death. And infantry on infantry combat is horrid. It takes TWO WHOLE CLIPS fired off from a machine 
 gun at like about 10 feet away to kill someone. Not joking, not over exaggerating, im dead serious. 
 The sniper rifle is beyond cheap and easy to use. And if you can go an entire camp without running 
 into a pile of landmines, you must be a miracle worker. 
  
  Also the land mines blow up if you come within like 5 yards of them. And there TRIPMINES. Doesn't 
 that mean you have to step on them for them to explode. One last thing on mines, all it takes is 
 ONE to blow up a jeep. So if you like doing your work as a trooper, stop even considering buying 
 or playing this game. It doesnt get much better as a warhawk though. A well placed shot from a 
 tank can one hit kill a warhawk. Let me put it like this to explain what i think they are each 
 made of =
  
  Troopers = tissue paper
  
  Jeeps= normal paper
  
  Warhawks / Plains = cardboard
  
  Tanks = plastic
  
  Its kind of like the food chain of 
 Warhawk. Overall this game is just bad, and I didn't even get to ALL of the things bad about this 
 game. Do me a favor, do yourself a favor, and do the world a favor and DON'T BUY THIS GAME. It's 
 not worth the suffering, it's not worth the pain, and it sure as heck is not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vlad01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I got this game over 4 month ago and I been addicted to this game from the first day I played it. 
 Multiplayer community for this game is really huge. I played matches with people from allover the 
 world. I never had a problem in finding a good match to play. 
  
  This game is really fast passed you just going the game and jump in the action. This game has something 
 for everybody, from awesome dogfights to intense ground fighting.
  
  This game provides a big variety of the matches. For example: Dogfights, Death Match, Team Death 
 Match and Zones. There are only few maps but, in every mode they seems to be very fresh always 
 fun.
  
  This game provides 9 different weapons that player can hold as a troop. Some of these weapons are 
 rifle, knife, grenade, binoculars, grenade launcher, and flamethrower. These weapons provides just 
 a right tools to tackle any enemy you might face.
  
  If you new player that just got this game, prepare to die a lot in the matches. There is a small 
 learning curve that can be over come only through playing, because their no tutorial in this game. 
 Tutorial is probably only one thing that this game missing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  You have a variet of weapons to dismantel your opponent with. Here are most of them pistol, assualt 
 rifle, rocket launcher that can lock onto vehicles, flamethrower, sniper rifle, binaculars that 
 can call in an artillery strike, tanks, jeeps w/ turrets on them, three different air vehicles, 
 two anti air craft machines, land mines, knife melee weapon and many more!
  
  You can play online lan and split screen, but if you want to play split screen 3 controllers are 
 reqiured. Warhawk is alot of fun but it does get repetitive the more you play it. A big major flaw 
 in this game is that there is no SP in this game which is a big bomb to this game.
  
  There are a variety of game modes you can play which are team death match, death match, capture 
 the flag, zones (which is a capture and defend bases game) .
  
  This is a great game that will keep you busy for a while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmrcnZero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game has a steep learning curve but when you have it all down, this game is the most fast 
 paced visually stunning shooter I have ever played.
  
  Many people who are new to this game complain that it is too hard. This is true, many people, myself 
 included became frustrated with this game. But the good people at Incognito made "leveled" servers 
 so that when your new to the game you can choose to play in official ranked servers that only have 
 players that are also new to this game.
  
  The best part about this game is that just when you think you have this combat system down, when 
 you think that you know the best way to go about getting the highest score, you will rank up and 
 be forced into higher leveled servers and find that there are much better ways to get the highest 
 score.
  
  The ranking system in this game is easy to understand, points and rewards are needed in order to 
 advance in rank. There rewards needed for ranking are not impossible to get and most of them are 
 easy to get once you have a minor grasp of the game.
  
  There are other rewards in the game that are not needed in order to advance in rank and a few of 
 these look near impossible when you see what is required to get them. However, they are not difficult. 
 Those rewards just require that you actually have a game plan for getting them.
  
  Overall this is the best online shooter that I have ever played. The only thing missing is a one 
 player story mode which is why it gets a 9.5 instead of a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKT100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk brings to mind just good old fashioned mayhem. The game is a great game to play with friends. 
 The gameplay is superb and flows smoothly with weapon pick-ups, flying, shooting and so on. The 
 four game modes are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Zones. The Zones is a mode 
 where you capture the points on the map and expand them to wahtever size they can go to. It adds 
 even more mayhem to the game. The gun variety is very wide indeed, from the pistol to rockets to 
 mines to flamethrower they are all there. The Warhawks or planes gives another part to enjoy. The 
 planes have weapons set of their own that you must check out. The game overall has a lot of alleys 
 and cervices let you battle to the deepest enjoyment. The thing that really brings me down about 
 the was no single-player. Even though I love to play the game online, a campaign would have really 
 finsihed it out. That's the only big thing that really brings the score down. So for Warhawk, the 
 great PS3 multiplayer only game, the score is 8.5... out of 10. Unitl next time. this TKT101. See 
 you later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navigata
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this has to be the most fun ive had in a very long time. WARHAWK is a very unique game 
 that will have you playing for hours on end.
  
  With that being said, the gameplay in this game is great. From flying around in the skies, to driving 
 and shooting people on foot everything is great. With a gameplay that is so diverse and that can 
 let you adapt to a certain style, possibilites are endless. Playing with teammates and what not 
 makes it even more fun. With 32 player, its just wow.
  
  Sound is a key factor in this game as it is great. Playing in surround sound makes it even better. 
 Having jeeps and tanks wizz by you never gets old. Guns, turrets everything sounds so hellish. 
 Great sound quality in this online game.
  
  One of the most fun online games to date. Although you may get tired of it in a couple of weeks, 
 its still good fun. The package with the headset is a steal. So if you can get that. Overall great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Warhawk promised to be a game. It came through on that promise. And for that it should be commended. 
 Penguin. What do I mean by that? Read on and you might find out.
  
  Battlefield 2 also was a game. But it appears Incognito failed to realize its existence and instead 
 chose to develop their game in ignorant bliss, unaware that a much better game had been released 
 several years ago already. 
  
  What they did was they took planes, developed an entire game around it, including singleplayer, 
 ran into trouble, ??? and ended up slapping the Battlefield-concept on there. It's noticeable in 
 the way that the Warhawks themselves control quite magnificently and feel like a core part of the 
 game that they spent a lot of time on, whereas pretty much everything else feels like a simplified 
 bowl of politically active camels with a taste of shellfish, why not. Indeed, it's so dumbed down, 
 arcadey and lightweight I could knit a pair of trousers out of my disgust. Quite so, quite so. 
 Why you see I'm a proponent against things developers and publishers like to refer to as "simple" 
 "streamlined" and "accessible. The people behind Turding Pooint developed the game around the idea 
 that it had to be simple. That would be my point here. Simplicity is bad. And as I have now proven, 
 simplicity kills fluffy bunny rabbits. Sod off simplicity!
  
  No you won't found out what I meant by "Penguin.". It's not an anagram, that's for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallyry
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a PlayStation 3 multiplayer-only shooter game with the ability to take control of planes, 
 tanks, jeeps and turrets. A recent update allowed the use of a massive hovership. Players can fight 
 in various game modes including standard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, as well as large scale 
 control point warfare called Zones and Capture The Flag. Maps are adjusted in size to accommodate 
 the number of players. Up to 32 players can play at one time. Though the game features many vehicles, 
 the players can also fight on foot.
  
  
  When I first played this game I thought "its crap!" but now I feel it is an amazing online and 
 multiplayer game. This is an online shoot em up style of game, but sadly there is no single player 
 mode (disappointing really) . This is one of the best game I have ever played. It's stunning!
  Graphics:
  The graphics on this game are really very good, with the Chernovan and Eucadian people 
 looking amazing. The only bad thing for graphics is that close up they are quite bad, but that 
 happens with most games I suppose.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is amazing. Everything feels easy to use, and nothing is too complicated. 
 Warhawk is primarily a third-person shooter, with eight weapons, two ground vehicles , three air 
 vehicles, and three turrets available to the player. The storyline behind the game is that the 
 player takes part in the never-ending war between the Eucadian and Chernovan armies (blue and red 
 team, respectively) , and there is no further storyline or back-story provided. 
  
  Sound: the sound is absolutely fantastic. I always hum the tune where ever i am!! Great soud track.
 
  
  Value for money: Its so worth the money!! First of all you get a free headset (how good is that!!) , 
 you will be playin this for ages!! there is a whole range of things to do, like join a game, create 
 a game, rise through the ranks, get medals badges and ribbons!! 
  
  The game uses medals and rewards, which are awarded for certain achievements. The developers have 
 hinted at the possibility that these rewards will be adapted to be used as trophies, which are 
 used in the upcoming online service PlayStation Home. Players are also able to customize their 
 characters with armor squad markings, Warhawk paint schemes, and other accessories. More customization 
 options are unlocked as the player increases in rank.
  
  The game uses medals and rewards, which are awarded for certain achievements. Players are also 
 able to customize their characters with armor squad markings, Warhawk paint schemes, and other 
 accessories. More customization options are unlocked as the player increases in rank.
  
  Pros: great flight control; easy to pick up; great online feautures; good value for money; good 
 sound; good gameplay; great awards scheme.
  
  Cons: Lack of online feature; in game help aint tha useful; occasionally to easy.
  
  Overall 
 this game is absolutely fantastic!! GET IT!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamyvabam123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a long waited game since the original Warhawk on the original playstation at the year 
 1995. This game did disappointed some people due to its lack of the single player option, but other 
 than that this game delivers more than you would expect it to. This game is unlike any other online 
 shooters, first of all the map is gigantic and limits up to 32 players. There are only five maps 
 and it would be six if you were to count the new omega dawn add on. Second of all there are alot 
 of ways to play this game, you cannot possibly get bored. And finally the game is very well balanced, 
 for an example lets say you were to ride the tank, you would have a strong missle as an advantage 
 and great armor for incoming missles, but then you are slow and big, giving the enemy a great opportunity 
 to beat you down, and this follows every vehicle and turret. There are two ways of buying this 
 game, you can download it from the PSN store for $40 or you can buy it for $60 dollars on a blu-ray 
 disk which comes with a universal jabra bluetooth headsets. So overall this is a fantastic looking 
 game that never lags and the framerate never drops, with great visuals and a nice futuristic atmosphere 
 to it.
  
  So this game is rated by the following:
  
  Graphics: 8 / 10 - Great visuals but it could have been more polished on some surfaces.
  Sound: 
 9 / 10 - The SFX will make you feel that you are there specially with surround sound of 5:1. And 
 a nice orchestrated music similar to starwars.
  Value: 8.5 / 10 - Great multiplayer value that will have you playing for hundreds of hours, and 
 there is a ranking system so you get something to shoot for.
  Gameplay: 9.5 / 10 - A really fast paced game and is tons of fun and easy to get used to.
  
 
  total 8.75 = 9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullduggery368
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  when I first got warhawk (retail version) I didn't know what to expect . to be honost i thought 
 it wouldn't work and would be a load of crap, but hell was i wrong. Warhawk is multiplayer only 
 so there is no one-player missions available to you, however this is not such an issue once you 
 get into it. at first you have only five humongous levels filled to the brim with weapons including 
 rocket launchers, rifles, grenades and binoculars which are used to call in air strikes. these 
 wepons are easy to find since they are floating, glowing beacons. other than weapons you also have 
 vehicles. these include jeeps, tanks, warhawks (duh) and if you download it off the PSN, the KT424-combat 
 dropship.
  Warhawk simply involves you jumping into an online battle with up to 32 players to see who will 
 come out on top. waging war online can be fun and if you complete certain acheivments you'll find 
 yourself with either a medal, a badge, or a ribbon. you can also join ranked games and if you score 
 enough points you can get craft customizations for your warhawk and your soldier. Warhawk also 
 allows you to voice chat and create clans online. It's also a good thing that you can do split-screen 
 online, that means you and four friends can cause absoulute carnage if your all packing a KT424-combat 
 dropship.
  
  in the end warhawk is just to damn fun. if your looking to find a great multiplayer experience 
 for you and your buddies, then look no further than warhawk. Bonus maps and vehicles such as the 
 omega factory and the KT424-combat dropship are available to buy at the playstation store.
  
  Enjoy warhawk, and if you wanna have a game with me. My username's Skulduggery368. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catmanmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been dying to get an awesome online game, and finally I have found the one! This is an all 
 online divoted game with no single player, so make sure you know what you are getting. But that 
 is definitely NOT a downside! This game has great graphics, and teamwork is a great part of this 
 game, so if you have friends that play too he can fight off enemies while you get the flag to your 
 
  base in CTF. But there are other modes besides ctf, such as team death match, or just plain death 
 match if you like to work alone. But ctf is definitely the best part of the game. But if you do 
 not have a great internet connection, you will only suffer, as the game could get disconnected 
 the second you are about to capture a flag. To avoid this, I would recommend you to use a LAN connection. 
 I strongly recommend this to anyone who wants a high quality online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa_badman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  the world of warhawk is a crazy one espescially when ur playing online
  the gameplay is amazing and there are many maps to alter to fit your playing style to the big map 
 with dog fights or the small map that grenades and bullets are flying everywhere
  
  either way its the gameplay gets hectic even if theres not a lot of people playing and thats a 
 good thing because everything runs pretty smoothly ( well for the some of that dont have much lag) 
 and the enviroments and graphics look very nice 
  
  if you have ever played starwars battlefront and enjoyed it you will feel right at home with this 
 one. 
  
  its really a shame that there is no single player in this game it wouldve added much more playing 
 time and more of a fun experince. or at least training for the big games online 
  
  the game is awesome and if you got a good internet connection i suggest you pick this up. you wont 
 regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  First step: Choose your fighting style
  Second step: Survive
  
  Warhawk is an amazing Sci-fi shooter for the Playstation 3.
  Although it is strictly online the 
 gameplay is amazing; you decide your own style to fight the war, whether that be: Running around 
 on the ground with a variety of weapons, riding around in a tank or car (with turrent) , flying 
 a jet around the skies, etc...
  This game delivers some top notch gameplay, that anyone can be a fan of.
  
  As explained before; 
 there's a variety of ways to hunt down your enemy in Warhawk, but there's also a number of game 
 types to play, these include:
  Team deathmatch - A classic deathmatch style game were two teams try to
  get the most kills.
 
  Free-for-all - A straight up deathmatch were the player with the most kills wins.
  Zones - A game were players fight to control each zone on the map, maps usually have 7-8 zones.
 
  Capture the Flag - We all know this game, get the flag and take it back to your base.
  There are more game types to play in Warhawk but this is just a few of them.
  
  The game has 
 geat graphics that really amaze you (especially when you land jet from a high distance and see 
 te ground become more 3D before your eyes) , the sound quality is also quite good, it adds onto 
 the graphics, giving you that feeling like your in the middle of a war.
  
  I would reccommend this game for anyone who likes Sci-fi or War games, and has the internet on 
 thier PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Third person online only game from incognito
  im lazy so i'll just give you the short story SHORT STORY: This game is spectaclar, fun and well 
 just plain awesome thou it can get boring due to its large maps. Some of the battles get unbelievably 
 intense. ether smash the enemy base with a tank or go around dog fighting. its quiet fun. its only 
 pretty cheap to download it. 
  i suggest you own it expetaly if you want to splitscreen with friends or whoever, but don't rent 
 it skip or buy thats the only choice for this game. thats just how it is
  
  PROS: Fast paced gameplay, great controls, epic dogfights, "holy crap a tank!", the best phisics 
 iv seen in quiet some time, you can knife fight ppl, great splitscreen
  
  
  Cons: ocational slow matches, "who keeps puting mines every where!!!", limited match customation, 
 no story
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saws7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game I was very iffy about picking up, but glad I did. This is a multiplayer only game but 
 is very very good! For starters people hate lag, well good news this game has very little. There 
 is so much to do, drive jeeps, tanks, fly planes, use artillary guns, missle launchers, and heavy machine 
 guns that are planted in various locations. There is also an arsenal of weapons like RPG's, machine 
 guns  rifles and so on! This game has up to 32 players and 
 their are different game modes CTF, TDM, DM and so on. I have played hours upon hours and still 
 am playing it and will for a very long time! The only thing I didn't like is the motion control 
 which was what was the big News about the game, I think it makes the flying difficult, I have only 
 tried it a few time but I never liked it. The good news is it does give you the option to turn 
 it off which was a very smart move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bearded_snowman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, this is the best online multiplayer game currently on the PS3. There's no question 
 about it. The game draws you in and puts a griping hold on you that's tough to break.
  
  The gameplay is what sets this game apart from other similar style games (if any) . Basically you 
 can do what you want and have a blast doing it. Whether you want to take to the skies in a warhawk, 
 or jump in a tank and attack enemy outposts or just defend your base from the enemy  you do want 
 you want. The maps are huge and don't feel like multiplayer maps but more of an open ended world 
 to explore and destroy. It's a great idea and Warhawk prefects this design flawlessly.
  
  The graphics are "cartoony" in a way but the overall look is fantastic with loads of details and 
 special effects. Everything from the explosions, to the warhawks, to the trees - look great especially 
 for a game of this scope. And it all runs super smooth with no framerate drops even if there's 
 an intense battle going with 32 players on a map.
  
  Only bad thing is that Warhawk has a steep learning curve, so learning how the game plays and knowing 
 the map layouts will take you a while. Not too much of a deal, just don't give up easily.
  
  Overall Warhawk is a extremely fun game with tons of variety to keep you playing for a long 
 time to come. I know this because I've been playing it since it came out (that's about 6 months 
 now) and I'm still not tired of it.
  
  If you haven't played it yet go try it out right now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is sexified. Flying through the skies, which look phenomenal, in planes that are kick ass, 
 doing all sorts of maneuvers, while chasing another kick ass plane, and trying to shoot it down, 
 is sexified. Unfortunately, the ground combat keeps Warhawk from being perfect, and it honestly 
 almost ruins the game.
  
  Developer Incognito was so confident with their multiplayer, that they completely scrapped the 
 single player campaign, which is a shame, because it really subtracts from the overall value of 
 the game. So, if you don't have an internet connection, then you should stop reading now, because 
 you 100% should not get the game, as sexified as it is.
  
  There are 4 game modes in Warhawk: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Zones. The 
 first three explain themselves, but the latter needs some explaining. There are zones or bases, 
 all over the map, and your team needs to control them. That's about it. All four game modes work 
 well, even if the ground combat dampens the experience.
  
  The flight part of Warhawk is what makes it so sexified, a word I will use over and over when I 
 talk about it. The planes can be flown with the SIXAXIS, which actually does work well, or the 
 left analog stick, for when you're feeling lazy. There are powerups in the skies, which are weapon 
 pick ups. There are lock on missiles, TOW missiles, air bombs, and other kick ass weapons available 
 to your arsenal. When you are locked on, you can use a chaff, to get rid of oncoming missiles, 
 or you can swing around a hill to put things in the missiles' paths, just like in Super Mario Galaxy. 
 You can go upside down, do barrel rolls, and all the other airshow stuff, without any seems, and 
 that's sexified. If you can master the flight in Warhawk, you'll have a blast.
  
  Now, the ground combat, which actually doesn't pan out as well as you'd think. The maps, first 
 of all, are sometimes too big for you to travel across on foot. There are vehicles, such as jeeps 
 with turrets, and tanks, which are unstoppable. Tanks are the best part of ground combat. However, 
 there is a heavy unbalance between people in tanks, people in planes, people in jeeps, and people 
 on foot. This unbalance makes Warhawk too difficult, which is unfortunate.
  
  The sexified flight mechanic saves the day, as you can go to Dogfight servers, which are plane-only. 
 Hells yeah.
  
  Overall, Warhawk is sexified. Unfortunately, the lack of a single player campaign, uneven gameplay, 
 and lack of a tutorial keep this one from being a must buy. If you love flight games, you should 
 definitely give Warhawk a shot. It opens up for a lot of new things, and hopefully, upcoming expansion 
 packs will make the game even better. As it stands now, Warhawk is a very good game, and that should 
 be enough for at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wittinator
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Whether you enjoy flying fighter jets at super sonic speed, rolling around in a tank destroying 
 absolutly everything in your way, or good o'l infantry battles, warhawk is a fantastic all-a-round 
 game that promises an exhilarating experience!! It is a game the truly illustrates the power of 
 the PS3. The gameplay is extremely intense as explosions, and gunfire riddles your entire screen 
 all throughout the match. The weapons are fun and the powerups for your warhawk are extremely creative 
 and enjoyable. There is simply never a dull moment. I cannot think of anything thing that I would 
 change about this game. In my opinion Warhawk is a MUST HAVE with next to no flaws. Ultimately, 
 WarHawk is a complete and total masterpiece with a little something for everybody. This game defiantly 
 scores a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SackBoy8255
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a great game. I bought it a week out and it has not let me down yet. No lag, great online, 
 the maps don't get old and a good size community. I think this game is the best shooter on the 
 shelves even compared to call of duty 4. Call of duty 4 just doesn't pack a punch like this game. 
 With warhawks nonstop action is going and with headsets with the store version it makes it so everyone 
 can have strategy and there can be real teamwork. This game has everything i think this game is 
 a perfect 10 if you asked any of my friends who have played it with me they all agree that this 
 is a top notch game. It is a game met for parties or just for some free time that you have of work. 
 This game is totaly worth 60 dollors. I would have paid a 100 dollors for this game and it still 
 would have made my day. Also with warhawks new expansions Operation Omega Dawn, and Operation broken 
 mirror together those 2 expansions will add 2 maps and 2 vehicles. Also with the patches which 
 add more and more content like the wrench and biofield generator, and future game modes. By another 
 year this game will still be a hit packed with so much content you couldn't imagine it. I am gratefull 
 that Dylan Jobe and incognito have brought this game to us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardyboyz_3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  this game was really fun but in my opinion not the best the ps3 has to offer. but it still it did 
 add somthing for the SIX-AXIS controler even though for some driving the plane with those controls 
 is pretty difficult. the game has gigantic maps made for the vehicles and running seeing as the 
 game has allot to do with flying though, most players may be in the air this game would be better 
 to buy if you are bord and have some spare money this game came with a headset so it would be best 
 to buy it new if you do not have  
 waisting space dont want to write more  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I have a few problems with gamespot about this one.
  1. the only bad thing in their review was "in game help not especially helpful." and the game only 
 got a 8.5. Now i understand that this game isn't perfect, but its much damn better than an 8.5
 
  2. You can't rate a game on something it doesn't have, a single player, the game wasn't made to 
 have one, the point was to make a great multiplayer game, and to be honest thins games single player 
 would suck if it had one. it would be just like another ace combat (which i personally don't like) .
 
  3. not relating to this game but the only above 9.0 game for the PS3 is, last time i checked Resistance.
 
  so again gamespot, what the hell, giving this game a 8.5 Uncharted a 8.0 and Halo, a great multiplayer 
 but a big crap of a campaign a 9.5, THEY ARE BIASED.
  
  so onto the review. When i first bought this game i couldn't put it down for about 3 months, i 
 rarely did anything else with my free time. then i got COD4, Uncharted, Burnout Paradise and others. 
 then all of the sudden i missed Warhawk, yes no laughing, missed warhawk. so i got the new map 
 pack, which is great and got back into it, a to my amazement it was basically like i first started 
 playing it again, even better maybe. the new update to the UI was great, there were more servers 
 and i was better than when i started so i was having even more fun. The only problem i have with 
 the game is that NO ONE TALKS, well that changed, people i guess started to realize this and the 
 strategy especially with the dropship in the game, has improved ten fold. the only other thing 
 is that, if you want to play games other than warhawk the leveling up sytem takes WAY to long, 
 but that has nothing to do with game play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk on the original PS was one of my favorite games on the system as well as one of my first. 
 Now its back but only as a multiplayer experience? I was one who was against this idea considering 
 how the mediocre Shadowrun turned out, however this game actually proved to be not too shabby.
 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are actually pretty well done here. I actually read a magazine where they said that 
 the visuals were not on par with the gameplay and stated that "something had to take a hit with 
 this much going on." I actually disagree with this philosophy because I think the game looks great. 
 It may not be no Heavenly Sword or Gears but its definately a fine looking game. From the lighting 
 effects to the planes they all look well done. The only thing that may not look that great is the 
 tanks with their bland style.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is the best aspect of the game and actually add an incredible amount of depth to a 
 only online multiplayer game. Its an insane amount of action going on and you actually feel as 
 if this planet were a warzone. Its not even the environments that make you feel this way, it just 
 the matter of what you see going down in the field. You'll see planes wizz by overhead only to 
 get blasted down by an RPG, you'll see tanks cruise by you alongside of a turret mounted jeep fireing 
 away, men running on foot only to get gunned down by a passing vehicle. You'll see missle pods 
 mounted on top of buildings blasting the skys. its truly a marvel to see how much goes on during 
 a single match, and the huge maps really add on to that.
  
  THE SOUND is loud. Its powerful. It fits dead on with the game. You'll hear explosions and gun 
 fire coming from everywhere.
  
  Warhawk turned out so much more than I anticipated, and is one of my biggest surprises from the 
 PS3. Its one of the best multiplayer games on the market, yet considering this game is strictly 
 multiplayer I cannot give it anything higher than an 8.5. And if you do buy this, get the one in 
 store so you can get the bluetooth headset with it for only 20$ more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: princezero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Maybe this game does not have a single player campain but hell who needs one when u have a brilliant 
 multiplayer like that.
  this game is fast paced and highly addictive it keeps u at the edge of ur seat whether u were playing 
 capture the flag of team death match or zone capture match u feel that u are in a real war and 
 u have to be aware of ur surroundings it contains all the vehichles that u need like tanks, jeepsand 
 off corse the warhawk, u can use base defenses to defend ur base u can use a binocoulars to set 
 an air strike at the enemy, the music is set in a very beautiful way that immerse u in action the 
 graphics are amazing,,
  not that only the game contains a rewarding system in the form of ranking ,medals, badges and ribbons.
 
  when u want to find a game at any time u will find lots of servers with lots of players in it.
 
  simply this game is a master piece, perfect, highly addictive, mind blowing
  and if u dont have it u should go get it u dont want to miss an amazing master piece like that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxilicious_95
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a brilliant game for people who want a brilliant online game. You can buy this from 
 the PSN Store or on blu-ray- it doesn't matter which one you get but all you get from the blu-ray 
 is some extra things like behind the scenes and stuff but i didn't really need that. The game is 
 an online only so you need the broadband but it is still very good game without the story mode 
 but anyway there is alway hundreds of people online with loads of games. The combat is very quick 
 so always be aware and tif you are in a prey someone is always watching you -- where ever you are 
 and you can use tanks, jeeps, foot and the new update with the new dropship. There are 5 maps+ 
 the new one with the dropship and they are HUGE!!!! The new one is set in nighttime which is a 
 cool feature. There is a new update coming (v 1.3) with two new troop wepons: A ratchet and clank 
 style wrench which can repair jeeps and tanks by hitting it and it can damage the opposite teams 
 jeeps and tanks by hitting it also and it can also kill other people with ONE hit with it. And 
 a new mine-type throwing object that you throw onto any surface: ceilings, walls, floors and jeeps+tanks 
 which forms a bubble which gives health to who ever is inside and i think they said on the PS3 
 Warhawk Forum that if another person from the other team it damages their health i can't remember. 
 This is a great game and i recommend this game for anyone. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  First off, it should be noted that I enjoy more realistic games, and I've never been a huge fan 
 of the counter strike/battlefield mentality of cartoony graphics, vehicles, and quick respawns. 
 So if you are a fan of the above, then disregard the comments, and grab yourself a copy of Warhawk.
 
  Warhawk is an entirely online game, so if you are looking for a deep single player mode, or really 
 even any single player mode, stay away. 
  The upside to this game has to be the aerial combat. They've done a great job making it so that 
 planes aren't too imbalanced and can be shot down from the ground if need be. But aerial dogfights 
 and pilot teams are extremely fun, and really give you something to go for, so make sure to run 
 towards the planes when you start.
  The tanks are pretty much what you'd expect, and are fun to ride around in with multiple players.
 
  The big downside to the game has to be the ground fighting. The aiming reticles are a little off, 
 and it really takes a lot of shooting just to take someone down. In this sense, it's not really 
 realistic... but if that doesn't matter to you, then I can definitely see you having fun with this 
 game.
  Overall, I'll give this game a 6.5. It had it's moment to shine, but now that Call of Duty 4 is 
 out, and the ridiculous nature of the fighting is seen. Your score really isn't that important, 
 so don't worry about doing things covert -- not that you really can anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueldias94
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Great game, but i think that the game could be better if it has a career with levels. Very good 
 graphics...
  I think that could be more scenarios and more cars and ships, and if the extra packs like Omega 
 Booster Pack were free the game will be more exciting. One of my favourite feautures in the game 
 is that you can personalize your Warhawk and your player. I also like yhe fact that you start like 
 simple player, and with points you can be more important like a general. Its a very good game!
 
  You can control your vehicles with the sixaxis contoller, using the unique feauture in the sixaxis 
 controller, the movement sensor, what a great controller.
  Other cool thing is that Warhawk in an exclusive game for Playstation 3, so Xbox 360 cant make 
 the game worst, because of Diference of the PS3 Potential and xbox 360 potential.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5
  SOUND: 8.5
  GAMEPLAY: 9. O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Story: There is a war. fight for your country and win.
  
  Missions: All online mp. fly planes, drive tanks and cars or be a foot soldier and kills. its up 
 to you
  
  Controls: PS3 sixaxis.
  
  Features: Awesome ground and air combat. 
  
  A. I.: bots are about as smart as BF2. kind stupid and tend to die ALOT
  
  Loading Times: not 
 bad inbetween matches. maybe 25 seconds?
  
  Graphics: Great graphics and detailed enviroments. All vehicles looks realistic and are not blocky 
 at all. Enviroments look realistic and city are detailed down to the little bushes.
  
  Audio: Gun sounds fill the air along with music during combat. And it sounds really really good.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Its a MP game what do you think.
  
  Requirements: PS3, online, friends, mic
  
  The Good: a very fun online game. one of the best too 
 play on PS3
  
  The Bad: some lag in game.
  
  The Ugly: You
  
  Replay Ability: alot. lots of ranks and rewards.
  
  The Bottom Line: a 3rd person online shooter 
 that is really great and will provide hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATSIMUS
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is multiplayer only, but what it lacks in a single player campaign it gains with outstanding, 
 mind blowing multiplayer action that catapults you into a hectic warzone filled with planes zooming 
 in the skys and tanks dominating the land.
  
  Dissapointing though it may seem warhawk has only 5 maps, true there very different and are quite 
 epic but ther is only 5 so playing the same areas over and over again can get repetitive but its 
 the way you can play each level. With so many methods of transport and weaponry you can play for 
 hours and never go about a level the same way, be a sniper with a sniper rifle, artillery strike 
 and rocket launcher or go in with a rifle, grenades and flamethrower. 
  
  Maps are quite beautiful each has its own feel and even though each map is symmetrical (one sides 
 the same as the other, exactly the same) you can be quite amazed with the quality of the graphics 
 of a game coping with up to 32 players at a time all doing different things and with all the vehicles 
 im suprised that your PS3 doesn't start smoking but the servers deal with it well and in return 
 you get quality smooth gameplay.
  
  The game also features a rank system and a customization system. By earning points you are promoted 
 up a series of ranks and in turn you get new clothes and paint for your character and plane. so 
 you'll never get bored and you have something to aim for.
  
  My one serious criticism of the game is its ridiculous points system. If you quit a server during 
 a game you not only lose all points and medals in that match but all previous on that server and 
 even if you wait for the match to end and quit during the interval you still don't get the points 
 from the last match you played stuped, eh.
  
  All round its a rather good game it can be frustraing in the plane so you can check out my blog 
 but other than that its entertaining and a must by for the ps3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyros48161
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  warhawk 6.5
  
  I think this game is gr8 but i havent had very much fun with it and the gamplay so far. y?. I mean 
 the gameplay is good and stuff but there is like no music in the midle of wars and not very much 
 actions on the games ive played. Is it just because i havent played it enough yet and havent experienced 
 the full game . mabey do u unlock new stages while u get to a hier rank? i give it a 6.5 for now 
 but can some ppl please reply and tell me because every1 else thinks is a gr8 game.
  
  Its a great online game but i just havent got the full feel of it so please reply and tell me . 
 u know . Although i think all the warhawks and guns (missle launchers and flamethroughers) and 
 tanks and ground veacles are very cool. Overall i think the game is good but im still not having 
 a gr8 time.
  
  Thanx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a definite buy in my opinion because of its extremely fun online game play and cool 
 ranking system however there are some elements to the game that can disappoint and sometimes frustrate 
 you. 
  
  Pros: If you have played any fighter plane game such as ace combat series the flight controls will 
 seem easy to take too and very fun and balanced. The game has a good variety of weapon pick ups 
 as well as tanks and other land units that are great for those who prefer to fight on the ground. 
 The ranking system usually can accurately show how skilled you and your opponents and many of the 
 unlocks are pretty cool. The Server set up is easy to use and the option to instantly join your 
 friends games makes fun with your friends very easy. if you love online its well worth owning. 
 The Comes included with a USB wireless Headset which separately goes for $40 to $50 which can save 
 you some money in the long run.
  
  Cons: No Single player! Don't even bother to purchase the game if you don't have online. after 
 seeing some of the videos i was really disappointed that they removed this from the game. Because 
 of this you don't have any real story about the war your fighting the world you live in. it just 
 feels pointless at times. 
  The game can be difficult for beginners and is very intimidating at times. If you are a veteran 
 of other fighter based games like ace combat like me getting used to this is very hard. Most dog 
 fights are as over as fast as they start. If your a beginner don't be suprized if you suffer the 
 first few games you play.
  
  overall its a great game and good starter for anyone new to Playstion with the free headset. i 
 just wish the was a campain because it really takes away from the expierience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andtillo3
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  does anyone know if you can play 2 players online? like me and a friend both can play online in 
 the same room? well anywase this game is really cool it got good reviews and the mulltiplayer gameplay 
 is just juicy, you can fly drive and standrad foot trooper but all is fun and look pretty good. 
 if you enjoy having lots of kills and lots of laughs get this game i would say its better than 
 halo. this is ps3 version of halo but you get to fly and its not fps. its neat how you can create 
 your own character dude and how moving up is pleasurable in many ways. all the weapons are really 
 neat and the vehicles are two. easpecially the WARHAWK. 
  
  anyone who gets this game its a pleasure to play online, lots of rooms and lots of people p [laying. 
 you may die many times or you may get lots of kills. you will also know what your best position 
 is , weather its flying a plane? a ground trooper or even drivining tanks and what not. you will 
 learn and see what you are good at. so for anyone who is loking to buy this please do its well 
 worht the money and hopefully in the future playstation 3 would come out with more games like this 
 one and forsure this game all xbox games should bow down to this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichWard
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm really not an avid multiplayer player (if that makes since) . I'm more into storyline/campaign, 
 but Warhawk is a great online game from great weapon selection to great maps. Not to mention the 
 1080i 60FPS graphics makes it better and I'm really surprised how the game never lags no matter 
 how many people are online. The Omega Dawn map is a great and very big map to play regular or team 
 death matches in. A good part that in my eyes made this great multiplayer stand out is you have 
 a choice of what ranks you want in your game, if you're a "noob" and trying to better yourself 
 as a player, play ranked games that only allows recruits and airman. Overall, this is an awesome 
 game to play whether you're hooking up with friends online or meeting new friends, even if you're 
 not a big fan of multiplayer games Warhawk will sure to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is very well done. Even though Warhawk doesn't have any kind of story mode, the game 
 is still worth getting. First to into account that this game is $20 less than any other game. For 
 only $40, you can get this highly immersive game which you can play with a friend. This game lets 
 you choose to either go on foot, in a jeep, in a tank, or fly in a plan all in one entire battle. 
 There are huge maps to go around in and you can play with 31 other players online. It takes a little 
 getting used to at first but once you get used to the controls, your hooked. The graphics seems 
 a little cartoony but that is okay because the game isn't really meant for realistic warfare. I 
 recommend this game for anyone who has multiplayer compatibility. Remember, this game is only $40! 
 It is totally worth the money. You will have a lot of fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevCubsOr21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the best, most in depth online game available for any system (and it just happens to be 
 a PS3 exclusive) ! Everybody has a chance to be good at the game. If you good on the ground you 
 can play mostly as a troop. If you good in the air you can play mostly in a warhawk (or the new 
 dropship) , and help your team dominate the skies. If vehicle combat is your thing you can use the 
 jeep or tank. OR if you insist on being an annoying noob you can use the stationary missle turrets. 
 The game offers a great weapon selection in the air and on the ground. The weapons go from land 
 mines for combat without contact to the close combat weapon; the flamethrower. Air weapons include 
 the self controlled TOW missle and the electricity blasts. The game also features a not large but 
 good enough selection of game modes, offering the deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, 
 and zones. If you want to just pwn noobs all day you can do deathmatch or team deathmatch. If your 
 looking for a more objective based game you can do capture the flag or zones. With zones your objective 
 is simply to capture all the bases on the map. Everyone knows capture the flag, but warhawk has 
 a capture the flag of its own. Warhawk's capture the flag requires more strategy than any other 
 game out there, and it gives everyone a chance to be good. offense, deffense, or just captureing 
 bases. There are 6 maps available, which may not seem like alot, but each of the maps has several 
 different sizes to match your type of gameplay. All in all Warhawk is the best muliplayer game 
 I have every played, and is worth every penny. The game is a $40 download from the playstation 
 store or $60 on disc, but includes a wireless headset. I strongly recommend this game to anyone 
 who likes online shooters!!!! BB represent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rare3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of things to be sceptical about when you see a game like Warhawk. But once you 
 play this game, all those fears are banished. Once you join a game you can get into any role you 
 want, including sniping, flying, driving, stealthy and anything else you can think of. To link 
 up to this mayhem and excitement, you will need an internet connection. Warhawk is online only 
 game (and a PS3 exclusive) , and you can either go online with gamers from around the world or set 
 up a LAN (Local Area Network) server for you and your friends.
  
  The story behind Warhawk is that you are a soldier in a endless war between the Chernovians (red) 
 and the Eucadians (blue) . The massive combination of playing styles, along with the 5 basic maps 
 (Eucadia, Island Outpost, Badlands, Destroyed Capitol and Archipelago) , means that Warhawk will 
 never get boring. Each map can be split into six different variations, plus a 'Dogfight' map for 
 each that is air based only. There is an expansion out called Operation: Omega Dawn, which introduces 
 a new vehicle, the dropship, and a new map called Omega factory to the game. This costs $8.99 or 
 3.99 off the PSN store. 
  
  There is a Rank and reward system in this game that will keep you coming back for more, and as 
 you progress you unlock new customizations for you character and new skins for your plane. These 
 include new shirts, trousers and heads.
  
  SIXAXIS is deployed in Warhawk to steer vehicles or Warhawks. However, there is an option to turn 
 this off. In Warhawk, there are many ways to kill the enemy. There are 8 troop weapons, including 
 an ordinary pistol with unlimited ammo but not much damage, a knife which is one hit kill and takes 
 you off the radar when equipped. You start with these two weapons plus a pair of grenades. It is 
 advisable to pick up a rifle, a quick firing basic machine gun, and another set of grenades. Then 
 there is the flamethrower. The flamethrower will damage anything it will come into contact with, 
 and is highly dangerous to infantry. Next is the rocket launcher. This will lock onto tanks and 
 Warhawks when R1 is held down. There is a sniper rifle (pretty self-explanatory) and binocolars. 
 However, these aren't ordinary binoculars. If you look through them by clicking L3 and then hold 
 R1, you will call in a airstrike! Lastly there is mines. You can plant these on any surface, including 
 vehicles, and when an enemy is in proximity it will promptly explode.
  
  The main feature of Warhawk is, of course, the Warhawks. There is the Eucadian 'Warhawk' and the 
 Chernovian 'Nemesis'. Their differences are purely cosmetic, and each can house 9 weapons. The 
 first is a Machine Gun, used by holding R1. The next basic tool is the Swarm missile. You start 
 with 5 of these and can collect up to 15. By holding L1 you can lock on to other planes. Chaff 
 is an instrument of defense, and can be deployed when there is a missile lock on your plane. There 
 is Homing Missiles, more powerful swarm missiles, 'stealth' (which means planes can't lock onto 
 you) , a clusterbomb, which when released splits into several smaller powerful bombs. There is the 
 Air mine, an air borne version of the land mine, the lightning gun, which when charged up by holding 
 L1, can be devastating and the TOW. The TOW is a player controlled missile that will destroy anything 
 in the blast radius.
  
  Now, unfortunately, there are several flaws with this game. One of the major ones, and one that 
 cannot be helped to fix, is lag. As an online game, there is bound to be lag. Surprisingly, there 
 is very little here, but still a enough. Another flaw is the community. This also cannot be helped, 
 but Incognito and Sony are working together to smooth out this problem. There is a thing called 
 'Stat padding'. It is a form of cheating that allows the person (s) to rack up large amounts of 
 points in a single round. Incognito has formed a group called Arbiters, who are starting to wipe 
 profiles of stat padding people. However, apart from these minor flaws, this game is graphically, 
 technically and superbly accomplished. If there is one game I would recommend to anyone, it would 
 be this. Pure adrenaline pumping, heart stopping trigger happy action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koochx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  This is a must have game for all PS3 owners, I mean yeah there is no off line mode but the online 
 mode makes up for it big time. It does have the option for local games but games like these are 
 meant to be played online with 31 other people. The game controls are just amazing. There is a 
 very short learning curve. All it took me was about 10 minutes before i got hang of all the controls 
 and everything, The sound is appropriate for the game, The visuals are beautiful. There also is 
 an incentive to play as you try to get a higher Global ranking and all the medals and badges and 
 ribbons. They don't actually give any performance upgrades but some basic visual upgrades to your 
 player and your warhawk/nemesis. I do have some problems with the new patch. The new map is just 
 too big compared with all the others, The new ship is also too slow and quite useless unless one 
 or two of your team players are playing with headsets. The controls for that ship are quite tricky. 
 But overall its got great value because killing people never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P08C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a great game despite the fact that it is only an online experience. The game is extremely 
 addictive and has a great online community as well. I chose to purchase my copy off of the PSN 
 because I don't really care to have a head set at the moment and because it's one less disk to 
 have to keep track of, I also bought the expansion as well.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is very good and very competitive and fun. Everything is well balanced and you 
 never feel that anyone has the upperhand because of an overpowered weapon. Sure there are some 
 weapons that are better than others and inflict more damage but they each have there downsides 
 as well. The controls are very easy although a little time consuming to figure out without the 
 instruction manual. It took me about a half hour to get all the nitty gritty aspects of the controls. 
 Also, unlike most fps multiplayer games, the game features an auto aim. Before you start complaining 
 about it let me reassure you that the auto aim is still based on a skill based aspect of how well 
 you can keep your rifle pointed at your foe and where on the body you actually aim (i. e. head shots 
 influct more damage than leg shots) . Last but not least Warhawk flight. Flying the warhawk is a 
 blast (once you can finally figure out how to take out enemy fighters with ease) . The controls 
 are extremely natural and there are a plethora of weapons to choose from (i. e. the homing missles 
 are the best) . Warhawk flight is extremely fun and fast pace and you may find yourself trying to 
 outrun or dodge several missles at the same time. There are also a few different modes of play 
 including death match, team death match, capture the flag, zones, etc. Each game is fun in its 
 own respect although I personally prefer CTF. There is so much to do in Warhawk and so many fun 
 ways to kill your oppopnent that this game will keep you busy for a while.... oh and did I mention 
 a neat little ranking system as well (makes the game even more addictive : ( ) .
  
  Graphics- The graphics are great and there is never any lagging even in the most intense firefights 
 which makes for a truly well-balanced experience. Everything is smoothe and the draw distance is 
 incredible. Maps are beautiful and natural and colors are brilliant and vivid.... almost cartoony 
 but not quite. Also ragdoll death animations are always funny to watch and is especially funny 
 to watch your lifeless corpse fall out of the sky from a blown up warhawk.
  
  Sound- The sound is great as well. All of the weapons sound really cool and sometimes even add 
 to the tenseness of the battles you are fighting. It is also nice that you can hear firefights 
 and battles in the distance it really provides a great atmosphere to the warhawk experience. The 
 Warhawks sound awesome as well. It is really cool when you're running along (or driving along in 
 one of two available groudn vehicles) and a random Warhawk goes swooping over your head it almost 
 makes you want to literally duck out of the way. 
  
  Overall- Warhawk is an awesome game and I really don't understand why it didn't get at least a 
 9 on gamespot. If they're only giving it an 8.5 or whatever because it's only multiplayer and the 
 online version doesn't come with an instruction manual then, well, I guess they're entitled to 
 their own opinion but what I do know is that Warhawk is a true joy to play and a wonderful experience. 
 I must recommend that any PS3 owner with internet run out and get this game NOW!!! SEE Y'ALL ONLINE! 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThorpeX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Whether your sniping from a cliff, shooting down planes with a turret or manning the Warhawk, you 
 will never get bored with the gameplay. There is a varied amount of weapons, vehicles and mounted 
 turrets. All the maps are massive and if you spend a little more money you get the Omega Dawn map 
 which is the biggest map to date. The feel of the game is just right not to tricky to get your 
 hands on and not to easy for you to get bored. The main focus of this game is multiplayer, play 
 online with your mates or any random stranger via the internet (plus its a PS3 exclusive!) . You 
 can also use the sixaxis wireless controller to manouver your vehicles or the Warhawk. As you proceed 
 through the game you ecome more impelled to find more, to get more and Warhawk gives you this freedom, 
 whether your commanding troops, capturing an opponents flag or counter striking this game will 
 never get repetetive. There are different types of game mode to keep you aware, for example, Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Zones and Capture the flag which will make you even more competitive with the 
 strangers! Scattered around the maps are checkpoints which you fight for in Dogfights above or 
 using your short blade to slice and dice!
  
  Overall, i recommend this thrilling multiplayer to any competant gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  This is one of the better online games available for the Playstation 3. This is mostly due to the 
 fact, it's completely online. Warhawk is available in 2 forms, disc and downloadable. In my opinion 
 I would go with disc since it won't eat up your hard-drive. 
  
  In this game, teamwork is a must. But, half the time you play, barely anyone has a headset. This 
 ruins the game in my opinion but, you will get used to it. You'll end up honking your horn or landing 
 in front of them to get their attention. But, with capture the flag and zones game modes, teamwork 
 is necessary to defend the zones or flags and attacking the zones or flags.
  
  Speaking of game modes, there are several to choose from. You have:
  - Deathmatch
  - Team Deathmatch
 
  - Zones
  - Capture the Flag
  , you have to have over 500 deaths and a 5 death streak.
  
  In conclusion this game is a great online game but it does have its flaws. Plus it has it's 
 expansion which added a new level and a new vehicle. But that really didn't add much in way of 
 gameplay. I give it 8.5.
  
  Pros: great online, variety of gameplay, just plain fun
  Cons: some weapons are overpowered, certain aspects can be exploited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I compare it to Halo but people dont seem to like it. Its an online only game. Third 
 person which can be annoying when your in the bunkers but works well otherwise. Originally team 
 killing was a major problem but the game has been patched to make team killing impossible.
  
  Positives: Online is amazing with so many people and so many things to do. The maps are absolutely 
 massive so you can do anything from snipe to run and gun to fly a plane or drive a tank. I played 
 over 100 hours and the game still isn't old. The game keeps great track of medals and ribbons and 
 kills and even time spent in each vehicle.
  
  Negatives: Graphics aren't amazing and could benefit from a more destroyable environment.
  
 
  Final Thoughts: Definitely a must have. There are 1000's of people online at any given time of 
 day which makes this one of PS3's top online games.
  
  Rent or Buy??
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksman2200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the better online games available for the Playstation 3. This is mostly due to the 
 fact, it's completely online. Warhawk is available in 2 forms, disc and downloadable. In my opinion 
 I would go with disc since it won't eat up your hard-drive. 
  
  In this game, teamwork is a must. But, half the time you play, barely anyone has a headset. This 
 ruins the game in my opinion but, you will get used to it. You'll end up honking your horn or landing 
 in front of them to get their attention. But, with capture the flag and zones game modes, teamwork 
 is necessary to defend the zones or flags and attacking the zones or flags.
  
  Speaking of game modes, there are several to choose from. You have:
  - Deathmatch
  - Team Deathmatch
 
  - Zones
  - Capture the Flag
  
  Deathmatches is your typical free for all match. There are 2 types of deathmatch however. You can 
 a full blown warfare style, where you can be on foot, ground vehicle or warhawk. Then you have 
 the dogfight which pretty self-explanatory, you spawn in a warhawk and you fly around destroying 
 your enemies. You just can't land. This one is the match where you won't find many clan members. 
 Team Deathmatch is exactly the same thing, but with teams. This is where clans and teamwork come 
 in handy.
  
  Zones is a game of territory control. There are flag posts all around the map and the idea is to 
 capture these areas. The more you capture, the more points your team receives. What I found interesting 
 is that if one area is completely controlled by one team, an area that is close to it, will take 
 longer to capture and only be captured to a certain level. Yeah, levels, there are 3 of them. They 
 pretty much stand for the time needed to capture the point. Now, there will always be one area 
 on each side of the map that can't be captured by the other team. This is their headquarters. This 
 is the type of match where teamwork is necessary to capture and defend areas.
  
  The last type of match is capture the flag. For those who play online shooters know about capture 
 the flag. But this match is where you find some players you can call either cheap or brilliant. 
 The problem with this capture the flag system is that the flag can be dropped and picked up again 
 by the same person. Thus giving them 2 points per pick up. I've heard of people doing this and 
 getting well over 9000 points in a single match which is impossible unless using this trick. But 
 this mostly done on the smaller maps and it's usually a higher ranked player playing lower ranked 
 players. But capture the flag in my opinion is the best match to play to have fun with. But it 
 is usually the one that clans use to battle on, since it's so back and forth. What I like about 
 this mode, is that it requires much strategy to play. If one team has the other team's flag and 
 the other team vice-versa. It doesn't allow you to capture the flag. For those interested to gain 
 rank, this is the best match to do so.
  
  Vehicles are the main source of travel in this game. You have jeeps, tanks, and the Warhawk/Nemesis. 
 The Jeep is the faster of the 2 ground vehicles and can carry 3 people, a driver, passenger, and 
 gunner. There is a machine gun mounted on the back. This is a good vehicle to use in capture the 
 flag. The only problem with this vehicle is that it's easily destroyed. A single mine will destroy 
 this vehicle which makes jeeps a pain to travel in sometimes during a capture the flag matches. 
 But jeep can also make great traps and kamikaze weapons. Slap a mine on the hood of a jeep and 
 if an enemy gets in it, the jeep will explode with him in it, or you can drive it into a group 
 of enemies or enemy tank and it will kill them along with you, but it will clear a path for your 
 team.
  
  The tank in my opinion is the most over-powered vehicle in the game and also puzzles me sometimes. 
 Tanks only have the cannon as a weapon, but it can carry 2 people, a driver and for those interested 
 roof gunner that pop out and shoot. This would be a good combo if the player on the roof has a 
 rocket launcher allowing for defence against planes. The tank can kill can troop with a single 
 shot, or they can be ran over. I wouldn't suggest the second option, since the tank is a slow vehicle. 
 What I found puzzling about the tank is it's effectiveness against vehicles. A single cannon shot 
 can destroy a warhawk, yet it takes 2 to destroy a jeep. Now, I find that a tad strange. But it 
 makes the tank a great anti-aircraft weapon if turrets are offline. The tank is also very resilient 
 able to withstand several rocket shots and gunfire before being destroyed.
  
  The warhawk/nemesis is the "troop" of the air. There are several weapons available for these vehicles. 
 There are 3 types of missiles, 2 ground attack weapons, and 2 air defence items. Warhawks are awfully 
 weak and will be destroyed after 2 homing missiles, or a single tank shot. But it makes up for 
 this in speed. These planes all have a rechargeable nitro boosts, which helps evade missiles. A 
 good feature is the missile dodge system. A message will appear when fired at and will give you 
 a limited time to evade the missile (s) . The warhawk also has the most powerful weapon in the game 
 at their disposal if found and used. This being the TOW missile. This is a remote controlled missile 
 that packs quite a bang when it connects. It is mostly used for ground forces since it will kill 
 almost everything in a single hit.
  
  Then last but not least you have your own 2 feet for transportation. There are 8 weapons at your 
 disposal. Each with pros and cons. You always have a knife and a handgun with infinite ammo. The 
 knife is a instant kill i it connects, but when two people are attacking each other with a knife, 
 it is unknown who will win. The pistol is extremely weak and should only be used as a last resort. 
 It doesn't even cause damage to vehicles. The most common weapon is the rifle which can be used 
 for usual firefights. There are 2 long range weapons, the sniper rifle and the binoculars. The 
 sniper rifle is a one hit kill usually and the binoculars are a laser sight which calls in a artillery 
 strike when held in the same spot for long enough. I have to admit, that the sniper rifle can be 
 a good close range weapon if you have good aim. The binoculars have a cool down time of about 45 
 seconds. But it makes the weapon fair. Then you have the explosive weaponry. There are 4 weapons 
 in this section, the flamethrower, rocket launcher, mines and grenades. Like any other FPS, the 
 grenades are attached to the L1 button making them easier to use. You can have a limit of 6 and 
 it can cause a range of damage from, almost none to instant death. It matters on proximity to the 
 grenade. The rocket launcher is your typical RPG that fires a homing missile if the fire button 
 is held till the ding sound. It's a great weapon to use against warhawks and tanks when on foot, 
 but it can also make a great anti-infantry weapon if your aim is good. The mines are the best defence 
 weapon in the game, but the radius of the mine is ridiculous. A mine can kill a troop instantly 
 from 10 feet away. It makes no sense, but it's a great weapon to use in capture the flag to protect 
 the flag. Although, mines can be pre-detonated by gunfire which is useful. Then you have the most 
 over-powered troop weapon, the flamethrower. It's both a great anti-infantry and close combat anti-vehicle 
 weapon. It will kill and enemy troop in a few seconds with constant fire. But, it shouldn't be 
 able to affect the tank like it does. A flamethrower can take out the tank in a few seconds.
  
  Now, like Resistance: Fall of Man, this game features, ribbons, and medals. But this game also 
 had badges. There are ribbons and badges for most things, like kill so many enemies with a certain 
 weapons, or capturing a flag or zone. The medals require a certain amount of a certain thing to 
 receive the medal. Like to receive the Supreme Sacrifice medal, you have to have over 500 deaths 
 and a 5 death streak.
  
  In conclusion this game is a great online game but it does have its flaws. Plus it has it's expansion 
 which added a new level and a new vehicle. But that really didn't add much in way of gameplay. 
 I give it 8.5.
  
  Pros: great online, variety of gameplay, just plain fun
  Cons: some weapons are overpowered, certain aspects can be exploited.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  There are few online multiplayer games for a console that offers long-term variety and strategic 
 assessment to the degree that Warhawk has been able to accomplish on the PS3. This sort of thing 
 is common with PC games. Furthermore, now with the Omega Dawn map pack that was just added, things 
 have gotten even better for Warhawk fans. The addition of the new maps and the KT-424 Combat Dropship 
 has made the gameplay exceedingly interesting. 
  
  Variety is one of the strong points for Warhawk players. If flying is your thing-take to the skies 
 with the Warhawk and dogfight using a variety of different air assault weapons. If Troop combat 
 is your favorite-you can stay on foot and use things like M16's, Flamethrowers, Land mines, Bazookas, 
 etc, etc. You can board tanks, jeeps, missile turrets, machine gun turrets or the mighty KT-424 
 Dropship which can carry up to 7 soldiers and a vehicle at once. All of these styles of play make 
 for some intense combat action that will leave anyone coming back for more. The way it is mixed 
 together is done really well. 
  
  Warhawk includes a ranking system that is challenging but fun to develop. It is invigorating to 
 see yourself step up into the ranks and take out opponents at will. You can do this in many classic 
 game modes like: Catch the flag, Team death match, Death match and Zone. All of these modes are 
 impressive with the amount of people you can have on your team. Up to 32 players can be in a game 
 at once so it is an 18 on 18-death fest. 
  
  The gameplay is all really smooth and solid so the controls are pretty easy to get down. In conclusion, 
 Warhawk delivers on many levels and is a must have for anyone who is a fan of online multiplayer 
 gaming.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkreleaser
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is amazing i mean Warhawk was announced two years ago, the game featured a significant 
 focus upon a single player storyline that cast a large spotlight on the Sixaxis controller and 
 what it could potentially do for games. Along the way, the team at Incognito discovered that their 
 multiplayer mode was more substantial and appealed to players more than their plot. With the mantra 
 of delivering a "AAA experience," they changed gears, making the game an online only slugfest on 
 the ground and in the air for up to 32 players. 
  To that end, you'll engage up to 31 other players across five different worlds, each of which can 
 be segmented into as large or as small a stage as you want for tight, hectic firefights or protracted 
 strategic advances and counters. You'll take on your opponents in one of four different gameplay 
 modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and Nodes play. Veterans of multiplayer games 
 will know the mechanics behind Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag by heart, although 
 there are two mild twists on the standards. First of all, if you decide to play a dogfight only 
 game, you're engaging in only Deathmatch or Team Deathmatch; there doesn't seem to be any sense 
 in Capture the Flag or Nodes when you never touch the ground in that mode without exploding. Secondly, 
 scattered across every single map are a number of sub-bases and mini-checkpoints. Capturing these 
 bases allows you to create a spawn point for anyone on your team, who can then warp to any checkpoint 
 or base in that territory as long as it's in your control. It also generates new weapons, turrets 
 and vehicles for you and your allies to use. What makes the twist so interesting is that it helps 
 ease you into the understanding behind the new Nodes Play feature.
  Warhawk has an awesome online multiplayer mode. You are missing out on all the online fun of warhawk 
 . If you do not have a copy. But if you do have copy i will meet you on the battle field. So go 
 get you copy you will not regret it! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Made a bad first impression cause of the lack of story and campaign but then... my friend came 
 over and we played it splitscreen online coause thats the only game online splitscreen and got 
 me addicted to it!, lack of skills, it should have like call of duty 4's perks they should have 
 something like that a little flaws like you going through exploded vehicles graphics... well Incognto 
 didn't push the graphics to the max, and the gameplay! amazing as i said earlier lack of story 
 and campaign, but Incognito's heading for a amazing multiplayer experience, great multiplayer and 
 the fact that you can customize your character is great. What you need is mad skills, what im trying 
 to say is even though your rank is Liutenant or bla bla bla doesnt make you stronger or anything 
 or its just the fact that you are good so you need to practice a lot... as i said Incognito should 
 make another patch or update please not a expansion pack... well they could make a expansion, which 
 makes it more effective but expansions cost alotta money, and Incognito should put some skills 
 level up and stuff, like your aiming goes higher or your piloting grows, something that you can 
 devolop but not to practice again and again which makes it kinda not my type... if you are reading 
 this review which i bet you are not... i wouldnt read this too hehehe, you should get this game 
 if you have friends to come over and if you want a great multiplayer game, and this is my opinion, 
 you may agree or disagree, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joffen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a game every playstation 3 owner with a hitch for online gaming should buy.
  Warhawk's strength is its different styles of play. You can run and gun as a foot soldier, but 
 you can also mount different vehicles, such as tanks, the awesome warhawk, or turrets to counter 
 any of the previously mentioned. This not only makes combat a lot more fun by bringing big guns 
 and fast-moving flyers to the table, but also helps the game's main issue; Dead time. Sure, the 
 combat is fast and jolly, but at the larger maps, getting into it might take some time. So unless 
 you have access to means of transportation, you are likely to hobble across a war-torn battlefield, 
 only to be run down by a tank halfway through. This is never really a great problem though, as 
 there's almost always other means of transport nearby, and the pleasure of winning a dogfight in 
 a warhawk, blowing up the enemy turrets with a tank, or just plain outgunning infantry, far outweighs 
 the slow parts, and never gets old.
  The game could benefit from slightly more game modes and stages to play on, but you have different 
 badges you can attain, for those who prefer to aim for more than just a good kill: hit ratio. This 
 gives the game a little more depth, as you might decide only to use a single weapon (of which there 
 are nine) during a round, or just see how long you can last blasting other warhawks. All in all, 
 this is a great game with a decent download price. I say: If you like online war zones, then buy 
 it right now. (And while you're at it, get Omega Dawn as well. It adds a new stage, a new ship, 
 and even more hours of fun.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaggleoooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a game that you'll have a love-hate relationship with. It is a fully online multiplayer 
 game, so no offline single player. You just hop in and start the violence. But this is where the 
 hate relationship with the game starts. The manual doesn't give you enough information on the controls 
 and the people in the game seem to be extremely good. When you first start, it may be a while until 
 you actually kill someone (it took me 3/4 of an hour to manage my first kill) . But once you get 
 over the initial learning curve (like learning to hold L1 to lock on with missiles in the warhawk) , 
 the game turns incredibly addictive.
  
  The aim of Warhawk is to kill as much as you can, and the game give you plenty of ways to do it. 
 The most enjoyable is the game's namesake, the Warhawk. The warhawk is a half fighter plane, half 
 close-air support plane with incredible agility and manuverability. With at least 5 Warhawks in 
 the sky from both teams at any one time, fighting in the Warhawk is both incredibly enjoyable and 
 can be the difference between a win and a loss in a game. Other vehicles include a tank and a jeep, 
 which are both fun to use. For players who prefer acting as infantry, weapons include a basic machine 
 gun, bazooka, land mines and the ever annoying and enjoyable sniper rifle. Nothing feels overpowered 
 in Warhawk, as, if you're equiped well for the situation, you can defeat anything.
  
  The game modes in Warhawk include the standard Team Deathmatch and Capture The Flag, as well as 
 a mode called Zones, where command posts must be captured to extend your team's influence. With 
 32 players fighting it out at the same time, it leads to hectic and addictive gameplay.
  
  Warhawk is one of the best multiplayer games I've played. To me, it's superior in enjoyment to 
 more well known and better rated games (though perhaps not in graphics) . Warhawk is a game you 
 will enjoy and will kill the time until the next awe-inspiring game arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  None. Seemingly, a war rages between the Chernovan and Eucadian forces. But who really cares? Do 
 YOU play Battlefield-type games for the STORY, for god's sake?! I feel the removal of the story 
 by Incognito was a wise one. It really puts focus on gameplay... which this title has in DROVES.
 
  
  INTERFACE (+controls) :
  
  Simple, to the point, with an ammo counter, a slick transparent, easy-to-read map, easy 8-way ammo 
 selection grid, dual-depression of L2 and R2 allows for an entirely different style of "loose" 
 flying (in flying mode only, of course) . Infantry and vehicle controls are 3rd person (ideal for 
 situational awareness... and trust me... you'll need it in this game, for damn sure) .
  
  Menus are also simple, to the point, and efficient at getting you to the whole point of this game... the 
 server screen (which has sortables, like in Resistance: Fall of Man)
  
  All in all, the menus, interface, and controls blend well to provide a smooth gameplay experience.
 
  
  VISUALS:
  
  This game sports a fantastic draw distance... better yet... this game doesn't have a draw distance! 
 All map geometry is present at all times!
  
  Lighting is nice... HDR is present, along with dynamic lights... the skies are amazing to behold.
 
  
  Water is beautiful, procedurally generated, with undulating waves and beautiful reflective ability.
 
  
  Nice textures, although not super-detailed when it comes to land and most geometry besides characters 
 and vehicles. I guess that's the price you pay when you render the entire map at all times!
  
  Animations work well... turrets swivel, bodies fly with nicely done ragdoll effects...
  
 
  Lovely, punchy explosions (think Mercenaries) that never fail to suprise you... also, planes explode 
 with wonderful beauty, the debris flying the same direction of the attack that hit you (great physics 
 on the explosions, incognito) , then raining down slowly to the earth.
  
  The physics engine is nice, working well with the visuals to produce some crazy moments, such as 
 a guy getting blown out of his jeep 100 feet in the air from 4 mines he just ran over!
  
  Oh god and let's not forget the fully volumetric clouds... very important in a game that stresses 
 the flying aspect. I've actually gotten lost in the clouds in this game. You lose your sense of 
 direction completely when inside a cloud in Warhawk.
  
  I'm also sticking the upgrade and ranking system here in visuals due to the fact that it is visual 
 only. When you rank up, earning various ribbons and medals, you unlock new unforms, colors, and 
 emblems for your soldier and airplane.
  
  WEAPONS AND CHARACTER OPTIONS:
  
  Assault Rifle: Standard rifle with quick fire rate, good for short to medium range fighting.
 
  
  Pistol: Infinite ammo, nice for short range only. Does not affect vehicles, only personnel.
  
 
  Flamethrower: My personal favorite. Continuous stream of pretty-looking fire (complete with heat 
 wave light distortion effects) great for torching vehicles, infantry... pretty much anything, at 
 a medium-short to short range.
  
  Rocket Launcher: Great for dealing with Warhawks and tanks. Lock-on feature is a plus. However, 
 you cannot lock onto personnel or jeeps. Just tanks and warhawks. Also... a good last resort in 
 close combat... if you can avoid the blast radius and not commit suicide, that is.
  
  Sniper rifle: With this game's amazing draw distance... sniping is a breeze. This is a one-shot 
 kill weapon.
  
  Knife: Very handy close combat weapon... one slash kill if your enemy has his back to you!
  
 
  Grenade: Standard frag grenade, good at taking care of jeeps, grounded warhawks, and infantry.
 
  
  Mines: The master of the use of mines will quickly become a pain in your ass.... because everywhere 
 you go... you will seemingly, inexplicably blow up for no apparent reason!
  
  Binoculars: These are fun to use, but you have to find them first. Usually they are located in 
 off-the-beaten-path areas of any given map. Once you have them, you zoom in like with the sniper 
 rifle, and you must hold down primary fire button while looking at one spot for about 3 seconds, 
 after which follows a small but devastating airstrike. Take note, however, that when firing the 
 aiming laser... it is a big green line that is visible from anywhere on the map, so.... know that 
 you WILL be noticed and your hiding spot revealed as soon as you depress the trigger.
  
  WEAPONS CONT   Flying mode weapons:
  
  Swarm missiles: Multiple-launch capable, low-damage, 
 fast homing missiles.
  
  Air-to-Air / Air-to-ground missile: Powerful, single-launch, slow, very maneuverable missile capable 
 of locking onto ground turrets and planes.
  
  Air Mine: Deployable floating mines that destroy planes that pass too close. Good for warding off 
 people on your tail.
  
  EMP: This weapon can fire single electric bursts, or hold down the fire trigger (only available 
 when you have ammo count of 10 for this weapon) and release an electric missile that sticks to 
 its target and damages over time.
  
  TOW Missle: A fly-by-wire (TV) missile that lets you guide it to your intended destination of destruction, 
 but with limited range.
  
  Machine Guns: Rapid-fire, unlimited-ammo guns that are good for messing with infantry and for finishing 
 off opponents with only a little health left.
  
  Cluster bomb: Great for killing large concentrations of enemies. Probably the most effective anti-infantry 
 weapon, if you know how to use it properly.
  
  Chaff dispenser: This comes in handy when you have a missile locked onto your aircraft. Depress 
 the trigger and out pops little tiny foil pieces that confuse the hell out of any and all missiles 
 that are following you.
  
  Stealth: Makes your aircraft invisible to missile lock-ons, yet you can only fire your guns if 
 you want to remain unseen. Switching to another power-up or firing another weapon cancels the invisibility 
 effect.
  
  WEAPONS CONT   Infantry Emplacements
  
  Flak Turret: Resembles 8.8cm flak used by germany in WWII. Has limited range, yet can be very efective 
 in the right hands.
  
  Dual-missile turret: Very powerful, long-range missile emplacement. Deadly. Avoid these at all 
 costs while flying.
  
  MG emplacement: Simple machine gun mounted on a stand. Similar to gun mounted on jeep.
  
  All 
 in all, Warhawk offers a decent range of simple-to-use, yet highly effective weapons.
  
  SOUND:
  
  5.1 Dolby Digital Surround, very punchy and beefy explosions ala Mercenaries, decent 
 (not that great) engine sounds, authentic and distinct weapon sounds, warhawks sound great as they 
 scream by at high speed overhead.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  First game to really open up the throttle on Sony's growing online service. Dedicated servers are 
 a big plus. Plenty of map configuration options, and gameplay types, and playstyle choices to keep 
 you going for a while.
  
  Graphics and sound impress, and the controls are tight and with a bit of practice you will become 
 a killing machine.
  
  The lack of story does not bother me because this is a multiplayer - only game. Once the first 
 shots are fired in a match... any story that is present would go out the window.
  
  And as far as the purchase choices go... you can buy it retail for 60 dollars with a headset... or 
 pay 40 dollars online to get from the PS store. I downloaded it due to the fact that I already 
 own a headset. Some talk about the 40 dollars being a bit much for this multiplayer - only game 
 is floating around, but I feel the deep, fast-paced gameplay more than makes up for the 40 bucks 
 I dropped on the download. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This may not be one of the longest reviews i have done for a game so im sorry if it does not meet 
 your standards, considering its multiplayer only... 
  
  I just want to let everyone know that as of right now i am a step above of sucking, because trust 
 me when you first start out this game you will suck so bad you just want to return it. As i have 
 said already its multiplayer only with about 5 or 6 different standard maps and some created ones, 
 but you may also download some newly released maps in game for like 7 bucks. Of course this game 
 is based on the PS version of the game and is all about the in air dogfights! 
  
  One of the first things you may notice when playing the game is the controls really take some time 
 to get used to. It wasn't until the third day of playing where i actually found out how to set 
 all the controls to my likeing... the manuel isn't that helpful! Everyone always wants to try out 
 motion sensor! motion sensor! but let me tell you that if you actually want to kill someone try 
 and learn the controls! Its really hard to get good im the air on a big server of a max of 32 players, 
 when you continually get shot down... but using the Right analog can pull some crazy acrobatical 
 manuevers, and double tapping R2 puts on the afterburners!!!
  
  The ground combat is really fun and immersive, much like the Battlefield series. The weapons are 
 easy to find and pick up as well as scroll through with the D-Pad... the sniping isn't the smoothest 
 but its easy to gun down some enemys with a standard machine gun from really far away. Its mainly 
 just CTF modes... Two sides red vs blue each side looks different which is nice! There are many 
 different bombs to use while in a Warhawk such as an Electric shock that drops an electrifying 
 ball of energy unto many targets killing them on impact. and many different missles and such similar 
 to a cluster bomb... The ground vehicles are great as well! The tanks are awesome if you can get 
 in one... and the warthog looking jeeps are pretty good too! The turrets actually look and shoot 
 like one unlike Halo. 
  
  If your one of those guys who run into grab the flag each time... it is really easy because other 
 players are so focused on air battles or capturing your flag... but you can't return their flag 
 when yours isn't there. 
  
  This is surprisingly one fo the best multiplayer experiences i have had with a game and will continue 
 to play this baby for a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renostarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that sealed the deal. I was up in the air about the New Gen systems for a while. I 
 wanted one, but I wasn't expressly motivated to spend the inflated costs to get one. If it were 
 to be one that I'd own, I knew it'd be the 3, but still I was hesitant. That is until Warhawk. 
 This game redefines the concepts of Teamwork and Vendetta. This is the first Online Only Multiplayer 
 game I've ever played. I have played Halo online, Rainbow Six Las Vegas, Call of Duty, all of em. 
 But this game, it employs an entirely different manner of cooperation and partnership in my opinion. 
 It wasn't until my brother got his 3 and bought this game that my obsession began. After only a 
 couple months of playing this game at his house, I was out buying my own 3. All because of Warhawk. 
 It is so versatile. There are planes that convert to hover crafts, tanks, gun turrets, three man 
 jeeps, and of course the ground troop devisions. You have 9mm's, A-K's, Grenades, Grenade Launchers, 
 Knives, Blow torches, Air Strike Binoculars, and my personal favorite the Sniper Rifle. It's very 
 tactical, very strategic and inclusive. It really grabs you and sucks you into the game. If you 
 have the headset, that also adds a favorable element to it. All the various modes allow for high 
 replay ability. Capture the Flag, Zones, Team Death Match, and for all of you out there like me, 
 a free for all brawl-aholic, there's a Every Man For Himself mode or officially called the Death 
 Match mode. The game is a wonder. It can stand for some improvements though. Such as the graphics, 
 it's pretty and all but they in no way push the PS3 to her limits. I would like to see a customizable 
 option that would allow for the gamer to design their own camo for the planes, or decals for the 
 characters. They did it on Jet Grind Radio, they can do it here. And where's my Shotgun?? Every 
 shooter game ever since the beginning of time has had a Shotgun. Rainbow Six, Black, Halo, Call 
 of Duty, Resident Evil, Saint's Row, GTA....... the list goes on. What the crap!! Gimme a Shotgun!! 
 But other than that, this game goes down as one of my favorites. A must have for any multiplayer 
 advocate, or anyone with a wireless internet connection and a stern blood lust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriso1322
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Sadly there is no single player in this game but the multiplayer is one of the best ive played. 
 there is about 5 diffirent maps with about 4 layouts. these maps are huge as they can hold 32 players. 
 You can either go on foot , go in a vehicle or fly in a warhawk. the warhawks are very fun and 
 there is a veriety of diffirent pickups on the map from cluster bombs to guided missiles. There 
 is deathmatch, CTF and zones but the best is Team deathmatch. There is a very deep ranking system. 
 there is ribbons , medals and badges which u can achive by completeing diffirent challanges in 
 game. overall i think this is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  (? out of 5) Story: NO story here, just shooting, exploding, and killing.
  
  (4 out of 5) Gameplay: Warhawk doesn't have any story, it doesn't have a single player campaign, 
 but it does have something some games find hard to achieve, an awesome multiplayer experience. 
 Up to 32 people can play online with you! The online battles are fun to play and everyone of different 
 skill levels can come together and beat the crud out of each other. You can decide how to tackle 
 a situation, by foot, by vehicle, or by plane, you decide. The match loading is extremely fast 
 and easy. The controls may take some time getting use to but it works well. The online ranking 
 is also done flawlessly. The only complaints I had was that there were only four maps in the game, 
 and there were only four game types from your average team death match to capture the flag. There 
 is an Omega Pack available at the Playstation store for $7.99 but it only includes one more map 
 and a drop ship, not really worth 8 bucks if you ask me. For a mass multiplayer game like Warhawk 
 you would think they would have added more content, oh well the game is still fun.
  
  (4 out of 5) Graphics: For a PS3 game the graphics were alright, I still think they could have 
 improved it a bit more. The environments are done well though; it sure comes into play when you 
 are thinking of how to turn a bad situation around. I like how you can customize your character 
 and Warhawk, that was a nice add on, I just wish you could customize your tank and car, now that 
 would be great. 
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Sound: The sound quality in the game is very high. The turret fire, missile launching, 
 machine gun blasts are very believable. Even though the game lacks a lot of music it makes up for 
 it with high quality sound effects. 
  
  Warhawk is a fun online multiplayer experience. It can be fun to play with your friends or by yourself. 
 Most importantly the game comes with a free Blue Tooth headset if you purchase the game in stores.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great online game to play. One of my favorites. 
  On this game, you are one of two classes of warriors, one darkish and one sort of modern-camo look.
 
  On the ground, you can pick up a variety of about 10 weapons. each one is useful, except for the 
 pistol that you start out with. Grenades are sort of funky. They are extremely big, but can kil 
 easily. You can also get in a jeep or a tank.
  Jeeps and tanks both are relatively fast, and carry 2 passengers. One gunner, one driver. They 
 also control really good.
  THere are also only two types of planes, but carry many different missles, and an overheating machine 
 gun. Its also very easy and fun to barrel roll and flip through the air. THe afterburner is also 
 cool.
  I also forgot to mention that the sound is great. Gunshots sound real, and when planes fly over 
 you, it sounds like a passing jet.
  
  I simply cannot put this experience into words.... buy it and try it out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  First, Warhawk has no single player campaign. There are no bots you can frag by your lonesome on 
 those internetless nights at grandma's in the middle of Farm County, Nowheredaho. So, if you don't 
 have a high speed internet connection, don't bother. There's only so much fun to be had with 2 
 v 2 splitscreen battles, and that amount of fun is quite negligibile.
  
  However, for the rest of you dying to eat up some bandwidth, give Warhawk a shot. There are only 
 a handful of maps which scale to match the amount of players (up to 32 on one server) , but with 
 so many ways to wreak havok on your enemies you may never grow tired of Warhawk.
  
  Your initial foray into the world of Warhawk will most likely be a very frusrating one. The instruction 
 booklet is painfully uninformative and vague, such that you may not figure out how to reload your 
 weapons for several days (anyone struggling with this can send me a PM) . This means the learning 
 curve is more akin to a brick wall than a hill. You will get pwned... a lot.
  
  Your character will spawn somewhere on the field of battle armed with two grenades and a pistol. 
 You can grab various weapons pickups scattered across the terrain, such as assault rifles, RPGs, 
 and infrared binoculars with which you can call in devastating airstrikes. On foot, Warhawk plays 
 out like a third person shooter, and actually does so very well. A properly equipped soldier can 
 hold his own against almost anything he will encounter during his foray into DM, TDM, CTF, or Zones 
 combat.
  
  You want to try something new? Feel free to hop into flak cannon or SAM emplacements, jeeps, tanks, 
 or the ever-popular warhawk aircrafts themselves. However you decide to enter the fray, teamwork 
 is key; there is always strength in numbers. This tenet is as valuable to success as individual 
 skill, so do yourself a favor and make sure you have a Bluetooth headset you actually intend to 
 use.
  
  The more you play, you will be rewarded with medals and ribbons which, aside from looking badass, 
 will open up more options for character/warhawk customization, which basically lets others know 
 how good you are on sight.
  
  You are given the option to control your vehicles using the sixaxis's tilt capabilities, but this 
 is obviously difficult to do. It is much easier to control your aircraft with analog sticks, but 
 those who stick with the extreme learning curve involved in picking up the tilt action will probably 
 be rewarded in the long run with a greater level of control.
  
  With so many ways to contribute to your/your team's success, your favored method of mayhem may 
 change with each passing hour. This is Warhawk's main strength, and is what will keep you playing 
 for months and months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I still remember playing the original Warhawk on PSone many moons ago... it was a blast and truely 
 gave the freedom of flying, for its time. 2 generations later and the return of a classic flyer 
 hits PS3, in a positive way. I'll be honest, I was skeptical once they announced Warhawk would 
 be online only... From the videos I saw on websites it looked like this game would have an awesome 
 single player... but alas, i had to deal with the choice... and it wasn't that bad a move on the 
 developers part. The game's got tons of depth, requires strategy and demand to learn the somewhat 
 steep learning curve. It's difficult to pick up the game and get excited when there's no tutorial... so 
 be prepared to lose your first couple of games as you get used to the controls and mechanics.... you 
 can fly a jet, drive tanks and jeeps... or go on foot. All options are a blast, 1on1 jet battles 
 are amazing to watch and even better to be involved in.... seeing the planes perform some crazy 
 spirals and barrel drops... even 1on1 foot battles turn from skeptical one-sided matches to minute 
 long challenges... There are tons of guns and powerups at your disposal. This game is only online... no 
 bots, so be consumer aware. Awesome game worth its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramsboy39
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a multiplayer only "war" game. Simply put, its unique approach makes it one of the best 
 multiplayer experiences available today. At first, the shooting mechanics may seem very awkward 
 and more of a joke than an actual method, but like every Warhawk player, you will soon get the 
 hang of it, and see it as a break from the regular FPS.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphically, the "up close" details aren't the best we've seen but the maps are huge and contain 
 gorgeous landscaping. The movements of the characters are portrayed very professionally and look 
 very realistic. But the best of it all is the frames per second. They never drop at all. Warhawk 
 is one of the few online games today that moves smoothly and never slows down due to lag, even 
 with the huge 32 player matches.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay wise, Warhawk has a ton of variety, and is very unique in the category of a shooter. There 
 are a ton of weapons and a ton of things to do with them. You have a pistol that can definitely 
 be handy in tight situations; a combat blade, which will no doubt give you the most satisfying 
 kill you've every had in a game; your good old trusty rifle, which is the standard weapon in the 
 game and is effective at both close and long distances; a rocket launcher, which is dangerous in 
 close combat and also has the ability to lock on to tanks and warhawks; the flamethrower, which 
 is deadly in close combat; a sniper rifle that is the most realistic we've seen in a shooter, and 
 one must have true sniper skills to master this; mines, which are fun to place and are very effective 
 in CTF and Zones; and the binoculars, which call for a deadly air strike almost guranteed to succeed.
 
  
  The planes, known as a Warhawk (Eucadian) and Nemesis (Chernovan) , have great controls, and they 
 never get boring as there are also a ton of weapons to use when in one of these, favorites of players 
 would probably be the TOW Missile, which is the most effective weapon in the entire game, and the 
 Homing Missile, which is almost always guranteed to hit the enemies plane.
  
  In Warhawk, there are two classes: the Eucadian (the good guys) and the Chernovan (the evil guys) . 
 As your rank advances, tons of customization options become available, allowing you to customize 
 your character exactly how you want it.
  
  There is also a great ranking system in Warhawk, from Recruit to General, and tons inbetween. The 
 point system was with flaws at launch but the system is now fair and the best player will most 
 likely be the top player at the end of a battle. There are also tons of Ribbons, Badges, and Medals 
 to be collected in Warhawk, and at times you may be stuck on a rank because of the lack of a certain 
 Badge.
  
  Also, as your rank advances, the options in "Create a Game" mode increase, letting you have more 
 players in the game, and if it is a dedicated server, it can become ranked. Only blue highlighted 
 servers made by SCEA are ranked (unless it is dedicated) .
  
  Game types are Zones, Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, and Team Deathmatch; and Warhawk is something 
 special when it comes to games of Capture the Flag and Zone, and may be the best in its categories 
 when it comes to these game types.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound effects in Warhawk are fantasic, as each different weapon has its own unique sound, and 
 when you here it, you know something bad is about to happen. In the game, you will here music, 
 at times it is not interesting at all, but there are also the times when Warhawk presents great 
 music to get you pumped up for battle.
  
  There are 6 maps available, and odds are, there will be at least a few of them that will please 
 you. They are unique in their special ways, which adds to the variety factor in Warhawk; as certain 
 game types may only use a portion of the map in play.
  
  Flaws:
  
  Warhawk is a great game from top to bottom but is not without flaws. Some servers may shutdown 
 from time to time, ridding you of all your points you gained in that game. And since the maps are 
 so big and complex, minor glitches may decide if you or your opponent die, and it can be extremely 
 frustrating from time to time. Though Incognito put in a lot of time to balance out the power of 
 each weapon, some things are just to powerful, for example, a tank can easily take down a good 
 amount of men without breaking a sweat. But these flaws are overshadowed by all of the good things 
 Warhawk has to offer.
  
  If you own a PS3, and are a fan of shooters, get this game; its massive online battles and variety 
 of gameplay make this one a must own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilballerj07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first game i bought for my ps3 mostly because of the headset (which i still dont 
 know how to use) it wasnt all that great at first but once i played a few matches i got really 
 into it and i was playing it non-stop. what i like about this game is the balance of weapons. there 
 isnt one weapon that is better than any other one, unless you prefer a certain type of gameplay. 
 the vehicles are great and the sounds of the game are breath-taking. everything looks amazing and 
 its really easy to jump into the game and know whats going on. the only problems are the lack of 
 weapon choice. there are only a few weapons to choose from. only 3 types of vehicles (but different 
 turrets make up for that) and there arent enough maps. maps arent a big deal because they have 
 recently made a new one that you can buy with a new vehicle and im sure they will make more. Overall 
 if you like shooting games you will probably like this game. its especially a good deal because 
 it comes with headset. if you want a game that has a nice story and more diversity in guns and 
 maps, get call of duty 4 or unreal tournament 3 or something. but if your looking for a game that 
 includes a lot of teamwork and just great, fast, online play you really need to have this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osirus824
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  First things first: You can only play Warhawk online. My response: Who the hell cares? So many 
 people held that fact against Warhawk. Their harshness towards the game makes me wonder if they 
 really played it, or simply read the back cover. If you can find a good server on Warhawk (which 
 isn't typically hard) , you're in for a great time filled with furious gunplay and explosive air 
 battles.
  
  The scale and freedom of Warhawk are what make it so great. Maps can range from close quarters 
 to miles of mountain range. Within these arenas, you can fight on foot, pilot tanks, jeeps and 
 the eponymous aircraft and man gun and missile turrets. This allows you to decide how you want 
 to play. If you would prefer to quietly fly over to a hill near an enemy base, then get out and 
 stealthily snipe the other team's men, you can. If you would rather cover your Warhawk with proximity 
 mines and fly it into a crowd of enemies, you're free to do that, as well. That's the beauty of 
 this game. Each aspect of it is polished and satisfying. Explosions are appropriately earth shattering, 
 enemy deaths send them flying and each individual weapon works just as it should.
  
  The game is almost arcade-like in its laid-back accessibility. There is, however, a learning curve 
 that comes from just how overwhelming the action can get, and how many different weapons you can 
 use. Ranking up gives you bragging rights and access to character customization, so there's incentive 
 to get the various badges and medals. The user-run servers are mostly stable, and my only real 
 complaint to an intuitive and glitch-free (as of patch v1.2) menu system is the lack of a party 
 system. Unless you're running your own server (which everyone can do) , it is hard to hook up with 
 friends online. You and up to three of your friends can share a split screen and your gamertag 
 for local multiplayer. Still, who needs friends when you have such an addictive game?
  
  You can download the game for a steal ($40) on the PSN store or on Blu-ray disc at stores (which 
 can also be bundled with a good Belkin bluetooth headset for an additional $20) . I'd suggest getting 
 the Blu-ray. You save your hard disk space and don't have to deal with annoying DRM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk was a title I hadn't heard of until it was released on the Playstation Network where I 
 decided to buy it as it was the only PS3 game I had seen with a price half that of others. What 
 a smart decision. The game is multiplayer only and what a multiplayer it is!
  
  Firstly, the range of vehicles and weaponry is excellent - particularly with the new Operation 
 Omega Dawn introducing the Dropship (a formidable foe even agains a mighty warhawk!) . I cannot 
 tell you which I enjoy using the most as all have equal pros and cons.
  
  Next, although there are only 6 maps which are played in rotation (5 without te expansion) this 
 is enough as they can be played for a maximum of 60 minutes and you wouldn't believe it but in 
 some games this is all too short!
  
  Finally, i will say that for 20 this game is a real bargain and will provide you with hours of 
 entertainment. Whenever I am bored I simply dive straight into a game on Warhawk. The only downside 
 I can think of - it takes ages to rank up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusmurph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a third person shooter that has no single player capability at all, this is fine because 
 we bought it as a multiplayer game right?
  
  The problem is, this game is hard to get a hang of and constantly dieing at the start of playing 
 is not that fun. After a while the game really comes out to shine
  
  In the soldier format of the game, you have a variety of weapons such as a pistol with unlimited 
 ammo, an assualt rifle, homing rocket launcher, sniper rifle, flame thrower, mines and binoculars 
 to call in an air strike on a lit location. Also there is the old trusty knife which used right 
 will get you a instant kill (and a badge!)
  
  The planes are probably the hardest thing to get used to as the have two modes for flying, hover 
 and flying as we are used to. The problem is that everyone who has played it longer than you is 
 going to shoot you down until you can learn to shake missiles properly. Another issue with missiles 
 is the chaff (sparkling hot stuff that is meant to attract the missile over you) requires you to 
 manually select it and then fire it like any other weapon. Given that the urgency of this it would 
 have been nice if it had a hot key.
  
  You also have your vehicles which are your standard tank and jeep with a .50 caliber mounted on 
 the back. These drive well and you will be flying in no time, no pun intend of course.
  
  The balance of the game is strong with no real vehicle being more powerful over the other (provided 
 you have the right weapons and associated skills.
  
  The problem i have with the games are the overall map designs are good for 32 people, but not for 
 the minimum 8, the game with no numbers can become very slow and boring when people aren't on. 
 Also the lack of tutorial and manual for those that download the game make it very difficult to 
 know what your meant to do exactly.
  
  If enjoy online shooters and are ready for a learning curve then this really is a worth while game 
 to play. With its ranks, ribbons and medals scheme you will have hours of play time ahead of you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  War hawk is an amazing game that is very solid and worth playing. 
  
  The game finally gave games the chance to fight in the air and on the ground at the same time. 
 If you are a big fan of planes then you can take your plane any time anywhere. If you like to drive, 
 you can grab a car or a tank and use that for your advantage. 
  The game is very well balanced and even if you fighting from the ground you won't feel over powered 
 by the planes. Both tactics work amazing. 
  The game is based between 2 teams and there is no story. You Log in, get ready, and start the fun 
 so that's really good. 
  
  To break down the game I have included in this review the good and the bad 
  
  The Good:
 
  Amazing game play, that is full of everything a gamer wants, 
  
  Cool customization for planes, and characters. 
  
  Levelling up in the game gives you new content 
 for customization so you get to have something to play for. 
  
  Weapon variety is amazing; there are so many weapons for air and land. 
  
  The game is very 
 fun, tons of maps, tons of options, and many servers to choose from. 
  
  The Bad: 
  
  There is no tutorial in the game to teach you how to play, so it makes it frustrating and difficult 
 in the beginning to get used to it. 
  
  Controls could have been better, Example: Choosing the weapons. Because when you're playing a game 
 like this, there is alot of action going on and getting you weapon up in time and the right one 
 is kind of difficult but you will get used it after a while.
  
  When you are playing with your character on the ground they feel kind of light.
  
  No eject 
 button, to get out of the plane that would have been cool if it existed in the game even if it 
 was a pick up.
  
  
  Over all, the game is worth buying, worth playing, it has everything for a cool war game that covers 
 air and land. 
  Getting used to the game is the only thing that would really frustrate you in the beginning but 
 other than that it should be good and fun to play. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyBags80403
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here is my review for Warhawk. As most of you may already know, Warhawk is not a game for people 
 who love to play story mode for one major reason, there is not one. Warhawk is only an only online 
 game and for this reducement something else will alsobe reduced, the price! Instead of 60 dollars, 
 the game will cost 40 dollars. As for the new Omega Dawn Booster, I do not know. But I would think 
 that it would also be a buy. I think this because of the new map you recieve and the awesome new 
 vehicle. The vehicle includes: the ability to hold six people, two cannons, and the ability to 
 transport a vehicle over the map. And that just by itself, sounds pretty danf awesome. This game 
 s a third person shooter and I do not know why they have called it "SCI-FI". The game uses weapons 
 that are tottally possible to make. I hope this review has convinced you to buy this game becasue 
 it is, as long as you buy it in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  this game is so fun i cant feel my legs you can control an air craft create your own charcter and 
 aircraft and drive a tank 3 person jeep! and theres alot of different game modes like capture the 
 flag and death match and even team death match! the wepons you can use, you can use pistol, knife, rocket 
 lanucher, sniper flame thrower turrents and tons more! its 1-4 players and online its ummm a lot! 
 the headset dosent really work but once you get it to work (which takes a while. and but graphics 
 are great i recommened buying this game to any one who wants a game with action and killing!
  (and thanks MackActtack for the guide...) any ways buy this for x mas birth days any reason!!!
 
  
  *if you wanna buy it with out the headset go to ebgames and its 20$less than with the headset!
 
  thanks for readind people!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanlek
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is simply fun, addicting multiplayer at its very best. There is no game quite like it out 
 there that lets you play in planes, jeeps, tanks or on foot. One of the great things about Warhawk 
 is that you can approach the game in any way you want. The level of freedom is without parrallel 
 however the stars of the game in my opinion are without a doubt the warhawks. Although initially 
 hard to use, effectively fly through the air becomes second nature and can cause major turning 
 points in battles. The Warhawk can be flown with the analogue sticks or the SIXAXSIS motion sensitive 
 controls. Both work well but i decided to stick with analogue as i find it slightly easier to cope 
 with under pressure but others would disagree of course. Players can also play as ground troups 
 and rule the ground with tanks, jeeps and anti-air. These all make life harder for the fliers and 
 balance the game out nicely. Tanks are immensly powerful but have the draw back of being slow, 
 while jeeps are speedy but lack the firepower of tanks. Both can carry up to 2 players making team 
 work easier. Note that you are rewarded for teamwork in this game with extra points which gives 
 players incentives to work together. There are a variety of weapons such as, sniper rifles, machine 
 guns, pistols, rocket launchers, mines, airstrike binoculars and a combat knife. All the weapons 
 pack a punch with the exception of the pistol which should be avoided at all costs. Now the maps 
 in Warhawk are enourmous although there are only a handful. They feature many different layouts 
 relating to the number of players. Each map is done well and has a great sence of scope, the graphical 
 style is slightly cartoony and the draw distance is what the ps3 was made for. Overall the graphics 
 are pleasing to the eye and Warhawk is one of the better looking games out there. 
  
  A word on Operation Omega Dawn Expansion pack:
  Worth the money imo, big map, set at night and 
 dropships added in which are active in every other map for those who have the expansion pack. Its 
 a great add on which adds some more variety to the game. 
  
  Closing comments:
  Warhawk is one of the bust multiplayer games out there right now and if you own a ps3 this game 
 cannot be missed. Expansion pack potential raise value further and makes an exciting prospect for 
 the future. Almost flawless multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan335
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  sdfdddddddddWhen writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 
 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose 
 to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. 
 We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local 
 disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorillaz_3230
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this after my brother bought it, i was a little bit sceptical. However, as 
 time went on, i ended up playing it more than him. 
  
  The game may seem a little pricey if you buy the BD version, due to the fact that there is no campaign 
 mode, however, this game is an exception. Due to the fact that all the time in creating the game 
 was all devoted to multiplayer, it turned out great.
  
  The only problem i had with it, and the only thing stopping me giving it a 9.5 was the ranking 
 systems. To me, ranking is a very important thing, especially on a game that is entirely devoted 
 to online. I was one of the lucky ones, in that i didn't cop too much problems with ranking, however, 
 my brother, aswell as some of my friends found that ranking up, and earning medals had some severe 
 problems. You were either gaining ranks, and medals, for doing nothing at all, or you were doing 
 all of the requirements, and getting no where.
  Im not entirely sure on if they have fixed this issue, but if they havent, and like me you really 
 take ranking in a high regard, i would hold out for a bit untill they fix this minor glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnoxxville
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are on par with what was available on launch day.... for the GameCube.
  
  Horrid lobby system. Why have games that were released so long after RFOM not more closely copied 
 its lobby system?
  
  Overall lameness of weapons. 
  
  The only redeaming sound effect is the tank firing. 
  
  Really people. The PS3 is capable of 
 soooooo much more. I am still amazed by the response that this game gets.
  
  The only upside is that I bought the retail pack and it came with the snappy headset. On the downside, 
 after playing it for maybe a few weeks, and then letting it sit in my car for a month while I kept 
 forgetting to trade it in, the game netted me a whopping $14 trade-in at game stop. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Extremely Fun and addiccting!! the game offers mcuh to do. from ground dog wars to tank and jeep 
 battles to sky battles in the warhawks there are endles ways to fight against the enemy in this 
 game. this is the only game so far that has multiplayer only and does it right off the bat. I mean 
 the graphics are great and the vichilces and weopons work perfectly and the entire game is balanced 
 nothing is unbalaced. the warhawks do take some time to get really good at but it all takes practice 
 and patience from my point of you this is one game all must have if you own a ps3!! This game just 
 takes it to the next level and the engine works great online. there is absolutly no lag atleast 
 from my point of view and the game offerts up to 32 players at once which is just amazing because 
 since the maps are so HUGE youl be able to find fights almost anywhere in the map unless ure more 
 of a lay back person and stay at base and protect the flag whci even tehre is alt of action since 
 you have to protaect it from all the warhawks and people attacking!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derek3257
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Warhawk by far is one the best game games I have ever played. 
  I consider myself to be a casual / serious gamer and Warhawk may just push me to the side of serious 
 now. It is absolutely the most fun I've had playing any game with a multiplayer option. The fact 
 that it's only playable online was a bit of a draw back when I first bout it but now I wouldn't 
 have it any other way. I love the online play the smack talk, the teamwork (when people use their 
 mics anyway) , the split screen play and the variety of game play options.
  Warhawk was my first experience with online game play and I'm hooked now. The fact that you can 
 choose your combat style, whether it be on the ground on foot, in a turrett, jeep, tank or the 
 Warhawk itself extends game play 10 fold. The amount of awards, ribbons and medals to earn are 
 just the icing on the cake, the bragging rights you will earn as you master the game play are well 
 worth the hundreds of hours you will put into this game.
  I believe that Warhawk will be around for a long time with all the new updates coming, so anyone 
 who wasn't sure before please be sure now that if you own a PS3 you owe it to yourself to at least 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just wow, this game will make you think, "gosh 40 bucks for an only online game? Well, i'd 
 be fine with paying full price, this game is the most addictive game i have ever played.
  
  Graphics
  Nothing Revolutionary, but it has a great look of its own, and they have to be toned 
 town a bit for the 32 online multiplayer, but trust me, they are not bad by any means, just not 
 ratchet, or uncharted worthy visually.
  
  Gameplay
  Of course, the best part, who knew a controller could function so many options and things to do, 
 you use the D-pad to switch weapons, which are like the pistol, knife, machine gun, rpg, sniper, 
 flamethrower, etc. Grenades are used with L1, so anyone used to a shooting game should feel at 
 home after a bit, dont get me wrong though, the learning curve is pretty big at first, you'll die 
 alot and lose tons, but just play for a bit, and trust me you'll want to keep playing, and you'll 
 get great, you can drive vehicles or planes with the standard analog or the sixaxis which is really 
 fun, but you'll switch back and forth
  
  Options
  So many things you can do, you can have clanks, ranks, leaderboards. You can customize your character 
 and aircraft, find your friends easily and there is RARELY any lag, the framerate never drops, 
 even with full 32 player matches.
  
  This game will not let you down, everyone i know has loved this game and played it immensley, and 
 with the new map packs coming out, this game should be used for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooman214
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I was one of the first to buy Warhawk online when it came out. In the beginning the game had it 
 problems. One of the first things that I noticed was that the game would freeze up at the worst 
 times. It happened a few times but since the patch I haven't had any problems.
  One the second things that I noticed was the difficulty of getting into a ranked server. I have 
 a very fast connection but in the beginning I had a lot of problems getting into the ranked matches. 
 But once again, since the patch I can get into any match that I want.
  The gameplay is addicting, the vehicles are awesome. I have to say that I am pretty awesome with 
 the Warhawk. The modes that are offered are basic but the Zones mode makes the game very strategic.
 
  The game is fun playing by yourself but when you get some friends playing with you it really gets 
 fun because you have somebody to watch your back because people love to gang up on you if you kill 
 them a few too many times (once usually) . The only problem that I really have is that some people 
 just don't know how to play the game at all. I have joined a game and for some reason the people 
 on my team just don't know how to play because the keep getting killed when they should know what 
 to do. Just upsets me something fierce but that's really my only complaint about the game. If you 
 want to enjoy a great online multiplayer game, that is very addicting, go out and buy Warhawk for 
 the PS3. I would recommend getting the version with the headset if you have the money, so that 
 you can yell at your team mates for not doing what you want them to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koosoo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I love it, its tons of fun. Plus it comes with the jabra bluetooth headset, so it makes it even 
 more fun. Plus its easy to get into, it just took me like 30 min to get into the controls and everything. 
 My first time playing, and i waz like on a killing spree. i was 3rd place on the summary after 
 my fight. Plus the cool part is that you can use your remote to control the planes. So me and my 
 cuz were just having a gr8 time, We've been looking for a game which use the sixaxis remote to 
 steer sumtin. But all i need now is just a wireless router, other wise I'm gonna have to keep on 
 moving my computer around, which is a big pain. It is a game which every ps3 owner should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irve
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  
  My first review of this title was moderated as apparently i was too harsh regarding the fact that 
 this is a full price title. 
  
  Well I still stand by my comments 
  
  Ultimately this is a great multiplayer only title that could be a real system seller for online 
 play over the PSN. 
  
  When news was first broken about this becoming a multiplayer only title i thought the writing was 
 on the wall regarding the quality of the game .. How wrong i was !! 
  
  However the publisher has obviously decided that all the money wasted in trying to create the single 
 player game has to be re-couped and so is charging full price. 
  
  Well i think that is disrespectful, akin to releasing very poor games that will never work ,a la 
 Robocop or Day of the Dead, just to try and claw some money back from unsuspecting members of the 
 gaming world. 
  
  What makes this worse though is that it is a good game and should be on most PS3 players wish list 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krycek9mm
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! It is beautiful and fun and quirky. It's definitely chosen style over realism 
 and it works. 
  The overall feel is idealized retro-army, like sky captain only way better. Though the weapons 
 and vehicles are high tech , the look is updated WWII. The characters proportions and movements 
 are cartoony and fun, almost like if Scooby and shaggy were drafted and battle-hardened. 
  The vehicles control great. The Warhawk is very reponsive and agile. Movement is really smooth 
 whether on foot or in a vehicle. It takes 2 seconds to jump into a plane and take off, landing 
 takes a little more care but is nothing when compared with other games. The warhawk is durable 
 as far as running into terrain goes so feel free to live out your X-wing fantasy of flying through 
 caves and valleys and weaving between buildings.
  The gameplay is fast paced and extremely well balanced, weapons and vehicles are plentiful. Warhawks 
 bullying troops can easily be taken out with rockets or even well placed grenades, tanks can deal 
 some damage but have a hard time taking out planes, flame throwers beat tanks, jeeps are agile 
 but not well armored and so on.
  There are many varied approaches you can take whether you like to use sniper rifles or air strikes 
 to engage at a distance or plow right in with a tank or run and gun in a Jeep.
  Some reviews didn't think highly of the graphics but I think they're gorgeous. The draw distance 
 is long and the atmosphere is beautiful, especially the tropical archipelago. Explosions look great 
 close up but off in the distance they really give you a great sense of scale.
  Everything you see on screen is backed up with distinct sounds which can be great audio cues for 
 when to run or take cover. if you have surround sound you really feel like you're in the thick 
 of it.
  
  More than anything Warhawk is fun and fast paced. Warhawk is a "G. I. Joe" in a game genre filled 
 with "Saving Private Ryans".
  
  Expansion pack update:
  
  The added weapons are all welcome and help the game.
  
  Generally the expansion packs are great 
 and each change the way the game plays, enhancing the original levels. 
  
  Omega Dawn: The Omega Factory is awesome and a nice change of scenery. It's large and has many 
 levels. Great for CTF. The dropship is pretty nice but really requires a level of cooperation you 
 don't usually find on warhawk to use it to it's full potential.
  
  Broken mirror: The glacier is again a nice change of scenery, but not one of my favorite layouts. 
 The APC is great, it's nice to be able to spawn in the middle of battle and random weapon. THe 
 bubble shield adds another dimension to base capture.
  
  Fallen Star: Tau crater is a nice dense level with alot of varied terrain. The battle is relatively 
 close quarter because of how much smaller the level is, and the trees and terrain discourage long 
 range attacks. The jetpack is the biggest change to happen to warhawk since it's original release 
 and it is awesome. It adds extra dimension to previous levels. Being able to bail out of planes 
 is long overdue, and the pace of gameplay becomes much faster. Previously unused area of the game 
 become active. Being able to traverse faster makes the game much more fluid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GspotDeluxer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a great online game. You can play in games with as many as 32 players. Warhawk is for the 
 gamer that loves online shooters and fast and furious game play. The vehicles are jeeps, warhawks, 
 tanks and soon there will be a dropship. The worlds are massive and it really feels like you are 
 fighting in a war when you have 32 people in the game. The headset is great for communicating with 
 teammates to coordinate invasions and such. It will log all of your stats as long as you play on 
 a ranked server. It tells you your total playing time, kills, deaths, game wins/losses, time in 
 each vehicle, kills in each vehicle, accuracy with each weapon, miles traveled on foot and on each 
 vehicle. Honestly I can't think of a stat that it doesn't keep track of. And with all that it will 
 give you your global position in each stat category. It will also give you your overall global 
 rank meaning it tells you overall how good you are compared to others you play the games. There 
 is a ranking system also. There are requirements for each rank. You have to have a certain amount 
 of total points and a certain ribbon or badge for each rank in order to rank up. There are ribbons 
 badges and medals to collect. You get them for completing certain tasks while online in a game. 
 An example is Warhawk Wings that you get for being in first place on the winning team. I would 
 say this is a must buy game if you like third person shooters and intense online play.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Value (the bundle version with bluetooth) 
 10/10
  Fun factor: 10/10
  Addictiveness: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket1010
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  BEAUTIFUL, this game deserves tons of awards, but unfortunatly it isn't getting enough press. they 
 need more ads and product placement. this game has superb graphics and great controls. easier to 
 pickup and play than the wii. there is only one possible downside: it's online only. so if you 
 don't have your ps3 hooked up to a broadband connection- don't bother getting it. But hey, if Halo 
 3 was online only I don't think to many people complain. Anyway I can't imagine playing this game 
 one player at all. Online at least people cuss at you when you teabag them in deathmatch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-X31Sling28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a great game that anyone who likes thied person shooters, or anyone who is looking for 
 a great online experience should get. The game is focused on a war being fought over to teams. 
 The teams are the Eucadians, which most people consider the good guys, and the Chernovan, my personal 
 favirote. There are five major battlefields, Eucadia, the Badlands, Destroyed Capital, Archipelago, 
 adn Island Outpost. Don't be fooled, these maps are huge! And to top it all of, each map has about 
 5 different layouts of thereselves. Like most multiplayer shooter games, this game has a variety 
 of different modes, including: Deathmatch, Team Deathcmatch ,CTF, and many others. If you want 
 to have a lot of fun, PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_I
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Since I purchased Warhawk, the online experience I had at that point seamed nothing compared to 
 this online only title. Now, after more than 400 games and 100 + hours I just cant get enough of 
 it. I though that COD4 would dethrone it but no, and trying to figure out why has been one of my 
 most recent recurrent thoughts these days, here is what so far has popped up my brain: (I am not 
 saying that this is the only game that have all these features, but so far I haven't found any 
 other with all of them, I you know one please enlight me)
  
  The maps are HUGE, even flying you'll need to use the turbo more than twice.
  
  There is no 
 weak option, a single soldier can blow a plane, burn a tank, kill driver and crew of a 4 x 4, and 
 obviously the vehicles can do a lot of killing.
  
  You can choose which map you want to play. And even host games in the comfort of your home.
  
 
  If for some reason a "team mate" is killing you often, or not by accident, you can contribute to 
 ban him/her by sacrificing some lives picking on him/her or acting like you want to kill back, 
 and that compensates a lot for the fact of being betrayed. Revenge is a dish best served cold, 
 mua hahahahahaha
  
  If you get bored all you have to do is change the pace, strategy, approach, vehicle, map, team 
 or whatsoever makes you feel the game repetitive and voila! A sniper turned into a stealth cold 
 blooded knife killa or a plane hunter is a nice change.
  
  Flying a plane can be a lot of fun (If you don't keep dying by the enemy) , I've never liked games 
 with flying simulator until now.
  
  It's not that easy to rank up so the appeal last longer.
  
  Land mines, it's so satisfying 
 to harvest through the game the sweet taste of those special hidden presents, the more minutes 
 pass between sowing each one (4 at a time) of your precious corn seeds and the popping the better.
 
  
  And if the above is not enough a new vehicle and map will be released this month adding a whole 
 new feel and an important change to all the game modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrafie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  This is the best online war game i have ever played, its amazing how every body works together 
 to beat the other team. Not only that but you have alot to do, you go up in ranks, you get badges, 
 you create your own guilds..... its simply PERFECT :) You get so immersed in it that you forget 
 how long you have been playing, and when you start growing in ranks you start opening up new faces, 
 clothes, looks, and aircraft vinyls in the customization menu. You also get "FLY" and when i say 
 fly i mean the best flying experience i have had in games. Again its simply perfect and addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnf
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  Before Warhawk, my only experience with Playstation online gaming was Battlefield II - Modern Combat 
 -. So when i bought a 30$ online game, i didn't expect too much. What i got was excellent fun. 
 A great variety of maps, 32 players, a lot of action on foot, in the sky and with various vehicles. 
 In short good stuff. 
  
  On the other had, the graphics aren't next-gen and initially there was a bug slowing down connections 
 into the maps. An update afterwards fixed this problem. But, the biggest problem that i experienced 
 was the connectivity. I use a wireless connection @ home and this my be the root of the issue. 
 (almost) each time i finish a game and the scores appear, counting down to the next game, the game 
 blocks. So i have to re-start my PS III, annoying like hell. I can imagine that my connectivity 
 is lower due to my wireless modem, but still my pc works fine, so my PS III should as well.
  
  Anyhow, that's technical stuff. It's a great game and a lot of fun, in short excellent value 
 for money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuul1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  Older fans will remember the Warhawk game back on Playstation. Well it seems they've thrown away 
 the story and turned the game into a multiplayer epic. You can play with up to 32 people in extremely 
 large battle fields. Every time you play the battle feel very epic. You may be running towards 
 the base and see a dog fight with your team up above you in the air. Or you are in a dog fight 
 as your team mates take out the enemy player ground troops. 
  
  They've also done a very good job of balancing between being on foot or in a vehicle. If you fly 
 in a warhawk (hover craft/ airplane) you get the benefit of speed and strong firepower. But you 
 can still be shot down by someone on foot. And have an even larger chance of being shot down by 
 someone in a turret or vehicle.
  
  The game is great fun and can last for hours, the only problems I had with is that there are really 
 only two modes most people play. CTF and Deathmatch. There aren't exactly a wide variety of maps 
 and many of them look the same. But the maps are gigantic and much time can be spent exploring 
 them. All in all the game is a great buy especially for 40 bucks and can give a very fun and rewarding 
 online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  ok.. WARHAWK is online ONLY game.. the Number of players 2-4 
  online 1-32... and the game comes a Bluetooth headset lnluded.. (cool a new Bluetooth) and now the 
 game 
  THE GOOD great vechicles and weapons.. and the online gets pretty intence lots of action.. and good 
 fun. you can play online using a split screen against a friend. lots of stuff to earn. 
  THE BAD .. some of the medals and rewards are almost impossible to get. would have been good to 
 have a story mode ,it makes it easier for people who dont play a lot to get better. lot of people 
 dont use the bluetooth 
  OVERALL, i really like it, if you are looking for a good deal, this maybe it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niki6199
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing, im gonna start off with the bad stuff first
  
  1) you will be immediately placed into the battlefield (after joining a game) with no idea of what 
 you're doing, and even though the controls are pretty straight forward, it might take some time 
 to learn some tricks.
  
  2) no single player mode, but i dont buy these games to play by myself anyway
  
  now for the 
 good stuff!
  
  1) great graphics, the sea looks very realistic and has that oily feel to it, the background scenery 
 also looks great, as do the tanks and other vehicles
  
  2) sound is great, you'll hear a missle hitting the ground with a huge impact, gun shots sound amazing, 
 the sound is probably one of the best parts of the game, you'll feel liek you're actually in the 
 battlefield
  
  3) Gameplay is also good, you can choose to do whatever you want, defend your base, attack airbourne, 
 on the ground or with jeeps or tanks, you can even drive people around while they sit in the back 
 seat of the jeep and blow people to smitherens, you can also use turrets or other machines to drop 
 planes down, or simply crouch down and disguise yourself and snipe peoples heads off from great 
 distances
  
  4) Badges you'll earn badges as you go along for things like team work which add a lot to the game
 
  
  1 reason why you should really take this review seriously is because im not the type that buys 
 war games, i like them, but im not an addict, until I bought warhawk... if you've seen online videos 
 of this game and were impressed then you havent seen anything yet!
  
  i'd definately recommend this game to all ps3 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freebird8877
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I was invite to the BETA of Warhawk, and for it being a BETA, I thought to myself "Wow, this game 
 has MASSIVE potential to be great" Don't get me wrong, I think it's a good game. I will start out 
 with the Pro's first. The maps are huge, their is lots of action, and there is hardly and lag, 
 or texture pop-in to be had. The Vehicles are awesome, and the graphics are beautiful. Plus, it 
 can be loads of fun 4 player split-screen. Now, hehe, the cons. Basically, the biggest con would 
 be that it has hardly improved... at all... from the BETA, in fact, it got worse in some ways. 
 How? Well, There was never any ranking issues in the BETA, but in this, every one i see is a Commander! 
 Also, I have trouble joining games, even if they aren't full, heck, sometimes it just says "Unable 
 to join game" But why? Anyways, I think this game could of used a couple more months of fine-tuning. 
 Things that could use some improvement would definitely be the foot combat. The sad thing is, the 
 Pistol is more powerful than the Assault riffle. And the aiming can be weak, especially when there 
 are lots of people shooting at each other. The mic support is mediocre at best. Usually i will 
 be talking, and all the sudden i get weird feedback, and the people sound like "robots" if you 
 will. So, basically, this games is pretty good, but not a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianaJon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I was so impatient to play this game that it was my first purchase using the online PS Store - 
 a BARGAIN at 19.99 online
  
  People have made better reviews of gameplay so I shall just give a quick summary:
  
  REASONS 
 TO BUY: Perfect all round shooter - the Dogfighting/ground assaults work seemlessly.
  
  Addictive due to saving a ranking, achhievements and stats to aim to/improve.
  
  AREAS TO IMPROVE 
 ON:
  
  I HOPE so much they add more maps (only 5 from memory) on my downloaded version not sure about 
 the high street one.
  
  Voice chat seems pointless or unintelligible - Unless you like to insult other gamers.
  
  The 
 Stats/ranking is slow to update or WRONG alot e. g. I was the 2nd highest rank lsat week I log on 
 this week ive been busted down to Sgt lol??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapel18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Oh this game... i love it, then i hate it, then i love it again. 
  
  It has a steep learning curve for beginners, but once you play a little... well to be honest you 
 will still probably get womped on. The controls take a little getting used to, especially the no 
 melee button. After you get those down though... well you'll probably still die a lot.... but after 
 a little longer... i promise you... you'll be king of the castle.
  
  I lied.. there's no castles, but ya you will hold your own. Rocket launchers are your friend and 
 tanks, unless you are in them, are not. Once you get the hang of flying the game gets a whole new 
 layer to it. Its fun to fly but I am nowhere near as good as some of the people on it. You will 
 wonder how many hours they put in the cockpit to do some of the stuff they pull off.
  
  There are a limited number of maps, but the maps are so big you won't get tired of them. There 
 are spots i still havn't been to.
  The modes are somewhat skimp on the pickins. If people play as a team the game is definatly more 
 fun. The only problem with this is no one usually does. They don't talk much either. Unfortunatly 
 when someone does its either a 12 year old schooling you or some prick yelling at everyone because 
 he plays too much.
  
  One last complaint... it is hard to rank up. Incognito just added a patch that fixed rankings so 
 i lost all my upper rankings and all my different skins... that i thought i earned bc i won a couple 
 times... so if you wanna rank up be prepared to put in some time.
  
  Warhawk is a great multiplayer game that will last quite a while. It's a must have for any ps3 
 owner with internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  If you weren't old enough in the middle ages of the gaming world you probably would not have heard 
 about Warhawk, the 1995 classic. Just like me, but you don't need to cause Warhawk offers an experience 
 of what online is truly all about. Warhawk is basically an online only game, which in some cases 
 it throws people of about buying the game but I can assure you that campaign or not the game is 
 awesome. Whether, you want ground combat with weapons, dofighht into the skies or just get into 
 a anti air turret and make some fireworks, the game will not sit still for a moment. 
  
  Gameplay: The success of this game is gameplay. Warhawk offers some of the best ways to enjoy online 
 possible. As mentioned before the game only has online, meaning no campaign though it has offline, 
 I think you'll have more fun watching your bro play and taking turns then playing offline. The 
 only thing stopping this game from being the undisputed online game is connections. The game gives 
 you considerable errors with Network and all. Some people may blame the person's connection but 
 when it comes to other game like Resistance it doesn't happen. But don't be frightneded, its not 
 enough to cause you to hate the game. The game offers 4 different types of matches: Deathmatch. 
 Team Deathmatch, CTF and a new one called Zone. A game can feature up to 32 players at a time. 
 There are 5 maps where you can adjust the size of the map, based on the number of players playing. 
 Now the vehicles of the game consist of 4x4, Tank, and Warhawks. The game doesn't feature a lot 
 of weapons but enough that you wouldn't feel for more of them cause the action is enough. The new 
 type of game is called Zone, 2 teams struggle for bases scattered throughout the map. The team 
 with the most bases connected gains points as the game carries on. When the time is up or the limit 
 is reached the game is over. Now the gameplay itself is awesome, once you get into a game you will 
 be oblivion to your surroundings cause its engrossing. The pace of the game is fast and explosive. 
 Especially dogfights. Dogfights are matches where only Warhawks battle it out, and I must say it's 
 THE best and most fast paced experience on ANY system. Warhawks weapons and missiles are not limited, 
 you have every kind of missile, rockets, mines, machine guns. The Warhawk itself controls very 
 well, the maneuvering and tricks when trying to avoid missiles. But when taking on ground soldiers 
 you aren't gonna get much damage on them. You can also control anti air missiles and turrets which 
 really know how to blow things out of the skies. All vehicles basically handle well. When you are 
 on foot, the game is just as paced, though when aiming its sometimes hard to aim and the pistol 
 is next to useless but the pace and explosions give you a blind eye to the games flaws. All the 
 weapons and vehicles are well balanced and to some degree perfect, but the gameplay takes time 
 to master. First few games you'll be hating the Warhawk but don't cause there's a reason the game 
 is called Warhawk and the games best experience lie in the dogfights. As you get more points you 
 will advance in rank, there are many ranks. As you rank up you will get more customization settings. 
 The customization is a nice reward but doesn't have a lot of content. 
  
  Visuals and Graphics: The graphics are great, especially when your in a Warhawk you can truly see 
 the map and the terrain and its been very well detailed. During fast paced action there is no blur 
 or anything, it's sharp, clear and awesome. 
  
  Closing Comments: All in all, Warhawk is definitely the best ps3 online experience. Every ps3 owner 
 whose going after games for replay value or online must have this game. The game is face paced 
 and explosive and you won't get bored cause there's always something happening, you always have 
 a part in your team or if your playing individually you have something to prove. The game does 
 have connection problems, but the fast paced action and eye watering dogfights give you a blind 
 eye to the games cons. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenhalo-6117
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  If you have been looking for a fun and exciting online experience for the PS3, you search is now 
 over. Your answer is Warkhawk. Warhawk provides a game like no other, esspically to the PS3. 
 
  
  In warhawk you are placed on either a red team or blue team and the objective is obviously to beat 
 the other team in what ever ame your playing, weither its capture the flag or team death match. 
 In the game you can either fight on foot, in a vechicle, or in the air. All three have its advantages 
 and disavantages. On foot you can use a whole bunch of weapons to beat your opponents down including 
 machine guns, flamethrowers, missile lauchers, etc. In vechicles you can drive tanks or jeeps to 
 blow up or get where you want to go faster. In the air you can fly in an airplane and commense 
 in dogfights with other airplanes from the other team. 
  
  The maps in Warhawk are breath taking. They are huge and full of detail. The only bad thing is 
 that there are only a handful of maps but since the maps are so large and can be made into smaller 
 maps this is not a huge problem. The overall gameplay is very fun and addictting. 
  
  Of course not all things are prefect. Sometimes it is very hard to get into games and the ranking 
 system seems to be a bit messed up but they also seem to be fixing these bugs ou. 
  
  Overall warhawk provides an exciting online experience that can appeal to almost anyone who enjoys 
 war type games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  this game just rules, its fun game to play, its only online so you have to have the internet, and 
 this game is just a whole lot of fun.
  
  there is no story its just 2 sides fighting it out.
  
  the gameplay is awsome you can fly, 
 walk, and drive in tanks and jeeps. the warhawks fun but i rather the tanks, its my stradgey. there 
 are lots of modes you have Death Match, Team Death match, capture the flag and others but capture 
 the flag is the most fun. the gamplay is great for warhawk.
  
  the graphics are alright there not the best but they are still good.
  
  but a good game to 
 play and a must own for the ps3 you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Hmmmmm. this is a fun game. it's got nice graphics, but what do you expect? It's on the most powerful 
 gaming system known to man (besides the PC) It's definetly an improvement over the first warhawk, 
 but aren't most sequels? It's got a nice array of weapons, but so does halo. I guess what I'm saying, 
 is incognito knows the multiplayer only formula, but they missed a key component. A serious ranking 
 system. I'm still slightly confused about the ranking system, as well as how to get into a private 
 game, or a ranked game. But, it's still a great game for casual gamers. BEWARE, hardcore gamers. 
 This isn't the best Mp game on the market. A campaign would be nice, too. Incognito also chose 
 an awful time to release, with bioshock, blue dragon, heavenly sword, and even with Halo close.
 
  Please try again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelpish
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This MMO sets itself apart from all the rest. The varieties of different ways to play the game 
 are what make it a great game. In many games there is one vehicle or weapon that is better than 
 all the rest and whoever gets it becomes unstoppable. In this game that is not the case. The player 
 must a balance of skills between all the different modes of gameplay, wheather as a foot soldier, 
 a tank or 4X4 truck, or a warhawk aircraft.
  Footsoldiers use weapons such as the pistol, grenades, snipers, and automatics in a fight against 
 another footsoldier. If a footsoldier is confronted by a vehicle that he will use a rocket laucher, 
 or land mines, or a flame thrower. For a land vehicle it is pretty basic, shoot everything in site. 
 For the warhawks however there are a variety of different powerups that range from stealth to a 
 self guided missile. The surplus of fast moving vehicles in the battlefield make for a much faster 
 pased game.
  The different game modes are the origional death match and team death match as well as capture 
 the flag and zones where players compete for control of the numberous bases around the map.
  The game has a system of points, badges, medals, and ribbons that make for an easy way to track 
 your progress through the game. The online capablilities of the game allow for accurate stats and 
 achievments tracking without taking up space on your hardrive in the least bit.
  One of my favorite attibutes to the game is the amazing stat tracking. The game tracks over 2,300 
 stats and provides charts to views stat increase a decrease as well as other things. Online also 
 has a system of clans and buddies that I have not yet used but look nice. It also has an upto date 
 leaderboard of global warhawk players.
  Last but not least you can customize your character as well as your warhawks. Costumizations for 
 human characers are head, upper body, lower body, skin tone, and the choice of 1 of 150 symols 
 for your player. As you advance father into the game more and more customizables are unlocked for 
 your characer and warhawk. The options for you warhawk are limited to a symbol and paintjob.
  This game is amazing. For such a low price, the fun you get out of it is astounding. This is my 
 5th PS3 game and is the best by a landslide. BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  simple, fun, addictive online play that lets bigginers and experts have fun in small doses..
  
  gameplay is good enough, graphics are good enough... sometimes the match finding can be frustrating 
 but overall a good game.
  
  it would have been nice to have had a single player mode... and 30 dollars seems to be what i would 
 say this game is worth..
  
  but overall.. it is a great online game for the ps3... there are better games on other systems.. 
 but nothing really comes close to it on ps3...
  
  just an overall fun game...
  
  you unlock different outfits that do not change gameplay just make your character stand out.... 
 all you have to do is play matches...
  
  it would be nice if there were more maps.. though i feel more will be out in the future... you 
 really are not left with much if people start to stop playing it online... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  One thing to say about warhawk is that is perfect other than resistance this is the next great 
 multiplayer experince. It lets you first create your character to have a great time sure there 
 is only a couple maps they are huge fully desimatable areas. The gameplay is great with the motion 
 sensitive controllers to steer vehicles which still is fun in intense 16 player matches along with 
 lans and splitscreen so it has a good expirence to. So yeah it has a great expirence so yeah i 
 would check it out. I am sure there will be downloadable maps and other things on the playstation 
 network so yeah it is good and will impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_sound
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite game that is on the PS3 to date. It is a very addictive game that 
 will have you wasting your days away. There is a few problems I've had with this game though, one 
 being that it's only multiplayer, if it had a story mode I think it would make it a way better 
 game. The other problems are not being able to join servers, ranking up without doing anything, 
 and my game freezes at times and my PS3 hasn't done that with any other game before. Now they have 
 just released a patch that puts your ranked back to its normal rank and fixed the servers. But 
 this game has a lot to be happy about. I love how you can drive tanks and 4x4, fly warhawks, or 
 just walk around on foot. If you have online for your PS3, I can't see why you wouldn't like this 
 game. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigglespot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes &amp; yes &amp; yes ... oh yes!!!
  
  This is a hilarious. Forget Halo, this is what makes a great combat game. Everything you need is 
 included. Unfortunately the network seems to have been flimsy at times throughout my forays into 
 the World of WarHawk but if you manage to get a good connection up and running you can kiss many 
 hours of your outdoor life goodbye.
  
  This beats Star Wars battlfield 2. Although the lack of light-sabres is a bit disappointing, there 
 is something far cooler about this IP. It creates its own world without an exhausted IP. Your buddies 
 are truly comrades, brothers in arms and your wingmen. A great excuse to pick up a free (well almost) 
 Bluetooth headset.
  
  If you don't buy this game then you miss out on a gaming experience unrivalled in playability. 
 Controls are mental but then so is is the game. Don't be a scaredy-cat.
  
  I'll give it a 9.0 for some minor presentation grumbles and perhaps the lack of single player mode. 
 But who needs single player mode anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsAngel2c
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Warhawk was first declared as both a single and multiplayer campaign, but soon after Incognito 
 dropped the single player declaring that the online mode outshined it. Immediatly, i wanted to 
 check it out too see just how good an online mode can really be. And you know what... i wasn't disappointed.
 
  
  Warhawk is one of those special games where you pop it into your console and you seem to forget 
 everything of great importance. Assessments to hand in tomorrow? You'll do it later. Bills to pay? 
 That can wait. Killing that sniper who blasted you earlier on takes top priority! Time, in Warhawk, 
 has no meaning. Time does not exist. You can play for hours on end and still enjoy every moment!
 
  
  How does it manage to do this? Well, first of all there is such a huge variation of well... everything. 
 If you get bored of Death Match, you can play capture the flag or Zones. If you're not a flying 
 type then you will be perfectly happy in a jeep or tank and if you're REALLY cool, you can place 
 yourself at a perfect vantage point and pick off helpless foes one by one. And the people who you 
 play against? Well, lets just say you can come across a team of brilliantly co-ordinated attacks 
 or a team where the only thing of importance is their own personal point count! Either way, its 
 YOUR duty to find the best way to destroy them all.
  
  The graphics are also worth a mention. The draw distance is immense- you could easily just fly 
 around and awe at the view even though this will result in your plane being blown to smithereens.
 
  
  The soundtrack for this game is also fantastic. With a star-wars type tune in the background you 
 truey feel like you are on a frontier of some kind and as the music loudens and quickens as you 
 begin to dogfight, it is enough to get your palms all sweaty as you sit on the edge of your seat. 
 Of course, there are some downsides to the game. The first problem is the current bugs which, although 
 can be fixed, just somehow spoil the experience. Many a time i have been crushing an enemy only 
 to experience some terrible lag and be cut off from the network- which is horribly frustrating. 
 Also, the games controls take some time to master, so playing a ranked game may result in instant 
 pwnage . But, the ranked system is enough to motivate one to keep on at it! The nline community 
 is also rather... quiet. For a game which was packaged with a headphone unless bought off the psn) 
 there seems to be an extreme lack of people actually talking (which is sometimes a good thing.) 
 But you may find that talking to people whilst being chased by someone with a rocket launcher isn't 
 a top priority.
  
  I've had this game since launch... and it hasnt left my ps3's disk tray which is a grand statement 
 in its replayabilty and overall addictivness. In fact, after writing this review i feel like having 
 a good fly! So to sum up before i leave: if your a ps3 owner and enjoy 3rd person action/ online/ 
 flying/driving/war games then thisis certainly a must have for your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcooldude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a multiplayer game only offline mode is good but the fun really starts online. Online 
 mode pits you up to 32 players online in various types of scenarios such as team deathmatch, deathmatch, 
 capture the flag and other various modes. Medals are rewarded for various achievments such as how 
 many kills in a row. Costimization is made avallible enabling you change your clothes and change 
 the paint job on your plane. Warhawk has a variety of weapons ranging from RPGS and AK's. You are 
 able to take conrol of tanks, planes and jeeps. Planes and tanks are actually the most fun in Warhawk. 
 You get a great game and a free headset. You have to add this game to your PS3 collection. Although 
 if the Blu-Ray version is to steep a price then download if off the Playstation Store for a much 
 cheaper price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Whew! That's how you feel after you put down the controller. This is one of those mindblowing games 
 that is so frenetic all the time you can hardly catch your breath. The dogfighting is amazing, 
 graphics look nice, no lag. There are already tons of servers to connect to, so getting in a game 
 is easy. It takes a little while to get used to the controls, but once you do it is balls to wall 
 action. Keep in mind there is no real story here. There is no real campaign to undertake. Some 
 might be turned off by that, but I found that it didn't detract from the overall experience. Historically, 
 I've never been much for online play, but this game may have just changed my mind.
  
  Pros:
  - Very Solid Framerate
  - No lag. If you are an 360 owner, you are not stranger to LAGGY 
 games. Sony is using Dedicated servers on most of their first party games which means zero to no 
 Lag. Resistance is still the best online multiplayer experience so far and the Warhawk will now 
 carry that torch. Makes you wonder why you pay a monthly fee for Lag on Live doesn't it : (
  - Controls are spot on. Flying the warhawk using Motion Control is quite a treat and has advantages 
 like leaving your thumbs free for precise aiming.
  - 32 Player online action.
  - 2-4 split screen! battle it out with your friends at home!
  - Retail version ($60) will allow 
 you to have LAN parties with other PS3s without needing more than one disk. This means 32Player 
 LAN parties with one disk!!!!!!!!
  - A lot of content. Unlike shadowrun (another multiplayer only game) Warhawk has a lot of maps 
 and variety. Cons: Alot of glitches
  Server problem Team killing problem It dosen; t bother that much but that is what makes it not a 
 10 but a 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Its the attention to detail and balance that makes this a great game. But there is one other thing 
 that makes this the best so far............. No other game will get your heart pounding as much 
 as this game. Get some sleep before playing because it will tire you out from all the action.
 
  
  THX sound, great graphics, and the best flying experience so far in a game. I havent played my 
 360 much since this game out, dont get me wrong I love Halo 3 but it seems almost dead compared 
 to this game in my opinion. The game is $39.99 new and $34.99 used and is free to play online, 
 what more can you ask for?
  
  Lots of weapons, huge maps. Xbos fans and friends please give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: No-Go-Zone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  WHY WHY WHY didn't i give it a ten... I still can't think why. But when you actually play the game 
 it just flys around the corner of your eye you keep noticeing it. The first time you play your 
 jaw will drop. Your immediate need is to get in a plane and fly around endlessly watching carnage 
 unfold above and below all the way into the distance. The frame rate has NEVER dropped for me giveing 
 this constant feel your miles away from other people. Only problem is by the time you've had fun 
 just looking around the map... you'll get shot down. Theres always someone who's there... which, 
 i suppose adds to the realism, but half the time you think that they shoot you just for being there.
 
  
  Once the whole experience has kicked in and your flying around takeing out two planes at once while 
 evading 3 other missiles the game seems great.. and you won't be mistaken; 8 weapons in total which 
 include a flamethrower a rocket launcher and a pair of binocluars... thats right... a pair of binoculars... 
 which call down an air strike in a matter of seconds completely obliterating everything it hits. 
 Then you have two more vehicles a nifty 4x4 which is extremely usefull for taking the flag and 
 a Tank anything you hit dise basically... any troop = dead any 4x4 = dead (if you hit it square 
 on the front) the only other things that are better than a tanks cannon are a air to surface missile.. 
 an air strike and a homing missile turret... but you dom't want to know about that.... ARE YOU 
 GETTING YOUR 20.00 worth from the PSN... quite simply yes.
  
  Oh and they've fixed the connection for games.. with an update so almost all bugs are gone. Ever 
 played any game thats 3rd person with army vs army... kinda like the SW battlefront series.. But 
 with 32players it only falls againts Resistance in terms of amount but it delivers that quality 
 AAA experience. seriously... that 20.00 should not go to your sister for her B/D buy warhawk... 
 then let her play using the 4 way splitscreen.... ONLINE.
  Hope to see you online: OSS1E (this is my 1st review... anything i could improve on?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychowithabow
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Let's get something out of the way: Warhawk is really, REALLY close to being a great game.
  Visually it is very robust. Enemies are discernible from great distances, the maps do a good job 
 of being lush and beautiful while still giving a war torn look, and the explosions are properly 
 awesome.
  Audio is in the same caliber. Engine sounds are deep and convey some serious horsepower and the 
 battle field is alive with the sounds of war.
  Gameplay, at least in terms of mechanics, is also quite good; albeit a little hard to pick up. 
 Once you play for a while all the interfaces will become clear and you'll be head shotting in no 
 time.
  
  So Why, you ask, the bad score? . Have you heard the saying keep it simple stupid ? This was the 
 game design for Warhawk. If you are going to make a game solely for online play then there has 
 to be a feeling of goals for the players to strive for, especially for a war type game. If this 
 isn't clear, I point to Quake Wars as a good example. Every map had clear and, above all, logical 
 goals for both teams. In place of both teams inexplicably trying to capture a flag, perhaps one 
 team has to defend a cache of important date while the other tries to steal it. Without this goal 
 orientated gameplay all battles begin to take on a well, so what? quality. So what if the enemy 
 has just beaten us soundly, all they did was capture a few spawn points?
  
  The final problem I have with Warhawk is the apparent problems they are having with their servers. 
 When you aren't sifting through over 400 (!) unranked games to try to find a ranked one you can 
 actually connect to, you're advancing in rank for absolutely no reason. I played for a week, which 
 amounted to about fifteen raked games, and have since achieved the highest rank in the game (not 
 due to skill, I can assure you; I'm referring to a terrible bug in the server) . This may not sound 
 like a problem, but due to the filter system, I now have to play against players who, because they 
 actually leveled up normally, kick my butt all over the map. Warhawk is fun, but not deep and definitely 
 broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychpath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  this should be the game that Sony use to show off the power of the PS3 the graphics are staggering 
 the game play fast the planes even faster . This game has set the starting point for all on-line 
 games you can always find a challenge in the carnage of the huge battles. the only draw back is 
 the number of maps there are only 5 but can be adapted for many different scenarios dog fights 
 or small 2v2 fights and many more. hopefully more maps are gonna make this game less repetitive 
 and more challenging but the on-line ranking system stops you getting bored and gives you something 
 to aim for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newtech12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  If only Sony had invested in marketing this game the way Microsoft did with Halo 3. Warhawk is 
 hands down a better multiplayer experience. The 8.5 average critic rating is very low on account 
 of Microsoft bribing reviewers to help win the console war. After playing the game practically 
 every day since it came out I can safely say that the critics are not only wrong, they are lying 
 through their teeth. To anyone who owns a PS3 and hasn't jumped into this game yet, just play it 
 long enough to learn the somewhat tricky controls and you will see how incredible (and underrated) 
 this game actually is. I won't bother going into detail about how the game works but will simply 
 summarize that this game is epic, fun and much more strategic than any other death-match title 
 before it. The most under rated game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is an amazing , with a A FANTASTIC multiplayer but the story itself is wierd
  
  1st The story itself is confuesing it doesnt giv u much details who is attacking u its just like 
 they ar havin War for no reason. The multiplayer itself is strong the gameplay itself is nice. The 
 game is pretty long it should keep u 4 days
  
  2nd The vehicles itself itself ar well mad, but it might get a bit reppetive. The graphics ar well 
 made and its a good action packed game.
  
  Overall the game is great ,vehicals ar nice, Strong Multiplayer but wierd story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyblaz314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  great game but has its problems
  lotta people have been complaining about the server problems but once u start playing things can 
 get pretty intense quick.. Although it takes a while to get
  very good at the game
  
  Most of the problems that occur in the game don't really have anything to do with the in game action 
 anyways...
  
  graphics have a cartoony look but its pretty refreshing actually compared to many other games that 
 fail to look real accidentally..
  
  the controls are pretty good and the weapon choice is pretty standard...
  
  just basically 
 an overall good game... even great when u get into it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoke300
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  A great online experience, however lacking a single player mode which would seem perfect for this 
 game.. who knows maybe they'll patch one in... lets be hopeful.. (I heard someone talking about it 
 online)
  
  Graphics on an HD display with an HDMI hookup, looks amazing, water effects, exploisions, character 
 details.. so graphics here are not in question..
  
  One thing that really bothers me is when your playing online in a dogfight, its easy for other 
 players to jump in and steal your kills, happens a lot even to the best players, but, i guess thats 
 a personal issue..
  
  Buy this game and you will be pleased! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlassDominion
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is the popular online shooter on the PS3. that being said, thats all warhawk brings to 
 the table, lacking anything as basic as a tutorial, campaign, or even bots that i know of.
  
  Graphics: this game is very good looking, that being said this game does not go for a realistic 
 look. warhawk has a very nice looking world that you just never get sick of looking at. the characters 
 have a very stylized cartoony look about them that dont really add to the look and feel of the 
 game, but they dont take away from it either. simply said they work, they fit fine... its not like 
 they are brightly colored disney characters in the middle of a war. ive played with up to 32 players 
 and some of the battles look amazing when the game is heating up.
  
  Sound: unlike my other reviews for some of my other games, to better split screen this game (which 
 divides the screen into a left and right rather than a top and bottom screen) i moved my ps3 into 
 the living room onto the hd screen and better speakers. anyway, the sounds in this game are great. 
 the sounds of a warhawk flying right over your head sounds great, better than i expected to say 
 the least. i dont remember in game music at all... but the sounds that are there are pretty good.
 
  
  Gameplay: this is where warhawk truly stands out, its one of the best handling games ive played 
 in a long time. for the sake of giving warhawk justice for the 3 types of gameplay it brings to 
 the table im dividing this section into 3 groups.
  
  First the foot soldiers. this is where i spend a majority of my time, ive learned how to survive 
 relitivly well as a foot soldier and there no better joy than getting 12 kills for every 1 of my 
 death (doesnt happen often but it makes me feel good on the inside) . as a foot soldier you are 
 dependent on the types of guns you have, the best and smartest move it to grab all the guns and 
 have them almost full in the ammo department. from there you are ready to move out. you can run 
 to the front lines and help take over bases, or if your like me you play the defensive side of 
 the game and protect the bases your team has already taken. but dependent on which of the maps 
 im on, i choose my fav base and just chill there. usualy i snipe at anything i see moving in the 
 distance and pull out my flamethrower for CQC and even anti tank and jeep combat. rocket launchers 
 for warhawks... and your ready to get into the action.
  
  vehicles, the list of these are rather small... tanks and jeeps are the only 2 i can think of. the 
 tank has some great offensive abilities but can be easily over powered by a quick thinking foot 
 soldier or a warhawk who stays in your blind spot and shoots at you while you cant shoot it. the 
 jeep is mostly for transportation purposes, but also acts as a good ram as you run over footsoldiers 
 who have yet to realize your about to kill them.
  
  warhawks are probably the hardest thing in this game to get good at. they have very little HP so 
 you will get shot down often. you use the right analog stick to perform moves such as barrel roles 
 and loops... spamming these like no other can throw off an enemy but you will often find yourself 
 a little disoriented as well. your weapons are dependent on floating ammo packs that give you diffrent 
 kinds of missles, and your best friend to keep you alive chaff. warhawks also hold many gameplay 
 secrets you kinda pick up as you go along. theres the turbo boost, quick turns, etc. that once 
 you master will save your life many many times. im getting better in a warhawk. but im still 1-2 
 kills per death.
  
  warhawk only has 4 extremly large levels, and no campaign mode what so ever. but the game also 
 took 20 dollars off the price tag because of this. so if your looking for a great online shooter 
 for the ps3 the 40 dollar warhawk might be the game for you (warhawk bundled with the headset is 
 60dollars. the game itself is 40) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munu9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Background information:
  Warhawk is a mutliplayer only game. Kind of like CSS. You can either download off PSN for $40 or 
 buy it with a headset for $60. The game is pretty small in terms of bits and bytes that it's composed 
 off: just 800MB. It was originally suppose to be a full game but they decided to make it mutliplayer 
 only.
  
  ---GRAPHICS: 9---
  I believe the graphics of this game are excellent for what it is. It's a mutliplayer game with 
 gigantic, oblivion+ size maps. It doesn't need to look as good as gears or uncharted or killzone 
 (or bioshock) to have really, really good graphics!
  
  The most immediate amazing aspect of the game is the scope/size. The maps are HUGE. If you want 
 to get to one side of one of the maps to the other side in a reasonable amount of time you most 
 likely need to use a freaking warhawk! (jet plane thing) The jeep is fast but still takes quite 
 a while and walking is just impractical for long distance. The draw distance is 100%, you can see 
 to the other side of the map with great detail, which is also quite amazing.
  
  And then it comes to the pure visuals! Does it look good? Yes! The graphics are about as good, 
 if not slightly better than resistance in a lot of ways. The textures are good, the character and 
 vehicle models are pretty good as well. For what it is, I give this game a 9 in graphics. Because 
 on a technically and visual scale it is "amazing" but it simply doesn't have the graphics to warrant 
 any higher than 9.
  
  ---GAMEPLAY: 8.5 ---
  The gameplay of warhawk kind of game me a strange mixed feeling of "wow this is really good" and 
 "meh" I'll start off with the "meh":
  
  First of all the ground player weapons are quite generic. A handgun, machine gun, flamethrower, 
 knife, sniper, grenades, mines and rocket launcher. They don't give nearly the same feel of power 
 that you get with similar weapons in an FPS or even in other TPS games. Although; they get the 
 job done, they control pretty well and are somewhat fun to use. The ground player combat (not including 
 any of the vehicles or big weapons, just the players with mobile weapons) is major part of this 
 game and I didn't really find it to be the most impressive. It's good, even great but not as good 
 as I wanted it to be.
  
  Now for the "Wow, this is really good";
  The game is, overall, an amazing multiplayer game. It's fun and it feels "right". The warhawk is 
 probably the best vehicle in the game. You have you're normal flight mechanics and then you have 
 lock on weapons, bombs, mines, electrics shocks, invisibilty, etc... Flying around feels how it 
 should; there is a good sense of speed and distance. And if you don't want to use the warhawk you 
 can use the jeep or the tank.
  
  Some of you might be disappointed that the game only has 5 maps. But it's not a problem!!! The 
 maps are so huge and worth exploring that it takes a very long while before it starts to become 
 prevalent that there are only 5 maps. It's not like motorstorm!
  
  The game is also well balanced. You can't simply just take a warhawk and attack the enemies base. 
 They have rocket launchers and howitzers which can easily take you out if you get too close. None 
 of the good weapons have a clear, common advantage over the others. (except maybe the rocket launcher 
 when you're on the ground fighting another guy) So it turns out to be a well rounded experience. 
 And thats why it deserves an 8.5.
  
  ---Multiplayer ---
  The mutliplayer of this game is simple. You have team deathmatch, deathmatch, CTF, zones, and dogfights. 
 You have this lobby where you can see every game thats being played or you can filter it by certain 
 categories like what mode it is or how many people are in the game. (etc...)
  
  You have your buddies, the people on your friends list and you can see/join the game they're in 
 if it's not full. You can also see their stats and your own stats.
  
  People are complaining and even underscoring this game because of some of the server problems. 
 (like stats not updating, can't join most ranked games for no reason) I don't think thats fair, 
 nearly all the problems can easily be fixed. Half of them have already been fixed. So you really 
 don't need to worry that much. The best thing you could do is wait about a week or 2 and see if 
 they fix more of the problems.
  
  ---Sound: 8.5 ---
  BOOM! This game is meant to be heard with the volume turned all the way up. The sound quality is 
 quite amazing. 7.1 capable! It really gives a sense of being in a battle field. The only fault 
 I could find is that there wasn't a lot to hear. Sure you have battle sounds but that's basically 
 it! The theme songs isn't much and there is no voice acting! You have sounds of other players but 
 somehow, I've barely heard people talk. I'm sure my headset is working fine because I have heard 
 and talked to someone but the amount of players with headsets seems quite low for game that comes 
 with a freaking headset!!!! (at least for the blu-ray version) 8.5 it is.
  
  ---Value: 9---
  Here comes with big one: "Is it worth $40?!" My answer to that question would 
 be: "yeah"! Warhawk is a great game and you will play it for hours and hours before getting tired 
 of it. It definitely gives you $40 worth of play and then some! The blu-ray version of the game 
 is even a better value in some ways! The headset that it comes with (which is pretty good) would 
 normally cost you $40. And even if you managed to get the same headset for $30. The game still 
 just costs you $30 extra. A 9 in value. (Great value though not perfect)
  
  ---Overall: 9---
  Warhawk is a great mutliplayer game, simple as that. It's not the best game 
 ever but who ever said it would be? 9 it is.
  
  So if you average, all of the above ^^^ My official rating for the game is:
  
  8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auysal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Things I like about this game:
  
  -Balanced. There are no classes, everybody can use everything on the battlefield. Also everything 
 has a counter. Very well balanced indeed.
  -Rewards smart playing. This is not your typical fast paced shooter. Skills come second to using 
 your brain and taking advantage of the battlefield.
  -Variety of vehicles and weapons. More to come in expansions.
  -Medals and ribbons are much more 
 satisfactory than achievement points.
  - No lag at all.
  
  Things I don't like:
  
  -No single player. Not very friendly to new players.
  -Menu interface. You need to get out of 
 join game screen to see your clan members. -Some server related bugs. Most of them are fixed but 
 there are still some little ones. (like clan members always appearing on the server they joined 
 first) .
  -Voice chat. Very low quality, sometimes it is even hard to understand what other person is saying.
 
  
  To new players:
  
  New players might be frustrated at first because of some game mechanics that they are not familiar 
 (auto-aim, location of weapons, warhawk controls etc.) . The game does not have a single player 
 campaign, so there is no way to learn these other than to join a game and be obliterated initially. 
 However, when you get past that rookie phase you will find a very good and satisfying multiplayer 
 game. In sum, Warhawk is a very good, rewarding multiplayer game and definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has ever played a Battlefield multiplayer game with its large maps and shoot em' up 
 blow up em' style of gameplay will find Warhawk mediocre and menial. Basically, Warhawk comes off 
 as its inferior cousin for being similar in style and gameplay.
  
  The game's background and story lacks any depth. What is going on? Why are these races/armies fighting? 
 What the heck is a Eucadian? Then again, nobody cares. Warhawk's maps, though beautifully designed, 
 are a packaged few which become quite bland after several matches. If you're walking on put, there's 
 no zoom button unless you have a sniper rifle. A ride on the Warhawk means death within several 
 seconds or minutes (if you're really good) as it's quite easy to die, frustratingly. Try walking 
 on foot, someone from the skies will drop a bomb on top of you real fast. Team coordination is 
 virtually non-existent. Everyone seems preoccupied with getting the most kills and flying around 
 in the stupid looking Warhawk vehicles.
  
  The Bluetooth headset that came in my retail version of the Warhawk is apparently the only real 
 upside of my Warhawk purchase. It's of good quality for the Jabra BT-125 won't plague you with 
 problems like the other earlier Bluetooth headsets, such as controller interference or severe lag. 
 That's because its version 2.0. Sadly, players in Warhawk (if they bought the game with the headset) 
 hardly use it and the ones who do, unfortunately nobody seems to listen to. Sometimes I feel one 
 of the folks in charges of sales marketing at Incognito games decided to ship Warhawk with the 
 Bluetooth mic thinking the mic itself is worth more than the game, to attract gamers so to speak. 
 That said, Warhawk is as forgettable as it is boring. Maybe once the retailers throw this into 
 the store bargain bin for PS3 games, it might be worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  This a good multi-player game.... I think it should have had a short single player mode. The flight 
 controls are good and the game runs fast. The visuals are not all impressive and the sounds could 
 have used a push for better surround sound. Over-all this is a good buy and with the headset included... the 
 PS3 is slowly coming around to be a good machine. This game's on-line options are not XBOX LIVE... but 
 are getting better. The few downsides are foot action takes alot of bullets to get a frag. The 
 game runs well inside the servers and I have no problem for the purchase I have made. If you are 
 looking for Halo or something of that degree, this isn't what you are wanting to buy. I have put 
 a few hours in and can say the air and land battles run great. The game is very fast and keeps 
 a good frame-rate. The running and driving could have used a slight tuning up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was SOOOOOOOOOOOO boring at first... But I got used to it and now it's lots of fun to 
 cut people with a knife! Or even blow the living **** out of them with a frickin' tank! Possibly 
 even shootin' em up with a rocket or a machine gun! However you wanna play it's gonna be hours 
 and hours of great multiplayer fun!
  
  Pros: Great graphics. Awesome vehicles. Great customization items. Hours and hours of fun. Great 
 sound. Cool weapons. The combat knife!!! You can favorite games! Cons: Inverted camera control 
 that can't be changed. Sometimes it's hard to kill people. Network errors get in the way. The pistol...
 
  
  Anyway, it's a must have for PLAYSTATION 3 owners! And if you're a multiplayer or shooter fan, 
 this game is awesome! I highly recommend it! Oh, and also... FREE BLUETOOTH HEADSET!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGrawe
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  now im sure if youve play 3rd person shooters youve been online well this game bring a new exprence 
 to 3rd person shooters because you an play with up to 32 friends and if you get the $60 package 
 you get the game plus one the top bluetooth headsets plus most 3rd person shooters you only play 
 as a person well here you also get to fly planes. plus usally you play as one look welll this game 
 you completey costomize your self and the plane. the mods are also fun. but evenif your not good 
 youll still have fun with the game. Plus usally you start off with a assult rifle well instead 
 you start off with a pistol and knife you have to get the rifle but its easy all you do is look 
 around the respawn zone. Relly the ony bad part is that their is no single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Although this is simply a multiplayer game, its a great one. Easily puts halo multiplayer to shame 
 and many others as well. I do wish it had a single player story to help the replay value and give 
 gamers a little bit of.... i dunno the word, but a little more entertainment. I especially like 
 waiting in a bunker's ceiling for someone to knife, and placing mine traps for others to wander 
 in to. Great variety of customization to earn and the promotion system is good although coulda 
 been a little more explanitory, most people got confused by it. I hope some new maps come out soon 
 as well, the ones that we have are getting old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugsysaf
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game does nothing that other games before it haven't already done better. If you are a PC 
 owner fortunate enough to have a system that can play the Battlefield 2 or 2142 series on its highest 
 settings then this game is not even worth a rental. The graphics are cartoonish and the sound is 
 lackluster. The controls feel good but the Wii-like six-axis controls were obviously an afterthought. 
 In game menus are broken. Try adding a friend or trying to join a game that a clan member is in. 
 No matter how many times the clan screen is refreshed, the game will always say that your clan 
 member is on the first server they joined. Voice chat is also broken. It is almost impossible to 
 establish connectivity in the game with teammates and no matter what you do voices will be heard 
 through your tv or sound system. I'm hear to tell you that there is nothing more exciting than 
 hearing a 7 year old talking smack in surround sound not realizing that only teammates can hear 
 him. PS3 Online definitely needs to create some kind of out of game server so that players can 
 talk to only those players they know. Custimization options are limited to placing a 4 leaf clover 
 on your helmet or on the wing of you plane. The unlockables are not worth the time to unlock and 
 barely passable as customization. In summary $60 gets you 4 average maps, a useless headset, substandard 
 graphics, a pink colver leaf on your solder's helmet, and two identical factions who nobody gives 
 a hoot about. Why did critics bash Star Wars Battlefront and praise this game. They are basically 
 the same except this game doesn't have Star Wars. Skip this game if you have a PC or XBOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khanamaan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  no argument here this is one of the best online shooters to date, down right insane to the last 
 minutes no game is ever the same, the best game for the PS3 to date!!!! Worth the money to buy 
 cause you cant get enough of this one if you decide to rent it. makes counter strike look like 
 a walk in the park, i like how it has a very crazy style of play and all the different setups to 
 the maps, and if anyone likes easy and fun flying, fast paced action, the planes are ridiculously 
 fun to fly and fight in, one of the few games out there that are worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smelly-panda91
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a huge online multi-player game that takes the team based/ strategy games and then combines 
 them.
  The first thing you notice when you play Warhawk is the amount of games available to play in. You 
 pick a game and your off. But you cant always get into the game you have chosen. It says the game 
 is full, but its not, it says your rank is too high, so. When you get to some of the action its 
 hard to start off with, but when you play it for about 4 - 5 hours you feel like a natural. It 
 feels like a game thats been out for a while, which is good considering its new. The graphics 
 and actual attention to detail has really been thought through. Such as when you are driving a 
 car the guys hands and the steering wheel moves. The little things count. Vehicles The vehicles 
 count for most of you mileage, so use them. If you prefer to walk, WALK. Warhawks are extremely 
 quick and easy to fly, but if you are inexperienced youre most likely to get shot down, and youd 
 end up dead so practice before flying them into battle. 4x4s are very quick and efficient and 
 easy to drive but often get bombed and easily caught by land mines, however tanks are also easily 
 caught but it offers an extremely powerful gun so that makes up for that, Surely. They may seem 
 slow and thats because they are but you will get to your destination if you focus on driving.
 
  You can also give them a make-over, as you advance ranks you will unlock skins you can have on 
 your Warhawks making them your own, awesome.
  
  Characters
  As you advance ranks you will earn different clothes enabling your guy to look cool, I suppose. 
 But advancing ranks can take some time, the first few you will fly through, then youll grind to 
 a long halt trying to advance. BORING. You might want to read what you need to advance but that 
 doesnt help. All I can say is keep plodding and youll eventually make those ranks.
  
  Its weird when you play, on your team every one pitches in The maps are pretty good too, they arent 
 small and they arent massive they are just right. You will get used to couple of them quickly 
 and you will soon pick your favorites, because you have either played one more or you just prefer 
 that one. Walking around an entire one will take a little while and watch out for shoddy drivers, 
 theyll run you over, just unfair.
  
  The headset is a farce, its hard to put in your ear and registering took me a while. But its neat 
 when it works and I actually like the fact it falls of your face when you blink or have an itch. 
 The game is fantastic which is why I rated it 10 out of 10. Some may disagree and fair enough but 
 all the bad points are so minimal they actually enhance the game slightly. Any one who wants too 
 play with me my online PS3 ID is: smelly-panda thank you for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatusabeps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game has unique graphics nice gameplays i like the plains the six ases on it and the fact 
 that there could be 40 people in a map. If u want to play it without buying it rent it or dowload 
 it but this game is not a waste of money and youll like it. this game also have unique explosions 
 and nice air combat, you will enjoy flipping ur control around and dodges shots and misiles. if 
 u have a ps3 you should buy this game.. and peoples who have a ps3 dont worrie alot of hot games 
 are coming for ps3 lets wit for metal gear 4 and the home system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LFCspiderpig
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:9.5 great fun if you have some mates who have the game as it has a great pick up and play 
 apeal for the casual gamer and for highly experienced pros. Unlike other games of its type it is 
 hard for anyone to truly master and just wipe everyone out the six axis controls are usable if 
 you are bored of the game and it adds an hour or so of fun before you just want to get back to 
 normal controls.
  Graphics:9.0 it not the best looking gmae on ps3 but the sheer depth`of the game and the heights 
 that you can reach in the warhawk the sound is brilliant if you are on the ground and a warhawk 
 flys overhead it adds great suspence to the game.
  Value:8.9 you get what you pay for &pound;20 pounds would be fantastic value if it had single player 
 but as it dosen't it's about an average price. if sony brings out new maps and things for free 
 value would be a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lweyh
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  I really love lan play in a game. this ones pretty boring without ai players. Would really like 
 to see a down load for Lan play. Internet play is a bit of a hassel. A LOT of bad words are allowed 
 over voice command. If you can't play it clean don't play this game! Other than that the video is 
 great could use more weapons and vehicles, and more mapsWould like to see a down load for these 
 soon. Also would like to see a warhawk 2 soon. Would also like to be able to pick your own ai teammemebers. Game 
 is really awesome but needs some improvement. Would also like to see more co-op story mode in games, 
 makes i't a bit more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Warhawk doesn't do anything new. There's nothing here you haven't seen in a thousand other games. 
 But it's also confoundingly brilliant. Why? Because rather than worry about competing with other 
 developers and coming up with hundreds of elaborate ideas, Incognito have focused on making a straight-up 
 online action game that's as rugged as anything we've seen - however many people are on screen, 
 or how scenery-defyingly high you fly, the game never slows down or breaks into pop up. The controls 
 are brilliantly simple, gameplay is fast and tactical and there's nary a sniff of lag.
  
  First things first - Warhawk is multi-player only. There was talk of a single-player mode in the 
 early stages of the game's development, but it's been canned. The game is specifically designed 
 for people with internet connections and people with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtheripper
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Ive always been intimidated by Online shooters, for one reason, i dont like being Newb to it. I 
 hate spawning only to get sniped, bombed, stabbed right off the bat. Nothing puts me off a game 
 if i cant get into it easily. But upon getting this game and giving it a whirl, gosh this is a 
 exhilirating game.
  
  So whos this game for? The Online and OFFline shooter who likes to find a Clan or solo it alone. 
 This game gives great access to tailor what your looking for in a simple interface to find the 
 servers you want, the kind of game you wish to play, and get right into it.
  
  Graphics: The eyecandy from every aspect of this game just works. From explosions to the terrian. 
 From the inside of the buildings, to the level of detail on your character. Sure a higher resolution 
 could've been provided, which might of smoothened out the edges, but if it wouldve cost the frame 
 rate, then Im happy at where it is. My only complaint, and its a tiny one, is that i wouldve like 
 to have seen the main character given a more realistic look to him. To me he seems kinda blockly 
 and a bti toonish. But the rest of the aircraft, tanks, jeeps, and other weapons are great and 
 menacing.
  
  Sound: Well if you dont have 5.1 your missing the lovely booms and crashes that this game has. 
 From the tread sounding tanks rolling along, to the boosting of your warhawk. This game sourrounds 
 you in the frantic war that is goin on all round you. This is just great to in terms of the music 
 as well. Fantastic.
  
  Gameplay: Well the controls are very ez to pick up whether your driving a tank, jeep or flying 
 your warhawk. Even when your on foot and just have a machine gun, flame thrower or rocket launcher. 
 The senstivity of your aiming can be adjusted to suit your style. There's plenty of Gear around 
 each map, to allow you to have a try in. So you wont feel left out of flying a warhawk. There's 
 the option to use a mic as well to communicate along mates or friends, which is wonderful to muck 
 around with.
  
  All in all if you have a PS3 with internet capabilites, love the challenge of online shooters, 
 and have the chance to be ranked with the worlds best? Then Warhawk is the game for you to hop 
 online and play. Just be careful, you may find most of your day is gone when your done playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lloydsta
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Warhawk has one of the most balanced systems i have ever seen, either in the air, in a tank or 
 the ground with a rocket launcher you have equal chance of killing each other or being killed. 
 the sniping is very smooth, for analog sticks, and you could never get bored of air-striking several 
 people; but with all online games there are faults, in warhawk's case aswell as the fact that you 
 can only play it on the person's login who bought it: there are too many people playing it, making 
 it difficult for others to get on to one of the servers without it saying server is full when it 
 isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmofnbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  First off this is the best looking game on any console. I own all three next-gen system and this 
 game looks better than anyother I've played. It looks phenominal and I rarely use that word. The 
 games a great 3rd person shooter but it gets even better when you hop into an array of different 
 vehicles. Everything short of a bicycle this game delivers on all fronts. Their are two downsides 
 to it though. Everyone knows it's only multiplayer so that's no big deal. The other though is the 
 tips aren't very helpful and if you're just getting started you will get pummeled over and over 
 again making the learning curve terribly hard. If you have a ps3 get this game it's tons of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk provides great Gameplay from a team base game or single multiplayer aspect. The game prides 
 team deathmatch with dog fights being the main event on ranked matches, or regular deathmatches 
 playing as your character will a big map or a little one. I wont down the game but others wont 
 like the fact that this is really not a single offline game with a story mode. Gameplay  overall 
 you have to have a good connection and if you are open-minded to Sony and there online servers 
 with game servers then you will have a good time. Very easy to create a game but difficult to find 
 one since so many people play. Dog fights are fun and controls are easy unless you decide to use 
 sixaxis. When not dog fighting the animation and movements looks tacky but takes nothing from the 
 game. Weapons in the game are standard with a few quarks. Play the game to see what Im talking 
 about
  
  Ranking system blows  if your all about ranking and stats forget it. Warhawk servers suck in that 
 manner and they still have not fixed it. You will be a recruit forever.
  
  Overall, the Gameplay is just fun. This is better then resistance due to not just being able to 
 shoot. Dog fights get real fun fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that as I anticipated this game is great. I participated in the beta and it kicked 
 butt, I have found no errors or bugs so far, I played on the official servers with no lag, and 
 I even hosted a game with no lag at all. So any of you that were worried about that, dont! Now, 
 we all were crushed when Dylan Jobe (Warhawks director) came out at GDC 07 and announced that 
 Warhawk will be multiplayer only, but that they were focusing on a great fast paced fully customizable 
 game. The game is great and has some cool features, let me point some out to you.
  
  &middot; The games engine allows for up to 4 people to play online at the same time
  
  &middot; 
 The game engine allows for up to 3 other players (on your console) to automatically sync into the 
 game by pressing the start button on their controllers without you having to quit the game!
  
  &middot; There are extremely short load times, like literally seconds!
  
  &middot; There 
 are so many great customizable features. You can pick the color of Warhawks; make a team symbol 
 for your clan, change the clothes or body type of your guy, and much more will come as the game 
 is expanded through content upgrades and patches.
  
  &middot; You are able to adjust the motion sensor sensitivity if you wish to give flying the Warhawk 
 or driving vehicles using the sixaxis a try!
  
  I bet a lot of you are asking about the motion sensing in this game. Yes it is great, it makes 
 it easy to fly and drive, but if you cant seem to get it, or you just dont like it, can configure 
 your controls to use the joysticks instead. But the ability to adjust the sensitivity makes it 
 easy to use the motion sensing part of the game, and it also allows for greater control, greater 
 range of motion, and it gives some players and edge that you just cant do with joysticks.
  
  now there are ome stats bugs and glitches that should be fixed soon, the game was beta tested 
 wiht 2000 people, not enough to dtressthe network, now that hundreds of thousands of people are 
 playing some glitches are being found, the Incognit dev team actively pursues fixes and they openly 
 post on the official warhawk forums on us. playstation. com/warhawk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game13a13y
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Warhawk for PS 3 is one of the best multiplayer games on this gen. all the mechanics of the game 
 works really well and the battles are intense and fast pacing.
  
  weapons and vehicles are abundant and strategically located so that each kind of player will find 
 a suitable strategy that best supports their style of play. for example, if you're an flying guy, 
 you can find an airplane located at various base and start blasting. if you want more challenge, 
 you can play as an foot soldier, find a sniper rifle and pick off your enemy. and there are many 
 more kinds of strategy that you can explore. so to play this game well requires skills and knowledge 
 of the map quite heavily.
  
  although the concepts of warhawk are nothing revolutionary, it does every aspects amazingly well. 
 the game flow is pretty much flawless. anyone enjoys online FPS will find a great blast with Warhawk. 
 moreover, the game rewards you with various medals and badges to show it off online and you can 
 compare your stats with other players around the globe. this is the best part i like about Warhawk 
 in particular. in conclusion, this game is highly recommanded and you probably won't regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treznick
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is my first MMO and now I remember why I avoided buying one before. I knew they'd be addicting. 
 Warhawk is just that. It's been just over a month since it's release and the bad news is that there 
 are still some bad bugs. Bad, that is, if you're into stats and achievements. It'll get fixed sooner 
 or later, but it's not a killer. The good, if you can call it that, is that I've alrady logged 
 in around 130 hours. I don't know how I do it, how I manage to balance a job, girlfriend and so 
 many hours in game. Addiction is not a good thing!
  Anyways, there is no single player and that's fine. I can't believe I'd ever say that! But there 
 are 4 game modes: Deathmatch (you against everyone else) , Team Deathmatch (Blue vs Red) , Capture 
 the Flag and Zones (your team tries to control as many checkpoints and hold them for as long as 
 possible (until time rins out or the point max has been reached) ) . Fight in the air, on foot or 
 in a tank of jeep. The weapons are wel balanced and have a real-world flavor.
  If you decide to buy the game, prepare to sign hours of your life away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godslim
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is the game to get if you play ps3 online and is the best online game on ps3.... ps3 owners 
 have been waiting for a online title which really shows off and this is it. It uses the same style 
 as the star wars battlefront games i. e its in third person and u capture posts etc. It a joy to 
 play as it it so simple yet so great... at 32 playerss of mayhem it rocks! The gameplay is in the 
 sytle of most third person shooters, but it has so much variety and so many different ways you 
 can win a battle, It has tanks, jeeps and the warhawks plus a variety of weapons and even pick ups 
 for your warhawk. As you rank up you can ven customize your character and warhawk to make it just 
 the way you like it. Theres always a game to join seen as their is about 600 games going at once 
 making it easy to join one. It is multiplayer online and has LAN, Splitscreen 4 player offline 
 and just as one hell of a great add on you can play splitscreen 4 player online!!! So take your 
 mates into the online experience aswell. Warhawk is only 20 quid uk money off the store making 
 it one of the best online games around better than halo any day!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisanoele
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I was upset at first because there wasnt a single player game to get a feel for 
 the controls, but once SCEA came online with their servers, I get it!!!! This is a fast pace, multi-duty 
 war game that has me wanting more. When I watched the video preview and saw the jet flying around, 
 I thought to myself, Hmmm... Why would you want to be on the ground? Well, the fun happens in the 
 air and on the ground as well. You have a multiple choice of weapons including rocket launchers, 
 sniper rifles, and land mines. Land mines are extremely dangerous and fun. On top of that, you 
 can drive a jeep or a tank, jump into a flax gun, or missile turret. I love it, I love it, I love 
 it. And it has voice so you can talk strategy with your team mate, or remind the noob that's shooting 
 you on your team that friendly fire is on, stop or be killed. :o)
  
  I would have given this game a 10 rating if it had a single player function, but since it didnt, 
 I give it a 9.5. Toodles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I won't lie, when I heard Warhawk was multiplayer only I started doubting the quality of the game. 
 I'm so used to strong singleplayer and decent multiplayer that I wasn't hesitant to drop $40 on 
 the PS Store but, to my great satisfaction, it was well worth it.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly nice in HD and the amount of things you can see going on at once 
 makes you feel like you're in the middle of a war. Dogfights are something to behold and at times 
 you feel overwhelmed by missiles and machine gun fire hitting you out of the blue.
  
  On foot, there are are usually huge bases or cities on each large map with smaller bases and spawn 
 points scattered between. The cities are destroyed with plenty of places to ambush your enemies 
 and plenty of rubble to hide behind when a tank catches you off guard.
  
  There are no game modes really unique to the game except Dogfight which is just TDM without any 
 ground action (you spawn as a Warhawk) . To be honest its fine but anyone who is used to online 
 modes with a plethora of game modes likely won't be satisfied.
  
  There are online achievements broken down in medals, awards, and ribbons which just boost your 
 overall score. There are ranks naturally and they unlock different customization options. My favorite 
 part about your online profile is that it shows you where you stand overall in the world of Warhawk 
 and the way the game tracks your statistics using line graphs over 89 day periods (useful for seeing 
 how you've improved) .
  
  The servers are not bad and the rated servers have rank limits for those of you who are new and 
 don't want people like me to run up 30 kills on you so early in your Warhawk career. There are 
 rated games and custom games for every game mode including various game modes that shift between 
 game types each round.
  
  The bad thing about the overall system right now is that there are stat tracking problems and game 
 full errors along with the occasional game crash that usually forces you to restart your PS3.
 
  
  Despite the few server problems, Warhawk is an amazingly fun game that will provide you hours of 
 online fun, at least until UT3 is released =p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobomindgames
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  I turned on my playstation. I took the time to learn the controls. I was off. It was fun, the best 
 online game i have played to date (yes i have played halo 3) . The graphics were good the game play 
 was good. What was not to like about it? Nothing. The simplicity of the game is what makes it so 
 fun. This is one of the many games that proves simple games are generally more fun. Buy, download 
 , borrow it. Get this game. I can't be more straight forward. The playstation 3 is making a comeback 
 and this is going to start it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlagamegirl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  An intense, well balanced game. No game ever the same. Buggy network system. Cheaters can often 
 ruin a game. -
  
  This blows Halo out of the water as far as intensity goes as its eat or be eaten at any moment. 
 Game offers many ways to be creative and do what you do best.
  
  Graphics have a nice futuristic overtone that is pleasing and gives you an almost alien sense to 
 a familiar enviornment. I would like to see the graphics detail ramped up more, more blood, more 
 destrutable enviornments. I like the fact the when you play game the map changes and so does the 
 time of day getting a sense of fighting in the morning or day. There are bugs that make things 
 difficult and hard to get online in games or you may get network errors frequently.
  
  -Cheaters will get on do things to ruin a game or try to get points that mean really nothing. You 
 will have a player from your color all the sudden start slicing up the team he is on, or tanks 
 appearing out of nowhere 2 feet in front of you shooting at you.. ...... I think its funny that 
 these guys have to do that to beat a girl because they cant take me or anyone else on face to face... 
 This is PS3 best game so far and makes you look forward to a warhawk expansion or upgrade..:) THX 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camejodog5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  warhawk is a very good online game. Im big on online games. When i played warhawk it was great. i 
 will say it is a must have. i have noting to say so im going to wirte so random stuff. i have a 
 dog i have a myspace i have a ps3 i have a pc halo 3 suck butt xbox is no good dont buy it buy 
 a ps3 its a must have just to let u know i have no more to say lol ok will be leaving nowgfd
  gdf
  gdf
  g
  
  sg f gf g s r tr t g s f sg sgsg g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  There really is no story for the PS3 version of WarHawk, there was the PS1 of it thats if anyone 
 remebers it at all. But it's mostly an Online game with multiplayer games such as capture the flag, 
 Deathmatch and teamwork battles. You can create your own battles and customize your solider and 
 plane there is always a someone to kill in battle.
  The gameplay looks the same as Star Wars Battlefront if youplayed them which were brillient its 
 alot like that but fully on online with guns and vechicles and movin g the PS3 controller around 
 if you have it on wireless mode but you can use the analog sticks for them if your in a plane shooting 
 down others. This game also has headset so you can talk to others who have headset. The PS3 shop 
 network will have bonus features when they show up for sale either new weapons or maps. If you 
 played an online game like World of Warcraft or Halo 3, WarHawk is a perfect game to get if you 
 want to play online on your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony-rules
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  hey gamers i just got war hawk. its an amazing game with amazing 3rd person. i just would of liked 
 a small camping. or a video clip explaining the too sides. because i have no clue what's going 
 on. but the online is amazing (no single player) the graphics could be a leitle better. and is 
 it just me or does the carecter you play look a little kid y. but in the end it is an amazing game 
 and is worth getting an 9.5 not an 8.5 and the fact that i comes with a blue-tooth head set makes 
 it a great deal. a good game for people that play online and like blowing things up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozzer_Ozby
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way now: Warhawk is the best multiplayer game for PS3 right now. The 
 game is fairly simple, you log in, you choose a server, you connect to the server, you get blasted 
 or you blast someone. Easy as pie (I've never made a pie but I imagine it would be that easy) .
 
  Like any online multiplayer shooter you get points for meeting certain objective such as kills (obviously) , 
 capturing zones and capturing the flag. As you earn these points you rank improves and you earn 
 more customization options for your character. Though there is a glitch going on right now with 
 the ranking but we'll get to that in a minute. The game modes are your standard bag of tricks. 
 There's Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Zones and Capture the Flag. Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch 
 are exactly what they sound like. Deathmatch is an every man for himself style combat and Team 
 Deathmatch puts you on one of 2 teams. Zones has you scurrying around the map capturing and holding 
 zones. These zones double as spawn points. The more zones you capture the more points you earn 
 for your team. Capture the Flag is self explanatory. The games carry on until 1 of 2 things are 
 met. You score the max number of points or time expires. The types of servers are the SCEA ranked 
 servers which are colored blue and the user created servers which are white. The SCEA severs are 
 the only ones where you can rank up. Split screen is possible for this game but naturally you can 
 only do so in user created servers. I have only encountered lag twice since I've begun playing 
 and both times were hardly noticeable. Did I mention you get a sweet ass bluetooth headset? We'll 
 not for long anyway. the $40 version will just come with the game itself. You can also download 
 Warhawk off the PSN for the same price. Now for the gripes I promised earlier. The good outweigh 
 the bad significantly. There aren't enough maps. The variety is very small, you play long enough 
 and you will start to become bored of the same maps. My other complaint has to do with the Rank 
 Glitch. Everyone seems to be leveling up at an alarming rate, and by that I mean the points players 
 have do not meet the requirement for the rank they are at. Take me for example, I only have roughly 
 400 points. I should be at Airmen rank but the game has me at Commander. Simply put Commander rank 
 isn't reached until you have about 3000 points. The good news is that both these problems can be 
 fixed via updates and add-on content. All in All Warhawk is a great game that I encourage you to 
 go buy/download. You will need DSL or higher internet so keep that in mind when purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  When developers of Warhawk said We want to make a game that's truly next-gen they succeeded. Warhawk 
 has great, stunning graphics with amazing physics. Despite no single player mode which is disappointing, 
 it's multiplayer online makes up for it. Although there are only 4 online modes with 4 maps, there 
 are plenty of ways to play the game. Whether you like missile turrets, ground vehicles, tanks, 
 on foot rocket launchers and snipers or personally, my favorite, the Warhawk, you will surely find 
 a way to play this true next-gen game. Enjoy flying around or moving around on foot destroying 
 the enemy or taking over bases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdynamite
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  If you want to get the most for your money then Warhawk should be your next purchase, if you haven't 
 already bought it. a PERFECT 10 on the funfactor meter. The levels are huge. The action is nonstop. 
 From Flying and maneuvering the Warhawk through canyons, caves &amp; clouds to Driving Armored 
 Tanks and machine gun equiped Jeeps, Warhawk has it all. A host of weaponry to choose from like 
 Guns, Mines, Knives, Sniper, guided Rocket Launchers, S. A. M's and more. All that plus Maps so big 
 that you never get sick of exploring them while fighting your enemy. Game modes include capture 
 the flag, Team Death Match, Zones, Warhawk Dog Fights and more. As you play each different mode 
 you gain experience and rank points. The ranking basically follows the US Military system: Private, 
 Captain, Sergeant, General, etc. As your rank goes up you receive different vehicle &amp; player 
 options such as clothing and faces for your player and Paint and design options for your Warhawk. 
 Subsequently, all the players on the board look different depending on what clothing they choose. 
 Their Warhawks also look different depending on the paint job each player chooses.
  
  I strongly suggest this game. It gets a 10 in all areas.
  
  Remember, Warhawk is Online Only. 
 Up to 32 players.
  
  The PSN Service is free though!
  
  (c: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockstock
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait any longer for the warhawk blueray game to arrive in the UK and downloaded , I 
 don't need a headset and from playing it every night since I have found that nobody is chatting 
 yet anyway. Once people have got used to the maps and strategies I am sure some sort of concerted 
 play will start but at the moment it is very much an individualistic game.
  
  As for the game, there are two sides, you earn medals, badges and ribbons for advancing through 
 various tasks, you can then change your characters appearance and the livery of your plane, yada 
 yada yada, nothing new there, nothing we haven't seen in countless on and offline games over the 
 years.
  
  The beauty of Warhawk is the graphics, everything looks so much more 3-D than previous and contemporary 
 online games, the colours are lush in close-up and the colour fades naturally with distance as 
 you would expect, cloud cover is seemingly natural and the detail in the buildings and towns is 
 beautifully rendered, the desert has a satifylingly realistic light, shadows of overhead aircraft 
 tracking across the surface while the sea of the island sections is naturally reflective without 
 being too even, a lot of work has gone into this by somebody who loves his job. The vehicles are 
 unremarkable though well detailed and the aircraft while well liveried are also not attractive, 
 the people however are he crownong glory of the artists abilities, where in other games the people 
 seem to be placed onto the background the individuals in Warhawk do look as if they belong there, 
 they are on the ground as opposed to being on the background, a difficult idea to put into words, 
 it needs to be seen to be understood, this is also partly thanks to the animations, when crouching 
 they look as if their body weight has shifted, they lean to the side when in tank turrets, laying 
 their weapons down if inactive for more than a few seconds, one individual, instead of standing 
 vertically on a low wall and slowly sliding off whilst still in the vertical position as you would 
 normally see in a game, actually put his arm out slightly as if to steady himself, another raised 
 a leg slightly so that his foot took a natural stance while standing half on a pavement, half on 
 a road.
  
  Much more will be said of the weaponry and tactics in warhawk but I wanted to take a little time 
 out to try to describe the sheer beauty of the game. So if online, find cover, stop and crouch 
 and just take a second to look around you, I guarantee that a little voice will say 'look at that!', 
 then it's up and run as fast as your little legs will carry you.
  
  did I mention it is a warzone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately a few people here are reviewing this game badly without giving any real substance 
 to their score. Ok, the game has no single player story but honestly it does not need it. The game 
 for newcomers will be tricky as there is a lot going on and a lot to learn but once mastered you 
 will be hooked. Ignore other reviews, the graphics are great considering it is all online and the 
 amount of people playing. The maps are huge with a great draw distance and detailed textures that 
 are crisp and smooth. The game is lag free and makes for a smooth playing experience which is helped 
 by the wonderful balance between weapons and vehicles, No one has an edge as there is always a 
 weapon or vehicle to counter act your opponents. I have both Halo 3 and Warhawk and can honestly 
 say this is more fun and any comparisons should be kept minimal as both are different games. With 
 Warhawk and Resistance Sony are showing they can do online gaming well as Warhawk proves it with 
 it's smooth , lag free gaming (even with 32 players) finely balanced weaponry, crisp graphics and 
 most importantly its fun factor. Got a PS3? Want the best online game for it? stop reading this 
 and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fast paced online gaming. Split screen support online gaming. Rich award system. 32 player 
 online maps. Very responsive controls wether using Sixis or Analog. Quick to pick up. Exreamly 
 balanced game. Almost perfect.
  
  The Bad: Some sort of single player would have been cool, since this game plays off the spirit 
 of the original. Wish you could customize your character a bit more. More maps would be nice. 1st 
 person perspective would have been a neat addition.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Replay:10
  Sound: 9
  Own it: 10
  
  This genration is full of online shootes. But how many 
 of them have a sick flight based combat as good as Warhawk? Simply no game matches Warhawk with 
 its all around combat based playing style. Sure some games may have better fps or over the shoulder 
 shooting. But nothing beats Warhawks overall online package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shieldsy09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  After purchasing the game for a Modern Day bargain of &pound;33 i didn't know what to expect. But 
 after configuring my new Bluetooth headset that was included and inserting the disc I was thrown 
 into the action immediately.
  
  The menus are clear and easy to use, and navigating them is pain-free. After selecting Online Play 
 and agreeing to the usual things, I was able to plunge straight into my first game.
  
  Players have a choice of either playing on one of the many dedicated SCEE (for Europe) servers, 
 or joining somebody else's privately hosted one. While these can be fun to play with only people 
 you want to, such as those on your friends list, in general the Ranked games are the better option. 
 These are often a lot fuller and the pings are lower. There is also no chance of the host disconnecting 
 because his mum's called him for his tea...
  
  A significant problem with Warhawk is that being a Multiplayer Only game, there is absolutely no 
 Tutorial mode. Even after scouring through the manual and trying to take in as many of the in-game 
 hints as possible, I was still at a loss as to what I needed to do.
  
  The first thing that hits you as soon as you join your first game is just how vibrant and colourful 
 the graphics are. The way the characters and envrionments look and feel reminded me of the Timesplitters 
 series.
  
  After admiring the quirky and cool looks, the first thing I and probably most people do is to go 
 into one of the games star cast, the Warhawk. The controls are relatively simple, with the left 
 analogue stick controlling pitch (up and down) and turns and the right analogue stick executing 
 either a loop or twist. One highly recommended option though is to select the Pro Flight option 
 in the Flight Controls menu, which allows you to twist the aircraft on its side and fly like that 
 instead of just executing an automated move. It gives you so much more control and you can pull 
 off some impressive manouvers with this simple change.
  
  Once you have changed from Hover Mode into Flight Mode and steadily started accelerating, one of 
 the first things you may notice is that you have been killed. When in a Warhawk there really is 
 nowhere in the sky to hide, and it won't be long before some expert has targetted you with his 
 lock-on missiles, or someone in a Gun Turret has blasted you to pieces.
  
  Because of the lack of tutorial, it may take you several hours and a lot of painful deaths to get 
 the hang of the game and its controls.
  
  In terms of game modes, the usual appear, such as Deathmatch (kill everyone) , Team Deathmatch (kill 
 the other team) , Capture the Flag (pinch the flag from the oppositions base and return it to your 
 own) and my personal favourite, Zones (a Battlefield style rip-off where you and the other team 
 fight to control the key points on the map, earning your team points based upon how much you control 
 the area (on a scale of one to three) and whether the area links up with another control point 
 of yours) .
  
  To play this mode, however, you need to take full advantage of the ground vehicles and gameplay, 
 as floating in a Warhawk above a flag just won't make it change colour.
  
  Thankfully, each of the different aspects is well balanced, with tanks easily able to take a Warhawk 
 out of the sky with one shot, and the Gun Turrets often doing the same. The jeeps used for transportation 
 also work well as they have sufficient armour to survive a quick attack, but make up for their 
 lack in arms and heavy armour by their speed and agility.
  
  Although you only start with two basic weapons, a standard pistol and combat knife, you can soon 
 have a full roster of weapons at your disposal as at all control points and around the map are 
 many glowing icons, representing the weapon pickups. The weapons are selected by pressing the appropriate 
 direction, one of eight, on the directional buttons, and are fired using R1. Weapon selection is 
 easy once you memorise where each weapon is on the grid and the auto-aim assist helps to make sure 
 every shot doesn't miss, as the frantic gameplay can lead to a lot of movement and difficulty in 
 aiming.
  
  Similarly, when in the Warhawks, you can fly into and collect numerous airbourne weapons, expanding 
 on the missiles and one flare type weapon that attracts locked on weapons as it is deployed from 
 your aircraft. Although these are used less in the games than the ground weapons, they still add 
 a bit of variety and extra fire power to the game's primary vehicle.
  
  Because the game is online only, it really needed to thrive in its online community and thankfully 
 it does, with numerous dedicated servers, and not a hint of lag. The ranking system works well 
 and the numerous medals, ribbons and unlockable customisations keep the game a challenge.
  
  In terms of the two sides, Chernovan and Ecuadian, there is no difference except in colour 
 and the way their vehicles look. The only problem I have had occasionally is when playing as the 
 Chernovan (red) at a quick glance the blue can appear to be friendly, due to red often being associated 
 with enemies. But after a quick five minute period in a game, you soon get to realise who is on 
 your team.
  
  Overall, the game offers excellent value at a much reduced price, less than half of a normal PS3 
 game if bought off the store, and its multiplayer fun and competition will keep me playing it for 
 a long time. The only downside is the lack of help, although once you get into your stride, this 
 game becomes the most addictive, enjoyable and relationship ruining game I have played in a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seamusb
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is actually the second Playstation game to bear the name. The first being a 1995 PSOne 
 game, which had you playing as the titular aircraft. There was also another Warhawk way back in 
 1986 on the Commodore 64. But none of that matters here, because besides the aircraft there is 
 no connection between them.
  
  To be clear Warhawk is a multi-player online only game. There is no single player campaign or AI 
 controlled bots to speak of. If you dont have an internet connection for your PS3 or youre a 
 reclusive loner, turn away now as there is nothing for you here. The game also comes in two versions 
 an online download or a boxed version that comes with a headset. So it caters to those of different 
 buying styles.
  
  The more you sweat in training, the less you'll bleed in battle.
  While Warhawk doesnt so anything new, what it does do is provide a perfectly balanced and engaging 
 game that could have you playing for hours without end.
  
  The one deterrent that might put you off when you first play is being completely clueless as to 
 what you should be doing. This game would have benefited from some form of tutorial so you could 
 at least learn how to pilot a warhawk. This isnt helped by the fact that the download version 
 doesnt provide a link to some online manual. However the manual that comes with the boxed version 
 leaves a lot out also.
  
  As such you can expect to die, A LOT, during your first hour or so. Fortunately they try to balance 
 this out via a ranking system, so that newcomers with the lowest ranks end up fighting among those 
 of similar inexperience. It adds an interesting difficulty curve to the game as you fight more 
 difficult and skilled players as your own skills and ranks improve. Increasing your rank also unlocks 
 various custom designs for your men and warhawks.
  
  It takes two sides to make war. It only takes one side to make a massacre
  Once you have gotten 
 used to the game mechanics you will find a game that is sure to entertain. Be it performing masterful 
 barrel rolls in a warhawk, or sniping a player from across the map, there are plenty of moments 
 that will make you smile or even shout in victorious glee.
  
  In most game modes there are bases or outposts that you can capture, which not only generate new 
 vehicles at these locations but can then be used as spawn points. These help to ensure that the 
 action is kept flowing and making your way back to the fighting takes little to no time at all.
 
  
  There are five modes in total to play, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture The Flag, Dogfight, 
 similar to Deathmatch except the ground component is removed and everyone spawns in warhawks, and 
 Zones. In Zones a team must capture bases to accumulate points and the team that nest the required 
 points first wins.
  
  To play these modes youre given a rather paltry five maps. While each map has its own unique look 
 and design from one another, the maps themselves are virtually split down the middle, so one half 
 is near identical to the other. And while this design might feel a little lazy it perhaps allowed 
 the developers to focus on the graphics to make it all look good. The graphics are simply superb, 
 with a distinct almost cartoony look that goes well with the constant carnage going on. And its 
 all lag free to boot.
  
  This war, like the next war, is a war to end war.
  The sound effects in this game are great from the explosions to the flamethrowers. The music however 
 rarely seems to play and turns itself on and off at random, which is a pity because its actually 
 quite nice. The silence wouldnt be as noticeable if people were chatting but for some reason they 
 rarely do (expect to complain) . Mics are near pointless as no one talks and there is almost no 
 need for team play. You can still win even if everyone does their own thing.
  
  You can also operate the game via the Sixasis controls and while they work quite well youll probably 
 just stick with the analogue sticks. Waving you hands like an idiot might amuse your friends but 
 it wont score you any points in a dogfight.
  
  If you have a PS3 then you need to get this. If youre thinking about taking the plunge and getting 
 a PS3 for this then you may want to reconsider due to its lack of a single player campaign. Its 
 ranking system is also perhaps too hardcore; requiring players to spend weeks to progress through 
 them (provided a glitch doesnt send you flying through them, pun intended) . If you do get this 
 expect it to keep you entertained for weeks, possible even months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I played this game at my friends house, and was very impressed. First off, this game lacks single 
 player, the graphics are far from awesome, and the tank doesnt have a frikin machine gun!!! But, 
 other than that, this game is rock solid. The flight combat is very intense, and it is oh soo satisfying 
 to lock on to your enemies fire the missles, and send them into oblivion. Ground comabt is fun 
 also, but this game is definately focused on air combat. I love all the anti-air weapons, and the 
 large maps, and players. For $40 this game is not half bad. With a single-player, and a patch with 
 more planes and a machine gun on the tank, this would have been a 9.2 game. But the single player, 
 at least with bots, should definately have been in this game. Still at this point, one of best 
 games on PS3, and a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  the best online game ever. land, and air combat. on foot, tanks, jeeps, turrets, and planes. this 
 is so far the best online game i've played. if u r in the middle of a unranked game, if ur friend 
 comes over all he has to do is press start on controller 2 and he is in if there is enough space 
 in the game, up to 4 players can play on one system. this game is online only so don't buy it if 
 u don't got online. the bundle comes with the game and a blue tooth headset, get this game if u 
 own a ps3 its well worth it and its probably going to better than metal gear online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemister
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a multiplayer only game as many of you know. The game has amazing gameplay which takes 
 advantage of the Six-axis controller.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gamepaly is a great aspect of this game, It uses the Six-Axis controller to control planes and 
 vehicles, It controls perfectly the aerial combat is amazing and when u master the flying you can 
 get so much better at dog fights so there is somewhere to go you can always get better. The ground 
 combat is a bit simple but still works well and you can have good guerrilla combats on the ground.
 
  
  Graphics:
  This game has decent graphics nothing special for the new gen, but it is good at least, and graphics 
 don't matter for this game The game is just so great it isn't a concern to many people. (even though 
 the graphics are slightly above average)
  I would like to make a point of how exellent the explosions look (i still see them and think WOW)
 
  
  Offline:
  No missions, but you do have lan so you can play in a arena on your own or with split screen.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  This game was made for just online so its obviously very good at it, in all the time i've been 
 on this game i have never experienced lagg of any kind of connection problems, The game is fair 
 even if there are people who are really good you can still kill them so the game is very balanced.
 
  Then to make things better it has split screen! so you can play online with mates as well. Time 
 you will play it:
  I have been playing this a lot and i aren't even starting to get at all bored, this game just never 
 gets boring and if it does it's not happening to a majority the people i know or hear about.
  
  Glitches:
  This game does have a few glitches people are learnign to exploit and it can be 
 annoying but they can still die. And im sure these problems will be fixed with time.
  
  Overall:
  This is a great game and really gives me faith in the PS3's sucess.
  I would give 
 it a 9.5 or possibly a 10 but the lack of missions i have to deduct 0.5. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pfletcher728
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The game was good and the graphics are what I call amazing. The gameplay is good with no lag online 
 really. The choice of weapons for everything are good such as the plane weapons and the human weapons. 
 These are some of the positives along with many others, but this game just didn't keep me into 
 it very long. Some of the negatives are that there are only one type of airplane to fly for each 
 team, one type of truck, and one type of tank. Also, some of the weapons are cheap and really dumb, 
 but i guess every game has a few of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  With many post-release patches, trophies, map-packs, and features, Warhawk deserves to be in every 
 multiplayer fanatic's collection.
  
  The story is all about a war between the Chivenarians and the Eusadians who blah-blah-blah-blah 
 blow up stuff in multiplayer! Really, it's like Counter-Strike - you pick a team and go. Unless 
 you want to pretend that your daughter was kidnapped from the opposing team and you must rescue 
 her in a mad game of guns/vehicles, you can just forget about the story because it's a second thought 
 compared to the solid gameplay.
  
  Think of this as Battlefield in 3rd-person. You have huge landscapes of lush terrain where you 
 can engage in 'intense' 3rd person combat, which comes down to positioning your camera so that 
 when you squeeze the trigger, the auto-aim will be sure to hit your enemies. The missile turrets 
 are cheap to newcomers as well, which is a shame because it's sure to discourage many war-dogs-to-be. 
 The on-foot combat is weak, but the vehicle combat is where the fun really is.
  
  There are initially tanks, jeeps, and Warhawks before you buy an expansion to bring carriers and 
 battleships into the equation. Each one of these vehicles have their own strengths, weaknesses, 
 and features. Pretty generic stuff, but bear with it and you'll find a layer of depth underneath 
 everything. It takes true skill to pilot a Warhawk, but once you figure out the basics, it comes 
 down to getting missiles, getting behind a target, and then hoping that the missiles hit. If you 
 have the time and room to maneuver, then you can usually avoid getting hit. If you control with 
 the SIXAXIS controls (which work well enough by the way) , then you have the extra luxury of using 
 the right analog stick for extra maneuvers. This coupled with the ability to boost, and you'll 
 see how great the Warhawk can be - well deserving of the title of the game.
  
  The presentation is surprisingly good. The environments look great for the most part, the draw-distance 
 is superb, and everything looks surprisingly solid. Lag is seldom and everything is rendered beautifully. 
 The battlefields are large and well-designed for balanced play. Things seem to be in order.
  
  The audio department lacks however. The explosions are generic and the grenades sound awful. 
 The grunts from your characters are uninspiring and everything seems predictable. However, the 
 music seems to carry the sound department with it - using a solid soundtrack to set the mood perfectly.
 
  
  All in all, Warhawk can be another solid addition to multiplayer fans collection. The multiplayer 
 packs enough of a punch to make you forget about the tiny problems - but how long you want to play 
 is up to you.
  
  ~Hazelnuntman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefieldfoo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Warhawk surprised me. When i heard that the developers had taken the single player campaign off 
 of the table, I was very disappointed. But nonetheless SCEA has put together a commendable game. 
 This game pits two factions, the Chernovians, and the Eucadians against each other with a future 
 aircraft super weapon, the Warhawk (Eucadians) and the Nemesis (Chernovians) . While the two factions 
 are completely evenly matched, the Chernovians appear to be from fifty years in the future compared 
 to the WWII-style appearance of the Eucadians. This game is simply a lot of fun. it doesn't do 
 anything different, it does not bring anything relatively new to the PS3 or the gaming world, but 
 it does give players a fresh, high paced, and exciting battlefield to compete in. I would give 
 this game a 10, if only the servers weren't nearly unaccessible and if the ranking system would 
 actually work. Also, I would have liked to see some diversity between the weapons and tactics between 
 the two factions, like Haze is promising to give us later this year.
  
  If you want to spend some time waiting for Unreal Tournament and Haze, PICK THIS ONE UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kontaktin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a great game. In fact I think that this would be the best PS3 game so far 
 if just they fixed those two problems that are KILLING ME (not literally) . Number one is that STUPID 
 problem where it says that the game is full even if there's only a cupple of guys chillin there. 
 It takes me a awerage of 30 minutes to find a server that works when it could just take 5 seconds. Yes 
 i know, there's a thing called Port forwardingding but I just cant find out to do it. Then number 
 two is the rank. How is it that suddenly EVERYONE is a commander when they only havelike 700 points. 
 I mean, COME ON it takes like over 10.000 to make it anywhere near that. I think that the rank bug 
 is taking the spirit away from the game. But anyways I think that the guys that made this game 
 should FIX all those stupid problems cause this game is really a GOOD DEAL and I would give it 
 9,5 if it was bug-less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS_4lyf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  When playing warhawk you can't last 1 min without a piece of the action it's a game were your always 
 seeing a plane get blowing up out off the sky or a tank being blown away in the air.
  
  What i found so awesome about this game not including the gameplay was that you can play split 
 screen online.
  
  Me and my brother always go on and kick some a**.
  
  This game i can't recommend more to buy it and play it.
  
  The gameplay is so highly addictive 
 and you have to much fun to put you controler on the ground lol.
  
  This and other stuff is why i rated WarHawk 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I was able to download and begin playing this great game within 20 minutes, saving money in the 
 process and not having to brave the masses at walmart.
  That alone gives this game a score of 7. Add points for the great gameplay and functionality. I 
 have yet to have a crash, problem logging in or anything like that.
  Add more points for the great graphics.
  
  All its missing is more levels, which I Imagine 
 will be available sometime in the future, and some kind of a story line.
  
  Those minor gripes aside, this game is just plain fun, fun, fun! You can always find a server full 
 of folks at any time of day or night (Im usually on around 10pm-3am Eastern time) .
  
  The player and vehicle (airplane only) customizations are a great touch, and its hard not to get 
 sucked into this game for hours on end.
  
  You wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredrichards3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and one that i would highly recommend to anyone, i actually bought this game 
 mainly for the headset but after giving it a go i found myself very into it. The review from gamespot 
 is spot on, but the thing i like the most about this game is the split screen mode. playing along 
 side a friend has never been so much fun!!! if you are a fan of games like battlefield 2 then I 
 would recommend this game to you. the only thing that could have been better is that the instruction 
 manual that comes with the game is very basic and does not tell you must about anything so expect 
 to struggle in your first hour or so of battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  For anyone who's into Strategical Action Games like EA's epic Battlefield series or the Star Wars 
 Battlefront Series, Warhawk is definitely an essential... But be warned
  
  ... This game ain't for the light hearted
  
  When you compare Warhawk to other AS's (like the 
 two series I mentioned) you might find it simple by comparison with the selection of vehicles on 
 hand. But this game becomes very much Arcadey when you throw a pile of health and weapon pick-ups 
 into the mix. Once you find your feet with the controls in this game you'll will then need to learn 
 how to Survive ...
  
  The hardest part of Warhawk is surviving it's Competitive Atmosphere . To describe this game as 
 being Highly Competitive is an understatement. IMO I think you will find that this game has Competition 
 that knows no mercy.
  
  So if you're into Action Strategy games, enjoy air-to-air combat and feel right at home with the 
 thought of Merciless Online Competition...
  
  Grab yourself a copy and get stuck in! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  got this game last night for 20 pound and boy .is it worth it. i love this game its so addictive 
 .has for the game its not got much of a story it just reds v blues , but it so much fun u get to 
 dog fight in space ships and u get to go in jeeps tanks and u are on foot u can get in a vehicle 
 with some one elss and let them drive or u can get the gun ,. has some one drives the leval s are 
 good i like the a lot thers lot of deffent guns to get i find once i get on the game its hard to 
 get of if u looking for a good . online game .then this game is for u get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a 3rd person sci-fi shooter created by SCEA Incognito. It's a multiplayer only war game 
 and the first on the Playstation 3. It places you on either the red (Chernovian) or blue (Eucadian) 
 team in an all out war that takes place in the sky and/or on land. Due to the lack of a single 
 player campaign mode, one would think that this game could not be good, but one play through of 
 the online experience will help to convince you otherwise. You engage in the typical multiplayer 
 modes (i. e. Capture the Flag, Death Match, Team Death Match and Zones) on five maps that vary in 
 size depending on the amount of players in the game and the mode. You can join a server and play 
 against one person or you can play in a 32 player mode which provide for countless hours of entertainment.
 
  
  The game currently is available for either a $39.99 download from the PSN store or a $59.99 retail 
 version that comes with an instruction manual and Jabra blu tooth headset. The game looks great 
 as it can be displayed a maximum resolution of 720p and 1080i. The game's sound effects sound great 
 as well, however, at points during combat the soundtrack can become repetitive. The game plays 
 very smooth as 32 players can conduct battle in a heavy warzone with little to no drop in frame 
 rate.
  
  Like with most titles that are the first in their respective franchises, there are glitches present. 
 These glitches are however, very difficult to find unless your sole purpose is to discover these 
 glitches, abuse them and ruin the online experience for everybody else (which happens) . The lack 
 of variety during customization is a down point as well, but does not hinder the overall great 
 experience. Currently, Incognito is making improvements to their servers to enhance ranking issues 
 that some users are having. At the moment players are ranking up without fulfilling all the rank 
 requirements. Although this does not seem like a huge issue, it can be when you're playing with 
 somebody on your team who is supposed to be a few ranks above you and in actuality is a few notches 
 below you. Critical battles can be lost in this manner and ultimately ruin your overall record 
 in the game. Sometimes network traffic in the game can be tough to deal with as most games do not 
 display the correct amount of people in a game. For example a Team Death Match game may say it 
 has 18 of 24 people playing but will be full and will not allow you to enter the game.
  
  Other than those few issues, the game makes for a very solid experience. As stated previously, 
 there are only five maps that are currently available for the game, but something tells me (hoping) 
 that the future will yield a handful of additional maps as well as some sort of campaign mode. 
 There is tons of replay value with Warhawk due to the amount of variety that online multiplayer 
 games provide in conjunction with the need to constantly rank up and receive achievements (if you're 
 into those things) . If you own a Playstaion 3, I definitely recommend this game as you will have 
 one of the better online experiences (if not the best) provided by the PS3 with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsus8091
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is super addictive. You'll spend hours just trying to up your rank. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Zones, and Capture the Flag are done wonderfully. The game, especially when there are more than 
 24 players, is absolutely massive, and tons of fun. First when I popped it in for the first time 
 I was a little put off. No crazy intro or special opening for the game. I was also kind of worried 
 after I saw the lack of beginning credits and title screen. My first game was a Team Deathmatch 
 and I just wanted to play a simple game to kind of figure out the controls and layout of the game. 
 The ground warfare is absolutely excellent. The tanks, Jeep's, along with the flak and SAM turrets 
 are super fun and deal massive amounts of damage, well with the exception of the Jeep's machine 
 gun. The Jeep's and the tanks can also be used as a part of your assault by letting your teammates 
 hop on with you. In the Jeep 3 teammates can ride along while one of them man's the gun turret, 
 as for the tank only one teammate can join you and they can pop the hatch and use any number of 
 weapons from there. The best is when your teammate is hanging out of the hatch with a rocket luncher. 
 As for the air battle, this is probably the hardest to master. The planes, Warhawks/ Nemesis, take 
 a little getting used too. I personally use the defualt settings and do not use the SIXAXIS controls. 
 This part of the game is the most rewarding when mastered because there is so much you can do in 
 the air in comparison with ground warfare. The learning curve is going to be at least 15 to 20 
 hours just to become respectable. So I recommend that if you want to learn play an unranked Dogfight 
 match which means only air combat is permissable. Although I'm certainly not a master that still 
 doesn't mean I won't sometimes jump into one of these bad boys and cover my teammates and deal 
 death from above. What you will notice is that there are some serious ace's to contend with online, 
 so be carefull. You find some players rarely die and can take you out anytime they want. I certainly 
 don't reccomend fighting these guys in the air. Hopefully your squad has some ace's of their own 
 to go up against your superior foe. Now the infintry might seem a little out gunned but you wrong. 
 An infintrymen can shell out some serious punishment on his own. With a few massive weapons of 
 his own the foot soldier is a serious threat to any opponent. When you spawn you'll start out with 
 a hand gun, a few grenades and a knife. Other than the frags you'll never run out of ammo with 
 the pistol. The knife is an excellent one hit one kill if you know how to use it. Sneeking up on 
 an opponent and shanking him is very cool, especially if he has been sniping your teammates from 
 afar. Now, as for the pickup weapons you'll be able to get a automatic rifle, rocket luncher, flame 
 thrower, sniper rifle, land mines, and binoculers which calls in an air strike. The auto rifle 
 is the most useful of all these because you can always find one and the auto aim is excellent. 
 Never run at an assault rifle with a knife, you are probably laughing, but you'll be surprised 
 by how many people do this. It's just crazy. The rocket launcher is great, it can lock onto tanks 
 and planes and then send out a heat seeking missle. Flame throwe is pretty self explanitory, and 
 is the best way to fight someone in close quarters, plus it's great way to fight a tank on foot. 
 You would think that a war game played on massive maps would be a great environment to use the 
 sniper rifle. Well a little. First of all, it's not very easy to get a kill with it, because players 
 almost never stand still, add the lag and boom there you go, not exactly a great game for sniping. 
 But there are certain instances that it does work. If you playing Capture the Flag or Zones you 
 find that you opponents will stay in a certain area and defend. If you can put a enough distance 
 between yourself and your enemy and get high enough, this is the best oppertunity for sniping. 
 But beware, if you miss your opponent will see you because of the trace of the bullet and most 
 likely radio a friendly in the sky of your where abouts. The land mines are an excellent defending 
 weapon, especially if you playing Zones or Capture the Flag, they are not much of an offensive 
 weapon. Now for the big bopper, the binoculers. These babies might seem tame but believe me, they 
 are very hard to find and only come with 2 rounds of ammo for a reason. This weapon is a must for 
 killing a wide area of foes. It's an excellent tool to use against enemy's that are dug in well 
 behind walls and manning turrets. But be careful they won't go through roofs, so if you opponent 
 is under something don't even bother.
  
  Overall this game is super fun and crazy addictive. Some people complain that there isn't a single 
 player mode, but honestly I don't think that it would be a good single player mode. It wouldn't 
 be better than Mercenaries for the PS2 and that game was about as fun as your grandma's underwear. 
 Warhawk is perefect for online. The massive battlefields and the large number of players make this 
 game a must have if your into crazy battles and wild warfare. I swear there is nothing more rewarding 
 than gathering up 5 or 6 teammates to travel on foot while 5 or 6 members are leading you in Jeep's 
 and tanks while the other 5 or 6 guys are covering you from above all combined to assault a rivel 
 base or zone. The game will bring out the best in you when it comes to team work, you'll find yourself 
 helping out a fellow teammate who's just captured the flag all the way to sacrificing yourself 
 to save your teams flag. The perfect online game.
  
  So I got two words for you, BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that you cant shoot real life people, its the game for you. In the game 
 you can battle with other people online. in different battles. Like for ex. you can battle on 3rd 
 person on foot, in a plane, and from any infantry. The graphics are beautiful, if you play on full 
 hd tv then you'll get best graphics of war that you will be in it. In warhawk there will be two 
 different teams one is Eucadian, they look like normal soldiers in cloth of soldier, the second 
 is chernovan they use metal armor, and i think they are the evil ones. Well the game updates, but 
 it takes long. Also there is a problem with the ranking, you all heard about the problem with ranking 
 that you will play, get a rank up, but when you quit the game everything will be zero again. Well 
 the updates coming and they are trying solve this problem. Well the game is fun, and even better 
 that you can use a microphone to talk with your friends or with other people in the game. Well 
 i think thats it, see ya in warhawk... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  At fisrt i was reserved on the outcome of this title, but after playing it for over 50+_ hours 
 i am drawn into this game as if it was a daily part of my life.
  
  Graphics: being a game in real time 720p and 1080I i am amazed as to the steady frame rate with 
 very few laps. over haul graphics arent fantastic, but for a first generation PS3 title i feel 
 with some time and treaking this will improve to almost perfect.
  
  Sound: hear is where i feel warhawk stands out the sound effects are great from the action of a 
 machine gun to the wistle of on incoming missle makes one feel part of the actual battle field 
 as if it where in real time.
  
  Game play : here is where a few problems exsist not enough to ruin the game exspeirence but it 
 does seem to show in some fashion. First of all people are not quite equal depending on your internet 
 conection you might just be at a disatvange. point if you have a ping of 65 and your enemy has 
 a ping of 125 his responce time is double yours in a real time game as this it can be a hinderness 
 to one or several players. there is also some in game stat problems that should have been corrected 
 by now almost 60 days after release but still arent addressed. the biggest complaint i have is 
 the ability of some players to kill thier own players for long periods of time with out getting 
 kicked out. the worst is the game has a few gliches where a person can shoot through mountains 
 and kill just about anyone it wants with out being detected. when this does and rarely does it 
 can mean 30 minutes of pure slaughter on a team, beacuse this happens in a spawning area.
  
  Online: for an online game this is one of the very few that does and i repeat does not have 
 online conection problems as for me to date. it is very easy to get into a game and connect and 
 stay on for hours with out interuptions of any kind. Secondly this is the first game that i have 
 hosted a game from my own ps3 and maintained 32 players for over 12 hours with out even a hiccup 
 of a problem.
  
  Replay value: Is endless in my mind. Do too the several ways and maps you can play and it being 
 realtime stradegy game with differant people all the time makes the game differant each and every 
 time you play it. sure it can get repeatitve after awhile play the same 5 maps, but this is where 
 the player must think outside the box find differant ways to target your enemy or differant ways 
 to utilize the players you have and how you use or they use you. all in all it is a great game 
 to meet and respect other players for what they can and what they cant yet do. This game has great 
 potental over time if sony adds more maps and content even adding a few new weapons and charector 
 enhancements would change the exspierence even more over time.
  
  Over All:
  I find Warhark to be a great over all exspierence, with endless hours of online fun and with some 
 minor tweaks from the maker it would and will be a fantastic franchise to build on. replay value 
 is high seeing as each game is a little differant from the game before, this will even increase 
 if they add more maps and content in the near future and they fix a few of the minor **** that 
 are currantly with in the game for mentioned in this review. is it worth the money? in this persons 
 view yes for the 60.00 bucks if you dont have a bluetooth mic and headset its more then worth it 
 . becuse you cant purchase a bluetooth headset for less then 40.00 bucks any way and for those 
 that already have one you can purchase the download from psn. and as of the 10th of october you 
 will be able to pick up the blueray copy for 40.00 bucks with out the mic set at the store for 
 those needing to save HD space. so from me to you I wish you all great gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Good flight/fighter games are truely hard to come by with only the god awful Over-G and the flawed 
 Balzing Angels that I even dare play yet. I can't say that I was overly convinced by the fact that 
 its an online game! This had been compounded by the limited and ultimately tedious Shadowrun. So 
 my hopes were not high. Thankfully most of my doubts were slapped aside once I got to play the 
 game itself. The flight and fighting aspects of the game are truly exciting and the planes handle 
 really really well, with the added option of using the Sixxaxis motion sensor to guide your bird!! 
 There are plenty of maps and great fighting to be had whether you flying around feeling all top 
 gun or buy getting into a tank, missile launcher, Jeep or just plain running around 3rd person 
 blasting things and people!! Visually the game looks V good but definately not great or super next 
 gen. Now whilst the game is great it has a LOT of draw backs. No bots game to practice on is a 
 real bind. The lack of the instructions or advice on how to play the game is also a little frustrating. 
 However the two biggest flaws are the lack of any single player game which wouldn't have hurt even 
 if it was short, to practice or hone your skills on. The second is the ranking and achievements 
 recording system which seemingly never stores all your very hard earned game awards!!! As good 
 as Warhawk is and I really enjoy it you feels that its a come up a bit short and unfinished.
  
  When all is said and done for &pound;20, or $40, you get what you pay for! An enjoyable long 
 lasting flight/fighter/3rd person shooter! So the right price for the the type of game you get! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_illest101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: this is pretty much all this game has going for it. there is no story not much music 
 . the biggest problem with this games are the weapons, the is not enough weapons. there is ur traditional 
 pistol, riffle, rocket launcher, mines, flamethrower and about 3 more. For a game that is only 
 online that is far from enough. I don't really like halo but it has a offline gameplay. For some 
 offline gamesplay is more important then online and other is quite the contrary, sony should i 
 made this game offline to,
  
  anyways even if this game is not offline its extremely addictive, me and my cousin were playing 
 this game like a bunch of crack head.
  
  if you like online games and you have a ps3 do yourself a favor and go buy this game, because heavenly 
 sword is not that long and we don't have much games to play now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djminus1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I really don't like FPS games like this. Running around and shooting constantly isn't my idea of 
 a great game. If you are into more tactical FPS games like Rainbow Six, you will probably be somewhat 
 disappointed like I was. It also seems kind of buggy right now which will most likely improve over 
 time. There are join game problems along with random lockups and game crashes. So far, I haven't 
 even een able to join a ranked SCEA server.
  
  I understand that this game is online only, but why didn't they even include a practice mode? That 
 was really frustrating. Learning the controls and functions of the game while being repetitively 
 killed makes learning the game not-so-fun.
  
  And now for the good aspects. This game has great graphics and super smooth gameplay. Joining games 
 and finding a server to play, for the most part, is easy (minus a few bugs) . The game also offers 
 great game modes. They also offer a great ranking system to give you something to play for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fightgar
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing... thats all there is to it... so many ways to play, there is no way this could 
 ever get old... hop in a tank, fly around... zip around in a jeep with some buddies....
  
  the only thing that bugs me is that the second player that hops in the fighter does nothing at 
 all.... hopefully they fix that and give them some sort of secondary weapon in the future....
  
  i was worried at first when they said there are only 5 maps..... not since i started playing.... they 
 are so big it doesnt make a difference
  
  other that that the game is freakin sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a completely online game that truly delivers. Login, customize, create, or join a game 
 and begin World War 3. On whatever world you are supposed to be on! This is a great mulitplayer 
 and I imagine this is what online gaming is supposed to be about. Players from all over against 
 each other. One on one or side against side. Team matches, capturing flags, total death matches 
 that have every man for themself, you name it. On foot, by land vehicle , or namesake through the 
 air you find a happy medium in how you fight your way through the game. The Warhawks are a dream 
 to control however they lack in defense as you can be shot down by spitballs it seems. Still that 
 will not keep you from climbing in the cockpit time and time again to shoot off into the sky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Ill start of with the bad:
  
  No offline Single Player
  Takes forever to find a ranked game
  Voice Support isnt great
  Stats are ****
  
  Apart 
 from that everything is great.
  
  Solid gameplay, very addictive converse dynamic complex gameplay. Graphics look very nice. 2 Player 
 online support, well 4 if you have 4 controllers is a great feature, can be alot of fun.
  
  The Six Axis controls for flying the Warhakws (Planes) work perfectly and are alot of fun.
  
 
  You get 4 game modes, Death Match, Team Death Match, Capture the Flag and Zones, all great modes 
 that can have matches of up to 30 mins in lengh.
  
  A must have for anyone who enjoys PSN.
  
  Omega Dawn and the dropship rule, 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertymein
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  This game is good, its disappointing it only has 5 maps and no campaign but the maps are huge which 
 make the 5 maps not disappointing.
  The graphics ain't the best but there definitely playable but the explosions do look good, but 
 the thing thats a bit weird is when you shoot barrels or whatever objects are lying around they 
 brake and fall through the floor.
  The sound is good my favorite sound on that game is when the rocket launcher is locking on but 
 the explosions and everything sound really good and bring a proper war feel to it.
  The gameplay is fun because nothing is the strongest in the war, but theres a good variety of guns 
 and vehicles on the battlefield to keep you entertained.
  Overall this game is good but the 5 maps can get boring quite quickly because theres no campaign 
 so they better update this game occasionally but its definitely worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Well because GameSpot has changed the way they review games, I have also changed mine.
  
  Warhawk is definatley a great, fun game if you have online for your PS3. You can download it from 
 the PlayStation store for $40 or buy the retail version for $60 and get a free bluetooth headset 
 with it. The better deal would be to get the version that comes with the headtset.
  
  Gamplay: The gameplay of Warhawk is very fun. You can fight on the ground, in airplanes, or ground 
 vehicles. There are about 8 differnt wepons to fight with (not including turrets or weapons on planes 
 or vehicles) . There are 4 different game types: Capture the Flag, Zones, Deathmatch, and Team Deathmatch. 
 They are all pretty fun game modes. Overall the gameplay in Warhawk is just fun and theres no other 
 way to put it.
  Score: 8.7
  
  Graphics: While nothing that will blow you away, the graphics are pretty nice. The maps and characters 
 are pretty well done but like I said, nothing that will blow you away. You can unlock differnt 
 paint jobs for customizing your Warhawk (plane) and different clothing and character designs. You 
 unlock these by increasing in rank. Score: 8
  
  Sound: Well the music is nothing special and the players don't make any sound other then grunts. 
 The sounds the vehicles, Warhawks, and guns make are pretty cool. And theres also the sound of 
 talking to others with a headset. Theres really not that much to judge this game by on sound.
 
  Score: 8
  
  Value: You get a pretty good deal by getting a free headset (origanally about $50) with the game. 
 There are plenty of ranks and awards to try and unlock . There are 5 different maps to play at, 
 which doesn't seem like much, espically for a game thats nothing but online. These maps are a pretty 
 good size though. 32 people can play online, which doesn't sound like much when Resistance could 
 have up to 40 players. After playing for a while you will realize that it's a perfect amout and 
 doesn't need any more players. Warhawk is a fun game that should give you plent of hours of playing.
 
  Score: 9
  
  Overall: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much all that needs to be said about this game is that is a ton of fun. At first it will 
 take you a bit to get use to the graphics, but the learning curve is only a few games. Being good 
 is a different story. The controls are good, the speed of the game really makes the intensity go 
 through the roof. Warn family or friends before you play because there will be some shouting going 
 on. The graphics are good, could be a bit more slicked up but not needed. The sound is what really 
 gets you going. Crank up the surround sound and sit back and be ready for some intense action. 
 Download this or buy this game as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMe
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  I got this game thinking. Okay, just another online PvP game. But WOW, this floored me. This is 
 the most fun I have had in a while. There is no lag, no cheating or glitching. It is just good, 
 clean fun.
  
  I recommend this to ANYONE who has online with their PS3. AMAZING game!!!
  
  So far I have not stopped playing this game. And I will keep playing this game, untill the 
 next Warhawk game comes out. I think this game is just flat out amazing! Graphics = Well. I really 
 dont care about graphics... But they are well done. Nothing ground breaking, but not ugly to look 
 at.
  
  Gameplay = Read above... You get the hint? IT IS AMAZING!!!
  
  Replay Value = VERY strong replay. I just cant stop playing it.
  
  Rent or Buy? BUY This game 
 is a MUST OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Ha Xbox owners! Warhawk is action packed! It is an awsome thrill ride that will keep you hooked 
 for a long time :D
  
  It has everything that makes a good game. Plenty of Weapons to choose from, Plenty of Vehicles 
 to choose from, Plenty of Maps to choose from, Plenty of Custimization to choose from! It has everything. 
 1 reason that it is not getting a 10 is because you can not send match invites, messages, and read 
 XMB messages : (
  
  If you liked Resistance then you will like this. If you like flying games then u will like this!
 
  
  If u like online games then this is a game for u! GET IT NOW OR YOU WILL NEVER FORGIVE YOURSELF!
 
  
  BUY IT! BUY IT! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillzdatkill
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  ASDFADSK F JADSKF ADF ADJF ASKD F adsf asldkfj askdf asfj skldf ;sj skd ;sjg kldr ger ghkz lar 
 gip gzk g/h osdg iprg or gL r gi kROgiDh zsod isd kifh ; dfrh is rdr bkzne ioz bl ob ioddf zkdj 
 dbkk drb dtx hit hz 8thz i tbk, k d i zho, dto g fhpd bdk gh zdjgiozdifjfjs jafs j; f ds kjf sj; 
 ; jk k knjnjnjnjn n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n nn n n n n 
 n n n nn n n nn n nn n n nn nn n n n n n n n n n n n n nn nm nmb mhh h ut j uuk tuj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSteve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is the game the PS3 has been after for some time and one I've spent some time playing. 
 There may be only a few maps, but its intelligently used, one map may well have 3 or 4 different 
 layouts used for various different game types, so you really don't tend to have the same experience 
 every time on every map.
  
  Vehicles and weapons are nicely varied too.
  
  But, coming as a veteran of PC based FPS games, I just simply cannot get on with using the controller 
 to aim. When it locks onto the enemy its ok, but using the stick to fine tune a long range tank 
 shot is nigh on impossible. They really need to improve the aiming when you're trying to fin tune 
 it.
  
  Also the lack of any help / tutorial / guide in the download version is criminal. The LAN feature 
 is useful though for getting used to the map layouts and locating weapons, although they do tend 
 to rotate positions sometimes, which doesn't help!
  
  However, I'm waiting for Unreal Tourney as that will let you use keyboard and mouse and as a PC 
 vet, that's what I'm used to.
  
  Mind you, not used to it on a 40 screen, but that's something I'm happy to learn! ;)
  
  Overall 
 its a good game, even people who normally don't get on with FPS games on consoles should get on 
 ok, just bear with it whilst you get slaughtered for the first few days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mccoyca112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has something any one will like. Run on foot, drive on land, or soar through the sky 
 in a warhawk. Right off the bat, you jump into multiplayer as a rookie; then you work your way 
 up the food-chain through medals that you earn. Whether you are playing with 6 people or 32 people, 
 the action always stays intense with the ability to change the size of the map. Having said that, 
 5 maps can still keep your interest pouring for a long time. You can also use a few different guns 
 like snipers, rifles, or bazookas. The rockets are very good for taking out vehicles while the 
 rifles are good for infantry. You also can man turrets which are good for blowing up warhawks. 
 Overall, the maps feel big like Battlefield 2 and the gameplay feels like starwars Battlefront. 
 If you are into the action that either of these games had, you HAVE to give this game a try!
  
  The good- Great multiplayer; gives everybody something to enjoy. Maps hold the action tight 
 whether the map is small or large. Flying warhawks can keep you on your toes. Game feels very smooth; 
 great level design, and a superb performance for a team based game.
  
  The bad- no single player game. All of the guns are fun, but it would be better if there were more 
 such as dual pistols/dual smgs. Ground vehicles move a little fast for my taste (such as the tank) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezzy1331
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I like the planes and how you press Triangle, you bursted and fly like a jet and missiles locked, 
 so easy. On the ground combat, I love using the rocket launcher to take planes down. Tanks does 
 not have any missiles lock on the planes.... if anyone knows that the tank does lock missile on 
 the planes, let me know. When you first play this game, you might have a hard time learning how 
 to play if you do not have a tutorial book or something like that. This game is very good online 
 game but not as good as Resistance: Fall of Man is. Enjoy the WarHawk game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamorhage
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This title is a must have for everey playstation owener who's hooked up to the internet. It's simple 
 the most fun you'll have in an online player. It's easy enough to get into, but challenging enough 
 to master. Fight on ground or in the air in angaging team battles. As soon as you spawn on the 
 map you'll be able to equip yourself with a nice riffle and extra grenades, look around the corner 
 and you'll find a bazooka, sniper, ... look the other side and you can choose between a (slow) tank, 
 (fast) jeep with automatic gun, turrets or the mighty... WARHAWK! Well... the warhawk isn't that 
 mighty really, once you're in the warhawk you'll have to really on experience and skill to be able 
 to survive long enough to blow the ennemy to bits. One blow from a turret, tank or guided missle 
 sends you to an early grave.
  But keep on mounting that warhawk and you'll be reigning the skies very shortly! Watch out though 
 that your whole team isnt up in the air, you need your troops to defend the bases and take down 
 those invading tanks.
  Nomatter where you are or how you fight, the screen will explode and heads will fly all over. And 
 most importantly it's all fun. You'll rack up points as you go and unlock new gear and patterns 
 for your warhawk. You'll earn new titles aswell and collect a load of medals and ribbons to show 
 your friends just how good you are. Anyway I'm not going to explain how cool warhawk is, just buy 
 it, play it, and you'll be happy you have a PS3 at home again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is an online only, up to 32 player multi-player game. It is basicly a remake or the original 
 of the same name for the PSone. Incognito desided against having a single player on the new Warhawk, 
 so with that there is no story at all behind the two teams that are fighting. It leaves the game 
 kind of bland, but the actual fun of playing with others outweighs that.
  
  Warhawk is the first game for the PS3 that is available on Blu-Ray disc and on the PlayStation 
 Network. If you buy the disc form it comes with a wireless bluetooth headest for the regular price 
 of any other game, which is real nice. It is like getting a free headset. The PSN Store version 
 comes just as the game, but the price is cut by twenty dollars to fourty dollars. So either way 
 is a pretty good deal. The downloadable version does not come with instructions at all, which is 
 sort of weird. Other games on the PlayStation Network have had web browser links built in to load 
 up manuals and things like that, but Warhawk has nothing at all. I would say you do not need it, 
 but with Warhawk, you do. I mean there is so many ways to change the controller to your liking. 
 you can fly the warhawk using the tilt sensing of the Sixaxis controller. However, the tilt support 
 never feels responsive enough to be useful in tense situations. Also learning to talk to others 
 would be a big problem, if someone did not tell you or if you do not have the manual (L3 is the 
 button to talk) . Which when you push it, nothing on the screen shows that you are talking and the 
 indication for others talking is almost unnoticable.
  
  The online community is a pretty bad one for Warhawk. The list of rooms is all mashed together, 
 which makes it hard to find a room you are looking for, if you are looking for a certain room. 
 Which another problem is you can not make a ranked room and play in it. That makes no sense to 
 me what so ever. Not to mention with there being clans on Warhawk making a try out room is useless. 
 Mostly because you could only play unranked, unless you wanted to just sit and watch everyone elses 
 stats go up. The refresh never works, so when you try to enter a room that says only has seven 
 of eight people, you get bumped out witha message that says Sorry, room full. constantly. Another 
 thing, any ranked room you go into will not start being ranked until atleast eight people are in 
 it. Which I find to be quite stupid, then when it does get eight people it starts all over again. 
 Which makes you feel like Why am I even playing at all then, until eight people join? 
  
  Warhawk is pretty chaotic at most times. If you play Death Match, don't plan on staying alive more 
 then one second each time you respawn. It just won't happen. Most people on Warhawk either still 
 have no mic for the PS3, don't know they can use the PS2 mics, or just plain don't use it at all. 
 Which makes for a huge lack of team work everytime you play. Warhawk is a game that could be great 
 with proper team work, but with this area lacking, it can get very annoying, mostly by spawn campers.
 
  
  You always spawn, there is no waiting for your entire team to die off for the next round to start, 
 which is very nice. It keeps the game action packed. When you spawn, you are automatically on foot 
 with a lame simple pistol and two nades, but there is a tons of weapons around your spawn that 
 you almost trip over when starting out. These weapons include... include an assault rifle, flamethrower, 
 sniper rifle, rocket launcher, and binoculars. There is a couple vehicles such as jeeps, tanks 
 and each team has its own style of warhawks. And in some areas, you'll find turrets that shoot 
 flak or homing missiles, which are very effective against incoming aircraft (These are pretty cheap, 
 but very effective) .
  
  Warhawk is a fresh new feel to online gaming, although Incognito is having a big problem with some 
 of the online features. Such as rank lose and being re&middot; gained. Which the worst part there 
 is all the thing you can customize in Warhawk, like your characters and jets comes from your rank. 
 So the higher in rank you go the more you unlock, so everytime the game takes your rank back down 
 to zero, you lost everything you just costumized. Not that you lost it for good, your rank can 
 come back anytime, if it be five minutes or a week. The thing is when it does come back you have 
 to go in and change everything back to how you had it, this can get annoying ten times a week. 
 Also other problems include rank ups, join game errors and refreshing not working right. By now 
 you would think this all would be fixed, but yet still a problem. Although this stuff happens Warhawk 
 is still a pretty fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my frist online Game that i have had fun with. I love fighting on the ground fights. Not 
 so good in the air with fighter planes not just yet. but the ground fights are fun. You can hide 
 on the other side pick people off then go back and hide again are even shoot down planes and that 
 is fun and hard to do but feels good when you can shoot down a plane with a rocket launcher. People 
 in the Game dont talk much and that is a good thing in my book. Other Games you have people talking 
 but most of the time it is dumb junk they talk about are just rude. dont take long to sign on and 
 find a room to play in. As a rule i dont play online that much do to the rude people and no fun 
 fast kills. but Warhawk comes off very well and is a lot of fun so i did buy this Game. Would of 
 been better with a one player Game are off line two player mode. But still worth a buy thanks mars 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo347
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Tis game is one of the best games for the PS3. Who ever does have the PS3 should get this awesome 
 game. People who have seen this game should definitely get it. This game is for you if you are a 
 hardcore gamer. Also if you are a hardcore gamer get unreal tournament 3. I'd say warhawk is a halo 
 for the PS3. this game is the bomb. it has great online game. Great multiplayer. And also great 
 gameplay. There are some problems like freezing, and if you have bad internet connection it will 
 keep messing up. If your not the type of person who doesn't like 3rd person war games then i don't 
 know what to say to you people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I held out for the Blu-Ray version. It's important to make that point to start with. I knew this 
 game would be good, and that I would never be completely satisfied with the download version, for 
 two reasons:
  
  Firstly, I want people to be able to see it. Actually see the box.
  
  Secondly, it seems more like a game. All the games I have downloaded off the store seem like demos, 
 and I didn't want it to feel like that.
  
  The other important thing to get across is that I haven't played online yet. I also have only played 
 on my own, and so this review heavily focuses on the controls and the graphics etc.
  
  Basically, there is nothing bad about this game. Think two player on Ratchet and Clank, mixed with 
 Star Wars Battlefront II.
  
  I have already spent at least three hours exploring, testing weapons, looking at the scenary, and 
 practicing stunts. And I don't usually do that sort of thing!
  
  
  ****EDIT*****
  
  OK, anything I said above... FORGET IT! I've now played online, and in comparison, the offline 
 mode is utter ****. It's hard to explain, but the entire game becomes rock paper scissors:
  
  (&lt; means is beaten by)
  
  Foot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be short. I have had a lot of fun playing Warhawk. The games online are fantastic, 
 smooth and addicting. However, I can not give this game a 10 or even a 9. If the game came with 
 some kind of weak single player/coop campaign along the lines of Star Wars: Battlefront, I could 
 have given this game a 9. I don't want it for wanting its sake, I want the option to play offline 
 with a friend or three. I want to be able to practice against bots without the pressure of letting 
 my teammates down with shoddy play. If the developers had given me even this I would have gladly 
 given in return a score of a 9. Had the game come with four player offline versus modes, with bots 
 of course, this game would have gotten a 9.8 to 9.9 from me. However, as it is, I can only muster 
 a score of 8.5. Search your feelings, you know this to be true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackboy3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  In Warhawk, players experience the thrill of white-knuckle aerial combat with hundreds of enemy 
 fighters, bone-crunching armored assaults and high-intensity infantry combat in a massive, all-out 
 war fought both on the ground and in the skies. During gameplay, players are tasked with protecting 
 their homeland from the invading Chernovan armada. By doing so, players take command of the most 
 advanced war machine in the fleet, the Warhawk, capable of aerobatic dogfights at high speeds or 
 hovering over ground troops providing tactical support. In Warhawk, players experience the thrill 
 of white-knuckle aerial combat with hundreds of enemy fighters, bone-crunching armored assaults 
 and high-intensity infantry combat in a massive, all-out war fought both on the ground and in the 
 skies. During gameplay, players are tasked with protecting their homeland from the invading Chernovan 
 armada. By doing so, players take command of the most advanced war machine in the fleet, the Warhawk, 
 capable of aerobatic dogfights at high speeds or hovering over ground troops providing tactical 
 support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorch799
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is finally here. Its a game that has been anticipated by scores of Playstation 3 owners 
 for its beautiful graphics and apparently perfect game play. Well, the graphics are amazing, but 
 the game itself can be said to be a mixed bag.
  
  But first, Ill start with the story. There is no story, at least not in the normal sense of having 
 a single player mode. Rather, apparently theres a war going on between Chernova and Eucadia, as 
 the first has invaded the latter for some reason. The Chernovans are red team and their vehicles 
 are sinister looking, while Eucadia are the blue heroes (perhaps its communism vs. democracy, I 
 dont know) . The two teams face off against each other in multiplayer mode, online or local.
  
  As for the positives, there are a lot. The graphics are indeed stunning, using a fair share 
 of the PS3s graphical power to make stunningly real looking environments. Gameplay is easy enough 
 to pick up quickly as you jump in any match, which helps since the manual isnt really useful. 
 You run with joysticks, switch weapons with the directional pads, shoot with R1, throw grenades 
 with L2, your standard shooter controls. Theres a fairly realistic design in weaponry as well. 
 You have your bazookas, battle Rifles, pistols, knifes, mines, binoculars (for calling in an automatic 
 air strike, perhaps from a satellite or invisible plains) , snipers, and a flame-thrower, which 
 I dont think is actually a weapon used anymore but nonetheless is fun to use. Your vehicles are 
 also fun to use, with planes (Warhawks for Eucadia and Nemeses for Chernova) , tanks, and jeeps. 
 The controls for these vehicles are similar enough that it doesnt feel odd using them, and you 
 can choose to invert the controllers if you wish. The Warhawk/Nemesis has a similar weapon system 
 to the out of vehicle player, only the primary weapon is always a machine gun and secondary weapons 
 are what vary. The weapons range from cluster missiles to chafe and air mines. The online matches 
 can be crazy with up to 32 players, and it never really seems like theres much of a lag or cheaters. 
 Usually matches are played in rotations of five, one game for each match, although less can be 
 used. Gametypes include your standard death matches, team death matches, capture the flag, zones, 
 and dogfights. The objectives in games besides doing whatever it says in the title, include capturing 
 areas similar to Star Wars Battlefront or Territories in Halo 2. The game is really fun in the 
 heat of battle, as explosions occur regularly as planes drop bombs and tanks shoot at you. There 
 is a ranking system. It uses an actual military hierarchy, with the lowest being Recruit/Airman 
 and the highest is General of course. The ranking system is based on a points system. The points 
 come directly from the points you score in a match. Points are earned through killing enemies, 
 grabbing the flag, getting a zone, etc. Each rank has a certain requirement point to reach it. 
 You can also earn badges and ribbons by accomplishing specific tasks in matches. For example, Bandit 
 Machinegunner (or something like that) is awarded as a badge for killing 100 enemies with machine 
 guns on your airplane (not in one match) . Higher levels of badges are available than bandit, with 
 the highest being Warhawk. The ranking system is very useful for having the players earn ranks 
 through their own skill; rather than be based on team wins. As you gain levels, you gain new customization 
 options for your characters and planes.
  
  However, as you gain levels, the games flaws become much more glaring. Occasionally the game will 
 set you back to Recruit or Airman for no apparent reason whatsoever, losing you your customization 
 options. Youll keep the points and get everything back when you level up again, but its nonetheless 
 extremely agitating to have this happen. Youll go from a cool looking Chernovan with a mean ass 
 paint job on his plane to the defaults. Additionally, there is occasionally a lack of consistency 
 from match to match. Mines will change in explosion ranges, one knife attack will go from an instant 
 kill to doing little, and vehicle weapons may vary. This may not be noticed by all, but it does 
 happen. The way the game hands out suicides and betrayals can also be annoying. You can get points 
 taken off for an ally flying into your airmine or if youre fighting someone and they step on your 
 mine when youre close and your killed, youve got a suicide. Mines arent particularly common 
 weapons, but this can be extremely frustrating, especially the first when you have stupid allies 
 who dont pay attention, or who may stand next to a mine youve laid down and shoot it so that 
 they get blown up. The five maps are all massive. This causes the game to become extremely boring 
 very fast in matches with few people. Some smaller maps in addition to the large ones may have 
 been a good idea. Yet, none of this really matters. The game is extremely fun despite its flaws. 
 Its hardly the AAA title the PS3 has been waiting for, but its still a well done multiplayer, 
 heck you might even say its better than the Halo 3 beta (though, a complete game should be better 
 than a beta, so that might not be a good example) . If you enjoy third person shooters, clans, and 
 online play, I highly recommend Warhawk for any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I found the game at first exciting with the nice flight controls... but thats where i seem to end 
 up all the time is in the cockpit. The Ground Fighting is ok but the range of the fun is short. 
 I drive 3 minutes to get to the fight an 6 minutes for a tank. The defense weapons are awesome 
 ,nothing better then shooting down a jet just before he tries to drop the bomb on you. I found 
 that the game excitement dosent last long, theres a good size variety of levels you can play an 
 some made especially for the dogfighters. The Graphics are very choppy for what the ps3 game can 
 do but all round if you like fighting dogfights against other ps3 players the game is alot of fun 
 at first but dont be surprised if u go back to your games you've already beat. I give this game 
 a 7.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexy_pizzaboy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The Sony exclusive Warhawk for the Playstation 3 is truly a system saver . It's the game that Playstation 
 3 owners needed, due to its amazing gameplay, graphics, and its flawless build. The gameplay is 
 so much fun, addicting, and very easy to get used to with such easy configuration. You choose how 
 you play; by foot, by car, by tank, or everyones favorite, the plane. The most amazing thing about 
 Warhawk is the vivid environments you play in which make you part of the action. I recommend to 
 every Playstation 3 owner to go out and buy this or to download it from the Playstation 3 Online 
 Store, because it's a game you won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anewperfectday
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Unbelievably addicting! You may even get to see what a jeep looks like underneath or what it means 
 to run around a tank!
  
  At start, it is sort of difficult to understand the controls since the vehicles may be inverted 
 or come with locking on mechanism.
  
  It is AS dangerous as flying in the air to fighting on the ground. A very compact and compelling 
 game!
  ---
  
  If you're really nervous with playing with other players, join a game with 20+ people inside. You'll 
 always spawn in an immense battle and plus, nobody will know that you're not good! :-) Actually, 
 nobody will know you exist! But if you run over a bunch of people with a vehicle, well, you better 
 hope you're some Grand Turismo expert! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikra
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Warhawk. is one big crazy place. its fantastic. instead of a drive by, you can do a Fly by. haha 
 but seriously is cool
  Much fun. shout at people with your headset :P the only thing i don't like is the guns. you have 
 to shoot almost an our to one guy to kil him with a machine gun. Much fun. shout at people with 
 your headset :P the only thing i don't like is the guns. you have to shoot almost an our to one 
 guy to kil him with a machine gun. Much fun. shout at people with your headset :P the only thing 
 i don't like is the guns. you have to shoot almost an our to one guy to kil him with a machine 
 gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Sony exclusive Warhawk for the Playstation 3 is truly a "system saver". It's the game that 
 Playstation 3 owners needed, due to its amazing gameplay, graphics, and its flawless build. The 
 gameplay is so much fun, addicting, and very easy to get used to with such easy configuration. 
 You choose how you play; by foot, by car, by tank, or everyones favorite, the plane. The most amazing 
 thing about Warhawk is the vivid environments you play in which make you part of the action. I 
 recommend to every Playstation 3 owner to go out and buy this or to download it from the Playstation 
 3 Online Store, because it's a game you won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what to expect when I popped the game in. Within a minute after the installation 
 , I was loading up and popped into a game. It took a little bit of trial and error to get the headset 
 working. After you follow the directions to pair the headset with the PS3 system, go back to accessories 
 and make sure you set the headset as the input and output for the system. Next, once you're in 
 the game, hit the button on it so that it makes a chirp noise. If that works, you'll hear a sound 
 and in the upper left corner of the screen, there will be a little speaker looking icon to the 
 left of your name. If you push in the L3 button, it will change color and you'll hear a noise. 
 You are now able to speak. Back to the review. The camera showed a base. A timer counted down to 
 5 and the camera swooped down to head level and I spawned in. It had begun. Options. I had so many 
 options. I could jump in a jeep or a tank to fight on the ground, jump in a turret, or take to 
 the skies. The roars of jets flying above me filled my ears and gave me goosebumps. It simply sounds 
 amazing when someone does a pass over your head. The controls are pretty good. I had some problems 
 getting used to the 3rd person controls on foot, but the target lock on helps out a lot. I seem 
 to have a 50% survival rate on ground conflicts. There are lots of little bases around the map. 
 When a base is neutral, it is fairly empty. When you stand by the flag, you can capture it in a 
 few seconds. Once captured, vehicles and turrets will spawn in for you to use. So, you can fly 
 to an empty base, capture it, then take a tank that appears. Flying around takes some getting used 
 to, as well. There are two flight modes, and both are fun. One lets you hover around and you can 
 take precise aim at ground targets. You can move around with the left analog stick, but you hover 
 in place when you let go of the stick. The other mode has you engage your jets and you start flying 
 around and can engage in aerial dog fights. The controls are very intuitive, and I had no trouble 
 getting the jets to do what I wanted. The only problem I see is a little imbalance with the stationary 
 turrets. There are two types; one fires shells out of two barrels, and the other locks on and shoots 
 missles that follow your target. The problem here is that I was able to get in one of the turrets 
 and dominate the game. It was my first game, and I was able to out kill everyone on the map, including 
 a clan that joined. They would come at me from all sides and try to take me out, but the radar 
 lets you see everyone on both teams at the same time all over the map (unless someone enables a 
 stealth powerup) . Oh, and it only takes one hit to blow planes up. The effect of the overpoweredness 
 of the turret meant that the other team stopped flying altogether, and no one could do the fun 
 dog fights anymore. It's very possible to ruin the fun by doing this. Other than that, this is 
 a great game and I recommend it completely. The headset is a standard bluetooth one, so if you 
 already have a bluetooth one, just download the game from the PlayStation Network. Oh, by the way. 
 THERE IS NO PRACTICE MODE OR SINGLE PLAYER. You have been warned. You MUST play multiplayer at 
 all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is great, one of the best ps3 s games out there, flying the aorcraft is fan , controls 
 are easy and great, specially because of the sixaxis flight capability.
  Fighting on the ground is also great, sound is awesome and graphics are cool, althought they could 
 have made better physics.
  I would give warhawk a 8.9 or 9, but faces serious trouble, sometimes connection fails, sometimes 
 it lags , and your character doesnt respawn and you kinda doing nothing, sometimes you cannot collect 
 anything or shoot (this sucks) , and sometimes you get the 1st position in a game, but after that 
 much, when you play warhawk again, your stats appear like if you had never play the game. (i was 
 chief sargeant, i won a 20 people match) , and when i started warhawk again i was in Recruit (What 
 the...??)
  .In conclusion Warhawk is awesome, ad i think that all people shoul give it a try, This far, i 
 can say, Warhawk is the best game on the Playstation 3... TRY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Of course there is no story no one player aspect of this game it was not tauted nor intended to 
 be this style of game it is intended to be played with teams of players the more the better.
  
  FPS is smooth and online play is great. I especially like that this game is highly versatile, 
 you can fly ride or drive in jeeps, tanks, or just foot it. It is a well balanced game as one may 
 not totally dominate merely because he has a tank or a plane. Most of the game is straight forward 
 capture the flag etc. but flying has its tricks that may take time to master. Over all this game 
 is excellent at what it has set out to do which is to create a great team based multiplayer shooter 
 that can be played in 4 player split screen or on LAN of other PS3 consoles or online up to 32 
 players. It is well worth the $39.99 and will be loads of fun for a long time yea the graphics 
 arent stellar but it has that cartoony feel to it and the game is just plain fun with a great variety 
 of maps that can be resized to acomodate the amount of players on the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolokowoh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  warhawk is basically a multiplayer only third person action adventure that zeroes in on great game 
 play. It is similiar to a unreal multiplayer experience. on warhawk you customize everything just 
 like you in elders schrolls olivion except you get custom make warhawks and vehicles too. Warhawk 
 offers a awesome multiplayer experience at affordable price point. The 60 dollar version comes 
 with a 45 dollar blutooth headset for god's sakes. now that's a bargain. The controls are perfect, 
 graphics, and sound is excellent. What else can i say it is just plain fun. It is a wise choice 
 if you Buy Warhawk and get online. Especially since its free online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcc024
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a great online game. My only complaints are with the poor stat tracking and difficulty 
 in finding a good CTF game. Other than that, the game is very fast-paced with tons of action! The 
 warhawks fly great and they're very easy to learn on but extremely hard to master, which separates 
 the good players from the bad. The best part about Warhawk is there is no lag whatsoever. The game 
 looks great and runs at a solid framerate even with 4-player splitscreen. If you own a PS3 you 
 would be foolish not to buy this game, and if you don't own one this might be one of the first 
 reasons to pick one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziembee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Buy the game retail and get the $40 Jabra 125 bluetooth headset and the value is VERY hard to beat! 
 The game offers gorgeous graphics that show detail literally miles away where most online action 
 games fog the distant horizons to save frame rates. The frame rates, even with all the pretty graphics 
 and relentless action never slows down or gives you any excuses for going down in flames!
  
  If you enjoyed games like Socom 3 on the PS2, then this is more of the same except you get 
 faster game play, and more options such as the planes and mines! Much more detailed and immersive 
 graphics then the PS2's SOCOM series games also give you all the reasons in the world to show why 
 you forked out the cash for your PS3.
  
  Bottom line is this: If you enjoy multiplayer action, then this game is for you! Don't miss it... 
 this is easily one of the best PS3 games released to date and a solid value that hasn't been matched 
 yet, especially with that bluetooth headset for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  all i can say is that even though it is very similar to battlefield, it is a much better experience. 
 you can play just dogfights and stick to the air, or do skirmishes where there are no aircrafts 
 at all. or you can have a mix of both. and somehow, they managed to balance the two just right, 
 by no means could a warhawk kill a person any easier than the person could kill it. ill say one 
 bad thing then ill stop complaining, some of the maps are needlessly large even for 32 people
 
  
  you could play this nonstop for hours and want to keep going, and they didnt slack on the graphics 
 either. my favorite thing of all is the binoculars. most powerful weapon in any game by far. seriously. 
 and my favorite.
  
  if you think im joking, buy the game and use the binoculars yourself. its just too much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is by far one of the most fun games for PS3. Just about every aspect of the game is great. 
 Although there are a couple of problems, mainly ranking and game joining problems, it has no gameplay 
 problems. It even works well with the SIXAXIS controls (well at least the warhawks/nemeses, not 
 the ground vehicles) . The modes available are great. And even though there are only 5 maps, the 
 customization on map size makes it feel like there are several more. Also, the medals/ribbons/awards 
 makes the replay value really high. This game is a must own for every PS3 owner (and as far as 
 i can tell, it appears every PS3 owner already has it) . Amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artisticle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  So far I've played a couple hours of Warhawk, just picked it up yesterday. Buying the disc is not 
 a bad buy, especially since it comes with the bluTooth Mic/headset. So I was on for the 3 hours 
 to check out the play style and figure out the controls for this game. So far I've come to enjoy 
 the superlative graphics, the simplicity of overall play, YET where is everyone?
  Made myself a server host, nobody around to join, spent an hour or so waiting to see if anyone 
 around the globe had started a hosted game, but nobody got online so I have no ability to review 
 online play with other people.
  
  I was thoroughly impressed with a game finally having the capability of split-screen online and 
 offline play. How Ingenious an idea, this concept surely needs to be added to so many other games. 
 I was also impressed with a game releasing that is 100% multiplayer only, but at the same time 
 slighlty let down with Warhawk not having some kind of co-op story/mission mode. Maybe in an update 
 this will be added through the PSN store.
  
  So until I can find some people online to play against, its 1 vs 1 with me and my buddies tearing 
 each other up waiting for the world to login. Hope to see more people getting online for this, 
 it has potential.
  
  Update Review:
  So now that I have had more playtime with this game, what can I say beside WOW!!! What a blast, 
 super fun, chaotic, rediculous, abundance of kill happy entertainment!!! Having now had the chance 
 to play online, and a bunch of LAN splitscreen battles I am thoroughly amazed and overjoyed with 
 gaming pleasure at how rediculously fun this game is. Battleing your buds via splitscreen brought 
 me back to reminiscence of Nintendo 64's 'James Bond:007' game. A riotous arbitration of kill em 
 all, capture the flag and dominate (control) an area with the additions of flight, vehicles and 
 running around is stupendous. I heed my partial skeptisism from before and fully recomend this 
 game to anyone looking to have FUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White0lion
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Even though its only online. It is really fun to play and very adicting. Dont let other posts fool 
 you on this one it is a great game. There is a veritiy of games to play. Death Match. Team Death 
 Match. Zones. Capture the Flag.
  Also no real issues with the blue tooth headset. Works great and sounds very well. This game you 
 can take multiple stratigies, From ground asault to viechels, tanks, jeeps, and then fly in the 
 Warhawks them selves. Also different type of gun turrets avaliable aswell. So you can play the 
 game the way you want o play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: labroom888
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  dude this game rocks if you have a ps3 and online with out this game you are an idiot i've been 
 playing it nonstop since i bought it so freakin buy it the bluetooth head set was kind of confusing 
 i thought but its all good now and this game is very addictive but there is better games out there 
 than this so its a great game so get it but its not the best but you should still buy it because 
 its great to do in your freetime and i have a lot of free time my name is labroom888 on ps3 online 
 also so there you go thats all i got to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nessus11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is what makes this game so appealing. It is very intuitive. Unfortunately stats are 
 not working at the meantime. However, even without stats, it's still hours of fun!!! This is the 
 definition of multiplayer alright. You can have 4 people on one console go online at the same time. 
 Pretty neat eh? I think so at least. One more thing, try flying the WARHAWK on flight pro mode. 
 You'll either get dizzy or love it like I do. I feel like Top Gun!! Muahahaha. Hopefully they will 
 have add-ons and provide more weapons and maybe mechs like battlefield. That would be cool. But 
 so far I am very satisfied with what the game provides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  I have to admit... when I first saw this game it did little to interest me. Initially my thought 
 was great, another bf2 ripoff that falls short . I'm glad I was wrong. I wanted a game that could 
 hold me over until the holiday titles start coming out in the next couple months... which elminates 
 games such as heavenly sword and ninja gaiden... as well as stranglehold. So, I read some reviews 
 and decided that maybe, just maybe, this game would be worth the money. Being that warhawk retail 
 also comes with a bluetooth headset that seemed generic enough to work with my samsung phone (and 
 it does) , I figured it was a win/win situation. As far as the game goes... it's incredibly fun. 
 I spent much of the day playing and though it took me a bit of time to get use to the controls... especially 
 in planes, once you get the hang of it, warhawk is very addicting. Warhawk does a nice job of portraying 
 huge battlefields and the sounds give you that satisfying crunch... or bang... that you know and 
 love. if you're a fan of the BF series, you'll enjoy Warhawk a lot. As a matter of fact, I think 
 Warhawk does a better job overall of keeping you in the battle. Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Replay Value: 9/10
  Stability: 8/10 (network crashing that was 
 suppose to be fixed in the 1.93 ps3 firmware)
  
  Bottom line: This game will give me hours and hours of enjoyment THROUGH the holidays, not just 
 to them. More than worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalContra
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  After a few hours of mastering the controls, Warhawk begins to be addictively fun. Using a flamethrower 
 and grenade you can take down the mighty Army Tank in a couple seconds. Whip out your rocket launcher 
 and that pesky Warhawk hovering overhead is dead too. This game has massive replay value, at least 
 100-200 hours worth. If you love multiplayer shooter games, or the battlefield series, this game 
 is a must.
  
  Flying Warhawks is very fun and pretty easy once you get the hang of it. Once you master all the 
 techniques the Warhawk is incredibly maneuverable, and dog fighting is greatness.
  
  This game falls short of perfect on minor graphics concerns. While the textures on the outdoor 
 landscape looks somewhat lacking, the buildings and everything else looks great.
  
  This game is a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankFreak
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Even though I only played the Beta Version of this game, I knew it was going to be big. I loved 
 being able to jump into a jeep or a tank or a hovering/jet fighter or if i choose to just walk 
 around. The weapons that are available are nice... favorite has to be the sniper rifle or the rocket 
 launcher. I liked hiding in the mountains or behind trees and picking people off. It was so entertaining. 
 The dogfights were crazy fun. Dodging missiles and machine gun bullets fun stuff. The upgrades 
 and range of weaponry for the hovering/jet fighter was impressive... everything from cluster bombs 
 to invisibility shielding. (Homing missles, TOW missiles, Multiple Projectile missiles) The maps 
 were well built, some were built just for Dogfighting or others for a capture the flag/ capture 
 checkpoints scenarios. I RECOMMEND this game to those who are even not sure if they will like it 
 or not. If you do not like it at first don't worry it will grow on you.... and if you still don't 
 like it well, I am sorry...
  
  For those who find blowing things (including other players) up while driving and firing an assortment 
 of vehicles and weapons... well this game is for you!
  
  Oh and make sure if you get it to get a Bluetooth or a headset... its that much more fun when you 
 and your teammates are cursing at each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonoy619
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The game play is really fun. wether your in the air fight, or any other ground vehicle. or running 
 around. It took a little bit to get good and use to the controls. The six axxis controller is really 
 a great feature for this game and makes flying the jets easier.
  
  Learning curve is moderate. If you like online play this would be a great game to buy. The only 
 problems right now are the stats being updated and so-forth.
  
  awesome firearms and equipment to pickup and you can modify the color of the jets you want, pick 
 your own logo and looks. etc. etc.
  
  
  
  HoLLoW-Po! nT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhawk556
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about Warhawk I thought it looked like a great game. I saw the massive aerial 
 battles with hundreds of planes onscreen and aerial battleships everywhere. I thought the gameplay 
 footage of the Warhawk flying through the giant squadrons was just awesome. Then, they announce 
 the game will be multiplayer only and i realized that this game had just inevitably crashed its 
 metaphorical Warhawk straight into the ground. I got the game hoping that there would at least 
 be offline multiplayer with bots, but no. The designers were so lazy they didnt even design bots!!! 
 What happened to the AI they mustve been using for single player? Anyhow, you'll first notice the 
 music, its a blatant ripoff of starwars and killzone. Actually many things seem like they were 
 taken from starwars, the evil Chernovan EMPIRE thats taken over Eucadia, the fact that the destroyed 
 capitol is on platforms up in the clouds, hmmm maybe like CLOUD CITY, and the fact that the Chernovans 
 are like Nazis. Getting down to the actual game, it has about 10 weapons as opposed to the 30 or 
 so in any REAL multiplayer game like COD4 or BFBC. It has maybe 6 or 7 maps unless you buy the 
 booster packs. There are 3 booster packs, they each cost 8 dollars and gave you 1 map and one vehicle. 
 I remember I payed 8 dollars for a single battlefield 2 booster pack and i got 4 maps and 3 new 
 vehicles! The new vehicles these booster packs give you are an APC, EXCITING!, a dropship, AWESOME, 
 and my favorite is a jetpack that lets you bail out of planes thus eliminating any semblance of 
 balance in this already frustrating game. The community just sucks, everyone will be a higher rank 
 because you will most likely play against people who play the game every day of their life and 
 actually think their skill at a game that will eventually be forgotten matters, oh, and never speak 
 poorly about Warhawk or the fanboys will become murderous. Though i guess you would have to play 
 the game every day of your life to rank up, the requirements to rank up are just ridiculous, you 
 need an exorbitant amount of points and medals, ribbons, and badges, the game basically makes you 
 jump through hoops to rank up. Beyond that, the graphics are decent, not incredible, the air combat 
 is stupid, it doesnt suck, its just stupid. You have to pick up weapons for the plane while in 
 mid-air, and dogfighting is just a pain in the ass. Tanks are ok, on foot is adequate. Though each 
 sides vehicles are the same thing, just with a different skin, and i believe there are about 5 
 vehicles in the game. Well, that about sums it up, Warhawk is a halfhearted game with no singleplayer 
 to speak of, very few features, and adequate at best gameplay, it basically flies like a half finished 
 aircraft with the singleplayer wing left in the hangar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Af1rockstar
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best PS3 games to date. The graphics are sharp and wonderfully put together. 
 The controls in Warhawk are highly customizable and very easy to learn. Your rankings goes up as 
 you get better at the game and with each rank you get different customizing options for your characters 
 and vehicles. The multiplayer is highly addictive and can become very competitive. This game should 
 be bought by every PS3 owner. It is well worth the money. It can be bought for $40 in the Playstation 
 Store or in stores for $60. The $60 bundle comes with a bluetooth headset and some other little 
 goodies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  There's no doubt that if u like fast paced online battling warhawks for you
  its a very nice game and a applaud to the people at incognito for a good polishing too. it might 
 take u a day to figure out the game modes but once u got controls u can do whatever u feel like. 
 OHH i almost forgot yeah u can do turrets, ground  launchers 
 OH and wepons yes theres enough to fill your weapon taste buds. pistol to flamethrower
  another great thing is that u dont have to fly u can do whatever well i guess everyone should know 
 that by now if your a sore loser this is not for u (unless your good) cuz like i said FAST PACED 
 ou'll probably get killed 20 times lol
  
  WARHAWK WOOO HOOOO!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toddgeo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I don't even like first person shooters, but one of my buddies had played it and said I had to 
 try it, so I downloaded it. I feared the amount of space I thought it would take up, but it's actually 
 smaller than many demos that I've downloaded. I am usually notoriously bad at first-person shooters, 
 and I really spend my time letting people kill me, while I just try and see someone. I have actually 
 killed people in this game and I've only spent about an hour online. It has it's learning curve 
 for each vehicle but push some buttons and move around the control, and you tend to figure it out. 
 I'm still not used to the warhawk flight, more or less the hover part confuses me slightly, I wish 
 there was something to make me go down or up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahzel54
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  i was on the fence on buying this game but bestbuy in Canada was selling it for 40 bucks with the 
 headset so i went ahead and bought it and i'm so glad i did. i'm enjoying it a lot more than i 
 thought i would. it's like a mix of Battlefield and Unreal Tournament.
  
  the controls are excellent and allows you to customize it exactly how you like whether it be ground 
 vehicles, flight/hover and your character. most people seem to actually prefer motion controls 
 over the analog sticks, but i find it quite hard to get used to, but i'm dedicated to getting the 
 hang of it.
  
  the gameplay is also solid. the game is very balanced and just a blast to play, i think the fact 
 that its so balanced is what makes this game so fun.
  there are a few modes to play, CTF, DM, TDM and Zones. i'm not sure if this is the way it is but 
 all the TDM games i've played have been Warhawks only. there are a bunch of SCEA servers and as 
 far as i know, those are the only servers you can rank up on giving you more options to customize 
 your character etc.
  
  the visuals are also better than i thought. the levels are very big with great draw distances. 
 the framerate is solid throughout, never will you notice any slowdowns, the game runs at a solid 
 30fps.
  
  the only problems i have with the game are the stats don't seem to update very often. also, when 
 you refresh the servers list it might say there are 4-5 spots open but when you go to join, it 
 says its full. other than that, like i said before, this game is very polished. i have noticed 
 no bugs, no freezes, no disconnects etc.
  
  Warhawk is a must own for PS3 owners. if you're worried that its online only, don't, you'll be 
 hooked on this game. i guess you can only rate games in .5 increments now... i would rate it an 
 8.8, but since i can't, i gave it 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Firstly, those who played this game would find the gameplay exactly the same as the Battlefield 
 series. Althought a little of copying there, it still is a little different from the battlefield 
 game, which is the pacing, this game's pacing is pretty fast, warhawks flies fast and jeeps roll 
 out fast as well.
  No doubt the best online game out there yet for the ps3 now.
  
  Pros:
  -fast paced action, revival doesn't take long
  -Includes land and air battles, both 
 are as good
  -Warhawks are able to do many types of stuns and able to dodge missles
  -dog fight is exciting
  -variety of soldier's weapons
  -great landscape design, can make use 
 of landscape to get rid of lock-on missles
  -Large maps (expected)
  
  Cons:
  -some inbalances issues of weapon damage
  -limited maps
  -limited variety of land and air units
 
  -SAM missles is too strong
  -Some online stats issues still unsolved
  -Machines guns on warhawk does too little dmg, making dogfight tedious
  
  All in all, a good 
 game thats bound to keep you accompanied for a long time, but some features missing makes the game 
 fall short from being an AAA title. more Maps might be out but you'll probably have to pay for 
 them.
  
  Best to get the retail blu-ray version cause it includes a bluetooth headset. And also, own the 
 blu-ray disc version of this game rather than virtually own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVII_THE_BEST
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is one of the best games, if not the best game i have picked up for my PS3. I think it 
 was well worth the money and wait. It has renewed my faith in Sony and my hatred towards Xbox. 
 I believe Warhawk is great as it is and will only get better with new downloadable content on the 
 way. The game is pure fun with stunning gameplay, if u are a PS3 owner i suggest picking up this 
 game as soon as possible. If you are still attempting to decide between an Xbox, Wii and PS3, this 
 game should make it a nobrainer. Plus PS3 can only get better, where Xbox seem to be dwarfed its 
 compition. WARWAHK IS GREAT! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  
  Sony Forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Fun FUn FUN! Graphics are not the greatest especially for the PS3. BUT a must have game! Co-op 
 online as well !! This is some great multiplayer action. Not a serious game unlike rainbow Six 
 Vegas but still fun if you want to take a break. There is Some intensity in CTF but dmatch and 
 team dmatch kind of lack. Customization mode is alright but not the greatest. This is even more 
 fun with co-op online. I prefer FPS games but this is alright as well. The jeeps are not UNREAL 
 TOURNAMENT great but still fun. The Warhawk however is fun! It is hard getting used to it at first 
 and I do not recomend using Sixaxis or your ass will be kicked cause nobody uses this feature ( 
 i dont know why) . Sixaxis worls great however. There is also not many weapons which kind of makes 
 ground fighting annoying. as half the time there is no warhawk to get into. Ill call this more 
 of a funny game. U will alwas be laughing and having fun! Great for LAN parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you have a PS3, go out (or stay in your living room, whatever) and get Warhawk!! So far the 
 strongest, most complete game the Playstation 3 has to offer is also the cheapest and the most 
 enjoyable. Your doing yourself a disservice by not owning this game!
  
  Warhawk for those who dont know the full story, is an online (or local multiplayer) game only. 
 Thats right, no single player (yet) options at all. Thats still fine with the thousands of people 
 who flood the Sony and your very own locally hosted servers everyday for the chance to blow something 
 up.
  
  So multiplayer only huh? It must have tons of maps and crazy new game modes! Nope. You get the 
 standard multiplayer modes, Death Match, TDM, CTF and Zones and only five maps. Five maps?? Oh 
 wait, the maps are huge and partition themselves depending on how many max people are allowed into 
 the game at one time. By huge I mean, takes a while flying in a to reach the other side, enemies 
 in a sniper rifle are just a speck, far away explosions a small spark in the sky huge maps. In 
 the biggest version of each map, 4 different battles could be going on at anytime without you even 
 knowing! This lends to the great scale of the game.
  
  The graphics are great and really wow with the draw distance, which allows you to see across the 
 map, even thought you cant too much when on the other side. The sounds are tight, especially if 
 you get buzzed by a Warhawk. Controls are great bordering on arcade but thats cool when the game 
 they are paired with is supposed to be play fast and loose.
  
  Some negatives to the game come when trying to join a ranked game. There are obvious wrinkles to 
 iron out on the server side mostly the updating of the count inside the game. To many times have 
 I tried to join and been kicked out with a game full message when there are 8 spots open on the 
 game list. Another grip is the fact that the game launched and cant handle the ranked players 
 and their stat updating.
  
  The game has a ton of replay with a multitude of medals/badges and ribbons to earn and show off 
 on your profile page. Also, you can gain ranks by accumulating points won in a match through various 
 actions.
  
  With so many ways to conquer a map, by ground vehicle, Warhawk to dominate the skies or on foot 
 deploying various weapons, Warhawk is a great experience and can be a strong contender for a long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a title many have anticipated to be a killer exclusive for the PS3, and it's fair to 
 say they were right. Warhawk is a seriously fun game, and one of the best online experinces I've 
 ever had. Whether you want to jump in a jeep with a friend, target enemies down below in a Warhawk, 
 or run through enemy territory in a tank - Warhawk delivers some pretty awesome tools of destruction 
 without being very innovative. That said, of course, Warhawk offers no campaign mode... and really, 
 it's a great game without it. It seems rather dissapointing paying 60 dollar for the Blu Ray disc 
 of what seems to be just half a game, but considering you get a bluetooth headset packaged in, 
 it's really a great deal. Warhawk has certainly lived up to the hype surrounding it, and any PS3 
 owner with an internet connection can NOT miss out on this experince. This has to be one of the 
 best online experinces ever - on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk you know what i am talking about when i say that name. Oh yea mutliplayer is freakin awesome. 
 it chaotic at its best. the graphics are amazing the gameplay is freakin awesome, the sound oh 
 how i like to hum with it when it comes on. WH excells in everything in mp games but what i really 
 hate about it is that its really hard to get ito a ranked server even though theres maybe 12 out 
 of 30 ppl in the match its fustrating also the ranking system keeps getting messed up and i hate 
 reseting my customization options evertime i get into playing it also the awrds you get sometime 
 dont come wich sucks. anyways freakin awesome game get this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverKnight006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be extremely engrossing and addictive. It has become one of my favorite games 
 simply because i have so many options, it almost reminds me of starfox 64's multiplayer with the 
 style that they used. But i have to say that i was slightly disappointed by the lack of a single 
 player mode since i seems that they could have made it into something really good. From what i 
 hear though, they had it made and it wasnt very good so im glad that they only decided to put in 
 things that they believed to be quality, espescially in this day of lack luster games (Gundam crossfire) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is my first next-gen game with a 10. I'm not an overrater but for some reason the 
 multiplayer only game had the most potential for me out of any game. Yet it lived up. Some people 
 talk about the value being bad. Excellent maps, weapons, and a headset make it great.
  
  So the graphics are amazing. They have amazing character models. The shirts look nearly real. And 
 the environments are beautiful. They are full of life and have lots of extra detail and buildings 
 and crazy obstacles to go through.
  
  The sound isn't the best. The main menu music matches but can get annoying. Luckily you don't really 
 notice it. But the in game sound effects are awesome. The tilt is excellent. But be warned the 
 controls are inverted. But somehow they feel fluent. The game feels kind of wierd at first but 
 let it grow on you. In know time you'll be addicted.
  
  The value holds up surprisingly well. It's a $40 game and if you get the retail version you get 
 a headset. But it's online only if you didn't catch that (You'd have to be retarded not to know) . 
 So if your worried about value, don't worry. It holds up.
  
  And finally, the best aspect of this game is the gameplay. It is just so fun. The on-ground assault 
 is amazing even though vehicular assault was supposed to be the main idea. But the on-grond assault 
 is still amazing.
  Then the on-ground vehicles are aweome. You get the classic Halo Warthog and the tank. They are 
 both awesome no matter how you put it. But the most hyped part is the Warhawk (Plane) . This is 
 amazing. Creative ways to fly make it a blast to do tricks to avoid missles. But the weapons are 
 fun in the air as well. Half of them work well but with the ones that do, are awesome. That's why 
 the gameplay is awesome. So overall, if you like online games get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiryoku
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I'd give this game a 9.7 out of 10. However, I can't go between 9.5 and 10 so I just gave it a 
 10. Minor things I don't like: Having to hold L3 to talk.... it's kind of awkward, especially while 
 on ground... I think it would have been better had they used open comms... or even one of the trigger 
 buttons instead for ground... and something else for air, though I don't see alot of people talking 
 while in the air, I know I don't... I'm too busy concentrating on not getting shot down half the 
 time. Also in team based games, it would be cool if only your team members could hear you... I'm 
 not sure if it's like that already though.... if it is then... awesome.
  
  Also I wish there were a way to set up games that are available only to your buddies or clan members... 
 Those are my only qualms...
  
  Now the good....
  
  Graphics: Amazing, this is the first game I'VE played on my PS3 that truly felt next-gen, when 
 I get a chance to look at all the details in the maps, the smoke effects, the excellent cloud covers, 
 the water... everything just looks so realistic, smooth and clear. But the real eye catCher is 
 the draw distance. It looks like you can really see as far as the eye can see. If you look hard 
 you can pinpoint enemies on the other side of the map without even a sniper scope, you can even 
 make out their little guns blazing. It's just amazing when you stop and think about it. The lighting 
 effects are great also, usually if I can't tell where an explosion came from by the sound, I can 
 tell by the flash. The lighting gun makes some pretty cool lighting effects also. And when you're 
 flying in the Warhawks and you throw in the afterburners, you get an excellent sense of speed with 
 the motion blur.... Sound: Awesome. You can really feel the punch of every gunshot, every explosion. 
 At first the grenades sounded a little weak, but then I realized that they also have a smaller 
 blast radius than I'm used to in most games, so it only makes sense. 5.1 surround is the way to 
 go, usually I make out where every shot comes from by the relative sounds they make. and where 
 they came from in my home theater. Games like this are perfect for surround. The engines of the 
 Warhawks scream through the skies like they're actually passing over your head.... and dropping 
 cluster bombs... Gameplay: Great. This is what I wish the multiplayer on the Halo games was like. 
 I can see my friends converting from Halo to Warhawk after a few rounds at my place. When you're 
 thrown into a match with strangers, it's amazing how fast you get aquainted with everyone. You 
 start to weed out who's useful in what situations, and within five minutes, non-verbal communication 
 becomes second nature with your new comrades. The controls are very responsive and the targeting 
 system is absolutely spot on. And with the draw distance, if you can see it... you can shoot it 
 (assuming you aren't a klutz at the controls) . Flying the aircraft takes some getting used to... 
 ESPECIALLY if you use the SIXAXIS controls.... but after a few games, it all becomes second nature. 
 Overall: The maps are huge, the customization has great potential, the ranking system ads a little 
 bit more depth to the experience as well as a level of skill competition in something to shoot 
 for, the weapon variety is very satisfying and all the essential vehicles are at your disposal. 
 Warhawk is a multiplayer experience I'm glad I didn't miss out on... considering I was contemplating 
 getting Lair... but decided I wanted to try online multiplayer instead. Glad I made that choice... 
 With the possibility of more maps and add on content.... and once we start seeing the bugs fixed 
 and our stats updated regularly, this game can only get BETTER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbu85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Were you mad when they brought battle field 2 to the console and it felt like a shadow of its pc 
 counter part? well the Play Station is here to help with that hunger for some thing more. When 
 you jump in you'll think that you're going to get picked off right off the bat but when you pick 
 up your first weapon and start firing your going to be hooked. The levels are well balanced. the 
 players have no limits to what they can use. My only gripe about this is that there just does'nt 
 seem to be enough here. It would of been cool to have character classes instead of every one being 
 the same and there should of been more vehicles. but that aside this is a must play for the PS3 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznkhaos
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk... Multiplayer, online, 32-players, and a bunch of noobs.
  
  That was what it was before now it's:
  
  Warhawk... Multiplayer, online, 32-players, and a 
 bunch of bombers. Alright I'm joking. The game warhawk, having no storyline or single player lacks 
 the ability to play online. And this game would be near worthless for those who don't have an internet 
 connection. The gameplay is fun, fast and destructive. The graphics are something to be happy about. 
 The air effects are great, the water effects are fun to watch when you boat with your warhawk. 
 The explosions themselves look realistic with their cloud of pitch black smoke and falling debris. 
 When you are in a warhawk. The game becomes alive and fun. When you're shooting down another warhawk, 
 or taking out a missile turret, it's all exiting and enjoyable.
  
  On ground, as a pedestrian, You are quite slow and vulnerable... no duh. But the moment shines when 
 you nab urself a pair of binoculars or a rocket launcher.
  
  and the other vehicles are ok, but could be better.
  
  maybe they shouldve added mroe maps too
 
  
  /end rant GOOD night!
  ~azzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holynutcracker
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is an amazing online game that wipes Gears of War of the charts. Honestly I think it should 
 have got a higher review. There is no negative to me. Its a great game worth buying. I think that 
 it is the best online game for any platform. The offline playing with friends is also surprisingly 
 good. I thought it was going to be a disaster taking out the one player but Incognito proved me 
 wrong. Warhawk is THE best Ps3 game to date. If u don't have this then get it now. Why are you 
 reading this go buy it now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenoww
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Warhawk feels actually like a classic made version of Battlefield 2
  Since i started i got addicted to it and been saving up points and such i did get like 100+ points 
 every match, it gets explained at the end of this review
  But too bad the ranking doesnt work at the moment :- (... im going to give some info about the game 
 what weapons and such and how i think of them and what they are good for..
  this game has a standard selection of weapons that feels just right and balanced.
  
  Granade 
 - You should always use this if you dont you will miss out a lot of kills.. Its good for defending 
 at CTF ( Capture The Flag) , destroying Jeeps or Warhawks if there close enough... Tanks are a 
 problem for this tough you need to use like 4 granades or more to destroy one.. But this is a must 
 use or u suck a**
  
  Knife - The knife ingame kills instant (I think?) this can come in very handy if your very near 
 a enemy by chance and not to just run at them like a crazy pchyco killer becouse then u get killed 
 granteed.
  
  Pistol - You can actually fire this weapon as fast as you want but you need to be a good button 
 masher to make it better then the others.
  
  Rifle - The pistol is almost as strong as the rifle if you fire it fast enough. but this weapon 
 is automatic so it gives u more thinking time like trowing granades..
  
  Rocket Laucher - This is somewhat the best weapon in the game for killing players and destroying 
 Warhawks and Jeeps.. But against a tank can be a pain in the a** tough...
  
  Sniper Rifle - It kills players in 1 hit it is good for sniping but also good from close combat 
 if you can aim.. it destroys a warhawk in 3 or 4 hits ive done that a couple of times altough i 
 rather have the Rocket Laucher.
  
  Flame Trower - This wep is really one of the strongest close up it destroys a tank in 4 seconds 
 or so and also players get killed in like 3 seconds.
  
  Binoculars - I havent really made a kill with this yet i think its only good if there are 3 players 
 at one spot like if people want to return a flag back to base you can pwn them all.
  
  Now about the ranking system.
  There are 20 Ranks going from Recruit to General.
  You need 
 the required amount of Points and a Award ( Bandit 4x4 (Jeep) = 5 or so kills with a Jeep ) Thats 
 also how badges work so u actually need that badge and thats just it..
  For those who dont know how to get like 100-162 Points you need to do CTF Becouse if someone gets 
 your flag u kill him u get 6 Points and if u recover the flag u get 10 Points also! Now where was 
 i? oh yea .. there are also medals there is a total of 23 of them and they are really hard to get 
 ( in my opinion) you need a requirement like 100 total team Deathmatch kills
  but it is also needed that u get 25 kills each round and 100 round points.
  there are also ribbons 
 they just give bonus points in a game like getting first in game gives u a 10 bonus points..
  
  The Maps..
  The maps are quite big if your on ground but the Warhawk give me a feeling that 
 its very small but i like it i really hope they are going to release more maps becouse i think 
 there should be some more.. Sorry about me giving just like info.. ill make it short : IT OWNS
 
  Sorry for the bad english im to lazy to fix that xD this is my first review maybe some u guys 
 really want this kind of info before u buy it.. oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I cant tell how much time i spend playing this game ,every thing in this game is great ,no lag 
 nice characters and alot of weapon's also when you get higher in your rank the more bonus, accessories 
 you unlock.
  The best part is playing the aircraft, good handling and nice manoeuvring , also its easy to aim 
 at your opponent's .
  i just wana thank the people who made this game, it really wroth buying .
  still one thing is 
 Little bit disappointing ,i thing if they add more maps it will be fantastic cuz eventually you 
 will get bored playing the same maps but other than that its perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Like most people, I was skeptical of Warhawk... it seemed very ambitious of Incognito to make a 
 multiplayer only console game. I was wrong. This is one of the most addictive, balanced, and overall 
 just plain fun games on the market. There is always some crazy action to be seen and heard. There 
 are a few problems though. Of course the stat recording.....*shudders* it was annoying to say the 
 least..... but it was fixed. And it is hard to get into a game sometimes. It always says full even 
 though there are 15/32 players. But these are minor. The overall package is great and well worth 
 your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aang007
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good dont get me wrong, I mean it also comes with a awesome headset so its a 
 good deal and all just... some of the things on this game is.. shall i say rushed a bit so if you 
 like real immersive shooters i dont know if you should buy this the weapon selection is well not 
 very good i like the graphics and animation thats all great very animi feel with also some realism 
 so i think this is a good game for the price (cause you get a headset with it) and i also think 
 if you want something immersive like a SOCOM or a TOM CLANCY then i wouldnt go for this game. But 
 if you like a game thats a very good pick up and play game its very easy to understand (in my experience) But 
 the motion sensor controls are very very hard if your driving a jeep flying through the towns turning 
 your control left and right 100mph well thats difficult but you can also turn off motion sensor 
 and use analog sticks so its not a huge issue. Also something i liked was the customisation options 
 even though you cant customise your weapons or anything (which they should have added if they were 
 going to have such a tiny little weapon selection. But if you need a headset for your ps3 and a 
 decent game that comes with this i would say go for it. ps: i just bought this game so my playing 
 hours wont be high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Basically, it's a third person shooter with planes, trucks, and tanks. Only contains 5 maps, a 
 few different modes like CTF, DM, TDM, and Zones. Sounds simple and over priced? There's more than 
 meets the eye. With 5 maps and at least 3 or 4 different layouts for each map based on max player 
 number and game mode, there are plenty of hours of gameplay without it feeling overly repetitive. 
 The action can be faced paced in a dogfight in the skies or taking it slow and easy with a tank 
 while you mow down your enemies. With so many variations of gameplay and vehicles to choose from, 
 you can easily get lost in this game for hours. Not to mention there's voice chat with virtually 
 anyone who has the game since the hard copy includes a bluetooth headset ($60) . The only gripe 
 would be the slow stats updating and still somewhat buggy servers due to the overload of players. 
 But they've already finished fixing most of these problems; problems similar to Resistance when 
 it first came online. All in all, a great game with high replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I am a 'next gen' game system owner of all 3 consoles. This is a non bias, non fanboy statement. 
 While I have been impressed with the likes of Gears of War, Kameo, GRAWII, Rainbow 6, COD2 and 
 3 on the XBOX 360, Wii Sports, Metroid, Zelda etc, I have come to a final conclusion after playing 
 Warhawk.
  
  PS3 is NEXT GEN! The 360 games are high res games of previous game genre. Sure GOW was graphically 
 amazing and Halo 3 beta and the single player may tilt some eyebrows. BUT. Nothing has gave me 
 this NEXT GEN feeling as Warhawk has. NOTHING. I get chills playing this game. It is completely 
 amazing. To see the Jets wizz by as I am crouched, sniping Bad guys is beyond explanation. Some 
 of the fights I have been in while trying to bring the flag back to my base are beyond anything 
 I have played on the 360 or Wii. I just cant see the 360 creating a game on par with Warhawk. If 
 Microsoft proves me wrong I will debunk this post. But I cant see it. This game screams at you 
 telling you that 1 tereflop is not enough power for next gen. I can see the 360 trying to pull 
 Warhawk off but the screen tearing and slowdown would be unplayable. Prove me wrong microsoft. 
 Until then, my PS3 has taken over as the ruler of my household in the gaming department.
  
  Keep it up SONY! That game ROCKS! I am going to play it now!
  
  Jake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff10andff12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  To start off id like to say that the overall gameplay is amazingly fun. There is so much strategy 
 in this game that the replayability is very high. Flying in the WarHawk feels very rewarding and 
 challenging at the same time. This makes the game fun because you can come up with new air dodging 
 techniques everyday. Like LAIR, if you played the game on the motion scensor it isnt as easy to 
 maneuver but still very fun to try it out. I think the motion scensor flight controls work very 
 well which LAIR suffered much do to the fact that the flight scheme wasnt optional. On WarHawk 
 you can customize your controls to how it seems fit for you which is a big plus. The Graphics are 
 amazing there is ray traced clouds, HDR lighting and thousands of polygons contantly. I wouldve 
 liked it if there was real time water physics though. The shaders are very powerful with many different 
 pixels at once which comes out to be very beautiful and adds a big realism factor to the game. 
 All in all this game is great but it is difficult to learn in the beginning, but once youve played 
 for a week you will know how to control everything. The server is kinda iffy with a few flaws in 
 which i wouldve deffinately wouldve add to the game like clan rooms, and an organized ranked game 
 server. Still a very fun game and deserved my 9.5 out of 10
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Performance: 9.0
  Graphics: 9.5
  Replayability: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game plain and simple is one of the best PS3 games to date, running at 50-60 frame rates solidly; 
 with beautiful textures amazing visuals and flawless un-laggy smooth gameplay online! Gets this 
 game a high ratting already. Now picture Battlefield 2 Battlefront 2 and Mercenaries mix it in 
 a blender and you get a hybrid which is WarHawk. This game is one of the best action full blown 
 take a weapon get on the battlefield and fire type of game Ive played since battlefield 2, with 
 over 8 weapons and 6 different type of armored cars, tanks and jets. With a ranking system which 
 makes you keep wanting to play and it only gets funnier when you get higher ran, Being able to 
 customize your guy completely and getting up to general. With the features of downloadable content 
 because the ps3 is like a mini computer right from your system you can patch games and get updates, 
 making it a completely dynamic and upgradeable game for more maps weapons and vehicles.
  
  Only downfall of the game which game spot stated was the controls, there isnt any manual you can 
 look at, which really doesnt matter because you can pause the game and look at the controller 
 layout while online. This game is a high intensity adrenalin rush dynamic shooter with over 4 game 
 modes online, which never gets old.
  
  As for single player there is no single player which why this game doesn't get a flawless score, 
 but if you ask me this game is funnier playing with real players then it is with computers, it's 
 like battlefield you didnt by it to play single player you bought it for multiplayer and team 
 cooperation and work.
  
  Overall: -------- Graphics: --- Very good ( I say this because the ps3 is capable of so much more) 
 --- Gameplay: --- Amazing ( closes thing we've had to flawless smooth un-laggy gameplay yet on 
 the PS3, with great frame rates) --- Controls: Good ( Takes a good 1-2 hours to master the control 
 system but when you do that's when the game really takes off)
  
  Overall this game is one of the best for the ps3 so if you have a ps3 pick this sucker up and experience 
 one of the smoothest gameplays you have yet for the ps3 and Ill see you guys on the battlefield. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  Great textures, addictive, and a multiplayer to rival BF2 for the PC. Weapons are cool, character 
 customization is awesome (i like the wifebeater tank top) , and cool warhawk camo options. The gameplay 
 is great online, and you can often rack up a fair amount of points in a twenty minute Capture the 
 Flag match. The multiplayer gets you really addicted, and i played without a headset. The guns 
 are cool, i love the flamethrower, although the addition of a shotgun would have been nice. The 
 game does things that other games in its genre don't, like adding binoculars, making sniping kind 
 of useless (except for the 1 in a 1000 chance) , and mines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  After some dismal launch titles and the even more dissappointing Lair *sob*, the PS3 has been waiting 
 for something to be the leader until GTA IV. Besides Resistance, this is that game.
  
  Something unique about this game is that this game has no single player mode (well, not really 
 unique) . The game can be played on four player split-screen, though. Anyways the game talks about 
 a war going on between the Eucadians and the Chernovans. You can play as either side, with no consequence. 
 Basically, the fun part about this game comes from the multiplayer. You can choose to fight in 
 a tank, turret, Warhawk aircraft and even on foot. Whatever suits your needs to get to victory, 
 do or die. Its just that simple. The only problem that I encounter from time to time when I play 
 Warhawk is I can sometime encounter network problems if I don't log out of my PSN ID before I shut 
 my PS3 down. But, that happens rarely now, and shouldn't be a major factor.
  
  All in all, Warhawk is an awesome game htat even without a single-player mode, can still be lots 
 of fun. Enjoy this game, because besides Resistance, this is my most favorite game on PS3 right 
 now. Finally, a breakthrough hit for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MlKE-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is an online only game available exclusively for the PlayStation 3. The game is available 
 on the PlayStation Network online store for $40 and available in stores bundled with a Bluetooth 
 headset for $60. The main focus of the game is the warhawks that you can fly around at any time. 
 In addition you can drive cars, tanks and simply move on foot. There are turrets to use, guns to 
 use and a lot of variety in the ways to play the game.
  
  The controls on the warhawks work very nice and feel very smooth. You can fly around with the regular 
 mode and move up and down or you can hit the triangle button to change to hover mode where you 
 will fly faster and have more flight capabilities like rolling left and right and flying around 
 in a lot of different ways to avoid a missile coming at you. You can also use the PS3s SIXAXIS 
 controller to tilt the remote in different directions to steer the warhawk and while it is not 
 the most fun way to play the game, it does the motion sensing controls much better than most other 
 PS3 games up to this point. When your in these warhawks youll have your traditional machine gun 
 rounds and you can hit L1 to lock-on to an opponent and put them out of their misery with a few 
 hits from missiles that will blow up their warhawks and look really nice with some great explosion 
 effects with debris everywhere. On the ground you can drive a tank and shoot missiles out of it, 
 you can drive a jeep which controls very well and run over people or have someone on the turret 
 at the top taking out enemies. You can also move around on foot which isnt as fun as being in 
 a vehicle but there are still a decent amount of weapons to use and you can also enter turrets 
 that shoot bullets and missiles so there really are a lot of ways to go about your business in 
 Warhawk.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good in some areas and not so good in other areas. The warhawks 
 look great in the air and when they blow up they look even nicer. The draw distance is very long 
 as you can see across the entire map when flying in the air. On the ground things arent as good 
 because the player models on your character dont look that great and in a game like this with 
 a lot of mayhem going on youd expect some destructible environments but there is none of that 
 to be found in this game.
  
  The maps in Warhawk look good and are pretty different from one another but in a multiplayer only 
 game there should be more of them. There are also a few basic modes to play in but there isnt 
 really anything youll care about besides death match and team death match. Its quick and easy 
 to get into a match and the online is arguably the best so far on the PS3, but you still wish there 
 was a single player game for when your not in the mood to play online. You dont have the opportunity 
 to learn the controls and test everything out because you have to jump right in online and there 
 is no offline mode with bots to try everything out.
  
  Despite these minor shortcomings, Warhawk is a great game and one of the first great games for 
 the PlayStation 3. The game plays very smooth online and there is no lag at all. While a single 
 player mode would have been nice, there is enough fun to be had online that makes the game worth 
 the money. You can order the game in the comfort of your home online at the PlayStation store for 
 $20 cheaper or you can buy it in the store and it will come packed in with a Bluetooth headset. 
 For those that dont like playing online there is pretty much no point in getting Warhawk, but 
 for those looking for a solid online experience with up to 32 players per map should check out 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakechamp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is like no other. warhawk is a ONLINE MUTLIPLAYER GAME ONLY so it doesnt have a single 
 player mode. many people have changed opionions ecause of this but trust me the online makes up 
 for it. the highest is 32 players in a game and you have the basic deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture the flag. you also have something called zones which is pretty cool. the viechles in 
 the game are all wondeful to use but the one viechle that to me is a bit over powered is the tank. 
 it should be strong but not to the point where its almost impossible to destroy when someon is 
 inside. the envioments are amazing along with the graphics. everything is detailed and beautiful 
 to see. although the serers have been having problems ever since launch, incognito said they would 
 fix it. this game is action packed in every game you go to but of course you'll need to have a 
 big game with 32 players to enjoy the game to the fullest. this is an online only game that should 
 not be missed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobe82481
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The graphics look amazing and gameplay is prety good. The only thing they need to make it better 
 is more stages. Playing with someone you know just makes it better. You don't have to wait a lot 
 to get a game started and you choose the level you wanna play . Their are alot of things to play 
 zone controls, capture the flag, etc. The more you play the more points you get which gets you 
 ranked higher by ribbons they give you. You can also design your plane by putting an eagle or skull 
 or whatever you like on the wing. This game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Despite the fact that it can be entertaining for small periods of time, Warhawk can still best 
 be described as a work in progress. The game is impressive at first, but the glory quickly fades. 
 The visuals, sound, and online action in Warhawk are probably better than you will find in the 
 online mode of most games. Gamers who are satisfied with quick, fast action will be pleased with 
 the purchase. Gamers who want a little more depth in their games and do not wish to chatter back 
 and forth with twelve-year olds will be disappointed. I downloaded this game at launch, and wouldve 
 given it a much higher rating at that time. In was excited about downloading my first full game 
 and got so caught up in the hype that I really didnt notice a lot of the corners that had been 
 cut. My only complaint at launch was the complete lack of online instructions. Now that I have 
 played about 20 hours of Warhawk, I can see its flaws more clearly. The fact that there were no 
 online instructions available at launch shows that the game was rushed and isnt fully complete. 
 The lack of single player story mode is just cheap on the developers part. With absolutely no 
 single player elements, the game just feels incomplete. The lack of a single player mode means 
 that there is absolutely no story and players dont really feel attached to the characters/struggle 
 in any way. Most players use the single player mode as a tutorial to introduce themselves to the 
 game, and this just isnt an option. Also, the lack of a single player mode means that players 
 are forced to compete with other gamers instead of against AI. While many reviewers dont see this 
 a problem, I see it as a huge factor that limits the enjoyment in playing. The gamers who have 
 15 plus hours a day to dedicate to Warhawk have gotten very good. Those of us that play for a few 
 hours a week are quickly being outclassed. There is only so much fun to be had by being constantly 
 defeated by people who live solely to play this game. Do you think Halo or Madden would be successful 
 franchises if players were only able to compete against live people who outclassed them in every 
 way? With no training mode or single player, gamers are just thrown to the wolves. My recommendation 
 to gamers is to buy the Blu-Ray rather than download the game. While it may be $20 cheaper to download 
 it, you dont get a headset and cant trade it off to Gamestop when the thrill is gone. Counterstrike 
 fans know what they are getting into, and will probably enjoy the game. All other gamers should 
 hold off for an FPS that offers much more. Warhawk is fun for awhile, but is definitely not worth 
 full price for download or purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsodentalspy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is really great and balanced multiplayer experiece. I also think that it&acute; s the best 
 PS3 exclusive (or actually any game on PS3) so far. The game is especially fun and competetive: 
 32-player matches can be kind of hysterical, but there are also matches limited to 4-8 players. 
 And the maps are extremely well desined for any amount of players: the default size is huge (which 
 is good) but you can tighten them up for small matches if you just want to. The artistic desings 
 is pretty nice. As it shines in the maps, it also is a huge part of the vehicular substance. Especially 
 with the Warhawk.
  The graphics are fairly nice, but don&acute; t get me wrong; they are still in for a classification 
 of... 8.5. But they ain't that great either, tho you can only notice some issues when you are looking 
 at something really closely. From the air everything looks just great.
  
  The gameplay... The gameplay of Warhawk is... GREAT! Flying is, I think, (almost) perfect and the 
 ground combat works almost as well. There are still some issues tho: the biggest one is propably 
 the bug that show up when you are falling down from a ladder and grab on it. Your guy gets immediatly 
 stuck. Tho since there is no fall damage (mixed feeling about that) you can just jump down and 
 not bother about the damn ladder.
  One other thing is the weapon choosing thing... dunno what&acute; s that in English ( I&acute; m 
 a Finn guy :) ) but it&acute; s not so great when you&acute; re trying to switch you&acute; re weapon 
 whilst an intense battle. I recommend to switch a good weapon well before battling someone. The 
 only thing in the game's amazingly well balanced weaponry, is the missile turret. It's just too 
 superior to almost anything, tho you can destroy them with some tactical strike which is always 
 nice to perform.
  
  And I really gotta say this thing: the ranking system just doesn&acute; t work. Hope it'll get fixed 
 up.
  
  Closing comments.
  So if you like some good shooters, or a great multiplayer, buy this game now! But I have to NOT 
 to recommend for some who doesn't own a PS3 to buy this game. I aslo honestly think, that this 
 is one of the best games out there now, or ever. And the best of PS3 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theh8er
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  First of all this is far from groundbreaking! Second of all I cant believe this got a 8.5 and Lair 
 got a 4.5. Completely ridiculous. I guess its because the gamespot reviewers doubled the score 
 because you can use the analog controls. WHATEVER. Anyway the game feels like something I played 
 in the 90's. You start the game if your fortunate enough to get into a game. I cant get into any 
 ranked game. Its been over a week and I still gant get into a ranked game. Its awesome to waste 
 40 dollars for a download especially when theres no single player so when you cant join a multiplayer 
 game you are forced to play something else or turn off your PS3 for the next week until Heavenly 
 Sword (God Please let it get a good review) Believe me I wont be going by this sites review. The 
 controls for the ground troops in Warhawk are straight up slow non responsive and wait theres auto 
 lock for your ground troop that is a square with a dot in the middle that should only be used for 
 the tanks. The sniping is a complete waste of time. Maybe its due to the ergonomics of the controller. 
 It just feels wrong. Maybe with rumble and a little more weight to it it would feel more natural. 
 Its another game where you have shoot the enemy 36 times before he dies ala Halo and I am no halo 
 multiplayer fan. Atleast halo has an awesome singleplayer. Please people who gave this game a 9 
 or 10 stop the lunacy. I was really excited to finally have a good mutiplayer game for my $600 
 black brick but as it turns out its not this HOT GARBAGE! I will tell you this on a closing note. 
 Do yourself a favor and rent Lair and give the controls a try. Its actually a very fun and great 
 looking game if you give it a chance and learn the controls. As far as Warhawk goes please do yourself 
 a favor and dont be like me and download it if you do purchase it get the bluray so you can sell 
 it back to gamestop after your dissapointment of not getting in any ranked match and after that 
 I cant believe I paid for this feeling. Warhawk Sucks! Plain and Simple. THis is NO BATTLEFIELD 
 ANYTHING! Not by a long shot. From the cheesy look to the soldiers to the tanks to the warhawks 
 to the turrets. Oh yeah and the most ridiculous arsenal of weapons for the soldiers. It would be 
 cool if you could use the flamethrower to light cigars in the game atleast then it would be useful. 
 Anyway HOOOOOOOT GAAAARBAGE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  To be honest, when I first plopped in the Blu-Ray disc (with the Bluetooth headset bundle) and 
 installed the game I was already expecting/ anticipating how the game was going to be with my past 
 experience with PC shooters such as Counter-Strike and the Battlefield series. ... and for the most 
 part its exactly how I thought it would be, minus the keyboard and mouse (and headset... which I 
 never really bothered for anyways) .
  
  As with all console shooters I had to re-adjust to the slow cumbersome controls of the PS3, granted 
 you're given a sensitivity option, but for the matter of playing the game: off the bat it still 
 takes me a few games to adjust to analog joysticks; not the best mechanism for these types of game 
 but what can you do?
  
  The game is online only or LAN supported and doesn't have a single-player expenditure to accustom 
 yourself to the game... but not that it really matters, I believe the best way to learn the controls 
 to a game is to dive in head first and figure out what you can do... and yes... I'm a guy. ( Directions!? 
 Who needs directions!!? )
  
  ... I guess I lack some sort of mental proficiency as I'm horribly coordinated with the controls 
 are set to 'INVERTED.' Who plays like that? But again, a quick jump through the options menu cured 
 that. I MUST also mention I found it fairly easy to access the options menu and change some control 
 schemes during the game, kudos to that.
  
  And so, on ward with the crash course. Literally.
  
  The first few planes went soaring into 
 towers, mines, people-then-tanks, within a matter a minutes. The next few planes I found myself 
 engaging in a novice dog fight with missiles on my tail leading to quick deaths, and then finally 
 after a few more attempts I was flying around like a breeze and hovering at the drop of a hat to 
 strafe ground units. The controls as I mentioned earlier a fairly easy to pick up and it only takes 
 a matter of patience to mentally map out which buttons do what.
  
  The game offers more or less four types of combat: infantry based, vehicle based, sentry based, 
 and finally air based combat; numbers one to three are pretty much the same whilst four offers 
 a unique aspect to the game.
  
  Should the level afford the opportunity for it, the dogfighting in the game is quite fun... should 
 the level offer you and your opponents the ability to do so; my rounds online were spent with the 
 generic 75% land combat folks and so I haven't been given the opportunity to fully enjoy the dog-fighting 
 aspect of the game.
  
  If you've played many or some online FPS you'll be greeted with the same generic weapon cache layout: 
 pistol, knife, rifle, grenades... and so forth and so forth. All the weapons are self explanatory 
 and once again with online FPS you have to know which situations you should use them in; that should 
 be a given... Weapons are selected the the controllers D-pad and on more then one occasion I missed 
 my intended weapon and selected another weapon in a hairy gun fight which I cursed the interface 
 for.
  
  As I mentioned earlier: I'm not a great fan of console shooters but what can you do about it?
 
  
  To round out this review: its a decent online shooter, not better then the previous ones I've played 
 in the past but its on the PS3. The graphics are... well... PS3 graphics and aren't as spectacular 
 to PC online shooters. And once again as I mentioned before: it was exactly what I expected it 
 to be and its neither better then previous titles but it isn't necessarily worse. It offers many 
 of the same things you can get from better PC online shooters but minus the competition of super-high 
 end PCs competing with lower-end PCs that mar the online experience. I generally didn't have a 
 laggy game, which is always a plus, and since everybody is running the same system specs everything 
 is pretty smooth... given you have a reliable broadband connection. ... at least there's one thing 
 we don't have to worry about, yet: online console cheating. Yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric008R
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  So, having all next gen systems... I am sold that 360 is the best one. (Take that or leave it) . 
 I was so disapointed in PS3 that I wanted to take it back... now that Warhawk has come out though, 
 I'm glad I didn't. The game is fantastic. Here's why...
  
  Graphics: Sharp visuals and a huge draw distance. The explosions are the same for the Warhawk every 
 time, but still satisfying. Character models are a little underdone, but kind of go with the less 
 than realistic art direction.
  
  Sound: Great. The Warhawks sound like jet fighters, the guns are satisfyingly loud, and the explosions 
 are filled with bass.
  
  Controls: Good. The Warhawks take a bit to get used to... and I question why the right stick was 
 used for rolls and evasive maneuvers. The controls are so-so for ground combat. Support: The only 
 area where this game is poor right now. Lots of connection problems for numerous gamers (Check 
 on the forums, and websites... before you blindly start defending Incognito) . The servers are all 
 able to play with 32 people with no lag... but hardly any of them do... why?? Most servers have 8 
 or 12 or 24 people max.... which is stupid when you can have 32.
  
  Mentionables: Why are the munitions so weak? Takes nearly a full clip from the rifle to bring down 
 a single soldier. Why are the Anti-Air rockets so damn effective... I was able to bring down 25 
 warhawks before anyone was able to kill me... and I'm not that good. TONE IT DOWN!
  
  Throw in a single player game... even if it sucks... or the ability to play against bots, because 
 you will have hours where the game will experience a Network timeout or Network Unavailable ... atleast 
 give us the ability to play it offline then. Right Now, the whole experience is a 6.0 because of 
 network problems. But I give the game the official 8.5, because I have faith they will resolve 
 the issues soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbrooks28
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing WarkHawk since the game was released over PSN. The download was not a long 
 one, then again I have Verizon's Fios cranked to over 5Mb access and 2Mb Download. The graphics 
 are sharp and colorful. The world and character detail is top notch. The weapons are pretty standard 
 when it comes to similar, games. The music and sound effects really stand out. The quality just 
 brings you into the game, the more frantic the battle the faster the tempo. Also with more of a 
 frantic battle scene, the music changes slightly. All in all, I really enjoy playing this game. 
 The only down side is that my character stats never really save. I've earned different metals, 
 ribbons, and awards, but they never seem to save on my profile. Also my gamer points as well as 
 the amount of games that I've played never seem to save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid Controls, Invert Options Available per Control Unit Type, Fast Gameplay, Easy to 
 Get Online, Customization Options, Ranking System.
  
  The Bad: Only 5 Maps, Nothing we Haven't Seen Online Before, Balancing Issues, No Clan to XMB Buddy 
 List Integration, No Real Manual.
  
  FOR PARENTS: Warhawk is rated Teen, I strongly suggest following that rating as the game is online 
 only and your child might be exposed to things you don't want them to in that environment.
  
  No matter what you think of the game, you will have to agree that Warhawk is a pioneering effort 
 by Sony and Incognito to deliver what they call a full fledged title for download. Before this 
 on all three download services you had only retro games from arcades and consoles as well as original 
 games that were very casual and in and out play offerings. Warhawk seeks to be the first hardcore 
 game for a downloadable service and in many ways it succeeds by not being to risky. At the same 
 point it also fails because there isn't much there.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Warhawk has a rather defined rock/paper/scissors formula that is easy to follow. This makes the 
 game easy to pick up and play for anyone who has played games like Unreal, Quake, Battlefield and 
 so forth. The weapons are straight forward and you really don't need to know much more than that.
 
  
  That is where the problems begin. The clear cut rock/paper/scissors leave little to no room for 
 skilled players, if you happen to be a rock and are against paper your finished. It really doesn't 
 matter how new you are to the game. Many of the powerful weapons in the game feature lock on which 
 makes it so you don't have to aim to do massive damage. Aside from that the spawn points and vehicle 
 placement doesn't leave much room for coordinating a tactical assault unless you are all going 
 in warhawks. Not enough vehicles in one area or sometimes the wrong ones makes it hard to ensure 
 a successful strategy. Not all maps are made to take in all types of vehicles. Some clearly give 
 warhawks an advantage in terrain. Yet completely kill that advantage with lock on turrets everywhere. 
 Making it almost impossible to get to where you want to go using strategy as a group.
  
  Other things that really keep strategy from happening are the radar tells all feature and commandos 
 can't get a one hit kill head shot without a sniper rifle.
  
  DESIGN:
  
  Warhawk features two sides. Besides cosmetic looks there are no differences. This is disappointing. 
 Warhawks, tanks, vehicles and ground support all work the same on both sides. All though this evens 
 the play experience it also shortens the interest level as there is only one play style needed 
 to learn and there are less opportunities for skilled players to master mix match styles of play.
 
  
  Warhawks themselves move great offering both a hover mode for taking on ground forces and a flight 
 mode for going fast through the skies and against other warhawks. Tanks are slow as expected and 
 very powerful. Jeeps are pointless and too slow to really make them good at avoiding big guns from 
 turrets and tanks. The commandos are a hit and miss. It is easy for them to slip in and out of 
 situations because most people will use vehicles, but they don't really pack the firepower to fend 
 off other types of units for very long.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Warhawk isn't going to push the PS3 to the limits. It has a great art direction that favors its 
 gameplay type. It is easy to make things out. More textures and cover would be nice. There are 
 lots of open fields in the game where you are out of luck if you want cover from enemy units. The 
 draw distance is incredible. You can see things pretty far away and cloud effects while in warhawks 
 really gets you in the mood. For the most part things look rather generic though and if you are 
 in one part of a map it is pretty much like the other parts. It is a shame especially since this 
 is an online only game.
  
  The presentation is nice, but even in full HD, it wouldn't have you dropping your jaw at the visuals. 
 Aside from that the menu system is nice and easy to navigate. Getting online is never a problem.
 
  
  The biggest problem with Warhawks presentation is there just isn't enough to present. None of the 
 environments are made well enough to keep you interested in the action.
  
  VALUE:
  
  Warhawk comes in two packages. Online via PSN or in retail via Blu-ray with a headset. I really 
 can't recommend either of these versions. The problem with the PSN version lies in the fact you 
 can only play on the account that bought the game, completely ignoring XMB's login features. The 
 blu-ray version is a bit pricey for what it includes. I would say rent it or play at a friends 
 house first and see if the game draws you in.
  
  REVIEW:
  
  When you start playing warhawk, its alot of fun. It isn't until you start to try and use strategy 
 and coordinated efforts that you see the flaws of the game. The fast paced action is great and 
 there are always battles going on everywhere on the map. The lack of more weapons and counters 
 to change things up a bit will force some more hardcore players to stay away. More maps or a map 
 editor would have added much needed longevity to the title. For casual online play I recommend 
 looking into it. Warhawk is the first game I have played that left me wondering what they did that 
 justifies it's price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staindtemples
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I got this home I was happy to have it in my hands. When I first started to customize 
 my character and my plane I was kind of disappointed cause you really can't do much with them. 
 Then after I started to play I enjoyed every bit of it even though everyone looks a like. But after 
 several hours of game play I got to change some things and I thought that was pretty thoughtful. 
 I like how it makes you work hard for what you want. Games like this keep ya hooked an make you 
 play them for hours and hours at a time. The Game play is smooth and very fast paced the graphics 
 aren't to bad but still nice enough to enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toron01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game as were many of my Resistance fall of Man online buddies. 
 I was really hoping for an expanded version of the online RFOM. Since incognito was in on both 
 games.
  First I didnt know the game was online only. so much for the free bluetooth headset ?? Oh well.
 
  Things I dont like&gt;
  1) A tutorial would have been nice. So I optioned for the make my own game and just run around 
 and figure things out. 2) To be able to switch to first person when using weapons would have been 
 cool .
  3) I dont like being able to see enemys on the map either. what goods the sniper if you got a big 
 red name on top of you head. Plus if the enemy is behind the mountain you can see his name in the 
 front of the mountian ?? 4) I wish the chat was better. Perhaps channels for offense and defense. 
 5) No stats for non ranked games
  6) Where are the ranked games ?
  7) Damage set way to high. I was in a strafe fight with this guy we were both hitting each other 
 but after 3 clips each with the machine gun we both just gave up and went our seperate ways.
  Maybe they will make some good updates for this game. At least thats what im hoping for. The potential 
 is there for the game to be a 10 and to be the Virtual War that I was wishing for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  If there is one thing that the PS3 has had going against it since day 1, its that most of its games 
 are ports that are also found on a cheaper console. When you realize this for yourself, you find 
 it hard to justify the near 600 dollars that most have spent on the PS3 so far. However, that doesn't 
 mean that the PS3 is without good games. Ports or not, there are plenty of good games to play on 
 the PS3 if it is your system of choice. So if you have taken that PS3 plunge, you are fortunate 
 to be able to play Warhawk; a game that is exclusive to the console, and also great fun as well.
 
  
  Whether you decide to download this game from PSN, or buy it from a store (with headset) , you really 
 can't go wrong with Warhawk. Although the PS3 is not without multiplayer games, this is perhaps 
 one of the better experiences to be had on the console. The multiplayer feels really balanced, 
 and its easy to get into and understand after a short while. Before you know it, you'll be playing 
 for hours and not even realize that time is quickly flying by. There are only few games that are 
 able to pull this off, and Warhawk finds itself at the top of the list with some other heavy hitters 
 like Halo, Gears, Resistance, and Vegas.
  
  I do have some issues with the game however. For one, although its understood that this is a multiplayer 
 only game, it would have been nice to have some kind of offline option of some sort to be able 
 to familiarize yourself with the game before jumping online. Although the game offers hints while 
 playing to get you up to speed, its hard to see them when you are in the heat of battle. Plus, 
 the way things are at the moment, it is really hard to get into a match. I've found myself waiting 
 for long periods of time to try to get onto a server. It would say it was full, when the list says 
 there is still room for plenty more people. The good thing is, these gripes I have can probably 
 be fixed via a patch in the near future, and even still these things do not take away from the 
 overall quality of an otherwise fantastic game. Warhawk is probably the best downloadable game 
 ever released on a console, and give a good glimpse of the type of future that downloadable content 
 can offer in the future. Warhawk won't blow you away in the graphics department, but it will definitely 
 keep you occupied for many hours of fun. If you own a PS3, you owe it to yourself to get this game, 
 whether you are starving for something, or just need a reason to dust of the console for the first 
 time in a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkron1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, this is a very good game in and of itself. The play control and matches are almost 
 great but getting into a match is a pain. I constantly see 4 or 5 openings and when I try to join 
 the games are full. When I log out and reconnect I see that there are still 4 or 5 spots open. 
 I can spend an hour trying to get into a good game without lag. That sucks. If I host my own game 
 I am limited to what I have already unlocked. Now this is the worst part! I had been playing it 
 for 3 days, racked up nearly 400 kills and made Sergeant. The next time I logged in ALL my stats 
 and ranking were gone. I didn't erase, change, or modify anything. It was enough to make me want 
 to take some time off the game. I liked what I played, which is good since I'll have to play through 
 it enough to get to where I was at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlink-wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I download it from the PS3 network. i started playing the graphics were beautyful. the maps were 
 huge, battle on land were intense as more on the air. the only down side is no single campain. 
 so getting familiar with the control takes a while. also i would have like to see a more vararity 
 of weapons. taking airplane to the sky take skill to just luck will work to fly a plane as you always 
 someone target and getting rid your enemy takes skills. also as sky is your friend and foe also 
 the air as humas can take and airplane down so keep and eye out. this game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafedanny
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is sick. Incognito did a nice job ballencing the gameplay. You are as effective on foot 
 as if you were in a warhawk or tank or jeep. The new mode zone is awesome. It keeps the game fastpaced 
 and something is always is happening . This game has some server isssues and people don't like 
 talking that much but besdies taht, this game is awesome.
  
  
  Note: everything going to be said is an opinion, the only reason why is because i need at least 
 100 words.
  Warhawk shows waht the ps3's technology can do. This game is so popular that all the ranked servers 
 are full and the game crashes due to the amount of players online. T one given time there are over 
 at least 900 servers worldwide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  So, finally, the PS3 gets a game. A good one at least. Not that there hasnt been good games, but 
 nothing i couldnt play on my 360. Warhawk changed that. Its one of the most addicting online games 
 ive played in a long while, and its extreamly fun. Little bit of a problem with the servers, but 
 im hoping in time that will be fixed. All in all, great game. Visuals are sharp, the audio is good, 
 and it runs in 1080p!! Hope there is a great future with this game, with updates. Now if sony could 
 fixup their online play it could become a contender with XBL. Needs a better buddy invite system, 
 but it has clans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -L-U-I-S-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk its the first of its kind to grace the PlayStation 3, and so far the only one of its kind. 
 This highly expected title meets the expectations set by most people aniticipating it. Enough talk, 
 lets go to the review.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in Warhawk is really satisfying and interesting. You've got 5 worlds with 
 5 different configurations each one making a total of 25 maps to play (the big ones are BIG) . You 
 can blow anything up with a tank, if you wish for fast groung movement then you got a Jeep with 
 a mounted machine gun ready to blow anything in its way. But Warhawk's main vehicles are Warhawks, 
 and they can deliver a devastating blow to anything, not to mention a satisfying one too. You have 
 to choices: Eucadian and Chernovan. Chernovan stuff seems more advanced and more sophisticated 
 in design but both sides are great. What really impresses in Warhawk is its incredible balance. 
 More powerful weapons require longer times to lock on to its targets and when it hits it really 
 blows anything. There's a max of 32-players playing at the same time and several game modes familiar 
 to everyone (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag) plus a few new ones. In Zones you earn 
 points for capturing and defending zones and when either the score limit or time limit is reached 
 the team with most points win. You also have Dogfight, which is basically a Deathmatch but everyone 
 is in their planes, these can get really intense. You also got a variety of weapons. You have the 
 RPG, a pistol, an assault rifle, grenades, a sniper rifle, binoculars for calling air strikes, 
 mines, homing missiles, swarm missiles, some bolt weapon (I dont know the name) cluster bomb, and 
 a knife (Sadly no shotguns here)
  
  Graphics - With all this stuff going on it was expected they took a hit, but the graphics are still 
 overall impressive. Character models aren't quite as sharp as plane models. The textures can use 
 some workout. But with the action around you I think that wont matter that much
  
  Sound - The sound is really impressive everything here is just fine
  
  All in all, Warhawk 
 turned out to be a fantastic experience. However, its not without its flaws. The lobby and community 
 is not what I expected in a multiplayer focused game. You dont have an in-game buddy list, you 
 cant send messages in-game, no parties (like in Resistance for example) , no different squads or 
 channels (again, a la Resistance) . Its not so friendly.
  
  But you also have an excelent medal and ranking system. You've got a lot ribbons, badges, and medals 
 that really add to the replay value. There are also clans and leaderboards.
  
  In conclusion, if you have a PS3 you will be missing some great stuff if you skip Warhawk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Rock Solid! Warhawk delivers from every aspect, from the very menu interface thru the gameplay 
 and to the in-game features.
  1st thing you will notice is a simple, very visualy stylish pre-game interface. Easy to navigate 
 and loaded with personal stats. Which is also a great strength of the game. You can view everything 
 from basic stats to graphs of your main stats over time.
  Acomplishments are in tons. There are dozens of badges, medals, ribbons to earn and while doing 
 that you also gain just an endless number of cusomization skins which just adds more to the game 
 value.
  
  While on the whole interface aspect, i got to add that while the game picking is very standard 
 and VERY thourough, there is a severe lack of explanation of why you did not enter the game. AS 
 a matter of fact there is only one notification, game is full , and its there not matter the reason 
 you failed to enter. Second issue here is weird game filter choices. THE basic filter, ranked or 
 not-ranked game is not there but they have about 6 others, lot less important one. Now all this 
 is patchable, but worth of mentioning for the time being.
  
  Now on to the game itself. Ranked SCEA servers are very stable and so far i have only had 1 disconnect. 
 Lag is virtualy non-existant, on a cable or above connection. In-game voice comms are so-so. There 
 are no real special features and it is either the headset that comes with the game or crappy codec 
 that make ppl sounds quite often like they are speaking from a tunnel. However this is really 50-50 
 so it wont influence you much.
  
  Units and weapons are superb. Graphically everything is detailed to an amazing lvl, specialy when 
 you consider that this is an MMO, and the emphasis are not on graphics but on the gameplay. In 
 addition, no matter what your combat preference is you'll find your cup of tea. As a troop you 
 have some dozen, generic but VERY fun weapons to choose from. If you prefer to be commanding something 
 there are 4X4's and tanks, and even a solid choice of 2 turrets and a mahcine gun placements across 
 the map.
  As a warhawk you have only choice of two flying units but weapons are beyond creative and cool, 
 and the hoovering gives air combat a very interesting facelift.
  Last but not the least is the customization of aircraft and your troop. It is limitless in option, 
 and while somewhat simple it keeps the uniform look of a military while giving you or your clan 
 a chance to stand out.
  
  Maps are not that many. However i cant even figure out yet how many sub-maps are there. Depending 
 on style of play, size of match and your personal choice you can crop and change the active battlegrounds 
 to create and exuberrant amount of map options that quite often feel, no really look, like a whole 
 new map.
  
  To sum up on the more general aspects. Sounds is very good, certain guns may sound a bit generic 
 but everything is very distinct and the soundtrack/score is very battle-inspired and fits the game 
 100%. Graphics follow the quality of sound and personaly i am beyong impressed, at least because 
 i didnt expect a whole lot originally. Controlls are pretty good, a bit tough to get used to at 
 the beginning but it doesnt take more than few hours to handle all 4 styles to a tee. Side note, 
 SIXAXIS flying, while tough is by far one of the most original aspects of the game and it should 
 be tried by anyone.
  all in all, this is a definite buy, as it will be a while untill sometimes with this high of a 
 fun factor and replay value comes around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brydon1234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  It`s a wicked game but with a bit lag and the ranking system is poor my stats have been frozen 
 for 3 days now. But i gave it a 10 because everything thats wrong with it can be fixed in the near 
 future. P. S PS3 owns xbox 360 like look at whats coming out in a few months MGS 4 and other wicked 
 exclusives and xbox only has halo 3 under there belt GOOOOOOOOO SONY. oh and if you ever see a 
 xbox fanboy playing online on the ps3 kill him over and over even if he is on your team. good luck 
 ps3 fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jahosaphet0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Playstation 3 has received a large scale multiplayer shooter. Warhawk takes the formula started 
 by the great Battlefield franchise and, in my opinion, made it slightly worse.
  
  That isn't to say Warhawk is bad. In no way is this a bad game. I have spent plenty of time playing 
 this game. The Playstation 3 needs a game like this. But I have some quirks about it that really 
 agitated me.
  
  Firstly, ground combat is hardly enjoyable on foot. Your character is extremely limited offensively 
 and defensively, making the player wish he or she was in a vehicle. You spawn with a snub pistol 
 which deals little damage to anything. It has an unlimited supply of ammo, but you can scratch 
 your head wondering what the point of this weapon could be. You can find SMGs, rocket launchers, 
 snipers, etc. while on foot, and all of these are a great boost to your arsenal (I took out two 
 Warhawks with a sniper... with one shot each.)
  
  Vehicles such as tanks and jeeps are a fun method of transportation and in my opinion, the developers 
 made this aspect of the game top notch. I had no problems with this and often took charge in a 
 tank seeing how Warkhawks exploded in a puff of smoke after one shot. w00t
  
  Lastly, the Warhawks are controlled two separate ways: one scheme while hovering, and one while 
 flying. Hovering is easily mastered and pretty simple and fun. The biggest learning curve to this 
 game is the flying. The left stick controls the direction of the Warhawk while the right tick sends 
 you into crazy dizzying maneuvers. When you first try it, most likely your will be crashing into 
 the ground over and over because you pushed the right stick down or barrel rolled out of existence. 
 If not that, most of the time you will be dodging missiles from other players or scrambling to 
 lock onto someone else before you end up exploding... which most of the time has absolutely no 
 effect on the battlefield below, which makes this aspect of the game, with the exception of quick, 
 fast transportation, absolutely useless.
  
  Graphically, the game runs very smoothly, even when really chaotic... and laggy. The range of vision 
 is great and you can often see chaos on the other side of the map. And the map is really huge.
 
  
  Besides the confusing controls of the warhawks when they change from hovering to flying, there 
 is absolutely nothing new in this game. If you've played any Battlefield game, you've pretty much 
 already played it. So, in short, Warhawk is an average large scale multiplayer game for the PS3. 
 It certainly is enjoyable, and if you can master the learning curve, you can waste a lot of hours 
 in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UNTOUCHABLE99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  This game is by far 1 of the most fun ps3 games I have ever played. For all of you who don't like 
 it because of the controls and no single player. What did you expect. Welcome to next gen. I wouldn't 
 be surprised if other games start coming out only in multi player. As for the controls, how else 
 would you set it up? They made it extremely easy to use for having so many different options. Besides 
 most people that come on here and bash 1 of the best online ps3 games and give it a bad score are 
 360 fan boys lol. They have nothing better to do with there time. Anyways I say this game is a 
 must buy and I can't wait till they have updates with new maps and weapons. Come check us out to 
 join in the fun. KillazOnDuty. com im Just1Left 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrAzED_MOFO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  this is the best multiplayer on the ps3 so far without this game the ps3 to me would be boring 
 it is a must have for ps3 owners and it has unspecting twist during games like turning the corner 
 and finding an enemy tank or walking around your base for weapons and having a sniper shoot at 
 you. The only problem with this game is that the ranking system is messed up i went from being 
 a recruit to a commander down to a airman but i think they fixed the ranking aside from that this 
 is a real fun game and it is a must have for all the ps3 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirNicoli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  i dont understand how anyone could not love this game. im a huge fan of online games, mainly the 
 much revered socom franchise, im not a big fan of battlefield, so i didnt know what to expect from 
 warhawk, but after playing it for several days, whenever i can haha, i find that its really hard 
 to stop playing. there are so many different ways to configure and play the game that it just doesnt 
 ever feel stale. the 32 player matches are so hectic and there is so much going on that you really 
 feel like you are in a warzone that is non-stop action. some people complain about the servers 
 crashing and i have only had a problem like that in games hosted by regular people whos internet 
 probably cant handle holding that many ppl in a match.
  the SCEA servers work perfectly and i havent seen any lag or had any problems in their servers 
 whatsoever. if you have friends over, getting them in game is absolutely seemless, they just press 
 start and up to four friends can get on togethr in an unranked match.
  
  this game is truly a must have for anyone even interested in a competitve online game, and i really 
 believe it is underapreciated, and that it is absolutely worth the money.
  GET IT!!!!!!!!!
  
  o yeah and everything is incredibly balanced, you can cause damage in any vehicle or on foot, 
 there is nothing that is too overpowering and controlling the turrets is awesome : D
  
  id give it a ten, but then people probably wouldnt care about my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyfreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best multiplayer game ive played in a while. The thing that bothers most peoples 
 about this game is how you have to get used to this game before really appreciating it the most. 
 I personnaly just bought it 2 days ago and i have to say, its really diff then most mutliplayer 
 games i have (resistance; halo1; goldeneye) , but warhawk is REALLY addictive. Just give it time 
 and you'll love it. planes, tanks, 4x4, turrets, theres alot to do and vs alot of players in large 
 maps. Its non stop fun. Theres a lot of weapons to use, in the air and on the ground.
  
  You can also CUSTOMIZE your guy and airplane, have your own and unic sign on it and on you, and 
 cloths and other. really awesome.
  
  If you don't have a headset, your better off buying the game in stores because it comes with a 
 headset which can be awesome for other games, and you actualy buy the game (disc) . If you buy it 
 on the ps store u dont get the headset and what if ur harddrive or w. e fails you, you lose it. 
 So if i were you get the game its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twinturbo120
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  when u first begin its just freaken carnage!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! controls are fairly easy to adjust 
 to cept u might find the use of inverting if u dont feel comfortable with the controls. After that 
 u wonder how to use the mic.... i'll leave that one up 2 u as it very funny wat u need to do lol. 
 the game is awesome its self and very detailed to when planes fly over u u actually see the shadow 
 on the ground. The guns so awesome!!!!!! its like just to kool.... if u have surround sound ur in 
 for a treat its totally worth 60 bucks (or 40 if u got online like me =D ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tallwhitemocha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I was originally skeptical when I heard this was a multi-player game only. But the positive reviews, 
 a talk with my local gaming guru, and the free headset convinced me to shuck out 60 bucks of my 
 hard earned money. I am so very glad I did. Warhawk combines all the very best of the Halo, Counter 
 Strike, and Call of Duty multi-players into a fragtastic experience. Any game that turns the players 
 death into a beautiful scenimatic experience, ala mid-air death, deserves props. I love taking 
 to the air and, when I inevitably and usually very quickly get shot down, watching th pretty scenery 
 as my body and the wreckage of my Warhawk rain down. As tony the tiger would say; It's Greeeeeat 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatFlat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  If socom had airplanes and tanks online it would b even better than Warhawk.. But Warhawk could 
 come up with more maps, that would b greSocomat. I will b playin this game for a long time.. Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
 Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom Socom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonyRulzU
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  After playing for a couple days, I'm finally starting to get the hang of the motion sensing controls. 
 I had my buddy come over and laugh at me for using them, saying those motion controls are gimmicky 
 . I told him not to judge something until you try it, and I mean really try it. He just smirked 
 and played nicely with the thumbsticks instead. Needless to say I pretty much got pwned. Until 
 last night. I have these motion controls down pat, he jumps into my game (from his home) and I killed 
 him over and over again. He would be fighting someone and I would kill him and the the guy he was 
 fighting AT THE SAME TIME! It was awesome. I said to him That was sweet and the next thing I know 
 it says he is Logged Off. He quit. lol . Who's Laughing now Mr. Fancy Pants. Anyways to make a long 
 story short the controls in the game are phenominal. Stick with the motion control and you'll be 
 out preforming those lock on missles no problem, hovering over the battle killing anything that 
 moves, and killing all those lameos that take the easy way out and shut down the motion control. 
 This game deserves an 8.9 from me, FreakboyTroy. See you in my crosshairs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinthorell
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  When i say the game is fast, i MEAN the game is fast. And this is coming from a huge FPS fan who's 
 been playing them for years. The game is like quake of the skies. Hitting someone when they're 
 flying around is almost impossible, but thanks to the aiming assistance it makes it a little easier. 
 But i still don't feel like this is a great game.
  
  The controls worked great, but there weren't enough maps for me to enjoy the game to the fullest. 
 And the price that they're selling it at for online only with a few maps, is a bit too much for 
 my liking. There weren't enough weapons for people who were on the ground, weren't enough ground 
 vehicles, and the aircombat, like i said before, was too quick and nearly impossible to see where 
 you're going when you're doing a backflip triple side spin into a upside down flip under a bridge 
 to avoid the enemy fire. The biggest problem i had with the game was actually joining one. It took 
 me an hour to finally get into a game with more than 8 people, seeing as how no matter how many 
 players it SAID were in the server, it still decided it was too full for me to join. After a while 
 it can get extremely frustrating, and for a game like this, i just don't think it's worth sitting 
 around for an hour to play. I knew this game was going to be Online only, but they should've atleast 
 added a tutorial before you played the game online so that you knew what you were doing. Too many 
 times did i see someone running around sideways and backwards while looking up at the sky and jumping 
 in circles trying to figure out what the hell they were doing. Back to the game being too arcadey. 
 I don't really like when a game assists me. It's just something i've never liked. It makes me feel 
 like the game is doing all the work and i'm not having much fun. The planes can take too much damage, 
 as can the players. 5 swarming missile to take out a human player on the ground? I don't think 
 so. If the damage was more realistic and it only took one rocket or a few bullets from another 
 plane to take you down, then this game would be great. But with all the spinning and backflips, 
 it's incredibly hard to hit someone, and if you do, it barely does any damage. I just don't feel 
 like there's enough in this game, and in some places, there's too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Well, I've been waiting and following this game from the get-go. I played the original Warhawk 
 on PS1 and it was awesome, and playing it's PS3 sequel-type thing, I must say I am impressed! From 
 the very beginning, the game is a blast to play. Whether you choose to dog-fight in the Warhawks, 
 or take the action back down to ground, you WILL have fun, and lot's of it. The controls are totally 
 slick, so there's no need to worry about crashing anything either. I love the feel of the game. 
 It just FEELS epic, as if a war actually is going on
  inside your TV. The sound has alot to do with this. You can hear the Warhawks above if you're on 
 foot, and likewise with the tanks and jeeps when you're in the skies. I highly recommend this game, 
 especially if you're in Canada. For some reason, it's only $39.99 at BestBuy here, so I would get 
 it there if you plan on picking up the Blu-Ray version. All-in-all, this game is sweet. The graphics 
 are pretty, the controls are tight, and the experience is an amazing one. Pick It Up Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  One of the first games I ever owned for my original playstation, was the original Warhawk. What 
 set this game aside from all other games was that it was so innovative with its mixture of flight 
 combat and cool array of weapons. Of corse other classics came out for the PS that made many players 
 forget about this buried treasure for quite some time until someone had the idea to resurface it 
 on a next-gen console... and I am proud to say that it does its ancestor incredible justice.
  
  Graphics: 8
  This is a fairly standard score for a next gen game, and I'll admit that the 
 graphics look alot similar to older games. Vehicle schemes kind of remind me of playing Unreal 
 Tournament 2004. Not that its a bad thing, but maybe some object and character details could have 
 been beefed up a little bit. I do have a defensive theory that could explain why the graphics weren't 
 top-notch. For being a huge multiplayer game, I think the developers took into consideration that 
 if they took the graphics to amazing levels, online play would slow down substancially due to draw 
 distance rendering and shader details. Multiply the lag of loading that times 32 (max. amount of 
 players) then you would see a LOT of hiccups. So don't be too hard on the graphics, because the 
 developers definately had you in mind.
  
  Sound: 10
  I am normally extremely picky when it comes to sound only because I used to mod my own sound effects 
 and tweak with codecs. I won't brag, but I have a pretty nice setup for surround sound. Playing 
 this game I expected some out of place explosions or delayed explosions. Man was I wrong.
  
  This game truly does have some realistic sound effects, and I was ultimately impressed.
  
 
  Control: 9
  I was a little skeptical at first about playing with sixaxis tilt, so i used the analog sticks.... 
 I recommend NOT conforming to the analog sticks. Tilt flying was SOO suprisingly fun that I never 
 cared how many times I died, just as long as I got to scramble to another plane for my next go.
 
  
  It's tricky at first, but pleeeaaaase do not judge until you at least get a hang of it.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Alot of games generally throw in a weapon or two that gives the lucky player 
 who wields it a greater advantage. For example, in Halo you have the rocket launcher / shotgun 
 combo or the gaylord that runs around with the sword slaying everyone and ends up winning. Please 
 believe me when I say that a player has to be a God (or a hacker) to have any sort of advantage 
 over another player in Warhawk. Everyone has the equal ability to kill... anyone. Some may disagree 
 by saying that too many people camp in the turrets. But 1 shot with a tank or 2 grenades will take 
 them out. Trust me everything is so balanced in this game that it definately makes it enjoyable 
 for 1st time users.
  
  Value: 9
  OK. 2 methods of owning this game. 1. You buy it retail for $60 dollars and it comes with a bluetooth 
 headset. (what I did.. headset is pretty cool too)
  2. Download from the playstation store for $40. Can use your purchase to sign on to PSN and download 
 up to 5 friends' consoles (with your account only)
  
  Alot of people say that this game is worth maybe $30 only because its Multiplayer only with 5 maps. 
 Seriously...
  
  I think this game really makes up for not having a single player campaign. Besides, think about 
 Halo again. Hardly anyone plays single player anymore. Multiplayer fragfests are the biggest thing 
 now for gaming. STOP COMPLAINING.
  As far as the 5 maps only goes. They are all customizable to size of games, and nobody really notices 
 too much because you're immersed into the game. If you really don't like the limited map choices, 
 then just remember that there will be updates and map packs for our downloadable pleasure.
  
  If price is still an issue... just remember.. you forked over 600 bucks for this machine. I 
 think you can afford it.
  
  Overall: 9.0
  I'm not going to be a fanboy and talk this game up just so i can play with the other limited PS3 
 owners. I own both 360 and PS3. I wrote this review to hopefully answer some questions that skeptical 
 gamers might have about this game.
  
  Overall this is a very fun game, and a definate for your PS3 shelf.
  
  Peace
  ~Elliptix~ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardCor1981
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I really enjoy playing Warhawk.... for what it is. The maps are all rather large 
 and give you plenty of space for flying or on foot. However, there are a lot of things that this 
 game lacks, as well. For one thing, there are only 5 maps total. Yeah, sure... there will be more 
 for download one day, but you'll likely have to pay for it. As of right now, you are paying $40 
 for only 5 maps.
  The game is also lacking nautical warfare... most of the maps have rivers and oceans yet there aren't 
 any boats, or subs (underwater would be really a treat, but maybe that's asking for too much.)
 
  
  How about single-player? I get that Incognito decided to scrap it in favor of doing multi-player 
 well. However, for $40 and only 5 maps, I would expect a little more depth.... especially since 
 we've been hearing about this game for a long time.
  
  I'm having fun playing Warhawk, but the fun won't last too much longer. I spent $40 and I've played 
 all 5 maps a dozen or so times. THE REALLY BAD NEWS: I downloaded the game, so I won't even be 
 able to sell it on E-Bay and get some of my money back.
  
  Incognito, I expect more for my money. I'll be taking a much harder look at your games before I 
 buy them for now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorn7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  This game will make you lose track of time the moment you log on to your first game. The balance 
 between the weapons and vehicles is quite frankly, amazing. The game play is both furious and tactical 
 at the same time. It almost feels like Tribes meets Battlefield, and that is a very good thing. 
 It is amazing how much Incognito have accomplished after scrapping the single player mode earlier 
 this year. Warhawk is a definite MUST HAVE for all ps3 owners and will be an online classic for 
 years to come. Now if you will excuse me, I have some air strikes to call in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey17
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a multiplayer experience no ps3 owner should miss out on. although its multiplayer only, 
 warhawk makes up for the loss of the single player mode through the addictivness and highly enjoyable 
 online multiplayer battles. Getting to choose between foot, air, or land vehicle is also cool. 
 Me, i prefer air but im not that good of pilot yet so i stick to tanks and infantry. But anyway, 
 back to the review. Ive played RFOM and R6V online and warhawk easily tops both of them by far. 
 Its just so much fun and you feel that your closer to combat because of the variety of vehicles 
 you can use. So for a closing comment i wil say this, if you dont have warhawk hurry up and get 
 it. The servers are always jam packed with people waiting to blast you out of the air and theres 
 always someone ready to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Without map packs this game will die pretty quickly. Only 8 infantry weapons (Land Mines, Flame 
 Thrower, Rocket Launcher, Pistol, Binoculars, Sniper Rifle, Knife, and Assault Rifle) and 3 Vehicles 
 (that move include a Jeep, Tank, and Fighter) with 3 stationary weapons platforms (MG, Flak Cannon, 
 and SAMs.) I keep hearing about 5 "worlds" with 5 maps a piece... Thats BS, its the same map scaled 
 down or up with objectives placed differently. 
  
  Theres the typical game modes of Team Death Match, Capture the flag, and Zones. While theres Death 
 Match, there arent any ranked servers that run it. Team Death Match (and I suppose Death Match) 
 can be broken down into either the typical run and gun or the Flying Variation that only allows 
 you to pilot the warhawk (you spawn inside one and exiting it disabled.) 
  
  While all these things might seam like a nice collection take into account the game has no single 
 player and for game thats been in development for years it really sucks. Theres also not much incentive 
 to 'Rank up' as it doesnt unlock anything more than cosmetic changes to your character. Adding 
 extra weapons, the ability to spawn with more than a pistol and knife, or a class system where 
 bonuses came into play based on its rank would all add depth and more incentive to play.
  
  While I myself have only experienced a single Freeze and the Ranking bugs (which can be explained 
 by a heavy server load) A lot of people are calling Warhawk the Buggiest game to date on the PS3. 
 Many of which never appeared in the Beta. A lot of people are unable to connect at all to the servers, 
 Game Freezes seam to be common place (on both the Blue Ray and the Downloaded version) , A lot of 
 the Bluetooth headsets are faulty and either not connecting to the PS3 or just not working, Stats 
 are not being recorded in some matches even while playing on a ranked server, awards are not being 
 handed out even when the requirements are met (award are what are needed alongside stats in order 
 to rank up) , and Often times the server will depromoted you back to the lowest rank. Oh, and dont 
 mention any of this in the Warhawk forums or you get 100 fanboys jumping down your throat instead 
 of offering a possible solution.
  
  Not only did the transition from Beta to release add a number of bugs, but it actually removed 
 maps. This might not have been so bad had the game not had a total of 5 maps. I'm not just blowing 
 smoke either to say how bad the game is as I am a Chief Sergeant with 629 kills and nearly 18 hours 
 game time under her belt. I've been awarded 106 ribbons, 17 badges, and 1 Medal so I've got the 
 experience to gripe about this opening. 
  
  There are some positives though in the game. The combat is fun, its just that simple. If you can 
 see past the bugs and lack of depth (which can easily be repaired with patches and content packs) 
 you should have a good time. I doubt the game will survive Unreal 3 but if you're looking for something 
 to hold ya over until november than Warhawk isnt a bad choice. Just dont expect it to be the next 
 socom. That it is not.
  
  EDIT: Now that the game is $30 the value has increased and most of the mentioned bugs in this review 
 have been worked out this is a game worth looking into if you're someone who enjoys playing online. 
 However even though the map packs have been released they do not offer enough content for the price 
 they charge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickolie
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is incredible! From start of a match to the end. you can end a map and be shocked. I will 
 catch myself not even noticing the opposing team has the flag, like WHAT THEY WON!?!?!? The glorious 
 thing, its so intense, LAG FREE in case your counting your daily ping intake. So much chaos, and 
 again, lag free!!! I will be in a bunker either hiding or running from all the Warhawk fire thats 
 hovering above me, grab a rocket launcher, as i do so another Warhawk will fly by and nuke the 
 bastard up! so all you hear explosions, and stuff blowing up all around you. and its so amazing 
 (if some of this isn't making sense, like if its worded wrong, sorry, its 3:46am and we just did 
 7 bosses in WoW sorry =P) But there is so much i cannot explain, hands down fun fun fun fun fun.... 
 FUN. People in random games will use strategy and win and lose depending who gets where ever first, 
 the game modes are fun Zones and CTF TDM and DM are the only ones so far. but great thing, its 
 expandable and new maps and game modes can be expected. maps are huge, game play is FAST and intense. 
 flawless, just needs more maps and game modes asap! otherwise awesome stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arran557
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for ever for this game and it is finally here. As soon as it came out i downloaded 
 it straight from the PS Store and i was surprised that it was only 798mb i was expecting way more. 
 As for the game it is brilliant, it is for sure the best online game out there right now. The graphics 
 are superb especailly when you are in a Warhawk flying around the enviroment looks so darn real. 
 And the controls are piss easy to figure out. If you download the game from the PS Store you do 
 not get an iinstruction booklet, but it is a 20 bucks cheaper. One of the things i found impressive 
 is the sound, especially when you are blasting away at something with an assault rifle the sound 
 is amazing, or when a plane comes swooping past you. Overall Warhawk is one of the best games and 
 online games out there for PS3 and anything else so it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The hype that lead to Warhawk's release was pretty spectacular. We'd seen and heard about this 
 game for over 2 years, and it had some pretty lofty expectations to live up to. I say, non-bias, 
 that Warhawk is about as much good clean fun as you can find in a video game.
  
  Pros: Multiplayer MASTERPIECE -- 32 planes in the air at once?! Insane!
  Fun, fun, fun -- even while 
 getting owned in the first hour I played it
  Customizable controls
  Character customization along with ranking up
  Dogfights!!
  
  Cons:
  Graphically, PS3 can 
 do better, but it's still good
  First-week/first-month problems with ranking system
  No patches yet!
  
  I think after a couple of patches Warhawk will be a multiplayer juggernaut, 
 and become even more than the fun battlezone it is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe_david
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Alright i was so happy to finally get this game! ive been waiting since e3 05! ITS FINALLY HERE! 
 ITS TERRIBLE! the controls are clunky and hard to use. it feels like a game released in 1998. 2 
 days nonstop trying to enjoy this game. even worse the graphics are sub par for the **** atari 
 2600 the ingame sound sounds nothing like the setting there trying to place.
  
  the ONLY reason i gave this 2.5 points is because the multiplayer is lag free and easy to acess 
 but after you get past that into an actual game your nightmeer begins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  i have been interested in this game since they announced it just dident know how it would play 
 out but the minute i hoped in a warhawk i was hooked controls in this game feel almost perfect. 
 and visually game looks better then i thought it would as well. in the end this is one of the coolest 
 online experiences i have ever had there are moments in this game that are just insane and getting 
 a headset was well nice as well. i am not gonna say this game is for everyone but i will say if 
 you are a fan of flying games or battlefield then you should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perroza
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The game play is fast and furious, but is easy to pick up, and it keeps all the players in the 
 same level, which makes it fun time after time. The weapons and vehicles have their pros and cons 
 that makes every encounter a struggle to come out on top. As fun as this game is, is not quite 
 perfect. During the BETA you could choose to have SIXAXIS on or off for each vehicle, while in 
 the retail version you can only have it on or off for all vehicles. This is a shame as I really 
 prefer to control the WARHAWK with the SIXAXIS, while to use the vehicles with regular controls. 
 The only other gripe I have with the game ever since the BETA is the creation of clans and inviting 
 and playing with friends. To send invitations you need to memorize the names of the players to 
 then write a message, instead of being able to just select a player and write a message or send 
 an invitation. It just makes it a long and annoying process. Besides these 2 gripes, the game is 
 tons and tons of fast paced fun, and I give it a 9 of 10, and is a must own for any PS3 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0dm4n12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  just a note for Skiggy80 halo is NOT this game halo is a BAD fps. and this game is a MULTIPLAYER 
 action based game.
  
  i HATE ignorant people so much. stop talking about halo, its a sickness
  
  i cant stand seeing 
 people talk about hings they dont even know. stop to compare cross genre. ITS NOT COOL AT ALL. 
 and its not working most of the time. like people saying that stranglehold is max payne. bunch 
 of bozo. so mario bros = sonic ? and halo = medal of honor ? gears of war = lara croft ?
  
  if im going by the way you people think, i must be right.
  
  LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrkinsey1
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Dont be fooled. This could have been a great game. The game was rushed. really rushed.
  The premise of the game is the following. Run, shoot, kill or be killed (except for capture the 
 flag) . The game can be downloaded for $40 online. If you are willing to shell out $60, you get 
 an instruction manual, wireless head piece, and the game. There is no single-player mode! There 
 is no practice mode!
  The game is a joke. Think Star Wars Battlefront in multiplayer; without the Star Wars. Yes, you 
 can run, shoot, climb into a tank, jeep, AA, Modified Jet. There is serious networking problems 
 with this game. Servers are dropping games frequently. too frequently. In summary, no single player, 
 no tutorial, server problems, and average next generation shootem up.
  Dont waste your money. Wait for Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I personally love playing online and this is one of the best choices for playing online. It looks 
 very good although it is no groundbreaker. The sound is great and there should be no complaints 
 about it. The controls work nicely and you even have some options when it comes to flying. The 
 game is very well balanced. Each vehicle has strengths and weaknesses. It also makes you look for 
 a good weapon because the pistol is pretty much useless if your opponent has anything else. There 
 may only be 5 maps, but the variations keep it fresh. There are plenty of game modes to ensure 
 you won't get bored. Dogfights are very fun because you can completely focus on other Warhawks 
 and not those pesky turrets. Overall, this game is a definite buy if you like online play and the 
 price makes it even better. Either $40 for the download or $60 for the blu-ray disk and a headset 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game just drops you into a battlefield with no story or any kind of idea as to why you are 
 fighting. However it is intense and probably the best game on the PS3 so far. Its no Halo but again, 
 it is pretty good considering its on a crappy online network. I just wish the ps3 network was as 
 established as Xbox live. Maybe someday. What would really be cool would be if they made this game 
 cross platform and allowed Sony haters to fight against Microsoft haters. That would be awesome! 
 Then instead of everyone lashing out on each other in forums, we can really talk some real sh*t 
 and allow people who like to talk sh*t behind a PC to really get torn up. I have xbox live, and 
 there is nothing better than letting someone know what they really are. I could just imagine it 
 now, people who own 360's telling the sony family how their system is garbage and vice versa. It 
 would be a real stress reliever. Think about it, getting to tell your console rivals how big of 
 a peice of sh*t they are!!! Or finding out where they live so we can organize fights and kick the 
 hell out of them. Oh God that would be great!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakaiKage
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, fun, crazy. All the things I wanted. But now that the game has gone Live I have 
 had frequent network drops, server disconnects, and the just all Lvl 2 servers dissapearing. It 
 seems they did not plan for the amount of people playing at once. OOOPPPSSSS Micorsofts online 
 network just kicked Playstation Network out of the water. By now I was hoping that Sony had got 
 thier act together. But with frequent game delays, bad network, small quality game selection, they 
 are not making this gamer happy. BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I was not going to buy Warhawk do to it being only an online multiplayer game. But my local best 
 buy had it on sale during release week for $39.99 Cnd... cheaper than downloading it from Sony. 
 So i thought, what the hell. It is a very pretty game and the gameplay is quite smooth. Sound it 
 top notch. It can get addicting at times if you're not watching the clock. An afternoon can go 
 by really really fast. Again, the biggest knock against this game is that there is no 1 player 
 game, only multi player, which to me, takes away from the it. Also, as Gamespot mentions, there 
 is no tutorial to get you started. you'll find that you'll get killed a number of times within 
 the first 30 seconds of respawning. You'll need a bit of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkinPark1992
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is an amazing game. Almost everything about it is solid. The graphics are great the game 
 modes and the maps are also fantastic. Also the on line allows allows for the user to have guests 
 which is great for when you want to play with friends. With the ranking system you unlock new clothes 
 and paint schemes for your character and your warhawks. Probably the best part about the entire 
 game is that there is very little advantage if you fly a plane, are on the ground, in a tank, or 
 a 4x4. Actually when there are more people i think that flying a plane is more dangerous then running 
 around with your knife. The only problem is that you cannot send a message to your buddy while 
 in the game or send a game or buddy invite. So overall this is a great that anyone who has on line 
 for the ps3 should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, get the blu-ray version because it's better. You can take it to your friends house and 
 play it and it comes with a great Bluetooth headset. The downloaded version can't I heard.
  
  I hardly like online multiplayer games. I bought this game because I needed a Headset for my 
 PS3. SInce I got this, i tried out the game with not much of an expectation. Once I popped in the 
 game, I couldn't put it down! I mean really, this game is fun and addicting. The graphics WOWed 
 me once I got into the game. I was like, no fing way this could look this fing good. The sound 
 is amazing especially if you have a surround system. I mean wow, I already spent hours playing 
 this already. I recommend ANYONE to get this game now for their PS3 because it is freaking good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khanezhyray
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Warhawk a lot since I picked it up from my store last thursday, and, I can say, 
 it's quite well done. The multiplayer is a blast, and I've enjoyed every minute of it. The gameplay 
 is perfectly balanced through rigorous testing. For instance, you could play as infantry, and run 
 around trying to kill other infantry, or, with the rocket, warhawks, tanks, and jeeps. You can 
 do all this without worrying about some random warhawk coming up and bombing/killing you (most 
 of the time) . You could also play in vehicles, driving around the map, killing infantry or other 
 vehicles, with slight worry on Warhawks. A third option is to play in a Warhawk, imo, best part 
 of the game. The flight controls are extremely in depth. It's not ridiculously hard to dodge missles, 
 but it's not easy either. The variety of weapons for the Warhawk, as well as infantry, is quite 
 large, all well balanced. Now, you may be asking, Why do you say it's balanced, it seems as though 
 Warhawks are the best... Turrets. Yes, Warhawk has turrets in it to balance out the possible continuous 
 raid of bases, and spawn camping. It's a major challenge, and impressive, if one can take down 
 a turret in a Warhawk, without picking up invisibility, and even then, it's still quite impressive.
 
  
  All in all, Warhawk is a very balanced, fun game. The sound effects are amazing, and the graphics 
 crisp. Not worthy of next gen pers&eacute;, but smooth. Now, you also may wonder why I didn't give 
 this game a 9.5, or even a 10. The reasoning behind that decision is that, as good as this game 
 is, right now, it needs a patch. Badly. It can take anywhere from 1-30 minutes to find a game you 
 can enter, and there are even fewer ranked servers. The main problem there? In order to get into 
 50% of the servers in Warhawk, including 95% of the 32 person servers, you need to be at least 
 rank Sargeant. I, personally, spent 30 minutes trying to get into a ranked server so I could get 
 up to Sargeant ranked. It's not because of the server being full or anything, but because of a 
 faulty mechanism within the code of the game someplace.
  
  Final thoughts:
  Worth buying
  
  Pros:
  Crisp graphics
  Beautiful environments
  Amazing sound
  $60 version, 
 free bluetooth headset, valued at $35 seperate, so the game is actually $25.
  Amazingly balanced gameplay
  
  Cons:
  Online connectivity issues, for now.
  Not true next 
 gen graphics, if you only care about graphics, this game is not for you.
  6 maps. Large, dynamic maps, but only 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, to start it all off Warhawk is a completely multiplayer game. No single player whatsoever is 
 in the game, meaning you'll be online almost all the time. You can also play over a network, so 
 if you get some buddies with Warhawk you can network them all and get a an unranked game going, 
 but the online is definitely where the heart of the game is.
  Online you'll play as your own customizable character which you can unlock more for as you rank 
 up through the ranks.
  The only bad thing about Warhawk is the tutorial, and the problem is there really isn't one. The 
 best way to get used to the game is to create you're own little private network game and get used 
 to the controls and learn about the weapons, of course this doesn't help with aiming and targeting 
 but you should be able to pick it up easily as long as you keep trying new things online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajthelegend
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Just what the ps3 needed, a fun out of the box experience that does not let you down... The game 
 is very addictive, I found myself sitting up til the middle of the night playing this game. The 
 visuals are great, the weapons both ground and air seem to be balanced, it takes a little practice 
 once in the Warhawks however its not so frustrating that your discouraged from jumping into one 
 of the birds... Over all I am very pleased w/this purchase and I hope that they continue to support 
 the product via downloadable content. All this game needed was a single player experience and it 
 would rank in the 9.5-10 range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teka
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a multi-action game based on a whooooole war, (when I say a whoooole war is a whooole 
 war in air, sea and land, since ground warfare even air in a majestic desing of a plane) that involve 
 us in a confrontation of astronomics dimensions, nevertheless like all games this game have his 
 defects, an a bit mediocre help that actually (indeed) dot not use us as anything... but wait a 
 second fanatics this game have a great 3d engine with combines huge enviroments with a variety 
 of useable weapons ans vehicles is a little seemed to gta (grant theft auto) with the diferent 
 that you don`t kill people for your plans and for your growing empire, if not that your only take 
 holds the vehicles to your disposision (like Battlefield 2 modern combat) to kill and crush the 
 evil war machine against that we go. It is necessary to emphasize the use of the control sixaxis 
 in this game which managing is incredibly fascinating, and that makes it some mas entertained (delayed) 
 with an interaction beyond the normal thing... Good this is quite fellas!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Max13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Go on foot, Go in a Jeep or take it to the tank, better yet get in the air and take it everywhere. 
 Thats the basic premise of Warhawk, Land and Air Battle, it's the first Multiplayer only game to 
 come to the PS3 and most people wonder does it work? In short YES!!!!
  
  You have two sides Chernovian and Eucadian, theres no back story really as to why there fighting 
 nor do you really care in the end. It could be a simple red vs blue and you still don't care. You 
 start out as a recruit and quickly find your way fighting in the battle alongside your teammates 
 in a huge landscape of maps. The maps themselves are huge beyond anything so matches (depending 
 where you go) shouldn't be short for game play theres so much landscape to view whether your in 
 a jeep shooting at that warhawk in the sky or your the warhawk having dogfights in the air or taking 
 it to the ground for one of those pesky troops trying to get in your base or causing trouble.
 
  
  In short it just works and it is one of the most addicting experiences I've had in the in a multiplayer 
 game since Battlefield 2. Most people will say its a water downed version of battlefield 2 or Battlefront 
 2, but in truth this works so much better in the end, no matter who you are or what vehicle or 
 weapon you take your a target. Even if your on foot you can grab a rocket launcher blow that warhawk 
 out of the sky, or the tank coming into your base. Or if your in the jeep and you got a gunner, 
 he can shoot a warhawk down or other jeeps passing by, in all it's easy once you get the hang of 
 it.
  
  Control wise if you got the download version like me you know that it takes a while to get used 
 to the controls you play around for a while and finally figure it out or in any scenario you just 
 look up instructions. Once you get everything your good to go from there.
  
  Now there are a couple of gameplay modes also you got your basic DM, TDM, CTF and a new one added 
 called Zones. Which is basically like the UT 2004 Node thing where your team will capture a bunch 
 of nodes and be able to take over from there and gain points to start destroying the other team.
 
  
  After all that your wondering why isn't it a perfect review a 10/10 well it isn't perfect far from 
 it, there's some things i wish they had put in. For one more weapons, you have a good selection 
 but i wish there was more. You have your pistol your assault rifle, flamethrower, rocket launcher, 
 Sniper rifle, land mines, Binoculars (for air strikes) and your sword. I don't think I'm missing 
 anything but i may be but thats from what I've seen. Next would've been to include an eject button 
 for your guy in the warhawk, sometimes you just can't escape those missiles and would've been cool 
 to have had an eject button so you can land and get out of harm ways, same for if your friend who 
 you can pick up as well can do the same. And more maps which I'm sure we'll get with an update 
 coming soon or as the developers said that there will be a million add-ons for this game. But even 
 as the negative i wrote up there it really doesn't take away from the great addicting game of warhawk. 
 It's a game you won't get bored of and will have lots to do with a lot of customization, for your 
 character and Warhawk. In total if you don't have Warhawk go out and buy it or rent it to see if 
 you like it, and from there I'll see you online in the sky's!
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioKolev
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a wonderful step forward for the PS3 online community. It supports up to 4 player split-screen 
 online. This is a feature which was desired in FPS and TPS games for a long time on the PS3 but 
 been neglected by the developers. The gameplay is superb and the community is rapidly growing. 
 The only possible area the developers could have worked on more is the handheld weapon arsenal. 
 One could say, however, that the weapons mounted on vehicles, and warhawks make up for this shortage 
 of handheld weapons. If intense, fast-paced, and inevitably fun multiplayer is your thing then 
 Warhawk is a must buy for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Seriously, when I first heard of Warhawk, I hardly gave it a second thought, thinking to myself; 
 Great, another cruddy military multiplayer piece of garbage. 
  
  I could not have been more wrong. *slaps self*
  
  This game is a multiplayer experience that 
 should almost be a requirement for owning a PS3. What first got me going on it, is that it's NOT 
 FIRST PERSON!!! FPS multiplayers have been SO played out I'm about ready to swear off them entirely. 
 I personally like to see my surroundings when I'm running around.
  
  Okay, to the point. Literally the best control I've felt in a game in forever. On foot, on a vehicle, 
 or in the fighter jet, the control is fully adjustable and smooth as silk. It also has just the 
 right amount of aim assistance to where you can keep track of your enemies, but not feel like the 
 game's holding your hand. The balance of weapons is unreal. On foot, you can find an arsenal that's 
 effective for any situation. The vehicles handle greatly, and it's fun to have a person on your 
 team take you for a gunfire-riddled joyride in a jeep, especially if you have a skilled driver 
 behind the wheel, you can make a vehicle an unstoppable two-man army.
  
  I find it VERY hard to find something negative to say about the game. It got mostly everything 
 right the first time. It has servers for all tastes, whether you like strictly ground combat, or 
 whether you're a diehard dogfighter, or both, a lot of servers are set up for these options for 
 ground or air-only combat.
  
  If I dare say anything negative, is that there's only 5 maps, but given they are beautifully and 
 ingeniously designed, given how versatile they are for both ground and air combat. I am very much 
 looking forward to new map packs.
  
  In conclusion, this is probably the first game for PS3 that I can honestly say was worth my $60, 
 (I got the boxed edition with the headset, works great too.) And this game is an absolute STEAL 
 at $40 for a PSN download. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk
  
  Okay, it goes like this, three bogeys at 12 o clock coming in fast. Too fast. Outgunned and outnumbered, 
 I had no choice but to engage. In a matter of seconds this can be all over. Theres no time for 
 back up, so I break left to avoid collision. I lost two of them. Now its just me and him. He was 
 at my six trying to get a lock. I was shaking him so I climbed higher in the clouds. Suddenly my 
 stall indicator lights up. I am stalling. I try to recover but its too late, a hail of bullets 
 peppered my haul. Then, I was dead. Welcome to Warhawk Noob! As he pass by and insult me.
  
  Incognito Entertainment did an outstanding job with Warhawk. Not only that, they brought a 
 seamless experience to the PS3 without even including a single player campaign. The only multiplayer 
 game is intense and littered with a good amount of production values which will leave you wanting 
 more. This game has definitely an outstanding replay value. What makes Warhawk so great is it does 
 everything that the competition does not. First, it gives the player all the toys that they can 
 ever want. Fighter planes, Armor, Jeeps and tons of weaponry. Second, it borrows a lot of gameplay 
 mechanics from other great multiplayer games and does it better. It gives the player choices on 
 how to fight, whether this is on land or in the air. At last, it makes it all intense and at the 
 same time adding some balance. The two factions are identical except for the player skins. Visually 
 the game looks stunning; the environments and character models are well detailed. The smoke and 
 fire effects, as well as the explosions are well done. Sadly, the only reason to not appreciate 
 it is that everybody is trying to shoot you. Overall Warhawk is an exceptional multiplayer game 
 that delivers all the bells and whistles that every online fanatic dreams of. Its an outstanding 
 game that makes you care less about the single player or any other games that are out there. Guaranteed, 
 Warhawk will be here for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psanam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Was a little frustrating at first, dying to vets. However learning the controls comes easy after 
 a few games, and the frustration turns into addictive fun. Have yet to experience any lag with 
 32 people playing at once. Getting ribbons and other unlockable rewards is a plus. Non-stop action! 
 . Would however, like to see an update that fix jeep turret damage to more, and increase damage 
 taken by planes that bounce around on buildings and the ground repeatedly while sniping ground 
 troops with machine fire. Seems pretty well balanced other then that. What turned into a rental 
 is now safe bet to purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  ***Please take note that I have not played the game for more then 3 hrs but I have played enough 
 to see everything about it.
  
  I would rent it first cause it is either a game you will/wont like. This game is online only so 
 there is no single player mode. You can however play up to four players in a split screen mode. 
 This game has the feel of Battlefield 2 but has a more sci-fi feeling. This game is not placed 
 in present day but in the future. There is little to no relation to any present or past jets, weapons, 
 or vehicles. The game uses the sixaxis controller well but it is pretty hard to use. I didnt take 
 the time to get the sensitivy down perfect but im sure it is better when you do that. Gameplay: 
 The gameplay is fun for some but others may not like it or find it boring. There are 4 gameplay 
 types (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, and Zones) and 5 maps. Though the small number of maps 
 they are pretty big and there is the option of different senarios (like having the bridges shutdown 
 so everyone has to play on one side of the map, etc....) that make it so the maps never get old.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are alright but dont seem next-gen!!! There is good looking water and explosions 
 but other then that the graphics are no better then battlefield 2 for the PS2. However there is 
 a cool feature that allows you to customize your character and what color you Warhawk/Nemisis will 
 be.
  
  Features: The game has very few weapons and is deffinatly based around the airial dogfighting. 
 When you spawn you are given a pistol and knife. So you have to go out and find the guns in the 
 map (thats right you cant pick if you want to be a sniper or assult rifler in this game) . There 
 is usually a assult rifle and grenades at the spawn points, but as for the sniper rifle and air 
 strikes you have to go out in the map and look for them. There are two teams, red and blue the 
 have names but i cant remember them. Each team has its own looking tank, 4x4 jeep, and jet (Blue 
 team has the Warhawk, Red has the Nemisis) . The cool thing about this game is there is a large 
 amount of these vehicles throughout the map so you never have to worry about someone taking the 
 only jet. This game offers a rather good rank system. It is much like Battlefield 2 but insted 
 of getting any medal, this game makes you have to get a certain medal before you get your next 
 rank.
  
  So my final thoughts on the game: Fun to some but not to others, Has some one of a kind features 
 but is very similar to Battlefield 2 and the flying is much like Ratchet and Clanks dogfighting. 
 This game is one that I highly recomend renting first, and it may seem boing at first but give 
 it time to learn the somewhat hard controls (flying mostly) and you may like it.
  
  I give this game a 8.0 because I find it addictive but not a fun original must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmYSkeeZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  A great game Warhawk is. The best game ever Warhawk is not, still a game that buy you should. Similar 
 to games like Battlefield Warhawk is, different though it is. Fun to play warhawk is. Just plain 
 fun Warhawk is. Best games one of them is on the ps3 Warhawk is. Either go to playstation store, 
 or go to normal store you shall, and buy warhawk you should. Always online games on Warhawk there 
 is. Hard to get in a game it is not. Fun to play once you're in a game it is. Good mix between 
 air and ground it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GKinnel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Ill start off with the cons, since there aren't many.
  
  Cons - 1 - No story mode. Maybe that's just me, but I'd want at least a small story mode. I do 
 wanna know and play a small background. 2 - People have a clear advantage on you if they had the 
 beta 1st.
  
  3 - The ability to run into planes into other planes and cliffs without real damage to the plane 
 is crazy.
  
  4 - A training mode would be more beneficial to new-comers
  
  5 - Not many maps
  
  Pros -
  1 - Plenty of servers, so no one will be at a loss when they 
 play, and very little to no lag.
  
  2 - The ablity to have 32 people on at the same time makes it great.
  
  3 - Fast paced, non 
 stop action.
  
  4 - Plenty of vehicles and anti-aircraft weapons make the playin' feild equal
  
  5 - The auto-aim 
 seems to help out in the fast paced action
  
  6 - Many ranks to get, and customizable uniforms as you go up in rank.
  
  7 - Team-work actually 
 pays off alot in this game
  
  8 - Downloadable, or you can buy the blu-ray disk and recieve a Bluetooth headset with it.
  
 
  All in all, it's a fun, fast paced game. A real nice original game that Sony picked up. Its abit 
 of a learning curve, but once you learn the controls better, it's worth every penny and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPack911
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game brings to consoles an experience which before was exclusive to PC, that being the exclusive 
 AAA online multi-player game. While PC gamers have been playing Battlefield and the like for years 
 and years now console gamers have been in the dark, not knowing why these games were always all 
 about the multi-player. Warhawk breaks that wall and shines a much needed light on that for console 
 gamers everywhere, showing everyone just what a true AAA multi-player only game is all about. The 
 game has a pick up and play feel, sure at first you will get blown up many a time before you even 
 get you're first kill. However give the game an hour and just pay attention to what the other team 
 is doing to take you out and then just go do for it yourself, you will find that it is much easier 
 to kick some ass and get some kills then you ever thought possible at first.
  
  The game sounds shallow at just 5 stages, but it is quite the opposite. The five stages can be 
 customized any way you want, they can be as massive or as tiny as you like and have more then enough 
 land and variety to keep you glued to your PS3 and your TV. They are also very well balanced, with 
 all the turrets, tanks and Warhawk's having strengths and weaknesses that constantly keep you alert 
 and thinking of the best way to take an enemy out.
  
  Bottom line the PlayStation Network has it's killer App and this game might just be multi-player 
 game of the year and that is saying something in a year that Unreal Tournament III is coming out. 
 Even against that though this game has a chance to be the better multi-player game in the end, 
 it's that good. Warhawk brings something to consoles, PS3, and the PlayStation Network that they 
 all sorely needed and it delivered in a way few thought it or maybe even any game could, and that 
 is why for me this game is a 10. See you in the skies!
  
  -WPack911 (Andrew P.)
  
  NOTE: Just so everybody reading this knows I in no way held the lack of a single player mode against 
 this game. It has been a Multi-player only game for over a year and has been billed and priced 
 as such therefore I felt there was no need need to hold that against it. If you are not a Multi-player 
 gamer you may feel quite differently about this game, but that is more about it not being your 
 personal cup of tea and has nothing to do with how good the game actually is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god13g
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  if u see this game in the stores then buy it u will be stupid no to buy it no offence and if u 
 ask me y ill tell u coz:
  1. its really living to its promis 2. no dissapointment tell now or ever
  3. it has realy great 
 GFX
  4. the gameplay is amazing 5. amazing dogfights
  6. huge maps
  7. u can play splitscreen online up to 4players :D
  8. u have ground vehicles
  9. u can be a foot 
 soldier
  10. foot soldiers dont need to get in a tank to take a plane or a tank 11. loads of cool weapons
 
  12. its the best to play alone or splitescreen 13. if u have 2 sixaxis then play 2player and practice
 
  14. downloadabel contact like 
  15. and last thing THEY FINALY BUT A KNIFE IN A GAME THE IS COOL
  and if ur playing warhawk watch 
 out for (god13g) lol thats me add me if u want. thank u for reading the online battle awaits you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game takes the best of Socom, Star Wars Battlefront, and a little bit of Battlefield and combines 
 it into a fun, fast paced 3rd person shooter. There's a nice selection of maps ( 5 worlds, 5 maps 
 on each equaling a total of 25 maps) , weapons (I like how you can carry as many weapons as you 
 like =D ) , and while there's only 3 vehicles, they're all nicely balanced. The jeep is fast and 
 hard to hit, and carrys 4 people. The tank is tough and can dish out some serious damage, it carrys 
 2 people, and the Warhawks are crazy fast, can swoop down and attack, or hover and bombard the 
 ground. It only carries 1 passenger and can be easily destoyed by other Warhawks, tanks, turrets 
 or RPG's. The graphics are very nice, except for some lackluster textures on the ground and hills, 
 but nothing to really complain about. The animations and framerate is awesome, I never noticed 
 any lag, even while witnessing a huge dogfight. The main thing I like about Warhawk is that the 
 huge maps and selection of vehicles let you put together well planned strategies, especially if 
 you're playing with friends/clan mates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuStLa1332
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  this game is the best game period. this game is mujch better than halo2, but im not sure how its 
 gonna compare to halo3. i love playstation in general, but i also do love halo for xbox. BUT THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST HAVE FOR PS3!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  it has great graphics, great sound, great gameplay, and its just great overall. The really cool 
 thing about this game is that it is ONLINE-ONLY so the fun never ends. and the thing about this 
 game that proves PS3 is the best system is that the SCEA ranked servers are not what you think 
 a server is, it is a PLAYSTATION3!!! yes, the playstation 3 is the server, haha. it also has the 
 FULL-FEATURE OF THE SIXAXIS!!!
  
  so go out and buy this game, it is much better than halo, counter-strike, gears of war (which sux) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PIMPSHINN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Playing warhawk is alot of fun. The ground combat is especially well balanced. Jeeps perform great, handling, and 
 weapons also. Tanks well thats another story ,way to slow, even 4 a tank. The tanks cannon fires and 
 reloads so slowly you canot hit a damn thing unless its not moving. Which is never. Your character 
 is really well balanced also. The usual guns and grenades are good , but its very rewarding to stab 
 the crap out of an opponant with your standard issue combat knife. One hit kills baby! Now on 2 
 the Warhawk .When you first start out in your 'hawk its pretty darn cool. But then when theres actual 
 combat in the sky it gets very hard. The help system stinks. After a few hours playing you get pretty 
 used to flying although ocasionally you'll move your sixaxis a little in the wrong direction and 
 totally screw up. Althgh very hard flying is a ton of fun!. I personally think the Warhawks are way 
 to fast to be effective for destroying thing son the ground. If you hover 4 even a few seconds to 
 try to shoot at somethng on the ground you wil almost immediately get shoot 2 hell .I think ill 
 stick 2 the ground. It is almost like playing 2 different games ground and air. Its nice being able 
 2 jump in a game and play whenever you want! This is the title PS3ers have been waiting 4 I have 
 all 3 nxt-gen systems. Its good 2 see PS3 get a triple AAA title. Hope more are on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormtrooper88
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  the game itself is great but unless you're the only person in your house who plays the game then 
 don't download it, go buy it. i say this because myself and others particularly on Amazon have 
 downloaded it because it was cheaper and all but the huge downside to doing that is you can only 
 play the game on the console profile it was downloaded on. so it short, you can only have one online 
 profile player which sucks if theres 3 different people playing the game who have to share one 
 character. other than that the downloadable version is just as good as the game you can buy at 
 the store, same great maps, same visual quality, same ability to play split screen online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta014
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a 32-player, multiplayer-only shooter from Sony. It's a good thing, then, that most 
 of Warhawk is incredibly straightforward. It's easy to jump right into a game using the game's 
 server browser, and there seem to already be plenty of people playing at all hours. If you've ever 
 played something like Battlefield 2 or Star Wars: Battlefront, you'll probably take to Warhawk's 
 brand of team-based multiplayer shooting quickly, as it's a simplified take on that experience. 
 The maps have bases strewn about that your team can capture. Capturing them gives you a place to 
 spawn, or if you're playing in the zones mode, it'll help you earn points toward winning the game. 
 Regardless of how you get it, Warhawk is a great multiplayer shooter and one of the first of its 
 kind to land on the still-new PlayStation 3. It offers just enough content to justify its price 
 tag, but more importantly, it plays well, with just the right mix of tactical considerations and 
 finger-on-the-trigger action. With hooks in there for additional map downloads, it'll be interesting 
 to see how this one develops from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsaligi1072
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I would reccommend any one play this game, my buddy and i have sat here for at least 8 hrs playing 
 this game, so fun. Just learning to fly is fun but then you have ground combat as well.
  With tanks and jeeps, rocketlaunchers, flame throwers man its just got it all. In the end i would 
 but this game again if i had too. If you own a ps3 you owe it to yourself to buy this game. Just 
 dl it directly from the playstation store because it is alot cheaper that way. La la lal lal lalalalala 
 lal ala lalalalal l al al al lal al al ala la la a ala lal lalalalalallalala 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limegut
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I personaly love this game. The only flaws are the little things, like horrible connecting, wierd 
 ranking system, and a horrible badge system.
  
  Easiness of use: 6
  The place where Warhawk ins't quite pickup and play 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Awsome, awesome, awesome.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Warhawks flyin in the skies, troops dishin it out on the ground, and vehicles blowin up. Nice.
 
  
  Intensity Factor: 9.7
  When your flying in your Warhawk, you never know when the next barrage of missiles is gonna blow 
 your plane into bits and pieces falling from the skies, along with your dead pilot. On the ground, 
 you worry if a tank or squad of enemies is gonna blow your guy sky high
  
  Fun Factor: 9.7
  When your flyin in your Warhawk, youll find yourself tailing an enemy ace till 
 he blow up into a flame ball. On the ground, you can sneak up on enemies and blow them sky high 
 with your frag grenades.
  
  Total: 9
  This isn't the average, but I did not scale this game down or up one tenth of a point for the $40 
 advantage. Statement: AWESOME, AWESOME, AWESOME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murshed2007
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't matter if your are a pro at first person shooter you would still find this to be an 
 enjoyable game. Running, Driving, Flying all of this combined into a great game. I wasn't that 
 interested in multiplayer fps before but Warhawk is a completely different experience. I love the 
 flying aspect of the game, well I can shoot stuff and not get killed that often. But there is so 
 much in this game that you won't be able to put it down after one game. My rating:
  Graphics: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Online System: 10/10
  Overall: 9/10
  
  I give it 9/10 
 as an average but I really loved this game, so 10/10 from me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gclark50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Wow!!!!! Finally a game worth booting up my PS3 for; its only a multi player game but what a great 
 game it is. This purchase was due to pure boredom on a Friday night; I had $38.00 in my online 
 wallet to burn at the PS store and decided to check this game out. Ok on to the game first of all 
 it is very difficult when you first start playing but once you get the controls down get ready 
 to frag some people in a big way. The control is tight especially when flying the Warkawk. The 
 level design is perfect with better than average graphics. If youre a fan of online games, this 
 game is really a blast to play. Do yourself a favor and pick it up or download it, at least you 
 will have something entertaining to play on your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soydebarrio
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Most addictive game on the PS3 so far, crazy fun. This is going to have the wife mad for months. 
 If you like fun you have to pick this BANGER up.
  
  Gameplay is real easy to pick up and play. Newbees, will get shot down fast, but will pick up quickly. 
 Lots of weapons for foot soldiers, and alot of cool war hawk weapons.
  
  Only thing that bothers me is trying to get into ranked matches. It can be hard to get in them. 
 But everything else I love, great game.
  
  All maps are well spaced, and the terrots guns and missle launchers are fun use. Nothings more 
 satisfying the watching the enemies warhawks flying, thinking there going to take down one of yur 
 partners and you just blow them out the sky from the ground. There not even thinking about you 
 and boom there short airfighting career come to an end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbordi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Very good, it takes a while before you get the hand on it, but when you do, you wont 
 let go. but using the sixaxis motion was very troublesome with cars and tanks. and it took quite 
 a time before i could shoot down an enemy with the warhawk. so i reccomend the normal analog stick 
 for beginners :)
  
  Graphics: great graphics. the environment looks really good, and by the 10 hours of gameplay i 
 have never noticed any lag.
  the light effects are sweet, and it looks so awesome when you blow up stuff.
  and the warhawks 
 looks beautifull :)
  
  The different gamemodes you can choose from in the game are very fun.
  Although you probobly 
 will spent most of the time in death/teamdeath matches, cuz thats really the most fun.
  there is also the dogfights, thats when you just fight in warhawks (airfighters) . and that is brilliant. 
 it runs so smooth, and it feels so good when you dodged the missiles and make a loop to get behind 
 your enemies to just put em down with rockets or machinegun.
  
  Overall: great gameplay, great graphics, great gamemodes.
  the best multiplayer on the ps3, no, 
 the best multiplayer on any console so far.
  
  read my words, this game is worth every penny of its price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerpower1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  just buy it. you won't regret it (unless you go broke because that was all you had) but trust me 
 you won't regret it. it's a masterpiece. It's just great. it's perfect. I mean when you're playing 
 you won't care about it's limited amount of maps, nor the limited amounts of game modes, weapons, 
 or the feeling of my god what have I've done, I bought a game with no single player but Sony did 
 a good job balancing it out and air will not always be dominating, nor will ground, so Incognito 
 did a good job on making this game. It's a great opportunity for Sony as it is a PS3 exclusive, 
 and that's what they need. Killer PS3 Exclusives. I just hope they make an offline AI game you 
 know what I mean? that you make a game offline and fill it with AI Bots that ought've be really 
 cool. seriously. I just hope that Incognito will keep releasing new maps and new game modes and 
 features through PSN so it could keep improving (which I don't think is possible) . The Good: Great 
 gameplay, cool arcade graphics, incredible sound, awesome lag-free multiplayer and tons of community 
 features.
  
  The Bad: It would've been cool for the game to have like 64 player capacity and a few more game 
 modes, like I don't know search and destroy?
  
  I'm just going to give this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion993
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Ou could play this game for hours and hours and still have fun every single time. The gameplay 
 is amazing and the planes, tanks and 4x4 are great. theres not to many weapons but you wont think 
 about that when your playing. the graphics are amazing to look at and the sound couldnt be better. 
 customization is great and it gives you something to play for. Amazing game, MUST HAVE GAME FOR 
 PS3 SO FAR!!! i would get it from the playstation store on the ps3 and not in a store unless you 
 dont have a headset. the only bad thing is that you will be doing nothing but playing this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazeaai
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I was really concerned about the game. No Single player. Only 5 maps and it seems like it's been 
 done before. But once you play it you will know what makes it so special. The game is so well balanced 
 that if you play smart enough you can even kill a plane. The action is always fun, exiting, and 
 just insane. Running around an alleyway with the enemy's flag tied to your back. Tanks and soldiers 
 lurking around every corner. Warhawks duel to the death in the skies and the music blasting into 
 your ears as the action heats up. It just feels incredible. And of this is happening in a huge 
 map, 32 players, and almost no lag at all. I have played the game for 9 hours now and i only experienced 
 lag free gameplay for about 95% of the time. Now the graphics may not be the best on the ps3 but 
 i do have to say that the art style is so pleasant to look at. The visuals are rich in color. The 
 animations remind you of all those cartoons we grew up with. And all of this is happening at a 
 perfect frame rate. The only downside to the game is that it freezes a bunch of times, could use 
 some more maps, and most of the time servers update slowly so when you try to join a game with 
 16 out of 32 it says server full. But all of these problems can be easily fixed with a patch or 
 two in the near future. Overall this is a great multiplayer game that should not be missed. So 
 if you own a ps3, need some games, and are hungry for some online carnage then this is the game 
 to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Set_Free
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Most game developers focus mostly on a single player campaign and then after that they MIGHT tak 
 on a little online play. Incognito took a diffrent
  approach when creating warhawk. This online-only miltiplayer game is like playing a perfect mixture 
 of Mercinaries and Crimson skies as you have the option of ground, vehicle, and areial attacks. 
 The first thing you'll notice if youre used to online play is the smooth, lag-free gameplay. I 
 was suprised to see 24 players on one server with no frame-rate flaws or pauses when going from 
 ground to air. The ground weapons range from automatic rifles, from pistols to even rocket-launchers. 
 The lack of a shotgun is made up for with the addition of a powerful flamethrower that can mow 
 an enemy down in under five seconds. As far as air is concearned there are generally two planes 
 to choose from, that can be costomized in various ways from color to emblem. The planes on this 
 game control beautifully from the jet burst to the shooting every thing feels natural. Note that 
 I did have to change the configuration but thats only because I dont like inverted. You'll also 
 notice the fact that the developers didn't have to sacrifice graphics for depth as the game is 
 beautiful to look at. While the character models dont look as life-like as you would want them 
 to, they do satisfy the average gamer. The textrues on the buildings and mountians satisfy as do 
 the clouds and rain when in flight.
  
  To sum it all up this game is just flat-out fun! In the past Sony didn't have a exclusive to brag 
 about, now they do! Hopefully they'll bring more quality titles out like this one to go with the 
 current line-up titles on the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Normally I like to give a page long review and description of a game. Seeing as how there are already 
 many great reviews that gamespot players have already made I'll try (maybe) to keep it brief to 
 put in my two cents. So on to what has already been said:
  
  Good:
  
  1. Well balanced multiplayer If your are on foot, wheels, wings, or in a turret, each method has 
 their advantages, uses, and weaknesses. If it is up to a players preferences to stick with one 
 type or to spread out their uses throughout a game, one won't feel too underpowered or outnumbered 
 without feeling like having and edge. It can be boiled down to rock/paper/scissors with the addition 
 of a few extra office supplies to add to this game.
  
  2. Awesome large maps With only five maps available right now, they make a presence by their massive 
 size and the graphic engine's noteably looong draw distance. Each map seems to bias along the spectrum 
 between foot and flight, but is a good thing since it keeps strategies varied and complex. Each 
 map has a personality that separates it from the others. Also depending on the max player size 
 maps can have different configurations that compliment that, keeping players close enough to stay 
 in the action without being too close. It is rare to die within the first five seconds of spawning 
 in, yet it takes less than 15 seconds to find a fellow or opposing teamember.
  
  3. KISS (keep it simple stupid) Warhawk feels stripped down to the basics of multiplayer. It is 
 easy to pick up after a few rounds despite the lack of detailed instructions (including the retail 
 which still had me guessing) . This focus on the basics of what makes good multiplayers shows that 
 Incognito had a good idea of what fun is in multiplayer, and also is what makes the ability of 
 this game to be well balanced. It gives the game a slightly arcadey feel, and allows the more casual 
 player to have fun while the hardcore serious can stick to their precision tactics. Somehow this 
 game can balance in the elitists (yet the game is still too new yet for this to be proven) .
  
  4. Great point system Following that Incognito gets multiplayer, a very detailed stat and awards 
 system is included. Every facet in multiplayer is scored positively or negatively to add to your 
 global score and rank. This is the most advanced and detailed system I have EVER seen, and should 
 set a standard for future multiplayer games.
  
  Bad:
  
  The Bad is more a wishlist than a flaw. As fun as the game is there are a few things left out that 
 should be a natural inclusion to next gen multiplayer.
  
  1. Lacking instructions. I had the retail version which gives enough instruction to get off the 
 ground. Still there were a lot of specifics missing that had me scratching my head. This leads 
 to a lot of trial and error approach, which will come to separate the flock from the herd. This 
 might've helped Noobs find thier way into the game quicker without all their mindless teamkilling 
 and wonky tactics.
  
  2. Needs a better server browser and matchmaking Warhawk is server based. Thanks to Bungie I've 
 come to expect matchmade games to be a staple to get quick online play. Luckily in finding specific 
 servers you can choose exactly what gametype you want to play. Unfortunately these servers tend 
 to be full and one has to fish for any next available server that may not necessarily be the type 
 of game you want. You can start your own server to your liking, but are limited on having the full 
 32 player experience.
  
  3. No friend invites or partying up. Maybe this is another Halo thing I've gotten too used to. 
 If I seem to run into a player that I team up well withing a game, as long as I stay in the server 
 I can play alongside that player more than once. On quitting the server there is no way to specifically 
 invite that player to my friends list. A clan ability is available through the game, but this only 
 includes your original friends list. To add other players you have to exit the game to the XMB 
 and find them that way to add. If Warhawk does have an easier method to add players to your friends 
 list I haven't found it yet.
  
  4. The PS3 only allows one PSN account and microphone at a time. Really its not the game's fault. 
 When taking my PS3 to a friends house they could not play in the game as their own account, but 
 had to be under my account. The fact my friends could play on one screen is awesome and as easy 
 as hitting start, but it would have been nice if they could have gotten their own identity. This 
 also follows with the mic. The mic is only active to the main player. The PS3 doesn't seem to allow 
 more than one mic.
  
  Well thats it. So much for keeping it short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup3rp3t3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  To make it easier to read, I will breakdown this review in subjects.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful. Whether your flying in the sky looking at the amazing looks 
 of the sky and clouds. Or you even fly in a cloud and you can't see. Each map has amazing graphics 
 that will make you say WOW when you look at certain details. Whether the large bulidings, the breathing 
 trees, and the firery explosions especially when you blow up a Warhawk and streams of fire and 
 rock fall down to the ground. All the weapons and vehicles are well put and graphically impressive. 
 The Warhawk universe is simply amazing when it comes down to graphics.
  Multiplayer: One thing Microsoft can never do is make an ALL multiplayer game like Warhawk. That 
 is because you must pay for a subscription and PSN is free. 32 players can be in one game at once. 
 Whether flying in Warhawks, driving in tanks and warthogs, or on foot with heavy and light weapons. 
 Warhawk gives you alot to do in one game and you must use it to your advantage and win the game. 
 Multiplayer is even better if you bought the game in stores cause it comes with a bluetooth headset 
 from Jabra. Customization And Extras: Aas your rank gets higher in the game by earning medals, 
 ribbons, and just being a really good player you get more stuff to customize your character and 
 your Warhawk. The game also comes with trailers to other PS3 games.
  Rank: There are many ranks to upgrade to and that makes it so fun to always keep playing it to 
 get your rank up to the highest it can be. From a Recruit, all the way up to a General.
  Closing: Warhawk is going to be up there with the best games of the year. With Halo 3, Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption, Mass Effect, Heavenly Sword, Lair, and a few more titles. If you have a PS3 
 you must get this game. If you don't then you'll be missing out on a one time experience. Thanks 
 for reading. Peace out and enjoy Warhawk on the Sony Playstation 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crash_FOX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game is FUN but not the best of 2007, this has great multiplayer that you'll enjoy unless 
 your a 360 fanboy. Options are deep and great, theres an average amount of modes, an a okay amount 
 of maps, but you'll be playing this until Unreal Tournament III, PS3's online crown jewel comes 
 out. This is just plain great and the visuals are daziling. But for every positive, a negative. 
 Not all the hype is here, as this game doesn't quite stand up to Halo, Battlefield, or Unreal Tournament. 
 But without comparision, if you got PS3, you must get WARHAWK!!!! I gotta make more words so lets 
 see, awesoe ness, amazing, fun, and a slight dissapoinment. No AI bots kill any single player aspect, 
 but IT DOESN T NEED ONE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglynuncreative
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  I'm usually the type of person who doesn't like online multi-player shooters for the reason that 
 you almost always seem to end up playing against 13 year-old Korean prodigies. Nobody likes being 
 fragged incessantly without ever feeling like you have a chance and maybe this'll change as people 
 have more time with the game, but for right now - this game is amazing. As a round starts up now 
 I find myself hopping in my seat and my first kill accompanied by a shout at the TV of "Welcome 
 to MY house!"
  
  Overall, it's always easier to get a review from a devoted fan to a game that will go on endlessly 
 about what's great about a game. There's certainly plenty of that out there for this one and for 
 good reason, as there's a lot about this game that will have you losing days of your life playing 
 it. In the meantime, however, I'm going to say what is bad about the game and maybe just one or 
 two wishlist items that would be sweet to have had in it.
  
  First of all, the online system for joining servers can be immensely frustrating. Often times you'll 
 have difficulty finding a server that isn't full despite the fact that when you refresh the list 
 it will pop up again with open slots. I've found this seems to be bypassable by joining servers 
 with odd numbers of participants, but it's frustrating none the less. It's good because there are 
 a lot of people online at all hours playing, but it's bad because there are a lot of people online 
 playing and after spending five minutes and trying to join servers only to see the error message 
 that a server is full can be infuriating when you want to join in and play.
  
  In the absence of a single player campaign mode, the game could've benefitted immensely from the 
 inclusion of some training missions. The option is there to start a server and play by yourself 
 to get the feel of things, but particularly when it comes to dogfighting, a few training missions 
 with dummies would've been useful. Really, anything would've been useful, as the in-game help texts 
 aren't particularly timely or informative. So get ready to figure things out through experimentation.
 
  
  When you die, the screen flashes to the guy who killed you, which in some cases is awesome, but 
 in others (say if you're trying to provide covert cover as a sniper) can really ruin a great perch. 
 Technically snipers are supposed to move in between shots, but in a game this fast paced and chaotic, 
 you don't want to waste time moving again so you can get a bead on an area your teammates may have 
 mopped up. This is a minor complaint though, as respawns are plentiful and fast, vehicles are everywhere, 
 and weapons are easy to pick back up. In two days of playing I've covered a vast swath of miles, 
 but what's interesting is in looking at the Stat screen (which covers basically any statistic you 
 could possibly want) I've flown the overwhelming majority of that distance. In most cases this 
 wouldn't be surprising given the greatly increased speed you have in a Warhawk, except that I tend 
 to only use them for transport and discard them once at location.
  
  It would be nice to be able to form servers with bots, but for now I haven't seen any players with 
 skill levels bordering on the absurd to suck the fun out of playing. Furthermore, once online it 
 doesn't seem very easy to find friends to play with. There might be a way around this, but once 
 again, without useful instruction manuals how would you know?
  
  Finally one wish. In the game you can get binoculars with which to call in Artillery strikes. Yet 
 there are no artillery pieces on the map. It would have been far nicer if artillery was controlled 
 in the same way that AA-Guns and Missile Turrets are. Players could ping locations on the maps 
 to request arty support from their main base and arty could lay down slow lob shots as well. Some 
 might say this would make things too insane, but that's actually one of the things that I love 
 about the game. The draw distance is so surprisingly far that you can see enemy Warhawks approaching 
 from miles out, even cooler is that you can see the missiles and tracers darting up from the ground 
 as they try to make it across the map.
  
  Overall, these are the only big things I've noticed that irk me, which when you think about it, 
 gives you an idea of just how good this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berzerked2006
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  After waiting to get into a game already on the network, I decided to start my own game and WOW, 
 after 5 ro 10 minutes the room was full and we were having a blast, blasting each other to kingdom 
 come!
  
  I played 3 thirty minute games and it was so much fun, it seemed as if in a time warp, it went 
 so fast. This game is better than any other flying or multi-player online warring game I have ever 
 played.
  
  I heard mixed reviews and almost did not purchase it, but now am glad I did not make that mistake, 
 BUY IT, YOU WILL BECOME IMMERSED IN THE BEST GAME EXPERIENCE TO DATE!
  
  Tanks to blow the enemy away, planes to dogfight with, missles launchers to shoot down planes, 
 RP-Gs, besides the arsenal of rifles, grenades etc......... your imagination is your only limit!
 
  
  See you on-line for a long time!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emikid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Warhawk is a Multiplayer only game on the PS3, and I must say, I am very surprised of the outcome 
 of this PS3 title. Not only is the Flying aspect of the game is extremely immersive, but the Ground 
 and Walking state of game are equally as good. There is a lot of weapons in the game, from Rocket 
 launchers on the Ground to the Mines in the Air. you are assured to be well served on your arsenal. 
 The most notable aspect of the game, in my opinion, is the Flying battles, I was simply enjoying 
 myself killing people with the missile launcher and the machine guns attached to the Warhawk, dodging 
 ennemy missles by looping around and around, going really fast, head first in another guys warhawk 
 and oh my god much more.. This is a game where you will always want more.
  
  Gameplay:
  First of all, it's a shooter, whether you're flying, driving or running, there is a vast selection 
 of weapons in the game, from a simple, 1-hit kill knife to a flame thrower, there is a lot of variety 
 to the amount of weapons, that counts also for the flying part of the game, Rocket Missles to Chaffs, 
 which makes you evade incoming missles, are a great addition to the game. I was personnaly disappointed 
 in the game vehicules, a Tank, which is fairly accurate none the less, and a fast rolling truck 
 with a turret at the back, which is not all that effective. Other than that, the game ships with 
 five different maps, and 4 (I think?) game modes (Capture the Flag, Death Match, Team Death Match, 
 and Zone) Zone is a game mode that requires you to capture Control Points, and ultimately to win 
 the game. My only complaint is that the game didn't teach you how to play at first, you practically 
 have to experience stuff on your own to know the controls.
  
  Visuals:
  There isn't much to say about Graphics other than they are Great. It is, in my opinion, one of 
 the best looking game to date on the PS3. The environements are very well polished and the textures 
 on the character, planes and ground vehicules are top notch. But I personally had some problems 
 with the HUD placement, my TV isn't very ''HD'' if you know what i'm saying, i'm gonna have to 
 change my setup one day or another!
  
  Sound:
  While the game Music is Alright.. It could have used a little bit more sound effects on the planes 
 and such, it would've been a much more enjoyable experience in my opinion. I can't say much about 
 the Sound since i'm not much of a sound wh*re : /, =D
  
  Value:
  Since it's an Multiplayer only game, I don't think it will really stand out between a combo of 
 the SP and MP in a game, like Resistance. I never really enjoyed playing online all the time, I 
 really like to alternate between Single and Multiplayer action.
  
  That is pretty much my Warhawk Review, It is a great game that unfortunately could have used a 
 small Single Player portion of the game. Other than that, i'd recommend to the MP fans out there 
 looking for a great Multiplayer game for the PS3 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Warhawk provides another reason to get a PS3 if you have not already. Not only does the game play 
 great, it runs great too. Straight up 32 multiplayer on line goodness, numerous configurations 
 for map types and match types such as deathmatch, team death match, capture the flags and zones. 
 What really makes Warkawk fun is the gameplay, great visuals aside. Piloting a warhawk, or manning 
 a gun tower, the gameplay is fast, addictive, and quite frantic. From dogfights over huge sky scraping 
 towers to rolling with hommies in a jeep making a bum rush on the enemies base. It's only $39.99 
 and downloadable so if you are looking for a good multiplayer experience then Warhawk is sure to 
 bring you much replayable entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the most fun I ve had with an online game in a very long time if not ever. It's been a 
 long time since there's been a game that was just plain fun online and where I really wanted to 
 play it. Alot of today's multiplayer's kind of seem like they are thrown together to supplement 
 the single player game and to give reason for the price tag. But here we have a game that the sole 
 focus has ben on the online multiplayer since there is no single player campaign. I must admit, 
 at first I was very skeptical about the game not having single player. But after playing, I can 
 honestly say...... there's no need. It's not what the game is for. I've been wanting, and the PS3 
 has been needing, a good game to get people more involved in community and interaction with one 
 another...... well....... this is the game to do it. You spawn on foot with a pisol and couple of 
 grenades........ go jump in a tank..... or jeep........ or run to the nearest plane........ or just 
 try and hoof it........ it's up to you. Cool weapons and the very best airplane/dogfight experience 
 ever put into a game. My favorite part has to be flying the airplanes........... the guided missles 
 and bombs and other weapons make it very entertaining. If I hadn't already written countless praises 
 of this game elsewhere I would say more here but let me just say this............ if you own a PS3......... this 
 game is a MUST......... and you get a bluetooth headset!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XL83
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming, but Sony's anticipated run/drive/fly shooter, Warhawk has finally 
 been released for the PS3, and it is, to put it mildly, well worth the wait.
  
  
  
  Imagine if Battlefield 2, Star Wars: Battlefronts, and Twisted Metal all got in a horrible car 
 wreck. Warhawk is the aftermath. In Warhawk, players will take to the skies and the ground on foot, 
 in tanks, in jeeps, and in the ubiquitous Warhawk, to snipe, stab, and shoot eachother in a variety 
 of multiplayer modes. All the standard modes, such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture 
 the Flag, are intact, as well as a couple you may or may not be familiar with, such as Zones. Dogfight-only 
 matches are also available for people who just don't feel like any more ground combat. It's important 
 to note that Warhawk has no single-player story or campaign mode. Offline multiplayer games are 
 available, either via split-screen (up to four players) , or via LAN, but the real game is found 
 online. Up to 4 players can simultaneously join servers of up to 32 players, allowing you and your 
 buddies to play together online on the same console. Warhawk's gameplay is incredibly balanced 
 for a game of it's type. If anything, the titular Warhawk, a jet that is capable of either blazing 
 though the sky at lightning speeds, or hovering, Harrier-style, to provide ground support for troops, 
 or simply to blow fools up, is a little bit underpowered. You would expect a sleek, powerful jet 
 to completely dominate the competition, but ground troops with the right artillery can easily take 
 them down with a couple of well-placed shots. An expert pilot will still have to stay on his toes 
 if he wants to avoid being blown to smithereens by huge cannons and missile launchers. The variety 
 of ground, vehicle and air combat can make for some interesting scenarios, because there are so 
 many ways to play. For example, you can engage an enemy, and then turn to flee, leading your mark 
 over to where your buddy is parked in a huge anti-aircraft turret on the ground below. A couple 
 of good shots, and your enemy is no more. If flying isn't your style, this game still has a hell 
 of a lot to offer you. Hop in a tank with a buddy. As a passenger you have the ability to switch 
 to a turret, or even pop out of the hatch and immediately fire off some shots or throw a grenade. 
 If you really don't feel like vehicular combat at all, feel free to use a knife, a pistol, an automatic 
 machine gun, a rocket launcher, or the holy grail of ground combat, the sniper rifle, to shoot 
 foes in the neck from half a map away. The visuals in Warhawk are brilliant. Incognito, the developing 
 team, didn't shoot for a realistic look, a la Battlefield 2, opting instead to create a unique, 
 gritty, but very arcade-y art style that is all their own. The textures and lighting effects, especially 
 when the lighting is reflected off the textures, is great to look at. The water looks superb. High 
 speeds are handled with a slight blur effect, used exactly the right amount. There are no framerate 
 issues to be seen here, and the draw distance is simply astounding. An astute observer will be 
 able to see ground-to-air projectiles from an entire map away, allowing him to single out the target 
 and hunt him down like the dog that he is. Each map has a very unique feel, and there are enough 
 variations on each map to keep the game from feeling stale. Warhawk's sound is absolutely stellar. 
 All of the sound effects just sound right. The deep roar of the engines thrust and afterburners, 
 the whizzing sound as a Warhawk practically clips your players head, the massive explosions - they 
 are all there. So is a nice, understated musical score that fades in and out, depending on the 
 situation your player is in. A sudden dogfight might spark a song change, as will a rocket to some 
 poor sucker's unsuspecting face. There aren't any weak points in Warhawk's sound, and without a 
 single-player mode there is no subpar voice acting to be had. By far and above, Warhawk wins all 
 of its awards in the fun-factor or tilt area. Flying a jet simply has never been this fun. Players 
 have the option to use the analog-sticks or SIXAXIS tilt functions to pilot their Warhawk, and 
 for those that do decide to give the SIXAXIS a go, they will experience a whole new level of immersion. 
 Tilt and yaw to your hearts content while keeping your thumbs free for aiming and selecting weapons. 
 Keep that tank driving and turning while you adjust the turret and smoke some hapless schmoe. There 
 are so many ways these frantic multiplayer matches can play out, so many possible team tactics 
 and tricks that you will discover something new every time you play. Warhawk is available in stores 
 bundled with a Jabra Bluetooth headset, or as a download via the PSN. Do yourself a favor and jump 
 in a Warhawk as soon as possible. It's a ride you won't regret taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jester101puppet
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk really is amazing its everything its cracked up ti be and more while it does miss some 
 key multiplayer features like kicking and in-game invites it will probably have patches to fix 
 any elements it misses but overall this game is a solid Online Shooter its got great gameplay, 
 customization and the thing that really makes this game shine is its amazing aerialcombat
  the thing I like the most about warhawk would have to be the infantry battle which can be hard 
 to find but if you can find one its a hell of allot of fun.
  There are two version of warhawk retail and the PSN version while the retail comes with a bluetooth 
 mic the PSN is cheaper and you could easily get a cheap mic and save 10$ i got the retail because 
 i dident feel like looking for a mic but this game was eaven worth the extra money while it may 
 only have multiplayer the singleplayer would have just made this game better I give warhawk a overall 
 of 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owskie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing in almost every department. graphics are amazing with a great draw distance 
 you can see a jeep driving along from halfway across the map. the sound it pretty good notihgn 
 over the top but does the game justice. controls are really good standard shooter controls except 
 not really a reload button which is kinda sad when you need to and you gotta choose that weapon 
 in the weapon select to do it. the fact that the warhawk can be taken down fairly easily is really 
 good so when you see the other team running for them its not really a bad thing. the only big issue 
 i have is when im going to play a game most games are full or will say they have space but really 
 dont. the game needs a faster refresh on the lists. all in all if you like shooting on the ground 
 and in the air get this game so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akumous
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  They're quite a few online based only games out there, Unreal Tournament, Battle field, and many 
 more. This is PS3's first online based game and it is one of the best games I've have played thus 
 far. I was a little skeptical but desperate to play an only PS3 exclusive title, so I purchased 
 the online version of game without reading gamespot's official review. I normally read gamestop's 
 review before I purchase the game. I guess impulse didn't do me wrong this time because I absolutely 
 love the game. It is fun, addictive, and amazingly almost lag free. The set up for the network 
 is flawless and every game developer should mimic this concept for Sony's online model because 
 it definitely works. It is really a fun game... If I have to be picky I would say they should have 
 included more maps, at least 10 damn it instead of 5. I won't be surprise if they charge for the 
 extra maps when they come available, which they shouldn't. Let the content be free because 5 mere 
 maps just don't cut it for a 40.00 ( plus tax) game. This game should have been 10 dollars less 
 for both the retail and online version. The game does feel solid and well balance in its own right, 
 but we need more free content. I really don't have an issue with the lack online manual since the 
 controls are straight forward and easy to pick for beginners, I just have a problem with the lack 
 of maps and weapons. Hopefully, we will see some free or charged expansions later this year.
  
  Excellent game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I never was really into Warhawk until a month before its release. I love multiplayer games, so 
 I was very excited to play this game. I was not disappointed at all with this game. First of all, 
 the action is fast paced and adrenaline pumping. You will constantly be fighting people on foot, 
 in the air, in ground vehicles, and in turrets. You really have to be aware of your surroundings 
 in this game, or else you will die really fast. The graphics are very impressive in this game. 
 The environment looks beautiful in 1080p and the explosions are loud and intense. The controls 
 take some getting used to, but that only takes like half an hour. The online is very good in Warhawk. 
 I barely get into a room with lag (actually I only went into 1 laggy room out of the 12 I went 
 into) . There is a lot of stuff to do in this game. You can customize your character and your Warhawk 
 and there is clan support too. There are also many ranks in this game, so you'll be busy. The split 
 screen and LAN is also extremely fun and exciting to play with friends. If you have a PS3, you 
 should DEFINITELY pick up this game. You really will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk, one of the PS3's most anticipated titles, does quite decently. It is an excellent, fast-paced 
 multiplayer experiences -- possibly one of the best Ive ever had. Warhawk gives you the option to 
 fight on the ground or in the sky. Personally, I prefer the sky (doesnt everybody?) , but fighting 
 on the ground is fun too -- you have cars, tanks, anti-aircraft guns, and much more. The amount of 
 veriety in Warhawk is just somewhat abundant, but while all of this seems as though it will keep 
 you entertained for a long time, it surprisingly wears thin after a while. I disappointed about 
 this -- I thought I would be entertained for a VERY long time with Warhawk, but it just didn't turn 
 out that way. I also must say that the game does have a rather steep learning curve -- it just take 
 a little while to get good at it. At first, you really just have to play around with everything 
 and test things out, and then one you muster the controls and the weapons, etc., you'll do great. 
 While Warhawk falls just a bit short of its expectations, it is still a must-play for PS3 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrizztDark
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, hands down.. Not the best online game of all time but pretty damn awsome 
 in my opinion and this is coming from a very picky person on video games. First of all, you knew 
 from the start this was a online game only so stop your **** on their's is no single player plz! 
 Plus i see some reviews that the graphics suck as well has the framerate????? Havent seen this 
 problem at all, this has to be users without HDTV posting these comments. Dont have one? get a 
 job and get one. The graphics are awsome on 720p and not once have i seen a framerate issue.. Face 
 it, both 360 and PS3 where designed for the HDTV aura so cowboy up and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This is not an 8.5 game. It's a solid 9.0 unless, of course, you were stupidly misled into thinking 
 this is some kind of strategic single-player fracas. It should be noted that spectacular graphics 
 + excellent sound + terrific frame rate + superb controls + sheer enjoyment - poor onscreen help 
 does NOT equal an 8.5 overall. Gamespot is using its new system to sabotage games for trifling 
 reasons, and it sucks.
  
  No, this is just good old-fashioned online melee action. There's nothing fancy about Warhawk but 
 I suppose if you love a throwback kind of video game, one where you shoot, shoot, and shoot some 
 more, then you're going to find this to be extremely pleasurable. The likelihood of more maps being 
 released for download later just enhances the value of a very reasonably priced game. I mean, a 
 $40 download is very much on par with what a solid PC multiplayer game would run if DL'd from Steam 
 or some other service. You pay $60 at the store and you get some nice little bonuses, including 
 a very good Bluetooth headset that would normally cost at least $30 or $40.
  
  That said, the value you'll get from the game isn't the convenience of buying it at home or getting 
 a piece of useful swag in the box. Instead, Warhawk proves itself by being addictive and imminently 
 accessible. The flight mechanics take a little adjustment period and Lord knows it would be nice 
 to have an offline training mechanism, but hey, who can quarrel with a game that throws you into 
 the fray instantly? It's a real achievement and a sorely needed game for the PS3, which has seen 
 so many disappointments in its first few months that the most minor victories seem significant.
 
  
  But make no mistake, Warhawk is by no means a minor victory. It's a first-class action title with 
 a lot of variety and a surprising amount of depth. If you're online, and you love guns, hell, don't 
 pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-MaT000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  yOu could play this game for hours and hours and still have fun every single time. The gameplay 
 is amazing and the planes, tanks and 4x4 are great. theres not to many weapons but you wont think 
 about that when your playing. the graphics are amazing to look at and the sound couldnt be better. 
 customization is great and it gives you something to play for. Amazing game, MUST HAVE GAME FOR 
 PS3 SO FAR!!! i would get it from the playstation store on the ps3 and not in a store unless you 
 dont have a headset. the only bad thing is that you will be doing nothing but playing this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InFurnace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I was never really excited about this game (not my usual game type) , but after reading a few player 
 reviews, I decided to give it a shot. Boy am I glad I took that chance! First let me say that this 
 game is much more than the sum of it's parts. The fun factor is through the roof, and the balance 
 is about as close to perfect as you could want. Every weapon and vehicle in the game has it's strengths 
 and weaknesses, so you don't really have to worry about a 12 year old with a hyper-death mega cannon 
 killing every player on the server in 14 seconds.
  
  I loaded up my game, and got into the second server I tried. The server stayed full of 32 or so 
 players for the entire time that I played. There were plenty of servers to choose from, but the 
 one I was on was well balanced, and full of pretty good players. I played non-stop for about 4 
 hours, and never saw even a single hitch, glitch, hang-up or lag. Even when large groups of players 
 were duking it out in close proximity, everything ran very smoothly. The graphics were good, the 
 music was good, nothing mind blowing, but honestly, if someone has time to critique the graphics, 
 then they are not playing the game. Warhawk is fast-moving, and fully charged. The choices for 
 game play are really great, and allow for many different styles of players to shine in their chosen 
 profession, weather it is pilot, tanker, sniper, rocketman, turret gunner, or stealth stabber, 
 offense or defense. New players should probably start out on defense. Grab a AA or guided missile 
 turret, and shoot down a few planes. Once you have that down, grab a tank or jeep, and assist in 
 taking over a new territory. The jeep is great for quickly moving across the battlefield without 
 risking a flight through AA alley. The tank is useful for taking out those pesky snipers that sometimes 
 set up in bunkers and pill boxes (which is also a nice strategy) . Tanks are also pretty good at 
 taking out enemy turrets. Once you get the ground basics down, try your hand at a warhawk. I say 
 this because you will actually last a little while in the air once you get an idea of how the ground 
 defenses work.
  
  I really can't say enough about how fun this game is. Try it out yourself. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreadphantom
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I bought this right off the psn network and within ten minutes enjoyed the experience of working 
 with a team in capturing the flag. The basic fps multiplayer game that has one purpose, multiplayer, 
 no single story mode at all. This is nice because you really dont have to sit through hours of 
 gameplay if you are like myself, as with other fps, when you just want the multiplayer experience 
 and wish to blow up everything in sight. The controlls did take some time to get used too while 
 the flight system for the motion controll ends up being turned off as you become target practive 
 for those using analog sticks. The learning curve is about half an hour so you will likely be ready 
 to really do damage if your a veteran of these style of games, but with the revolutionary twist 
 of WarHawk, have a lot of fun without the boredom of the same old game. There are huge maps that 
 are included and some small ones, 32 players at a time can seem sparse as well as unbelievable 
 during air battles. This by far is the best addition to the ps3 catalog for the fall 07 series 
 of games coming out. I reccomend with all guns blazing! Get Warhawk and experience the fast paced 
 mutli-plat game today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonteTheMonte
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Oh Warhawk, how you have changed since your original Playstation debut, seems like not such a long 
 time ago when i was popping open the top, and placing the disk into the machine. Well now 10 years 
 later, I'm glad to say that I am happily enjoying sliding in the brand-new, mulitplayer focused 
 Warhawk for the Playstation 3.
  
  Gameplay -- 9/10
  The most important part of a game, is luckily great in Warhawk. With intense multiplayer battles 
 with up to 32 players, the action never gets old. One of the most amazing aspects of the gameplay 
 is how balanced everything is, there isn't one vehicle/weapon that can overpower everything else, 
 everything has a strong strentgh and weakness that in the first few hours of play you'll learn 
 to take advantage of, and know what to avoid throughout the course of your multiplayer campaign. 
 The controls are tight and responsive, the only beef I have with teh controls would have to be 
 with the SIXAXIS motion controls turned on, I have not used them much, so I have not gotten used 
 to them at all, but they feel pretty loose in the jeeps and warhawks that you will pilot, that 
 being said it is fun to fly that way, but when you are being chased by a heat-seaking missle you 
 may find it more effective to just use the analog controls.
  
  There is a ranking system in place that allows you to gain experience (on ranked servers) , and 
 by doing so, gaining ranks, medals, badges, and new gear/paint schemes for both your custom soldier 
 and warhawk. Speaking of the customization, it's a nice touch to look different than everyone else, 
 but don't expect to be able to customize your soldier to the amount that you can in a game like 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas, but it is still fairly deep and is definatly a nice touch.
  
  There are only 5 maps at launch for Warhawk, but each of them is great, and can be scaled depending 
 on the amount of players in the server, and the game mode, that being said it would've been nice 
 to have more maps, but what we have now is still great. To accompany the maps are the game modes, 
 ranging from your typical deathmatch and team deathmatch, to capture, the flag, to my favorite, 
 zones. Zones has the two factions duking it out for control of various zones across the entire 
 map, the victor being named after the capture of all zones, think of it as conquest mode from the 
 Battlefield series.
  
  Graphics -- 9/10
  Now that developers are finally starting to get the hang of the power of the Playstation 3, we 
 are starting to see more and more games that are blowing are minds away in terms of graphical detail. 
 Warhawk in this respect does not disapoint, with great graphics, and a steady framerate that never 
 drops. The vistas that you will fight in are huge, it's hard to appreciate how big the maps are 
 until you get out on foot and just look around or across the map to the gigantic statue on the 
 other side of the map. The enviroments have an astonishing amount of detail in them, from the destroyed 
 urban locals, to the lush jungle enviroment of the map Archipelago, you'll see something different 
 on every map. Speaking of every map, every map includes some of the best clouds I have ever seen 
 in a game, period, they are soft and fluffy and are so thick that it is a good idea if you are 
 being followed closely by another warhawk to fly into one of these clouds, and just over there 
 until he has given up search, the interior of the clouds is thick and realistic, you cannot see 
 out of them, with only brief glimpses of the edges of your aircraft here and there. The lighting 
 is also great, hearing the roar of an overhead warhawk blast over you with it's afterburners on, 
 directly overhead, with you only seeing it's shadow streak across the ground is a sight to behold. 
 The explosions are fantasic, lots of chunks of burning debris fly everywhere, with corpses included. 
 The character design is original and imaginative with an exagerated animation set which adds to 
 the over the top visuals.
  
  Sound -- 9/10
  The sound in Warhawk is one of it's strongest points, as it immerses you into the experience even 
 more, with a great sweeping musical score that puts you into an epic blockbuster movie. The music 
 to me reminds of me of war movies such as Saving Private Ryan, and while it is not always on the 
 forefront of the sound, in intense fights it will come in to assist you in your war. From the tank 
 shells to the guided missles of the warhawk, to the infantry' grenades, every explosion in the 
 game has a big and beefy sound to it, that you'll truly appreciate if you have a 5.1 surround sound 
 system hooked up to your home theater set up. Even the gunfire has a distinct heavy cackle to it 
 as your fire your machine gun, or pop off a round from your sniper rifle into one of your unsuspecting 
 victims. Overall -- 9/10
  
  *To conclude the review, I would just like to say that if you have a Playstation 3 with an internet 
 connection, there is no reason not to go out and immediatly purchase this game, right now. It is 
 a great experience that has an active community and will continue doing so, for a very long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NodgeDaFunk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  As far as multi-player games go, this one is great. The most fun I had, was with the different 
 vehicles you can jump into and tool around in. You have the choice of the Warhawk, Tank, or Jeep. 
 If you want to go into air-to-air combat, the Warhawk is the vehicle of choice for all Top Gun 
 pilots. If you need to get someplace fast, Warhawk, if you need to lay some air mines for defenses, 
 Warhawk. Easy choice. Reminds me of the A10-Warthog. If you want to defend a base, yet stay mobile, 
 go with the Tank. If you want a lighter fast way to do the same, get someone to hop into the back 
 of your jeep and man the gun. Aside from the vehicles, there are various weapons, and mounted defense 
 turrets placed around the well layed out maps. While the graphics might not be top of the line, 
 they are not horrible either. They look great on an HD screen and split 4 ways, you can't tell 
 any difference. Another great feature is the ability to split your game into 4 player and go online 
 together, that alone makes this game totally worth it. Boasting 32 players in a map is a great 
 way to waste away an afternoon. I really love meeting up with friends for online play, this is 
 definitely a feather in the Sony hat. They did a great job and they spent a great deal of time 
 putting this together. In closing, I think that Master Chief would s**t his pants if he could fly 
 a Warhawk. Good job Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james97015
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  I had my doubts about getting this game, but now that I have played it, Im glad I did. This game 
 has a fairly quick learning curve, but once you get the hang of the vehicles and learn their strengths 
 and weaknesses, the game is junner than poop. What little time I have played it, I really like 
 this game. Becuse of the lack of a single player mode, this may be a game that you may want to 
 rent first, but with a free headset, I think the total package is worth the purchase price. I do 
 not think it is worth getting online because you wont have a backup if your hdd crashes, the price 
 of the headset=$30 and the bundle=$60 so that puts the game=$30 which is less than the online version 
 of $40, and you wont have any guide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Warhawk was initially one of the main exclusives for the PS3, as it would be the first (on the 
 PS3) to incorporate some team multiplayer elements into the system. However considering the long 
 delay and the game being stripped of quite a few components, all I can say is that I am underwhelmed 
 by this particular game.
  
  Sure the game has its moments, its relatively fast paced and even frantic at times with the flying 
 and vehicles, however we're been there and done that with similar games such as Battlefield series, 
 and in all sense and purposes: Battlefield 2 is far better than this game, due to its immense depth 
 and allotment of tactical and strategic components. So in a sense Warhawk seems like a pale comparison 
 to Battlefield 2. In addition to this, the graphics in this game isn't spectacular per say, considering 
 Battlefield 2 is several years old and is still able to look better than this at high res (and 
 maxed out options) , I'll have to say even on that department Warhawk falls through. In terms of 
 sound... the game does well enough with what's available to it, but needless to say, nothing puts 
 the fear of god into you like the squealing sound of incoming artillery strike in BF2.
  
  The game is better than say Star Wars Battlefront, but really doesn't make an effort to be more, 
 the addition of voice chat is a nice touch, but quite frankly most of today's FPSs and even MMORPGs 
 (WoW will be getting theirs soon) have it built in. Another thing I would have liked is the ability 
 to have first player view (whether or not they put it in later is a non-issue) since the stupid 
 square box type of targeting is by no means accurate. The use of a form of crappy auto aim to get 
 the job done is, quite frankly demeaning for some hardcore players.
  
  All I can say is, this is a good attempt by Incognito and SCEA to bring some interesting multiplayer 
 action onto the PS3, but quite frankly it falls short of what they need to get the 1up on the X360. 
 Lets just hope MGS4 and Final Fantasy 13 are actually able to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberStud69
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying I'm really happy with Warhawk. With excellent visuals, great sound, balanced 
 and involving gameplay, and since I have yet to experience any hiccups or lag, Warhawk deserves 
 a spot in your PS3 library.
  
  By now you already know enough about the game, but here's a refresher. Warhawk is an online multiplayer-only 
 game (You can play split screen up to 4 players also) that focuses on battle on foot, in ground 
 vehicles, and in the titular fighter jets. With support for up to 32 players (and scalable maps 
 to tighten the fighting area if you have fewer players - which is still loads of fun by the way) , 
 Warhawk achieves what I think few, if any console games have. A truly seamless and focused multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  PC gamers have had their share of great multiplayer-only or multiplayer-focused games, and Warhawk 
 is the best example of tranferring all the great things about PC multiplayer gaming and combining 
 it with console action and reliability.
  
  While some reviews have mentioned Warhawk's steep learning curve, the game controls so well that 
 at least that aspect of your game will come completely naturally. Now, when it comes to advanced 
 maneuvers, you will probably need a few matches under your belt before you can outgun a couple 
 enemy Warhawks at once, but that brings me to one of the best parts of Warhawk; it is fun!
  
  Even in my opening matches (there are hundreds and hundreds of servers, with options ranging 
 from full combat to Warhawk-only dogfighting matches to hone your flight skills) when I was only 
 clocking in a couple kills, I was having an absolute blast with the game. As with any multiplayer 
 game, one problem could be getting wrecked by players that are much better than you, however in 
 Warhawk, this is countered by having very balanced gameplay.
  
  Sure, that Ace in his Warhawk might be raining fire upon your base with reckless abandon, but if 
 you can just sprint over to the flak turret, he'll be in for a rude awakening. But watch out for 
 that tank, sitting in your turret he can easily take you out. But not to worry; you've got some 
 infantry keeping the tank busy with rockets. Ah! An enemy jeep is mowing them down with its machine 
 gun! Phew, a friendly Warhawk swept in and took it out. And so it goes... Warhawk is all about balance, 
 and that's what makes it so appealing; you never feel like you're hopeless, and therefore you can 
 always have fun, whether you're winning or losing.
  
  Warhawk is amazing. I personally feel many professional reviews have docked it a more deserving 
 score simply because it is multiplayer-only. While I realize this may turn off some gamers who 
 wouldn't normally play this type of game, you owe it to yourself to at least give Warhawk a shot. 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me729
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  First of all -- the game looks and sounds wonderful. Really long draw distance so you can see almost 
 anything from far away easily. There's so many things you can do in Warhawk. You can fight on foot, 
 in vehicles, with anti-air turrets, etc. The minute you get a handle on the controls and get the 
 newb out you'll be hooked. I just got it last night and I couldn't help but play it for 4 straight 
 hours. Looks like I'll be playing this game for a good while with so many people already playing. 
 I like the fact that it has voice chat -- but I wish you didn't have to press a button for it -- 
 although L3 at least doesn't take you out of the action. Only thing about the game is getting the 
 hang of what works and what doesn't. Also the tutorials are useless -- so you'll be learning the 
 control scheme basically on your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyDigitalPS3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Not going to be long. Just wanted to let you all know that if you are on the fence about this game, 
 then go ahead and get it. Its fun, interesting, and fantastic if you like online games. REMEMBER 
 its online only. You can get it right off the playstation network for $39.99 OR get it in stores 
 for regular price with a bluetoothe headset. Im a collector so I had to get the disc and stuff. 
 Great vehicles, Great weapons. it sucks you right in. The graphics are beautiful. Im certainly 
 glad I picked it up even though its really not my type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdizzie
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game is THE game to get for the PS3, hands down. Gamespots 8.5 dosen't do the game proper 
 justice, this game offers the best in a PS3 online experience, running, driving, flying, shootong 
 and of course PWNING. Warhawk takes all aspects of a top notch online game and combines it into 
 an all-out frag fest, words cannot express how good this game is, you have to play this. The maps 
 can be tiny or they can be MASSIVE! Halo what? I'm talking ADDICTIVE!!! I woke up 5am to play this 
 game and have been playing for hours. Eyes burning like the sun, sleepiness coming on like a wave, 
 but I DON'T SLEEP ANYMORE. THIS GAME OOOOWWWWNNNNZZZZZ!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a multiplayer only game that pits you as a combat aviator from one of two countries. 
 And you try your hardest to kill everyone not in a matching uniform.
  
  The gameplay is close to your usual thrid person shooter controlls but with slight changes to the 
 weapon change buttons and crouch controll. Because of this the controlls can be kind of funny at 
 first but within thirty minutes youll have it down pat. You play either deathmatch, TDM, CTF, or 
 Zones. These gametypes are not very original but the way warhawk plays makes them very fun. You 
 start at your main base at mission start and try to capture spawn points or just plain kill your 
 enemy. All the combat from the ground fighting to the air fighting is all top notch and slick controlling. 
 The weapons and strategies in the game are fairly balanced at the moment, though there are some 
 things that just dont seem fair. Like the anti-everything base rockets or the innacuracy of the 
 pistol but things can be tweaked in time by patches and updates. These things all come together 
 to make a pretty great gameplay experiance, especially if your playing with friends. The Graphics 
 are without a doubt some of the best so far this generation. The character models are very detailed 
 and the lighting and shadows are superb. And they also use some vibrant purples and greens that 
 the halo series is popular for too. When all these great things come together your get a great 
 visual experiance as you dodge purple missiles as you dive under the level area and thru rocks 
 pulling out of a drak tunnel into a skimmer on the waters top. Its a beautiful thing.
  
  The sound is everyhting you should expect from a game of this magnitude. Some imaginitve sounds 
 were created to give these machines and weapons their roars and make them very believable. Great 
 surround sound too. 5 or 7.1 users will be blown away. Nuff said.
  
  All and all these things at up to a peticularly high score. Though it has bo singleplayer campaign 
 or similer thing. But its fun online makes you forget about that fact though. I give this game 
 my editors choice and say Hey, You got one of those PS3's??? Then get this Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a game that really have shot itself on the foot. When a game becomes multiplayer only 
 and it isn't MMORPG, then it is equal to setting itself up to failure because in many people's 
 mind, all it is providing is half of a game and to many, it is a cheaper half due to lack of story 
 and cinematic presentation.
  
  Thankfully, Warhawk avoid such fate and ends up proving it made the right choice when it decided 
 to become multi-player only. Does it worth 40 dollars out of your pocket or 60 dollars for blue-tooth 
 and this game? It actually does, but barely. Warhawk does have fairly limited types of gameplay 
 modes. death match, team death match, capture the flag, and zone. All the modes are something people 
 are already used to by now, and zone is equal to war mode in Call of Duty 3. So in gameplay mode, 
 Warhawk offers absolutely nothing new and it is something you see in every other game out there 
 that has multi-player AND single player. Now let's talk about what's actually in the game.
  
  The game basically have 3 gameplay style when you start playing. One of them is on the foot 
 mode. Here you see your own character and fighting with multiple weapons you can pick up. Here 
 is unfortunate problem in this mode. First, there is auto-aim. In other words, when you meet another 
 player on the foot, chances are the fight will depend on what kind of weapon you have rather than 
 your skill. What kills faster, that's what matters most when it comes to face to face. Thankfully 
 stealth works when you go against another player on foot. The name tag doesn't appear until you 
 are really close so sneaking up behind them and taking them out is a possible solution, making 
 sniping a good choice in certain situations. Perhaps the biggest problem on the foot would be control. 
 The crosshair feels like it drags rather than turning, making aiming rather feel unresponsive. 
 Other than that, on the foot mode is fairly decent and balanced. You can fight against other vehicles 
 on the foot with RPG or other large number of weapon selection. You aren't helpless even though 
 you aren't riding anything. Second gameplay style would be land vehicle mode. There are quite large 
 number of land vehicle in Warhawk. Some are stationary, which are designed more for anti-aircraft. 
 These are powerful turrets or missiles that can take out Warhawks fairly easily. Unfortunately 
 they are stationed in certain areas and unless you are in dire situation you won't get to aim against 
 the Warhawks, or just reaching to these anti-aircraft weapons is rather difficult. Also you are 
 fairly powerless against land attacks so despite advantage against aircrafts in the game, it has 
 glaring weakness to keep itself balanced. Another type of land vechiles are 4x4 and tanks. They 
 do exactly what you think they would and they work fairly well. 4x4 like usual can have multiple 
 players riding on one of them, and tanks can allow you to drive and fire cannons which does some 
 massive damage.
  
  The highlight of the game is obviously Warhawks. These airacrafts is the reason why you would play 
 this game and this Warhawk is what seperates this generic unrealistic war combat be unique and 
 fun. Without these Warhawks, the game Warhawk feels like dumbed down version of Halo. Just like 
 Halo it has all the land and air vehicles and large number of weapons. However, Warhawk provides 
 very interest air to air battles that feels more like suped up Ace Combat games. It is fast and 
 furious and very stylish when you need to avoid missles. Multiple types of air to air combat tactics 
 works. What you expect to see in real jet battles can be applied here. This isn't just some kind 
 of basic air combat you can experience in Star Wars Battlefront game or that slow air vehicles 
 of Halo. The controls are very tight on analog. I haven't tried motion sensor, but at least on 
 analog the control seems very good. Warhawks have two modes of flight. Hover mode and flight mode. 
 on hover mode, you can use you right analog stick to aim on ground units and fire. On flight mode, 
 your Warhawk moves much faster and your right analog stick turns into acrobatic controls while 
 left analog stick becames your aim and control of Warhawk. It seems like if you use motion sensor, 
 the motion sensor becomes the control of Warhawk and left analog stick becomes the aim for weapons, 
 so there are some advantage of using motion sensors. Overall, the control of Warhawk feels great 
 and it is fairly easy to control.
  
  Now, if it was just air to air combat game, it would've been major disappointment due to lack of 
 single player mode and it really doesn't justify going multiplayer only. However, mix the aircraft 
 battle with land battles, now you have something. Once you mix them together, the fast aircraft 
 flying over your head, and massive explosions you experience on the ground is simply chaotic, but 
 all good. The game lacks realism, but doesn't go way off sci-fi like Unreal. Overall, it feels 
 more acceptable to wider audience thanks to this. To those who enjoys games for epic journey and 
 storyline, this is certainly a game you should avoid. If you are competitive individual who likes 
 mindless action, there might not be anything better than Warhawk out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 since its release hasn't really had a massive selection of great games. Which of course 
 is the reason for the low amount of PS3's sold. But finally with the massive tide of new games 
 finally it gets what it needs. Warhawk is a Multi player only game, which some may think would 
 get boring quickly without a single player but you would be wrong. Warhawk will keep you interested 
 for hours on end. What makes this game great is there is finally a game that x box 360 couldn't 
 have mainly because x box live has a monthly has fee while ps3 is free every month for online. 
 The good: The pure dogfights that commence in this game are crazy. 16 on 16 match's just become 
 crazy in dogfight only. The grounds fights are pretty cool and sort of remind me of BF2. Re spawn 
 times are very short which is nice. And being able to customize your characters is nice as well.
 
  
  The BAD: There is a very limited supply of different weapons in the game. Only 8 weapons in total 
 which kind of gets boring after a while. Only 5 maps which doesn't give it much variety. Only 2 
 types of tanks jeep and warhawks lowers the variety.
  
  All in all this is a great game hat will keep you interested for hours on end. Its a game that 
 will fill in time when your bored. Just a game you will want to play over and over again. Very 
 fun to play with friends and is a must buy for anyone with a ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowOPs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  i usually dont like just online games but Warhawk is one of the sickest games i have played in 
 a while, even when i get pissed and quit i feel like putting it back on to get some more action!!! 
 i tried the sixaxis but it isnt that great i had about 7 kills using it and when using analog joy 
 sticks i got around 40 kills! so maybe with practice u can get better! but overall the game is 
 really tight i think the download is the better deal as u can get a headset cheap online and ur 
 still getting the same game. PEACE!!!!!!!!!1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveKishi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 9
  Game-play: 9
  Online Connectivity: 10
  Replay Value: 10
  
  Graphics:
  The planes and automobiles are detailed and clean cut. The natural environment is 
 smooth and greatly detailed.
  
  Sound:
  The explosions are awesome!!!!!!!!!
  
  Game-play:
  All of the different modes and interactions in the game make it worth while. The 
 lack of a story mode is the only problem in this area for me. But story is not always everything.
 
  
  Online Connectivity:
  I, personally, have never lost a single connection or have a had a single lag. Incognito/Sony uses 
 some high quality servers.
  
  Replay Value:
  Once you play the game your pretty much hooked. I finally just broke away to write this review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_4_life_27
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight. I DO NOT HAVE A PS3, I have a 360. But I sure as hell am NOT A FANBOY. 
 I give all consoles a fair chance. My friend has this game and I played it with him.
  
  Graphics: Not as good as i thought they would be but still jaw dropping, even tho the soldier you 
 start off in looks funny and the environments are gorgeous.
  
  Gameplay: Two words: Flipping awesome. The controls take some getting used to but before you know 
 it your blowing up enemies in the air and on the ground.
  
  Single player: None, but Im not gonna attack this game cuz it has no single player, because the 
 multiplayer kicks serious @$$.
  
  Multiplayer: Need I say more? If multiplayer is your thing then this game was ment for you.
  
 
  Overall: If your wondering wether you want to buy it or not, you definately should if you have 
 ps3 online or friends who like video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizerd28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I was on the beta for Warhawk and was not very pleased the gametypes and lvl size just wasnt fun 
 when i jumped into a game. The full version is a blast with so many ppl playing and so deep of 
 a scalability to the maps this game is fun as hell. It does take some time to get used to the controls 
 and to tune them to your likeing but once you do this game is just a blast to play. Graphics: 8/10
 
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Overall: 8.5 I agree with gamespots review if you want a fun rock solid multiplayer experience 
 get it now while everyones learning to play!!! Simply the best online multiplayer exclusive to 
 the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahstar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I started this game I was amazed at how good the graphics and effects were for 
 an online game. Usually in online games (ex. rainbow 6) the effects, graphics, and framerate are 
 toned down a bit. Not this game! This game seems like a normal fluid single player game, but online! 
 No lag, and very easy to use options. There are so many options that you will actually have to 
 pick up the manual and read it, which is forbidden for so many true gamers, just to grasp all the 
 detail of options given to you. There are 5 worlds with 5 sub-maps inside of them. If you look 
 at the big picture of the worlds you think, meh, theres not alot of maps or space here. There are 
 truthfully 25maps in this game, and you'll know that the first two days when you go from map to 
 map and realize you haven't been in the same map twice yet!! This will definitely set the standard 
 for online gaming. A must have if you like online shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumohare
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- absolutely stunning! the view distance is amazing. when your thousands of feet up in 
 the air on the left side of the map, you can see Every little speck of detail on the buildings 
 all the way on the other side of the map.
  
  Sound- Wow. Again. Amazing! I love it! lets say a missile flys by your ship as you dodge it- you 
 will literally hear it whiz by you to your left (Or right... wherever its coming from) assuming 
 you have surround sound.
  
  Gameplay- I honestly dont think i really need to explain the gameplay. Jumping into a ship, flying 
 to the other side of the (Incredibly large) map, landing and hopping into a tank- without any load 
 times? 10!
  
  All together, you cant go wrong. 40 bucks? Come on... this is a must-have.
  
  If you dont own a PS3... go buy one. Its amazing. :o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaceFreeFlow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is actually really good in my opinion, technically it sounds pretty lackluster with 5 maps, 
 1 plane model, 1 Jeep and 1 Tank. There is also 2 types of turrets which are really fun... A duel 
 missle launcher that locks on to the warhawks and the flak cannon which is decent againts the warhawks 
 and easier to shoot ground targets.
  
  Somehow it works really well, the warhawks (The plane) is really fun to fly with the six-axis PS3 
 controller... I really never experienced anything like it, it's hard to get used to and will take 
 a long time to master. Because of the few choices avalible for the PS3 this is by far the best 
 multiplayer game out. Even if you just use your PS3 for Blu-Rays I would suggest paying the 40$ 
 and have it on your hard-drive for some really fun carnage at anytime. Also the Infantry is pretty 
 good, 3rd-person style almost identicle to The Outfit for the 360... The models and maps are really 
 well done, with no single-player and little content, you can see where they put the time in on 
 gameplay. 32 person matches run flawlessly on the Sony servers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is finally here for the PS3, and its one of the best games on the PS3. Even though the 
 single player mode is non-existent, Warhawk is a brilliant multi-player game on the PS3. This may 
 sound like a really bad news, but once you get use to the multi-player, you wont think twice about 
 the single player mode!
  
  Lets get some problems out of the door. I already said that there are no single player mode, they 
 could've at least added a practice arena; because it takes time to get use to the motion sensors 
 (which you can turn off) . So this can make you hate the game for the first few hours, but once 
 you get use to the controls, you will have one helluva time with this game. There are plenty of 
 vehicles in the game, so it would've been nice if there was a practice stage.
  
  Another minor problem I have is with hosting the game. Sony did a nice job of allowing the computer 
 to decide how many players you can host depending on your internet connection. However, once the 
 game starts, you can not switch things like change the kill count, or change from player-server 
 to dedicated-server. It is not a big deal, but when you host a game and you want to take off but 
 want the game to continue, you cant do that unless you quit the game and remake the server. A minor 
 issue, and does not affect the score.
  
  Graphically, Warhawk is beautiful. I am not playing it on a HDTV, and the lighting effects and 
 some of the clouds look really nice. The explosions, and bullets hitting another airplane... looks 
 really cool; then there are the missile effects, the way they do their moves, reminds you of the 
 old Warhawk on PSX. Sound is also nice, there are no music during combat which is really nice; 
 does not get in the way of combat and what not.
  
  When you first play the game, it really is confusing, especially since the motion sensor screws 
 things up. There are tips that are available, but they are not all that helpful. When someone is 
 shooting at you, you wan to know how to fire back, not see this big tip screen in front of you. 
 However, it takes only about 30 mins to get use to the controls; if you want to practice, just 
 start a local game and get use to all the vehicles and their controls.
  
  Overall, Warhawk is a very satisfying game. If you can not host large number of players, just host 
 games with maps that takes about 4-8 people... small space, lot of people and its really fun. Even 
 without the single player mode, this game is a blast (free online, and up to 32 players!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigmac573
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the reason you bought your PS3! Everything comes together beautifully, including the spectacular 
 visuals, silky smooth framerate, phenominal audio, and flawless multiplay. You've never felt anything 
 quite like controlling a Warhawk and blowing enemies out of the sky (they literally get thrown 
 from the plane after it explodes) . Also, there is a very lrge amount of personal customization 
 options for your player and Warhawk. Lots of badges, ranks and medals to shhot for as well. Worth 
 wayyy more than $39.99 IMO. You might have some trouble finding it in stores, though. I suggest 
 going to the lesser known gaming stores like Target, Sears, Circuit City, etc. GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  YOu will get frustrated with this game as you can hear the players online but despite that its 
 just so much fun and a recommend purchase at full price!
  
  Really the problems i have with it now that they have worked out some bugs is the fact that there 
 is a slight delay when executing actions, (shooting, etc) about half a second which will result 
 in many deaths. Its get difficult to log on and seems to have some kind of network issue almost 
 eact time I play. The main menu looks lik a DOS program. The statistics sometimes go away or register 
 incorrectly.
  
  Lastly the graphics arent very good and some tv's will have problems identifying who's who on the 
 corner maps. Go buy it. This may be PS3 best game so far. I hope they come out with an expansion 
 or update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienOverlord
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun to play and so many ways to play it. There are lots of good players to 
 compete against, giving you lots of satisfaction for every kill you earn. You could also just throw 
 your life away again and again in an all out assault on the enemy flag or trying to get back your 
 flag.
  The game is incredibly balanced. You feel invincible in a tank if you're one on one with a foot 
 soldier, but once a few people are trying to take you down you'll find your not maneuverable enough 
 to survive them. That or someone flying a warhawk blows you up with missiles or cluster bombs. 
 The warhawks on the other hand are easy prey for someone in a missile turret, but a good pilot 
 will find the weakness of those turrets and you never feel safe in a turret. In fact, you never 
 quite feel safe anywhere, you may not see any enemies but a sniper bullet will kill you across 
 the map or a hidden land mine will blow you up. That's what makes this game so fun, it is a constant 
 frantic fight that forces you to adjust your game play, and only fer 60 hours or so of playing 
 have i started to become a little bored of the limited map selection. Overall, you really should 
 try this game, and give it time since you will probably die a lot in the early going as the competition 
 is already very fierce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walton13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Being in the beta, I'm glad I got some experience before logging in with all the other people that 
 finally are graced with this game. The fighting style suits anyone, on the ground or in the air, 
 there is almost always something to do.
  Regardless of how many maps, there's enough configurations to keep you playing for a long time. 
 With a plethora of weapons and the essential vehicles (jeep=fast, tank=strong, Warhawk=powerful 
 weaponry) as well as ground defenses, there's a spot for everyone. There is also a decent amount 
 of game types, which allows for a lot of variety in game play. You won't be disappointed, especially 
 if you are into clans, because there is a whole section primarily for them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzydoor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN 
 PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN 
 PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN... its great and u should get it 
 if u have a ps3 PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN 
 PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN 
 PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN PWN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothyt
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Once again, people who cheat the system have ruined it for everyone else. People who are logging 
 into a friend's system and leaving their purchased DLC on that system have made Sony tighten the 
 DRM to an unfair level. Thanks guys way to go...
  
  This only applies to the downloaded version - the retail boxed version will work like other games, 
 where everyone can have their own profile and settings - the downloadable version ONLY allows the 
 profile that you were logged in as when you buy the game to run the game at all. This is TERRIBLE 
 for people who (like me) have teenagers in the house and we all want to play but not share a profile 
 for rankings. I'm going to see if I can get my money back and go buy the retail version. Something 
 tells me this is going to be an uphill battle...
  
  The game itself is great. Top notch controls, graphics and gameplay. The DRM really takes a lot 
 of the shine off though : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nolimitsolja86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and right to the point!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 Controls for most part are spot on! The aiming still seems a bit arcady, but I'll 
 get used to it!
  
  Sound: 9/10 Very good use of sound effects (rockets, bullets, warhawks flying by)
  
  Graphics: 
 9/10 I love the art style of it... looks bad ass!
  
  Replay Value: 10/10 The replay value is definitely as high as it gets... I was part of the BETA 
 and spent countless hours playing it... I just got it last night and already I've played a bunch 
 of matches... it's freaking addicting and that's what so great about this game! Countless hours 
 of fun!
  
  OVERAL SCORE 9.5 I liked the BETA and I'm absolutely loving the final build right now! It's great 
 to see them actually listen to the community (us) and take our feedbacks to heart from the beta! 
 I love the way Warhawk has turned out and it's a very solid multiplayer game!
  Dare I say PS3 Multiplayer Game Of The Year?!!
  
  This game is a definite buy if you enjoy 
 playing online with a bunch of people and having a ton of fun! Huge battles, crazy **** going everywhere... Rockets 
 flying buy, mines exploding and vehicles blowing up! That's Warhawk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loud_mouth_94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game earlier today at about 2:30 p. m. and I have to say that the game is all that 
 I thought it would be. I of course bought the blu-ray disc for the free headset and the fact that 
 you get the disc with it. The graphics on this game are some of the best I have seen by far. I 
 personally enjoy the dogfights in the sky but the on ground play is fun to. The only thing I can 
 really find missing in this game is the fact that it dosen't have a story mode. The on-line multi-player 
 is amazing but I still find myself wanting to play a main story line for the game. the controls 
 really aren't that hard to get used to; the only thing i have a hard time doing is the motion sensing. 
 The response is great I just can't get used to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game will be for the PlayStation 3 what Socom was to the PlayStation 2; simply put: this is 
 THE ONLINE game to play. So there's no single player. Trust me, after putting in a few hours to 
 get used to the controls, you won't miss it because there is a living, breathing world all around 
 you. There are bullets whizzing by and explosions everywhere you look. THIS IS WAR! I absolutely 
 love how balanced this game is. You can fight in the air, in vehicles, or on the ground. None feel 
 too powerful. They all have their pros and cons. This is a game that you SHOULD have a headset 
 to play. My personal favorite game mode is zone. It requires teamwork and strategy to attack a 
 node and defend your existing nodes. Evenly skilled players often play tightly contested matches 
 that are a blast to play. Using the Warhawks is incredibly fun and was the first thing I tried 
 out. Controls take some time to get used to though. Especially the SIXAXIS controls. If they were 
 to add a patch for a practice mode, then I'd invest some time to better learn the SIXAXIS controls. 
 Either way, once you get it down, it is a blast. Dogfights are REALLY FUN! Too bad I'm not very 
 good yet. Practice, practice, practice...
  
  The tanks are a little cumbersome to use, but nothing too bad with respect to the controls. Same 
 goes for Humvees. I really like how the game provides plenty of tanks, humvees, and Warhawks for 
 you to use. Playing as Infantry is also a lot of fun. The weapons range from knives, to pistols, 
 to machine guns, to flame throwers, you know... your basic fare. Movement is pretty quick and the 
 animation is pretty smooth overall. The only thing I would have liked to add is a roll button to 
 help make dodging bullets a little easier. An option to strafe would be nice too. Regardless of 
 these minor complaints, I'm happy. The graphics in this game are very good for a multiplayer online 
 game. Are they to the level of Gears of War or Uncharted: Drake's Fortune? Absolutely not. But 
 they do the job well. The environments are vast, varied. and most importantly detailed. Although 
 there are only 5 total maps, they vary in size and that leads to more options with respect to the 
 game play. Incognito has already said that this game was developed with easy expansion in mind. 
 I expect them to have a new map pack available for download (free would be nice, but I'd pay $5 
 if I had to) by the time Christmas rolls around. The sound effects in this game truly impress me. 
 I have a good surround sound system and this game really helps to flaunt it. There are bullets 
 whizzing by and explosions taking place at any given moment. Rarely is there a quiet moment. The 
 map is excellent and allows the player to see where everyone and everything is located at any given 
 time. This is very important because it sucks to have to look for a Warhawk or a Humvee when you 
 want to race to the other side of the map to help out your friends. Kudos Incognito, job well done!
 
  
  The next issue I'd like to address is that of LAG. Or lack thereof. I am very impressed by the 
 fluidity of the online gameplay. It is my opinion, but I would say that Warhawk absolutely kicks 
 the tail of Resistance Online. I played for hours and hours and hours on end. I don't normally 
 do that with video games anymore. Today I began playing and next thing you know, it's already 8 
 PM! Never before has 4 hours passed by so quickly and so enjoyably. Warhawk is the first MUST HAVE 
 PS3 title. It took 9 months, but the PS3 finally has a game that it can proudly boast as an exclusive 
 title. For the first time in PlayStation history, it has a game that can rival the best that Microsoft 
 has to offer. This game makes me realize that I really don't need to go get an Xbox 360 for good 
 online play. AND IT'S FREE TO PLAY ONLINE! Last, but not least, I would like to mention that this 
 game supports up to 4 player online split screen. So yes, you can play with friends on a guest 
 account. I have not had the opportunity to do so yet, but I will be sure to test it out with friends 
 in the upcoming days.
  
  On a side note, I would like to mention that I am reviewing the downloaded version of the game. 
 The Jabra headset that comes with the Warhawk bundle (BT125) is at best, an entry level model. 
 I expect to be playing online for quite some time and expect to be using my Bluetooth headset with 
 my cell phone as well. It is for this reason that I invested in a better headset. The download 
 takes up about 800 MB of space and took me about 20 minutes to download. My network at school isn't 
 the fastest thing around... Surprisingly, the online play works perfectly! For $39.99, this game 
 is a fantastic value in my opinion. Under most circumstances, I would rate this game an 8.5, BUT 
 because of the fact that it's flaws can be patched, and that it will be expanded upon in the future 
 it earns its 9.0 score from me. That extra 0.5 points is well earned because the game is THAT FUN 
 to play. Anything more would be heaping undeserved praise on the game. Anything less wouldn't really 
 be giving the game enough justice. In the future, I would like to see more customization over the 
 game modes, more vehicles, and of course, more maps! This is a fantastic game that is absolutely 
 worth your time and your money! BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tantone56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk is a good game and a value to boot. Many people have been complaing that they do not get 
 their money's worth with this game, but on the contrary, you get a fourty dollar blue tooth head 
 set, and a killer online game for like twenty bucks. I am not going to say that this is an amazing 
 online game, but rather call it what it is, which is good. The game does at times suffer from freezing, 
 and the graphics leave some to be desired, but the borttom line is that it is a fun addicting game 
 that should not be missed. For now tis is the best online for the PS3, but after Socom hits the 
 shelves I have a feeling this game will become dated very fast. For the time being there is nothing 
 left to do but enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  honestly.. when i first seen this game.. i was very skeptical.. didnt think it could do much with 
 multiplayer.. BUT after playing the online beta my mine has been changed.. the fact u r able 2 fly 
 the plane, run on the ground, and use tanks creates a lot of diversity for this game.. graphics 
 look great.. great game. THIS IS A MUST BUY GAME IF YOU HAVE A PS3!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay : 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  I suggest if people wants to buy warhawk dont buy it 
 from Playstation network just buy it from an retail store because you will recieve bonuses such 
 as Bluetooth Headset, and Bonus Content (video's of warhawk ) . Just $20.00 extra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latinbro1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Many were in an uproar for this gaming scrapping everything single player and focusing exclusively 
 on online. Though one could argue that it does feel like an incomplete game in that regards, the 
 online game really does stand out and makes a point to stand up for itself. I will say that there 
 is still no tutorial mode. There are little pop-up boxes that give you info but it is during game 
 play. So, if you buy this game down the road, and join a game, chances are you will get whooped 
 a lot! It would have been nice to give people the option for at least a 20 minute tutorial or something 
 since it does feel like you are just being fed to the lions. However, you could always join up 
 locally with four friends and practice? if you bought the disc copy you get a manual that goes 
 over the basic controls, the vehicle descriptions, and the weapons. if you downloaded it you can 
 visit the official warhawk site for the same info. I have tweaked with the options and the customization, 
 and it seems deep enough (granted, my character is leveling up slowly) . You can change character 
 attributes, vehicle basic looks, and you can create your own server. There really is no need for 
 a help tab for doing any of these things because they are quite simplistic to grasp. Choose, your 
 map, number of players, if it's locked or open, etc (you've seen it in many other multilayer games)
 
  
  So, instead of going in detail about the different game modes (since they've been explained in 
 many different sites multiple times) , I'll just focus on how it plays. And yes, it plays fast, 
 it can feel intense, and it can feel desolate too. The maps are really huge and if it's just 4-8 
 of you playing (and you choose not to travel by ground or air vehicle) it can take you forever 
 to get from one side to the other side of the maps. Have 15+ people and it just reels right for 
 big open areas. The more people the more intense (this holds especially true for the omegadawn 
 and the broken mirror map add-ons that give you ridiculously big areas to travel) . And there is 
 something surreal about seeing people just hop on jets or tanks and go . Likewise, it is awesome 
 to take down a warhawk with an RPG, kill an enemy with a frag grenade, or just snipe your way through 
 an area. You can hide behind mountains, in bunkers, beside or under bridges. In sum it feels like 
 the game really gives you freedom to play.
  
  How does it control? Basic character movement is done with the L3 (moving up/down, left/right) 
 and R3 (moving your aim up/down, left/right) . D-pad controls your weapon selection whether on foot 
 or on certain vehicles. The face button and shoulder buttons control everything else. Your shooting 
 is by default on R1 (on foot and on warhawks your L1 controls additional weapons like missiles 
 or grenades) . They are very simplistic but can feel overwhelming when initially learning what each 
 button does for what situation. Add the motion-sensing abilities and the learning curve can increase 
 slightly (depending on your taste it can enhance or hinder your play) . Sound and graphics are great. 
 You really get a sense of speed on the air and a good amount of explosions and physics that just 
 add fun to the whole experience. You'll see tanks just be obliterated, guys fly do to grenades, 
 and planes smash beautify. So, is it easy to pick up? Yes! ... after several deaths (give it anywhere 
 between 30 minutes to an hour to adjust... unless you want to master air combat with the sixaxis, 
 which will take more practice and quite some patience) . So, will it get old? Most likely but that'll 
 take a while and DL content has surely kept things fresh; at least for me. The Omegadawn pack was 
 released near the holidays and added a huge factor map with an added vehicle (the dropship) . Two 
 firmware updates to the games (or patches) have stabilized rankings, smoothed out server issues, 
 added two weapons (wrench and a bio-field generator=life replenishing bomb-thing) . the 2nd map 
 pack brought yet another huge map, glacial fields, and a new ground vehicle. Is it for everyone? 
 Well, if you like ground and/or air combat then you should give it a try. Does it hold on its own 
 without single players? I ABSOLUTELY think so. If you have a PS3 and want silly, yet engaging fun 
 that seems to get better and better with patches and expansion packs then this game delivers 100%! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  3 words to describe this game: Massive, explosive, and heart-pounding. Once you pick up the controller, 
 you don't want to let go. This is the kind of game you would enjoy playing with your buddies online 
 or in the same living room. I had massive fun blowing things up and doing acrobats in the sky. 
 The graphic could've been a bit better for the ground battle but that didn't steer anyone away 
 from this game. The sky battle is what this game is all about. The gameplay was very well focused 
 and everything about this game runs very smooth. You can customize your own characters and warhawks. 
 It's not a watered down battlefield like what others are saying. I've played battlefield in the 
 past, so I would say they're two different games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentleylax2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is better than i thought it would be, and is actually very challenging. Everything weapon 
 has an offsetting weapon, so noone can just own everyone.
  
  The flying part of the game takes some getting used to, but once you figure it out it is really 
 fun. It reminds me of crimson skies, only with a fun ground attack aspect included. Graphics look 
 very good, not unbelievable. I have only played team deathmatch so far, but ive been doing it for 
 more than 5 hours, and that speaks to the depth of this one game mode. Only 5 maps, but can be 
 tweaked depending on how many people and what kind of mission you want to do. Hands down the best 
 multiplayer game for ps3... and quite frankly is as good if not better than almost every 360 multiplayer....
 
  
  It is so addictive that im going back to play it... Later yall... (blutooth is sick... and so is 
 the motion sensing controlls) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately one of my favorite multiplayer games to date. This game covers all the 
 basics in a real battle. Instead of me telling how much I like this game I am going to break it 
 down in sections.
  
  Graphics
  Beautiful graphics in this title. Volumetric clouds are my favorite part of the game. You fly through 
 a cloud and you eventually loose sight for a brief moment. The water effects and lighting are absolutely 
 amazing. Explosions and textures all over are nicely detailed.
  
  Sound
  Hooked up to surround sound (Dolby 5.1) you can hear everything that is going on at every angle. 
 I can here the dogfights in the air while hearing the take lurking behind me. Jeeps cruisin in 
 the distance and the sounds of grenades exploding everywhere. Love the sound!
  
  Gameplay
  The controls take some getting used to and will take you a few hours to master. The 
 aircraft is the hardest to learn but once you do you can make the plane fly with ease. The controls 
 when you are on ground and not in a vehicle are the same way. It will take some time to get used 
 to but once you do you can snipe those chumps on the turrets or nail them tanks with rocket launchers.
 
  The jeeps and tanks are pretty easy to use. Should take much time to get used to those. There 
 many many different types of weapons and ammo to use while fighting. Too many to list.
  
  Value
  With the fantastic ranking system and awards you will be playing this for a very long 
 time. There many ranks and awards to achieve. The clan options are very nice as well. There are 
 separate stats for your clan so you can see who the best and worst are in the clan.
  
  Overall
  Finally we PS3 owners have a reason to power up our consoles.
  
  9.25/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan41
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best dog fighting game i have ever played. There are all kinds of strategies 
 and ways to approach each battle. The game also gives you very good control over your plane and 
 allows you to dodge oncoming missiles and objects without any tedious mechanics. The rankings and 
 badges seem well made and make you always trying to get the better ranks and customization updates 
 for your character and plane. The game also sports great combat on the ground with various weapons 
 and vehicles such as tanks. If you dont own this game right now I suggest to go ahead and spend 
 the 39.99 for it on PSN because it is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Warhawk had cut its single-player mode and claimed that the game was now a multiplayer-only 
 game, I truly was disappointed. I have always loved online multiplayer games but have never been 
 to into them that incredibly much, so this news nearly broke my heart. However, the more and more 
 I researched the game, the more and more interested I became. And today, I can truly say that this 
 is one heck of a multiplayer game. It's just chaotic! The game blends ground, vehicle, and aerial 
 combat PERFECTLY! The game is just so much fun. And with a $40 Bluetooth headest, how can you go 
 wrong? It's an awesome game at an awesome value and I strongly suggest that you check this game 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Ok I'll start off by saying that this game is a blast to play. I've only clocked in a few hours 
 on the game thus far, but while I'm sitting here type this review I'm dying to get back online 
 to play. I've heard other reviews giving the game a bad rating due to the cost of 60 bucks to play 
 only an online game, but they fail to mention the box cost of $60 bucks includes a wireless bluetooth 
 headset!!! If you don't care for the headset or can't justify paying the $60 for the box version 
 of the game you can download it straight to your PS3 by the Playstation Store for only $39.99. 
 Now back to my review. I'll brake it down like this.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics in this game in my opinion can be better, but non the less it still looks great.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The controls may take a little time getting use to but after a while it becomes second nature. 
 With the variety of ways to play this game whether it be on foot, land, or air make the gameplay 
 experience a treat.
  
  Sound: 10 The sound in this game is really the shining factor that some my look over. From the 
 sounds of each weapon, land vehicles, and air crafts the realism of battle takes shape all around 
 you. For those with a surround sound system will specially have a nice treat of feeling like your 
 in the middle of a true war zone. I can't say enough about the sound.... Awesome!!!
  
  Replay Value: 10
  Online, what more can you say. Endless battles waging 24/7!!!
  
  Overall: 
 9 Overall I give it a 9 because of the endless fun you'll have playing this game. Though the graphics 
 are not up to the standard I was hope for but the gameplay is where this game truly shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxJonbonxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing but good clean fun. So many different strategy's with the vehicles, planes, 
 and foot soldiers. Thankfully it seems like a lot of people have mics as well, so it provides great 
 social communication and strategy. The only thing i dislike is that there seem to not be enough 
 planes it the begining and it sucks getting stuck in co-pilot lol. But honestly this game is tight 
 as heck. Trust me on this one, this is one game you don't wanna rent because your gonna buy it 
 anyway. Finally i have a really good reason for having a ps3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku87
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Some of you were complaining on how you bought it for $60 and got nothing well of course thats 
 why its $39.99 on PSN &gt;_&gt; i do agree it sucks that it doesn't have single player missions 
 or something like that, its either offline multiplayer or online multiplayer but either way its 
 still very fun, maybe in the future there will be something new released for it. that you can download 
 from PSN. im already starting to hear rumors about 25 extra maps coming to PSN for download later 
 on, but anyway this game is for people who have broadband not dial up users. and dont buy it if 
 u dont like online play!! cause thats what this game is all about if your looking for single player 
 then look some where else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadragon23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  I was a lil skeptical at first about buying this game but figured what the hell i need a game so 
 that i can use my PS3 anyway so i picked it up and boy i am not dissapointed this game is great. 
 Flying is fun drving is fun, and being on foot is Fun too. This game's controls are a little tricky 
 at first but after a 30 minutes or so you'll be fine, Nice variety of game modes and maps even 
 though i wish there were a few more maps but hey i am sure they will bless us with so downloadable 
 ones. great variety of rooms to join so if your in the mood for one type of game you are pretty 
 much gonna find it evertime, oh yeah and NO LAG which is great when you have 32 people in a room 
 dogfighting it out (not like Michael Vick) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  I originally wasnt going to purchase Warhawk after watching the videos and some pictures i thought 
 it wasnt going to be anything special but i was wrong BIG TIME!
  
  This game is can get totally hectic and thats what i love about this game missiles flying passing 
 you from above bullets being firing at you and big explosions its just great The sound is great 
 the music fits perfectly and the feel of bullets flying pass you is very cool
  
  Graphics are awesome i think the graphics really shine when your flying around and you go real 
 high in the air you see the total sceneries looks very beautiful Control wise is does take awhile 
 to get used to when i first played it i was getting beat pretty badly but within a few hours i 
 got the hang of it This is a honest review coming from somebody who isnt really into war games 
 and stuff like this its truly amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebrahem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god 
 god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god god just 
 right very godn writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit 
 it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We 
 encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, 
 then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  I am completey suprised with warhawk. when i heard that warhawk was going to be an online only 
 game, it wasnt be that good, but man, i was WRONG. This is probably the most addicting games you 
 will ever play. Gameplay: Being able to walk around on ground, use turrets, vehicles, and planes, 
 is almost too fun to be true, its just pure addicting fun, defineately worth 40 bucks (i downloaded) 
 9.5/10
  
  Sound: WOW. the sound on this game is incredible. the sound of the guns, the turrets, the jets 
 on the planes, just pure incredible (and i have an old surround system to :D) 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: ok, so its not the most realistic graphics youve ever seen, but seriously, who cares! 
 the graphics of the game make the game look good. everything is crystal clear (720p) and the physics 
 and effects of the explosions is crazyyy. if theyre good to look at in my opinion, theyre good 
 enough! 8.5/10
  
  Replay value: simply put, a year from now, i will still be playing this. 9.5/10
  
  conclusion: 
 simply amazing game. too good to be just an online only game, but really, this game was meant for 
 online only. if you own a ps3, you need to buy this, no questions, and at 40 bucks, why pass it 
 up? Overall Score: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  It's here the game most PS3 owners were waiting for since launch. I game that we've been waiting 
 for since it was announced 2 years ago when it was shown at E3 05. Well the wait it over and Warhawk 
 is finally here for you to play online with your online buddies.
  
  First let's start by saying that if you're looking for a single campaign mode you won't find it 
 and the reason why is because that was scrap at the beginning of this year. Incognito decided to 
 go online multiplayer only. Im the type of gamer that likes to buy games for the single player 
 experience, so I was a little disappointed to hear that, but being that is a fun high flying online 
 game, I thought to myself maybe I should give it a try before I turn it down. Well all I can say 
 is one thing and that is that you won't have a problem finding a game online. You have so many 
 customization and filters to search for the kind of games you want.
  
  There are 5 huge worlds/maps in the game and you have 4 different game modes. Which are the following 
 death match, team death match, Capture the flag, and Zone mode. You also have the choice to fight 
 on foot, air (warhawks) , and ground vehicles (4x4 and tanks) . You have so many weapons to choose 
 from on foot. On air you have 7 different types of missiles and weapons. You have a lot to do here 
 for just an online game only. Also if you're a little old school like me, a person that likes to 
 play with friends and would like them to come over to play a game on the same TV, then you're in 
 luck because you're allow to play up to 4 players off line and up to 24 in a LAN party. Online 
 you're allowed to play up to 32 players. Can you imagine the fun you'll have playing 16 vs. 16 
 on a huge map blowing up stuff all over the place? You would usually respawn in the next 5 minutes 
 just like battlefield games for EA. It has the kind of a feel to it. The graphics and the sound 
 in the game sound great. It goes with the feel and the look of the game as far as futuristic and 
 mid 20th century. The controls in the game will take you a while to get use to. But you have the 
 option of changing certain things about the controls like the Up and Down and Left and Right L3 
 and R3 button. Also before you begin a game you get to customize your character, the warhawk, and 
 the army of your choice. There are two to choose from Eucadian and Chernovan. There's not difference 
 in them there are just for appearance only. Eucadian have a futuristic look and Chernovan have 
 a mid 20th Century look .
  
  If you're looking for an online game with fast pace, high flying action, with tanks, 4x4 cars, 
 on foot action, with huge maps. Than look no further Warhawk is here and it's a game that can not 
 be missed out on if you're a PS3 owner. How can you beat the price of $40 as a downloadable game 
 and $60 for the blu-ray with a headset it's a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzthat
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Warhawk the game that will have all xbox fan boys saying halo what? yes its the answer that sony 
 fan boys have been waiting a long time now to get their hands on one of this years best titles 
 for ps3. where do i start with this game.......... one word ADDICTIVE!! this game will not be leaving 
 your ps3 anytime soon and will surely having you come back again and again to see what the battlefield 
 has for u next time you pick up a weapon. and for all u gay xbox fans out there dont be hating 
 sony fan boys when all u have is halo and we r getting all the goods. so yea xbox fan boys have 
 fun with ummm umm halo? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klaymoor
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I was in the beta for this, and by far it was one of the most fun I'd had multiplayer in a while.
 
  
  I am a huge fan of SOCOM and games of the same genre, so when i got a chance to play this one, 
 i had high hopes. Turns out that this game went above and beyond. Sure, there's no single player, 
 but when you're in a 32 player room with 3 of your friends playing split screen with you, things 
 can get really crazy, really fast.
  
  The map selection may seem small, but as in most games, players only focus on one or two maps, 
 and the different boundary set ups add some jazz. 32 people in the smallest map setting gets pretty 
 crazy, and jumping in a jeep and playing hide and go seek with your opponent is awesome.
  
  Play games for the online part? Pick this up. Looking for story game that youll play for 15 hours 
 then not touch? look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Don't let yourself be fooled by reviews and fanboys from the rival platforms... Warhawk is all 
 it was cracked up to be! The multiplayer features are just phenomenal! Warhawk is essentially edge 
 of your seat action when your playing online. The offline multiplayer (split screen action) is 
 awesome too, but it's probably not as intense as the online, but more of a fun game to play when 
 your with your friends and family. The graphics are pretty damn good taking into consideration 
 it's online and the number of things that are happening on screen at any given moment. I was actually 
 very suprised with the lack of lags or glitches... the game runs smoothly as if it was an offline 
 game (when playing online that is) . The sound is explosive, especially with a 5.1 system. To conclude... 
 if you have a PS3 this game is a must have aside Resistance: Fall of Man. I consider Warhawk to 
 be the second best online shooter next to Counter-Strike Source. Trust me, anyone who likes action 
 games and shooters will love Warhawk. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This is a really good game, and you can't beat the price. I have only played an hour or so, 
 but I can't wait to play this again. I am not really into flight sims, and I was a bit weary about 
 this game. But, its good! More of an action game with aircraft, then a flight sim though. I already 
 have a blue tooth headset with my phone that I use on my ps3, did I mention I love the price difference 
 without buying at the store? 39.99! 39.99! 39.99! And hey, if you go to the store its 59.99 and 
 comes with a blue tooth headset, not bad, since you can use this with other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAIM12005
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Remember Star wars Battlefront? Well add about 100 layers of better graphics with enormous draw 
 distances and a larger x100 more detail landscape. The skies are beautiful and the action in them 
 is intense. There is a good amount of variety in everything from weapons to vehicles. There all 
 a blast to use by the way. I HIGHLY recommend this game for ALL ps3 owners for this is the first 
 type of game that has been on a playstation 3 ever! Do not miss out on this opportunity, this is 
 not a game to ignore, GET IT! I got my from the psn server which I also recommend since it is 20 
 dollars cheaper, Bang for the Buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought warhawk today in new york and i took it home and opened poped it in the ps3 and played 
 it this is the best 3rd person shooter i have ever played with its dedicated servers and its vechiaels 
 and unique all out combat this game could easily be game of the year though it only has 5 maps 
 they have a huge replay vaule and there are many things to do with the warhawk and its weapons 
 and also the counter warhawk weapons such as the anti aircraft guns and such turrets the ground 
 combat is good but flying is the best i love this game and it has a flamethrower that rocks i recommend 
 ps3 owners to get this game it is a must have!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WASDPwned
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I posted this review to try to give the other side of things because 90% of the posts i've seen 
 are as I said before, OMFG BUY TIS GAME NAO COME PLAY WITH ME MY PSN IS ##### 
  
  No game is perfect, thats a given. However, this game could have been better. Even if there was 
 only the Warhawk/Nemesis, thats only one plane for each team. Theres a variety of weapons, but 
 Crimson Skies had this as well.
  
  Hell, Crimson Skies seriously almost looks the same as this game graphically. This is a PS3 game, 
 yet it uses almost nothing of the PS3's power, online or not.
  
  It's a Mediocre game with little or no depth, 5 maps, a handful of weapons, a handful of weapons 
 for planes, and 90% of your time playing this game will be in a vehicle. Playing as a ground soldier 
 is pointless, as everyone else is already in a turret/tank/jeep/plane (Yes, thats every vehicle 
 in the game right there. Theres one skin of this vehicle for each team)
  
  It's not worth 40$, but if you desperately need online play with a watered down 3rd person Battlefield 
 or even Battlefront (I say this, but I've personally never liked Battlefront) without the ability 
 to switch between First/Third person, this might be a good idea.
  
  Bad:
  
  -Theres 5 maps, each one with 3-4 layouts of the same map, just smaller/bigger areas depending 
 on the game type.
  -Theres a handful of game types, which doesn't matter because theres never really alot anyways.
 
  -Theres 2 sides, each with one skin. Apparently you can up your rank and get more Head/Torso/Leg 
 skins, but after the 4-5 hours i've played now, I haven't ranked up through playing ranked games.
 
  -NO OFFLINE MULTIPLAYER. No Single Player. No bots, no nothing (Atleast from what i've seen) . 
 You have to sign into the PSN to play this game, period.
  -Graphics are horrid, look like just plain Xbox/Gamecube quality. The animations are nice, sure, 
 but the landscapes are dull and boring, and so are the textures. When a plane explodes, the pieces 
 disappear in a few seconds and you can walk right through them. They don't bounce, no physics, 
 no nothing. Other objects, such as barrels or onther canisters, seem to just disappear when you 
 blow them up. Theres little/No debris.
  -Not many weapons. Theres one of each type, and theres pretty much just a Pistol, rocket launcer, 
 mines, machine gun, sniper rifle, flame thrower, and a knife.
  -Vehicle physics are horrible. It doesn't have that nice feel that games like Battlefield or Halo 
 gives off. They are tight and roll around like Hotwheels.
  -40$-50$ price tag for what should have been 10$-20$.
  
  Good:
  
  -The planes are fun and 
 frantic to fight with. They move fluidly and can turn instantly.
  -Planes have lots of weapons to choose from for a vehicle, basically the same amount as a ground 
 soldier.
  -Pretty balanced gameplay. Tanks don't own everything, neither do planes, and a pistol can beat 
 a rocket launcher. That being said, don't go looking for the OMFG BEST WEAPON, because there literally 
 isn't one.
  -Ground soldiers control nicely, and the rare gun fights are atleast fun.
  -You can grab onto rafters in the small outposts, hide in the darkness, and shank people with your 
 combat blade. That never gets old. It was a very small, less noticed, but very awesome addition.
 
  
  All and all, the game isn't great. It's fun, but it's not as good as Battlefield or any of those 
 types of games. It feels watered down and unfinished.
  
  I'd give it a 5.5 out of 10. Close, but not good enough for what it should have been. If you really 
 need this kind of gameplay to make you think your PS3 is worth something at the momment if it was 
 loosing you, this game is a nice addition, and with it availible in stores and direct download, 
 theres not an easier way to spend your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dluv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I thought I was taking a chance on downloading this game. I am a big fan of the Mercenary game 
 and thought that this would be what the game would be like if it was on line.
  Well, I took a chance and this was the best fun I have had yet. There isn't any of that run around 
 me and circles and kill me like Halo. It has an arcade feel which is what I am looking for and 
 a three second respawn. It lets you pick your place like Star Wars Battlefront.
  There is no single player mode which is why I think PSM rated this a 6.0 outa 10.
  After playing 
 this, I couldn't see it being played any other way.
  If you have a headset already. don't waste your money. I didn't and I'm glad. Mind works fine.
 
  See you online.
  
  p. s. watch out for onion007, i have you in my sights!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiiSsy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is solid but not anything to stop your life over. The controls take a little getting 
 used too but are fairly solid once mastered which should only take a few minutes for the seasoned 
 gamer. The graphics are really something special, as is the framerate for the game, which has yet 
 to even slightly chop in some of the most hectic encounters. Personally, this game is worth every 
 penny if you're an online action fan... if not then you might be bummed because it lacks any kind 
 of single player. In any case, I reccomend you pick it up as it will make a nice addition to your 
 gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButtPickle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  It's simply not worth it. I was anticipating this game like every other PS3 owner and the price 
 let me down for a multiplayer game with five maps. The gameplay is fun and addicting but I shouldn't 
 pay 60 bucks for a game and five maps. It's just not worth it, even for such a good game. Summary: 
 good game, wait for it to get a price drop. Fellow PS3 owners will criticize me for this but it's 
 not worth it. I will be playing more of this game but I'm disappointed at how much money I spent. 
 This game could have been 20 to 30 dollars and I would be happy with it but not with 60 bucks and 
 a headset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingoffheg
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, so a year ago I never played anything but RPGs but then I played Resistance: Fall of Man in 
 my friend's house and I fell in love with it, it was a VERY fun game and so I started playing shooters 
 and other kinds of games... then I watched a video of this game and it looked really fun, and while 
 I didn't play the beta since I didn't have my PS3 by that time I wanted to buy it so bad and I 
 did!!!
  
  Ok, so I started playing the game with VERY high expectations and thankfully it didn't disappoint!! 
 The game boosts very good graphics, the sound effects sound very real to me and the gameplay is 
 simply amazing and most importantly, this game is VERY FUN!!! Many people complain about the lack 
 of maps or single player mode, but who needs them? You can customize the maps and that's more than 
 enough for me and the absence of single player mode is no biggy for me... of course thie game retails 
 at 40$ on the PSN store and 60$ in regular stores but comes with a bluetooth set... I bought the 
 Blu-Ray version of course
  
  Overall, this is a game to buy and enjoy... it is definitely the PS3's best game thus far in spite 
 of being multiplayer only... I think it'll hold the crown as the best title for quite some time 
 unless Lair or Heavenly Sword turn out to be very good titles as i'm hoping they would be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  PS3 owners, this is a must, because such online experience cannot be missed out. If you've played 
 Battlefield on PC before, you should feel right at home in Warhawk, because you are literally playing 
 a war simulation, getting yourself caught in intense fights in the ground and in the air. It's 
 pacing is great, and its easy to pick up. Though the game lacks single player, I really don't think 
 its a big loss at all. You are getting your money's worth with this game, and I really don't think 
 any one will be putting their controllers down for a long long time, its just that addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tretcharuss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised last night to find Warhawk available in the Playstation Store, and quick 
 succumbed to purchasing it. And I am happy to say this morning that I did not regret. This game 
 is incredibly addictive, at first the controls were a bit hard to get used to, but now it is becoming 
 second nature. The sound is incredible in this game especially when you use headphones, the sound 
 of rockets whizzing over you head puts you right there on the battle field. Once you get the hang 
 of this game make sure you don't have any appointments b/c you may be calling in sick or even worse 
 not even showing up. The only negative thing I can say about this title is that there is no single 
 player mode, but if you are like me when it comes to shooters I don't play single player mode anyway. 
 If there is anyone on the fence about this one jump off of it, and pick this one up in stores or 
 download it directly. It will not dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhauskinz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  When announced that warhawk would be multiplayer only, many people and game sites admitted it was 
 a very risky move. But boy was it a smart one. The ability to seamlessly transfer up to 3 other 
 players in and out of the game via split-screen online is what impressed me most. But don't get 
 me wrong, the gameplay is great fun and INCREDIBLY addictive. This game is very arcade-ish, maybe 
 outlandish, but hilarious. The plane controls are great and maybe even complex, but that just makes 
 the game even better. From the second you spawn there are explosions and gunfire everywhere, planes 
 falling out of the sky, landing inches in front of you. Clan support, voice chat, statistics screens, 
 a great ranking system, awards, everything that makes multiplayer great is included. If you own 
 a PS3 and have broadband, BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edroc23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Yeah theirs no single player mode but so what. So many games have single plus multiplayer, and 
 one or the other suffers because of this. Warhawk is a very intense game. So much is going on around 
 you. You definitely cannot sit still playing this one. This game especially shines when playing 
 in either team modes. The graphics are beautiful and the stages are massive. I personally like 
 the motion controls because it gives you more freedom with the guns attached on the warhawk. But 
 for the other vehicles motion doesn't work too well. It's too bad you can't toggle this option 
 on the fly while playing the game. Also, no lag on this game. This is the most smoothest running 
 game I've seen. Look out for edroc23. I will definitely be on this one for a while. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
