-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wheelman
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/wheelman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slo-mo gunplay can be exciting.
 Great cinematic chase music.
 Finely tuned driving controls.
 Easy to jump between missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible on-foot controls.
 Cliched script and dialogue.
 Short story length.
 Static environments limit the 'open world' appeal.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 119 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Tigon
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wheelman offers plenty of movie-style thrills, although it's hamstrung by terrible on-foot gameplay. 
 

  Ever since it was announced as both a movie and video game, Hollywood's influence on Wheelman has 
 been clear. The game certainly panders to action game fans, finally answering the question, "What 
 would it be like to spin a motorcycle onto its front wheel and shoot a truck in slow motion?" While 
 the driving is fun and exciting, the on-foot sections are terrible, mired by poor control and weak 
 enemy AI. These weaknesses prevent Wheelman from reaching its potential, and the uneven 6-8 hour 
 campaign leaves you wanting more good content once the game wraps up.  

           As Milo Burik, you get to leap between cars, bikes, and trucks using the air-jack move. 
     

   

  You play Vin Diesel as Milo Burik, an American driver who arrives in Barcelona to go undercover 
 and infiltrate the city's three biggest gangs. The game works hard to make you feel like you're 
 an amazing driver, empowering you with a number of special abilities that not only help you survive, 
 but look cool as well. You can perform "vehicle melees" using the right analogue stick, swerving 
 into enemies or ramming them from behind. You can also steal civilian cars by "air-jacking" them, 
 jumping from car to car like some sort of urban Tarzan. Then there are the aimed shot and cyclone 
 moves, where you can shoot at enemies in slow-motion from an over-the-shoulder perspective.  

 
  These special moves are the most enjoyable part of Wheelman, as they really capture the essence 
 of the Hollywood movies that inspired the game. While they can become repetitive over time, the 
 focus meter ensures that you have to be driving well in order to pull them off, and the steady 
 supply of enemies and police means that you're always under pressure. The control system makes 
 it easy to slide around corners and perform donuts, and the game definitely succeeds in making 
 you feel like a Hollywood action hero.  

  You can either play Wheelman as a free-roaming game in which you find missions yourself, or you 
 can use the map to jump to the relevant locations. The missions often revolve around escorting, 
 capturing or stealing cars, but there are some particularly memorable assignments, such as driving 
 through a newspaper editors office, and smashing up rival advertising billboards. Things get repetitive 
 as you progress, and the game can be beaten in around six hours, but there are optional side missions 
 that extend the longevity and give you an opportunity to increase your focus meter, vehicle health, 
 attack power, and performance. Fugitive missions are particularly good; planting you deep in enemy 
 territory and then challenging you to make it to a safe point alive.  

  There are only a few missions involving on-foot gameplay, which is a good thing, given how badly 
 the game plays in this area. There's no cover system, so you have to protect yourself by ducking 
 behind objects, and it's a real pain to target enemies and free-aim. Even more implausible is the 
 lack of a jump button, meaning you have to walk around obstacles. The enemy AI is also painfully 
 stupid, positioning itself next to explosive barrels, which are inexplicably scattered in locations 
 that include a church graveyard.  

  The storyline for Wheelman is cinematically styled, but it's predictable and stuffed with risible 
 dialogue. The gangs are staffed with the sort of thugs you've seen a million times before, and 
 while they often speak in Spanish or Russian, they lack any sort of believable motives or intriguing 
 relationships. Diesel's character is pretty arrogant, although that could be described as his style, 
 and when the whole thing wraps with the tease of an inevitable sequel, you're not really sure who's 
 working for who or why.          Although the vehicular combat is good fun, the on-foot sections 
 fare much worse due to poor control and enemy AI.      

  Wheelman captures the style of Barcelona for its setting, but it's devoid of the same sense of 
 life. Take La Rambla for example -- a vibrant mix of market vendors, tourists and street performers 
 in real life, but an abandoned collection of park benches, coffee tables and generic shacks in 
 the game. That said, Wheelman keeps the pace moving by making nearly everything destructible, even 
 if you're on a bike. On the downside, Vin Diesel's 'good guy' status means that he can't kill any 
 of the civilians in the game, as they jump to avoid getting runover and are completely invulnerable 
 to bullets.  

  Thankfully, the music fits perfectly, with a Spanish-influenced soundtrack for the game's many 
 loading screens, and an orchestral score that adds to the urgency of the chases. The music is locked 
 when you're on a mission, but you can flick between seven radio stations if you're just cruising 
 around. They're split into genres like classical, urban, and American, and though they lack licensed 
 tracks, the music quality is serviceable. The sound effects are also good. You can hear fan belts 
 screeching from clapped-out vehicles, and the voice acting is much better than the script deserves. 
 On the other hand, the graphics vary from unremarkable to just plain bad, particularly when it 
 comes to the characters. It's hard to believe that Vin Diesel was happy to be represented like 
 this; he has dead eyes, strange lip movements, and rough shadows across his face during many cutscenes. 

  Wheelman introduces some neat ideas to the open-world driving genre, and when you're moving at 
 high speed, it's a lot of fun. The slow-motion gunplay and air-jacking work particularly well, 
 and really make you feel as though you're blessed with superhuman driving abilities. Nevertheless, 
 there are also some big problems, particularly the on-foot combat and complete lack of multiplayer. 
 If you're a fan of Vin Diesel or movie-based car chases then you'll get some enjoyment out of Wheelman, 
 but only if you can vehicle melee your way around some significant flaws and omissions.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  As Vin Diesel, I mean, undercover agent Milo -- you'll infiltrate all corners of Barcelona's crime 
 syndicate through a series of missions and side quests. You'll spend much of the game in the driver's 
 seat, and that's a good thing as Wheelman's at its pulse-pounding best when you're behind the wheel, 
 engaging in car-to-car battles, or simply turning a sidewalk cafe into a sea of overturned tables, 
 flying umbrellas, and fleeing pedestrians. The driving mechanics are accessible and tight, allowing 
 you to pull off slick stunts with ease; you'll never have to worry about being stalled by accidents 
 or obstacles either, as not even a head-on collision with a brick wall will keep you from the action 
 for more than a few seconds. Realistic? No. Fun? Absolutely!
  
  The vehicular chaos only gets better when you factor in the game's Focus Meter which you fill by 
 destroying objects, speeding, and generally driving like an a-hole (although, running down civilians 
 will deplete the meter) . With a brimming Focus Meter, players can unleash a pretty standard temporary 
 speed-booster, but my favorite focus powers let me combine my rubber-burning skills with some good 
 ole' fashioned gunplay. One ability slows time and shifts the perspective to your vehicle's interior, 
 while a reticule allows you to get an accurate bead on the road-blocking baddies up ahead. Other 
 character (pedestrians and enemies) are also very unrealistic and poorly animated. Even cooler, 
 though, is the aptly dubbed "cyclone" maneuver that lets you pull a 180 while popping rounds at 
 tires, gas tanks and driver's heads. Complemented by super-stylized cinematics filled with screen-devouring 
 explosions and other action-infused staples pulled right from the popcorn movie playbook, taking 
 out highway hoodlums is endlessly fun. Of course, you can always highjack new vehicles should yours 
 get dinged up; you can do this by exiting your smoke-spitting jalopy and hoofing it to another 
 car or you can just climb out the window of your speeding deathtrap and perform an "airjack", which 
 is as fun as it sounds. Although unrealistic as it sounds, the graphics don't get much better during 
 the game, and some textures look grubby. When players aren't tearing up the blacktop, they're controlling 
 Milo in on-foot missions. These aren't nearly as exciting, primarily because third-person running-and-gunning 
 has already been done so much better in other games. Thankfully, though, you're behind the wheel 
 for most of the game's mission-packed duration. And whether you're fleeing to a safe-house in a 
 suped-up sports car, or unloading an Uzi from behind the handle bars of a scooter, you'll find 
 Wheelman's at its action-amping best when you're on the road.
  
  Wheelman definitely treads a tricky path, as it doesn't pack the gameplay variety or character-driven 
 narration of a Grand Theft Auto, nor does it offer the depth of a dedicated car combat title such 
 as Burnout. However, its arcadey addictiveness and cinematic style successfully lands it in a sweet 
 spot right between those two genres, taking players for a ride that's totally on par with the summer 
 movie excitement it emulates.
  
  -----------------
  Overall, a good game with amazing fun and a wide selection of levels, although some sections of 
 the game brings it only to a 7.5/10, overall though, a good game for you to enjoy if bored, and 
 a real challenger.
  
  Written by Jordan Mason - Game Reviewer
  ----------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrybalsamo765
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this game since in was announced. I'm a big fan of driving games and 
 [while some may not agree] have always enjoyed Vin Diesel's films. So having a game like this was 
 always going to have my interest. 
  
  Let me start by saying this game isn't GTA 4. It's not trying to be GTA 4. So comparing the two 
 is pointless (why reviewers feel the need to compare any open world game with it, I'll never understand) . 
 Just because GTA put sandbox games into the mainstream, doesn't mean that any other sandbox game 
 is trying to copy it. With that said, let us continue.
  
  This game is all about the over-the-top driving. And it does this perfectly. Cars handle great, 
 meaning you never have to worry about over-cooking (or under-cooking) a corner. That's not to say 
 its boring or easy, but certainly makes it more pleasurable and less frustrating. The Airjacking 
 and Vehicle Melee add the Hollywood touch that, while making the game a little unrealistic, sure 
 as hell make it more fun than most driving games. Airjacking gives you the ability to jack another 
 vehicle from your car without having to stop, in a similar style to Just Cause. Vehicle Melee makes 
 you vehicle a weapon, giving you the ability to smash cars next to you. The car chases become frantic 
 but it's nice to know you can fight back! 
  
  The graphics are good. Maybe not the best the console has seen but still respectable. Same with 
 the audio. Works with the game but not memorable.
  
  This game does have flaws. The story is weak, the AI needs some work and the on-foot sections date 
 back to the Driver 3 age. You'll find yourself doing those missions just to process the story. 
 Car damage could've been better. It's fairly limited. A Burnout Paradise style damage system could've 
 worked well but alas, it wasn't to be.
  
  To me, what this game set out to do was create a simple, fun, cinematic experience based around 
 Vin Diesel driving. And at this it succeeds. It has flaws that might put people off (the on-foot 
 sections being the biggest disappointment) and there are aspects of the game that could've been 
 improved or polished. But it does what it says on the tin. Don't go into this expecting it to equal 
 or surpass GTA 4. Its not trying to do that. If you want a GTA style game, buy GTA. If you want 
 simple, car-based fun then you can't go wrong with Wheelman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_madsin_x
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  TERRIBLE game what a terrible game it is. First you get to annoy by a woman who supposed to be a 
 wingman from a RALLY RACE wanna be. Her voice was so annoying "go to the left now turn right!!" 
 geesss what a bad voice acting it was. Second the CAR BODYCHECK geeess just leave it to the NHL 
 PLAYERS OR NFL PLAYERS. Cars never do that in real life. Vin should be ashame of this for using 
 his name. This game reminds me of FULL AUTO 2. My eyes and head hurted when i started playing this 
 game HORRIBLE !! Hey i know now what they should name this game KEELMAN OR HORRORBLE GAME. VIN 
 DIESEL is a good actor, cant wait to see his new FAST AND FURIOS movie this should be good. Good 
 thing they put back all the original characters back in this movie. I hope LITTLE BOWOW is not here
 
  
  have a nice day!!
  
  rent it or download the demo first. NO TUNER THIS TIME hehhehehe ;o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willurd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, which in the end is what a game should be. I'm enjoying it, and I'll finish it. 
 That said, the gameplay, namely the fighting system, is pretty terrible (no melee attacks?) . I 
 wouldn't exactly call this an open world game, because there's nothing to do while roaming on foot. 
 You can ride around in a car and hit people and then run from the cops, but that gets old pretty 
 quick.
  
  Gameplay in a car is almost what it should be, but could have used some tuning. For one, not being 
 able to change the camera angle while in a car (though you can on foot??) is pretty bad. And handbrake 
 turns take a little getting used to in this game.
  
  All in all the story is kinda cool so far. And Vin Diesel is a total badass. Hopefully the game 
 ends well (and soonish 'cause resident evil is sitting on my shelf) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  Remember the good old ps2 days!! There was a game very similar to this back then, and that probably 
 is still better!!
  
  This was a real big one, it was gonna put some life back into the what seems to be the same coming 
 out on every platform, at last some point shoot and F@$K off quickly action. And like riddick it 
 has vin diesel in it.
  
  Once you get into the game, its quite apparent that the gameplay element towers over the visual 
 presentation, someone in the office made a consiencious effort to give rambo (i aint so tuff mick!!) 
 the action developement side of the game and the visual side to stevie wonder !! 
  
  Looks : not bad but its not good either, im getting a little sick of developers sending **** looking 
 games to the public, when the hardware is now capable of producing much higher quality. On a positive 
 note I do like the slow down (been done already i know) bits, the points to shoot arnt to tricky, 
 giving lesser dextrous players a chance to enjoy it too. Trust me you ll enjoy spinning the front 
 wheel of the bike round on one wheel and blasting everything in sight, very mission impossible!!
 
  
  Still, its a lot of fun and quite intense, its fast, its vin diesel, oh and thats it! Other than 
 that you wont be doing much than escorting, running from cops, bad yardy boys and the occassional 
 run around and watch everyone i try and kill other than yardy boys and crooks, move or be superman 
 for the day, they wont die, REALSIM MY ASS!!
  
  There are some quality moments where your whole head is treated to "a smashing" good time, while 
 you completely ram through offices and other inate objects. This while keep you going for a few 
 hours but i think most people will finish this game rather quickly. 
  
  This is yet another arrow in my achilles heel for developers, two words "BLUE RAY" this means you 
 can fit Rusty Lee's ass (its BIG!!) onto a disc now, SO WHY ARE GAMES GETTING WHAT SEEMS TO BE 
 SHORTER!! Man we all work hard, and paying 50 quid (some people do!!) for this is in a word "PANTS". 
 Show us some respect Midway, you ve been going longer than santa has emptying his sacks every year 
 (poor man!!!)
  
  On foot missions, i feel some of the critics were a bit sore with it!! It isnt horrific, its challenging 
 i'll give you that and the crouch and blast system isnt the end of the world, it would have been 
 nice to have a gears of war style system, but hey everyones doing that these days!! I think this 
 way it keeps the "frustration" levels high giving you a heightened level of enjoyment and when 
 your finished this misses too!!, just dont get left with the pea shooter!!
  
  I've tried to stay positive of this game, i didnt think it was too bad, we just expect a little 
 better. 
  
  If you can escape the dodgey looks sometimes, this plays pretty well, though its too short and 
 there's no replay value, do the smart thing and rent it, not spent it (like i did!!) , blockbuster 
 will sell out!! Happy gaming!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
