-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/smackdownvsraw2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay still offers a solid wrestling experience.
 The new fighting styles do a good job of differentiating different wrestler types.
 Still lots of different stuff to do.
 Fantastic wrestler models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Old problems like clipping issues and AI shoddiness are still a big problem in this sequel.
 New 24/7 mode is severely disappointing.
 Most modes have seen little to no updating.
 Fighting styles sometimes feel imbalanced.
 Commentary is still abysmal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 810 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Yuke's
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With little notable improvement to the formula and steps backward in several key areas, SmackDown! 
 vs. RAW 2008 is a big disappointment. 

  THQ's WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW wrestling game franchise may have taken one chair shot too many. As 
 much as this series has always been about piling new features on top of existing features, the 
 pile is starting to teeter and is in danger of falling over entirely. Once again, this year's game 
 adds several new components to the existing game engine that's been piled upon since the series 
 was a PS2 exclusive, but the difference this year is that few, if any, of the changes really feel 
 like they impact the overall experience for the better. In fact, some of the changes impact the 
 game negatively. The gameplay is still basically fun, but all the various little problems that 
 have built up over the years remain unaddressed, and some of the surrounding components of the 
 game are really starting to show their age.  

           This year's SmackDown! doesn't do an awful lot to improve the franchise in any meaningful 
 way.      

  By far the biggest change to this year's game is the addition of fighting styles. This is a sort 
 of classification of each wrestler type that gives wrestlers under each type specific abilities. 
 For instance, powerhouse types like Batista can effectively "hulk up" when they fill up their energy 
 meter and store a fighting style icon, which renders them impervious to strikes and makes all their 
 grapple moves irreversible. Secondary abilities are also available. For instance, a powerhouse 
 can also pull off stronger Irish whips that send opponents over the ropes. There are several different 
 types of these styles, including technical wrestlers, high-flyers, brawlers, submission specialists, 
 dirty fighters, showmen, and hardcore types.  

  For the most part, each of the abilities assigned to these different archetypes fit nicely into 
 each wrestler's general moveset, but some have a tendency to appear overmuch over the course of 
 a match, and in some cases, they also feel a little overpowered. The powerhouse's ability to just 
 grapple at will tends to be a lot more effective at ending a match quickly than the high-flyer's 
 ability to do surprise pins. Granted, there's always been that difference in effectiveness between 
 wrestlers of this type, but these fighting styles just make those differences all the more pronounced. 
 Not to suggest that you can't win with smaller, less powerful guys, but if you get caught in a 
 flurry of punches from a brawler or a series of hard slams from a powerhouse, you're down for the 
 count.  

  Beyond that significant change, the gameplay hasn't seen much alteration from last year's game. 
 The same right analog stick-based grappling system is on offer, though the number of buttons you 
 have to press to pull off a total-control grapple move has been lessened. The submissions system 
 has seen a slight change, where both players use the right analog stick to respectively apply pressure 
 or escape, but this doesn't add much dynamism to that particular component. This year's game does 
 also add ECW into the mix, along with all the various hardcore-isms that go along with that. The 
 ECW extreme rules match is available in all its glory, and weapons have been given a bit of an 
 overhaul, specifically how you go about getting them from under the ring. There's a nifty little 
 weapon wheel that pops up, letting you select among several different weapons, like tables, chairs, 
 2x4s wrapped in barbed wire -- you know, the usual stuff. Also, you can set weapons on fire now, 
 which is undeniably awesome.  

  Still, apart from this ECW-centric stuff, there's not much else to marvel at with the gameplay 
 this year, especially considering all the holdover problems from previous games that plague this 
 sequel. The artificial intelligence continues its downward spiral into utter boobdom, especially 
 in any kind of gimmick match where weapons are prevalent. They'll constantly stand around, periodically 
 flailing at another wrestler with a weapon and hoping for the best. Any match that has a ladder 
 involved but nothing hanging above the ring to collect still results in a number of wrestlers constantly 
 scaling ladders in the middle of the ring over and over again. Tag partners still sometimes forget 
 that they're supposed to help you when you're in trouble, too. And now, with this new fighting 
 style system, the AI has taken to relying on these various special moves to an almost irritating 
 degree. How many times can one guy use the ref as a shield, or "hulk up" in a match? Apparently 
 the answer is "too many."  

  Collision detection is still terrible as well. Body parts warp through one another and the ring 
 regularly, and you'll often see wrestlers simply warp from one side of the ring to the other in 
 place of certain transition animations, primarily during weapon-centric matches. All told, the 
 animation engine really looks like it needs an overhaul. Even the general moveset is looking a 
 bit stiff and flat these days. The good news is that the animation and clipping issues are really 
 the only major blight on an otherwise sharp-looking game. The wrestler models are still some of 
 the very best character modeling you'll see in a game, save perhaps for the still-hideous haircuts. 
 You can tell that this game is still running on the engine built for the PS2, especially if you 
 look and see the surprisingly small dip in overall visual quality in the PS2 version versus its 
 current-gen counterparts, but even so, the lighting effects, crowd graphics, and just the overall 
 sheen of the 360 and PS3 games shine through. The 360 version ultimately looks the best, as the 
 PS3 iteration's frame rate isn't quite as steady, and the lighting looks a bit funny in spots. 
 Interestingly, the PS2 version actually runs smoother as a whole than the PS3 version, though obviously 
 the dip in overall visual quality in that version is pretty significant, as well.  

  In terms of content, SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 offers roughly the same roster of match types and 
 modes as last year, with a few small additions and a few significant downgrades. The biggest downgrade 
 is the 24/7 mode, which now wraps the single-player story mode and the general manager mode up 
 into one haphazard package. In an effort to combine the two, the story mode has lost all its punch 
 and ability to deliver something even closely resembling a real storyline. Sure, you still get 
 the yearlong title hunt with one of the main superstars in the game or a created grappler, but 
 the story barely rears its head beyond the scope of a series of voicemails you get from other wrestlers 
 and the general manager of the brand. The few cutscenes you do get are pretty generic, and sometimes 
 they don't even fit the context of what's going on. Sometimes wrestlers you supposedly are fighting 
 with will give you a handshake backstage. Couple that with some of the voicemails sometimes identifying 
 the wrong person as your rival, and even identifying the wrestler you're controlling as someone 
 you're supposed to fight, and the story aspects of this mode feel more than a bit hacked together. 

           Yes, this is much better than a decent storyline.      

  In place of story is a bunch of lame statistical data and achievements that your wrestler is supposed 
 to hit over the course of the season. You earn respect and eventual title shots by increasing your 
 skill and your popularity with the fans, and you increase that stuff by doing all these little 
 challenges and ventures between shows. Is your strength rating lacking? Go wrestle a guy for two 
 minutes and do as many strong grappling moves as possible. Need to improve on the mic? Spend some 
 cash for a nonplayable training exercise and get a boost to that statistic. Need to rest up? Take 
 some R&amp; R at the expense of your wrestler's fatigue rating, as well as a bit of his popularity. 
 The trick to this whole aspect of the mode is keeping a balance between all the various things 
 you're doing. Overexert yourself and you'll be much more prone to injury, which forces you to wrestle 
 with damage already taken (even though the doctor always tells you to rest up, you can't skip shows) , 
 and if you just rest constantly, your popularity rating will plummet.     

  It's a very strange balance to keep, and one that really isn't much fun. Since you can't actually 
 see your wrestler do much on the mic, or take part in any of these film roles, or interviews, or 
 autograph signings that he's supposedly doing, it all feels more than a little meaningless. And 
 while injuries might be realistic to how wrestling tends to go these days, they don't make the 
 mode any more fun. Why anyone thought these silly additions would make a good replacement for actual, 
 unique storylines is anyone's guess, but they aren't, and ultimately this year's story mode is 
 a real downer.  

           Clipping and animation issues aside, the wrestler models still look fantastic.      

 
  The interesting thing is that all these various training bits can be done in the GM mode as well, 
 though obviously you can apply them to any wrestler on your roster, not just one guy. Apart from 
 that stuff as well as a greater frequency of injuries, GM mode is practically untouched from last 
 year. You still draft rosters or pick existing ones, you still book matches, you still try to get 
 more fans than the other two brands (ECW has been added to the mix this year) , and it all still 
 feels like a piece of a good idea rather than a fully fleshed-out good idea. Booking the matches 
 just isn't that exciting unless you're playing all the matches yourself (and sometimes, not even 
 then) . Another big problem is the truncated roster this year. Despite the addition of a new brand, 
 there are actually fewer wrestlers to pick from in this year's game than last, and that severely 
 limits the kind of roster you can have in the GM mode. If you choose to draft, you only get something 
 like 13 or 14 wrestlers before everyone's been taken, so unless you feel like creating a gaggle 
 of guys in the create-a-wrestler mode, you're not going to have a lot to work with.  

  On top of that, the roster itself is rather severely out of date. Notably released wrestlers who 
 are in the game's roster include Sandman, King Booker, Cryme Time, Marcus Cor Von, Chris Masters, 
 and Sabu (who is admittedly in the game as a "legend" wrestler for some reason) . Couple that with 
 a few names who are currently out with extended injuries, and the roster is looking a little ragged. 
 It might not feel so off if it weren't for the fact that there are less wrestlers overall than 
 last year. It's not Yuke's fault that this is the case, considering the development cycle and how 
 far ahead the rosters have to be locked for this thing before the game is finished, but maybe this 
 speaks to a greater issue about the game's development cycle that this problem keeps popping up 
 again and again, and with greater notability each year.  

  Elsewhere in the game, there are a few tournament modes you can play around with, as well as a 
 hall of fame mode that puts you into some classic matches and tasks you with winning them (Bret 
 Hart vs. Shawn Michaels in an iron man match; a TLC match against the Hardy Boyz; an extreme-rules 
 fatal four-way match between yourself, Tommy Dreamer, Sabu, and the Sandman; and so on and so forth) . 
 Beyond that, you're looking at the same basic exhibition, online, and create-a-wrestler modes as 
 last year. Online has seen almost no alteration whatsoever. You just get into either a ranked or 
 unranked match against up to five other opponents (depending on the match type) , and you can trade 
 created wrestlers with other players. The online basically works fine, with little lag that we 
 could see. However, the PS3 version lacks voice chat, and the PS2 version actually lacks any kind 
 of online component whatsoever. It's also $10 cheaper than the 360 or PS3 versions, so take that 
 for what it's worth.  

  The create modes are similarly unaltered. You can design belts, movesets, stables, entrances, and 
 finally, a superstar. This is still a very deep mode with lots of options to play with, but it 
 doesn't feel like it really adds much to the equation from last year's game, and elements of the 
 interface still feel clumsy. The one really nice addition is the ability to use custom soundtracks 
 for your created entrances on the 360 version. It's a pretty simple process. Just throw whatever 
 songs you have on your hard drive into a playlist, and the game recognizes any playlist you have 
 in the create an entrance mode. Unfortunately, the 360 version is the only one to have this feature. 

           Online and create modes are mostly identical to last year's game.      

  That one element is about the best thing you can say for the game's audio, which is exceptionally 
 underwhelming. It's mostly the fault of the voice acting (though the recycled sound effects don't 
 help, either) . The 24/7 mode dialogue bits are badly delivered, and the commentary is the same 
 recycled nonsense we've been getting from this series for the last few iterations. You've heard 
 practically every one of these lines, and you've heard them be just as inaccurate as they are in 
 this game. Something has seriously got to give in next year's game, because at this point it serves 
 more to ruin the presentation of the matches than help it.  

  You can count the number of things SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 does to improve the series on one hand, 
 and the number of things that it does wrong on the digits remaining on the rest of your limbs. 
 It's not that it's an awful game. The gameplay still has plenty of life in it and in multiplayer, 
 the matches can be quite fun. But everything else about the game -- the few middling changes to the 
 gameplay, the major gameplay issues that remain unfixed, the lackluster 24/7 mode, and the thoroughly 
 rehashed create and online modes -- just makes you wonder if it isn't time for this series to finally 
 start over from scratch. Every year these games include a greater breadth of content, but rarely 
 a greater depth. SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 is perhaps the greatest example of that. It's a solid 
 wrestler, but not one that's worth spending $50 to $60 for if you already own last year's game. 
 While this might be the series' first installment on the PlayStation 3, it's hardly an auspicious 
 one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scottcoates93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  Wrestling games over the years have been dominated by the WWE Smackdown VS RAW series. The games 
 have boasted sheer realism and great, fast paced gameplay. Smackdown VS RAW 2008 is the first WWE 
 game to hit the PS3, and by god it delivers. 
  
  The game features three main modes. 24/7 mode, General Manager mode and Tournament mode. 24/7 is 
 this years annual story line. You can play this story line with any character, including characters 
 you have created. In this mode you become engulfed in various rivalries with various superstars, 
 and these rivalries grow and escalate right up to the monthly pay-per view where you eventually 
 fight out your problems with your rival in the ring. This mode is good but isn't a mode you would 
 want to play again once completed as it would be exactly the same. So hopefully next year, Yukes 
 (the makers of the game) , will incorporate specific story lines for specific superstars. Apart 
 from the lifespan of this mode, the story is a good storyline and it does make you feel as if you 
 are part of the action. 
  The Tournament mode allows you to compete in various tournaments with your chosen superstar. Tournaments 
 include the King Of The Ring, Money In The Bank, Smackdown VS RAW and Road To WrestleMania. The 
 best one is the Money In The Bank tournament where superstars compete for a slot in the 6 man ladder 
 match. Tournament mode also allows you to create your own tournaments, where the detail is very 
 in depth which is a good thing. You can choose what match types each match is and you can also 
 choose which superstars take part which allows you to create the fantasy matches you have always 
 dreamed of, (Triple H VS The Undertaker anyone?) . 
  In my opinion, the best mode of the game is the highly addictive general manager mode. This mode 
 allows you to become the general manager of one of the WWE brands, either RAW, Smackdown or ECW. 
 You have total control over the shows, deciding all the matches and the rivalres that will unravel 
 in the upcoming weeks. This mode is highly addictive and is easily the best mode in a WWE game 
 ever. 
  Online modes are pretty average, allowing you to compete in matches such as Steel Cage matches 
 and ECW Extreme Rules matches, but it would have been nice to be able to have a 30 Man Online Royal 
 Rumble. The best online feature is the ability to trade created superstars with other online users. 
 
  Overall, this game is brilliant. Everything is in place apart from the superstar specific storylines, 
 which hopefully, they will incorparate into next years game, which could make Smackdown VS RAW 
 2009 the perfect game. For now, we will make do with the 2008 version, and that, without a dobut, 
 is no bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILIFF
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I was expecting so much from this game, which is why it hurt all the more when it flop and failed 
 to reach the standards set by all of the past editions of the game.
  
  I will admit that the quality of the graphic on the wrestlers was good, a little to good really 
 because they looked as if they were from a different game, they didn't seem to match the environments 
 they were doing battle in.
  The only saving grace this game really has to offer is its sound track (off: Rock, metal ect)
 
  
  They were the only things that stood out for me. 
  
  The main feeling of disappointment caused by this game is created by the season mode. The season 
 mode plays through an entire year of a wrestlers career. Playing through this mode is so repetitive 
 it soon becomes frustrating after the first two months.
  
  In my opinion there is really nothing to make you want to play this game all the way through, other 
 than so that once it is complete you never have to play it again.
  
  But if you are a fan of the series and really want to get it, don't get your hopes up to much and 
 wait until it becomes a lot cheaper. (It softens the disappointment) 
  
  
  I hope this review may help you slightly when you make your decision whether or not to buy the 
 game.
  
  4.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_wolfstein
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Controls configuration is done well. The game-play is fun. Characters graphics and entrances 
 are realistic.
  
  Cons: Collision encounters issues, target system is difficult, some big bugs.
  
  I been playing 
 the game for quite a while and I have enjoy playing with multiple characters and watching intros. 
 Personally, I think it is the best in the series thus far with nicely done control setup and different 
 modes to play.
  However, one problem I have notice that irritates me is that when I get to make a choice in the 
 game it does not always follow the choice I made. For example, Stephanie McMahon ask me if I want 
 do give up my Champonship or if I stand up to her. I chose to Stand Up to Her and instead in game 
 it show me giving it up.
  Besides that I think this is great for some casual fun and would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  theres no new matches in the game, well there is a ecw extreme rules match which is the same as 
 a hardcore match. Theres just so many things wrong with this game, for one the lack of roster, 
 another example, most of the time you hit a wrestler it doesn't even looks like the hit connects. 
 Online play is the poorest online play I ever seen. The game will freeze up like ever 4 seconds 
 on it.
  
  Now to story mode, its basically the same stuff over and over again. Like your wrestler will walk 
 past other wrestlers on there way to the ring, or your wrestler will be shown lifting weights in 
 his locker room, or your wrestler will accidently walk in the divas locker room. That just spoiled 
 over 80% of the cutscenes to you. Another bug in it is evertime a wrestler comes from there entrance 
 theres a 15 second loading screen.
  When the game does have storyline detail you could be feuding with edge, then out of the blue your 
 fighting cena, its just stupid. I wish I could say 09 be better but i just found out you can only 
 play 6 wrestlers in storyline mode. These wrestling games go down in 1 year to 20 bucks so if you 
 just got to have it get it, but if you just kinda want it wait a year and save 40 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good great graphics on the wrestlers, Belt, Arenas and the fans. I have really 
 enjoyed this game because there is a lot to do adn good matches to play over and over again. The 
 gm is not as good as i thought it would be it bring they shoud upgrade this alot in the next series 
 of smackdown vs raw. Season is pretty good great story but no matter what superstar you use its 
 the same old story so you get a bit bored of that. This game i great to play with friend and online 
 as you can compare your created wrestlers to other and find out who is the best smackdown vs raw 
 gamer in the world. The best thing about this game is thye ecw has finally come makeing hardcore 
 matches awsome and the ecw extream rules match wich you can put bard wire 4+4 on fire and tables. 
 The biggest let down in this ggame is the gm mode it's crap compared to smackdown vs raw 2006 and 
 2007. If you are a wrestling fan you will enjoy it but you cant losse againt computer its just 
 to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  As a fan of this wrestling series, i was very excited for this game. I bought it the first day 
 released, and popped it into my console, if only i knew what a waste of time this game was going 
 to be!
  
  So, you start up picking your wrestler, me going with Cane, and my manager being Cena. So, you 
 start the first match. It starts. Proabably the worst graphics of a wresting game ever! The characters 
 were jerky, the croud looked the same, and the only good thing about it was your opening onto the 
 ring. This game looked very low budget, the only good graphical scenes are fighting. In this game, 
 your fighting moves have been updated since the last game in the series. They have become more 
 brutal, and there is more blood. However, you are limited to takedowns, but watching yourself beat 
 the s@#t out of someone is one hell of a ride. It's good using props aswell, chairs, crowbars and 
 ladders. Except, the ladder doesn't work that well. You climb up, then the opponent climbs up with 
 you, and your doing nothing, just standing there. You jump off them, do the move but land straight 
 on your back and injur yourself. Hmmm, i hope the next game of this series imprives that, or just 
 get rid of the ladder alltogether! I like the comentators, there funny, but usually repeat themselvwes. 
 You never see them either, hopefully we will in the next game.
  
  This game is very short, you will beat it in a matter of hours, then create your own campaign, 
 and complete it in maybe 4 hours. Then play with friends, which actually is very fun. The music 
 also in this game is well pollished off, sound is perfect in this game, really gives it that sense 
 of wow. So, overall, a rent only game. Fans to this series might find it dissapointing, like me.
 
  
  6.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadracor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Graphics: i found it intresting but i thought it would be bettter graphic because they said graphics 
 on the ps3 is gonna be better the graphics is the same as the wii version of the game.
  
  
  Voice Acting: BAD i think they should put real wrestlers do the voice acting but if they are 
 they stunk @$$.
  
  
  Other: There is alloTT of loading screens on every entrance there has to be a loading screen and 
 that gave a big headache, the announcers keep repeating the same things over & over again like 
 in this one match they said look who's in ring 3 min later they said agai the're like DUM or something.
 
  
  
  gameplay: is good this is the reason i'm giving this game more than 5.5 the gameplay is very good 
 i found it very fun.
  
  
  
  story mode: 24/7 mode is very fun but is very Fu*king long to be 100% legend. 
  
  
  thnx 
 for reading ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear619
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  smackdown vs raw 2008 is a ok take on todays real in ring experience... one thing i find a bit wrong 
 is when wrestlers such as cena can easliy knock someone like the khali off his feet... the struggle-submission 
 is completely pointless and should be returned to what it was in previous games... also lack of 
 downloadable content means the rosters are out of date... to be honest the comentary is very bad 
 and needs a lot of work... the season mode new 24/7 works well but it wasnt what fans were were 
 hopeing for... hopefully this years will deliver with storylines for spesifick superstars... the 
 superstar models are top class nearly ever superstar looks scarley like there real life counterparts... the 
 online in this game is quiet but some matches suffered from lagness due to a bad conection... in 
 conclusion svr is a solid wrestling game that the fans will love until next years installment arrives.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enterrador666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was expecting more specially on the PS3. I do like the graphics 
 they are excellent but besides that it seems like a recycled title from previous ones or at the 
 least a collage of other games. Some aspects were great though such as the create a superstar and 
 create a move set. The story mode got tiresome with the same cutscenes used over and over throughout 
 the game. The controls were decent but sometimes a bit delayed. It wasn't too confusing trying 
 to get the hang of what button does what but the characters seemed to move in slow motion specially 
 when running. Overall it is not that bad of a game, a good leisure game or party game but after 
 playing it for about 30 minutes you gotta move on. The soundtrack was decent at most but like many 
 games if you don't like the sounds, turn down the volume and turn up the stereo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  THQ's WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW wrestling game franchise is the best in wrestling but this year we 
 have a very disapointning game on the list. As much as this series has always been about piling 
 new features this year there is nothing just the same old 2007 with a bit of a refresh. Once again, 
 this year's game is not only a Playstation 2 exclusive but its for the Playstation portable, Xbox360, Nintendo 
 DS, Mobile and The Nintendo WII.
  By far the biggest change in this years WWE smackdown vs RAW game is the fighting styles. Beyond 
 that significant change, the gameplay hasn't seen much changes like more grapples and more moves. The 
 same right analog stick-based grappling is back i hoped that they would do it like the PSP controls 
 but another dissapointing act was done. So THQ has dissapointed us. But gamers who did not play 
 last years game will find this game very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twedrossnake
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  ... to bits There is no lifespan in this game what so ever and is laughable because of the funny 
 atempts to make the game last longer by putting in the worst carrer mode i have ever had to endure. The 
 countless hours of doing the same thingts overe and over again which doesnt help because its just 
 the same hardcore violence with different twists which some people may like but for me it doesnt 
 quite do it for me and for many, many otherS.
  The modes consist of 2 main modes 24/7 mode and 1v1 style matchig. The gamepaly is a button basher 
 and with no real technique to it you end up playing who can press the most correct buttons a minute 
 which isnt and good thing. What this game does do right is promote a WWE smackdown experience which 
 sums up the game .If you like WWE then you might like this if you dont .Dont bother picking the 
 controller up as itll waste years of your life.... Adequete.......6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 4
Date: May 25, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Being both an old school wrestling fan and gamer, and having played wrestling games since the NES, 
 they sure came a long way. but it seems in the last 10 years for some reason unknown to me, as 
 the polygon count got higher and the graphics got closer to reality, the gameplay, mechanics and 
 pure fun of telling a wrestling story in a wrestling game has decreased.
  
  I'll state right away that my favorite wretling games ever are the old Acclaim WWF Attitude and 
 Warzone PS1 games. They had more moves possible at any time with any wrestler than the current 
 Smackdown vs Raw games. They had innovated Create-A-Wrestler with custom move lists. they had better 
 outside the ring mechanics and you just had more fun playing the game because it wasn't a 4 move 
 /mashing button game.
  
  You cannot tell a story in this game, you can beat on any wrestler for 20 minutes, then they'll 
 suddenly injure one part of your body and win.
  
  You cannot have fun outside the ring doing cool stuff cause most of the time the hit detection 
 will either make you pull unrealisticly far leaps or will have you splatter face first on concrete 
 because it didn't detect the opponent you landed 3 inches next to.
  
  The fun you get pummeling people is cancelled by how they will always get up fresh as a rose and 
 will eventually get so far up in you at some point if you toy with them instead of playing to win, 
 which is about the stupidest thing in a wrestling game...
  
  The graphics are horrible. I mean i own the PS2 version and they are about the same as the PS3 
 in 1080p... I say "about" the same because there is a little improvement, but those are the worst 
 graphics I have seen on the PS3... and after playing both of those for dozens of hours each i would 
 recommend getting the PS2 version... It is that degrading on a PS3...
  
  The only difference with the PS2 version is that some of the WWE Challenges are different. That's 
 it. Same moves, same weapons, same guys, same crowd. If they wanted to motivate us to buy a new 
 console they probably would have added something, I guess they saw it more as extra work and next 
 year they'll ask for another of my contributions...
  
  Some of the new mechanics are fun, but it still doesn't get anywhere fluid as what good wrestling 
 games are. Anyways, for every new mechanic they add, there's a couple of new bugs every year (People 
 still stuck on a table getting slapped on the belly to infinity as I write this know what I'm refering 
 to) .
  
  As for the audio, it is buggy and marred with problems. The announcers will refer to WWE wrestlers 
 not in the match sometimes, like you or your opponnent suddenly became someone else and the fan 
 crowd will start chants for wrestlers not involved in matches, it is painfully obvious to see that 
 they didn't do proper localisation and shipped this game mostly untested... which seems to be part 
 of a trend with this generation of consoles games.
  
  The way this game prevents you from booking the matches you want (no girls in Hell in a Cell, match 
 options must be one or the other, no mixed match style, as in say, a hardcore cage match with weapons, 
 is annoying. The way this game totally takes away the fun out of ladder matches should be studied, 
 it is that scary...
  
  I seriously cannot understand how this game has the hugest following of people still asking for 
 little features year after year when they totally overlook the fact that this game is no fun... 
 The basic brawling/hooking up system isn't doing anything better than their competition's games, 
 but it all goes left unsaid because most people never played other wrestling games than THQ's pathetic 
 effort. Most hurtful in this is that you know the people programming this game could do an awesome 
 job if only THQ would turn their attention to the gameplay instead of the stupid  
 dance they seem intent on keeping up until they are out of business because their customer are 
 sick of playing the same old broken game *Now with longer loading times! Buggier Commentary! And 
 a bunch of features you better not get used to cuz next year they are OUT!
  
  Next year they'll fix the bugs again without attention to what is missing from the game : fun. 
 They should go play the Acclaim WWF games and see what made wrestling games good, and how we can 
 still play these games in 2008 for 6 hours straight thanks to their depth. As for me, well that 
 was the last one guys, I got my PS3 now, i can play PS1 games and I'm playing WWF Warzone and Attitude.
 
  They look bad, but at least I know it looked good back then...
  
  Graphics =2, they look like the PS2 version, badly mangled by aliasing... 
  
  Sound = 2, crowd 
 and commentary are buggy and sometimes stop altogether in the middle of a match. They mistake you 
 for other wrestlers sometimes multiple times during the same bout... Sad...
  
  Gameplay = 2, this game is broken, this game only ammounts to two strategies : cut off the opponent 
 first using punches and brawling to keep him down or dodge the incomming flurry of punches and 
 kicks from the opponent to counter with a grab, a clothesline, or any move that sends the opponent 
 to the mat for a second. That's it. Every match will be an endless succession of that routine. 
 No need to try anything else, even on easiest settings, with counters down to nothing in AI, the 
 game still implacably keeps using that single startegy, which means all of your single player match 
 will exactly play the same, whether you picked Taker vs Finlay in a Hell in a Cell Match or you 
 chose Mickie James to take on another girl. Finishers are sooo easy to pull off that you don't 
 even care for them, they are unrewarding because you litteraly end up doing your Finisher thirteen 
 times in a five minute match, which is about as far from a realistic wrestling games as one can 
 get. Since you only need to press L1, it feels cheap and hurried. Coming from the SFII & MK school 
 of gaming, I'd rather learn d-pad moves to pull off finishers & even standard moves, at least you 
 get an opportunity to strike someone who missed his move, just like in real-life wrestling. The 
 way this game plays seems to me like it is aimed at twelve year olds. It's a shame because a good 
 wrestling game is one way of having the most fun on a console.
  
  Too bad they don't dare look back, they might actually realize the product went bad and would probably 
 have to work on getting it back to gaming standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamike
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The newest in the SmackDown! game series, this game is a great start or a classic for all gamers 
 of this franchise. There's an all new Struggle Submission System, it lets you/the opponent control 
 how much pressure is put on you/the opponent for however long you/the opponent wants to. You/the 
 opponent can control too while in the submission by trying to escape every time you/the opponent 
 take the pressure off. There's also the 24/7 mode, which is GM Mode and Season mode together. In 
 Season mde now, you can control the thing your character can do during the week on his off time. 
 The GM mode is the same, you can control what your superstars do on their free days as well in 
 that mode. There's the Hall of Fame Mode, which is like the challenge mode in the previous games. 
 Only this time, they base the challenges off real event that have made history in pro wrestling 
 history. Their is a great creating in the game. There's Create-A-Superstar, Create-A-Move Set, 
 Create-A-Stable, Create-A-WWE Championship and still a Create-A-Entrance. Their is a Play Now Mode, 
 where all you have to do is pick your superstars, and they will handle the rest. To me it's a great 
 game, I hope people wil really enjoy it and................... HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul2005
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Being both an old school wrestling fan and gamer, and having played wrestling games since the NES, 
 they sure came a long way. but it seems in the last 10 years for some reason unknown to me, as 
 the polygon count got higher and the graphics got closer to reality, the gameplay, mechanics and 
 pure fun of telling a wrestling story in a wrestling game has decreased.
  
  I'll state right away that my favorite wretling games ever are the old Acclaim WWF Attitude and 
 Warzone PS1 games. They had more moves possible at any time with any wrestler than the current 
 Smackdown vs Raw games. They had innovated Create-A-Wrestler with custom move lists. they had better 
 outside the ring mechanics and you just had more fun playing the game because it wasn't a 4 move 
 /mashing button game.
  
  You cannot tell a story in this game, you can beat on any wrestler for 20 minutes, then they'll 
 suddenly injure one part of your body and win.
  
  You cannot have fun outside the ring doing cool stuff cause most of the time the hit detection 
 will either make you pull unrealisticly far leaps or will have you splatter face first on concrete 
 because it didn't detect the opponent you landed 3 inches next to.
  
  The fun you get pummeling people is cancelled by how they will always get up fresh as a rose and 
 will eventually get so far up in you at some point if you toy with them instead of playing to win, 
 which is about the stupidest thing in a wrestling game...
  
  The graphics are horrible. I mean i own the PS2 version and they are about the same as the PS3 
 in 1080p... I say "about" the same because there is a little improvement, but those are the worst 
 graphics I have seen on the PS3... and after playing both of those for dozens of hours each i would 
 recommend getting the PS2 version... It is that degrading on a PS3...
  
  The only difference with the PS2 version is that some of the WWE Challenges are different. That's 
 it. Same moves, same weapons, same guys, same crowd. If they wanted to motivate us to buy a new 
 console they probably would have added something, I guess they saw it more as extra work and next 
 year they'll ask for another of my contributions...
  
  Some of the new mechanics are fun, but it still doesn't get anywhere fluid as what good wrestling 
 games are. Anyways, for every new mechanic they add, there's a couple of new bugs every year (People 
 still stuck on a table getting slapped on the belly to infinity as I write this know what I'm refering 
 to) .
  
  As for the audio, it is buggy and marred with problems. The announcers will refer to WWE wrestlers 
 not in the match sometimes, like you or your opponnent suddenly became someone else and the fan 
 crowd will start chants for wrestlers not involved in matches, it is painfully obvious to see that 
 they didn't do proper localisation and shipped this game mostly untested... which seems to be part 
 of a trend with this generation of consoles games.
  
  The way this game prevents you from booking the matches you want (no girls in Hell in a Cell, match 
 options must be one or the other, no mixed match style, as in say, a hardcore cage match with weapons, 
 is annoying. The way this game totally takes away the fun out of ladder matches should be studied, 
 it is that scary...
  
  I seriously cannot understand how this game has the hugest following of people still asking for 
 little features year after year when they totally overlook the fact that this game is no fun... 
 The basic brawling/hooking up system isn't doing anything better than their competition's games, 
 but it all goes left unsaid because most people never played other wrestling games than THQ's pathetic 
 effort. Most hurtful in this is that you know the people programming this game could do an awesome 
 job if only THQ would turn their attention to the gameplay instead of the stupid  
 dance they seem intent on keeping up until they are out of business because their customer are 
 sick of playing the same old broken game *Now with longer loading times! Buggier Commentary! And 
 a bunch of features you better not get used to cuz next year they are OUT!
  
  Next year they'll fix the bugs again without attention to what is missing from the game : fun. 
 They should go play the Acclaim WWF games and see what made wrestling games good, and how we can 
 still play these games in 2008 for 6 hours straight thanks to their depth. As for me, well that 
 was the last one guys, I got my PS3 now, i can play PS1 games and I'm playing WWF Warzone and Attitude.
 
  They look bad, but at least I know it looked good back then...
  
  Graphics =2, they look like the PS2 version, badly mangled by aliasing... 
  
  Sound = 2, crowd 
 and commentary are buggy and sometimes stop altogether in the middle of a match. They mistake you 
 for other wrestlers sometimes multiple times during the same bout... Sad...
  
  Gameplay = 2, this game is broken, this game only ammounts to two strategies : cut off the opponent 
 first using punches and brawling to keep him down or dodge the incomming flurry of punches and 
 kicks from the opponent to counter with a grab, a clothesline, or any move that sends the opponent 
 to the mat for a second. That's it. Every match will be an endless succession of that routine. 
 No need to try anything else, even on easiest settings, with counters down to nothing in AI, the 
 game still implacably keeps using that single startegy, which means all of your single player match 
 will exactly play the same, whether you picked Taker vs Finlay in a Hell in a Cell Match or you 
 chose Mickie James to take on another girl. Finishers are sooo easy to pull off that you don't 
 even care for them, they are unrewarding because you litteraly end up doing your Finisher thirteen 
 times in a five minute match, which is about as far from a realistic wrestling games as one can 
 get. Since you only need to press L1, it feels cheap and hurried. Coming from the SFII & MK school 
 of gaming, I'd rather learn d-pad moves to pull off finishers & even standard moves, at least you 
 get an opportunity to strike someone who missed his move, just like in real-life wrestling. The 
 way this game plays seems to me like it is aimed at twelve year olds. It's a shame because a good 
 wrestling game is one way of having the most fun on a console.
  
  Too bad they don't dare look back, they might actually realize the product went bad and would probably 
 have to work on getting it back to gaming standards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Le-Beave
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest... WWE fans such as myself wait every November in anticipation for what promises 
 to be a game that will keep me entertained until the next. Something graphically nice, something 
 challenging, something fresh - Does this game have those? We'll i'd say two out of three.
  
  There's not much story to the game... It's Wrestling you know that, so its essentially greased 
 up guys in their tights beating each other up. But i'm sure you want to know what's new? We'll 
 there's a nice addition of the ECW Extreme Rules match which is really just a no DQ match. Chris 
 Benoit? Virtually any traces of him have been destroyed. And no, there's still no Punjabi Prison.
 
  
  But there are positives, the 24/7 Mode is different, new, more voiceovers etc and different storylines, 
 longer ones too. But a downside is that you can't play GM Mode & Story mode seperately anymore. 
 They have also brought in a new system which shows each superstars type of ability eg. Dirty, High 
 Flyer, Showman etc. And it brings something fresh to the game.
  
  Graphically the game is nice. Few complaints can be made at least, and the CAWs look alot more 
 lifelike too. The quality of the Default Wrestlers is the graphics at their best, obviously their 
 entrances gives you a chance to admire this. Sound-wise there are some nice Entrance Music options 
 to choose from and the Soundtrack is lacking, certainly not as good as 2007's but does have some 
 gems such as Puddle of Mudd's 'Famous'.
  
  Difficulty? It's a real pushover, if you'r expecting a Challenge then prepare for an inevitable 
 shootdown because i completed this game within two weeks on Legend difficulty. That's doing GM 
 Mode, Story mode, Hall of Fame (challenges mode) etc. The lifespan is minescule, but if you can 
 vary what Modes you play then it might be more fun, and possibly last longer. Multiplayer is the 
 way to go, if you want to make the most of this game it's worth playing it with a friend or little 
 brother in matches like Money in the Bank, otherwise your value for money might not ever be visible. 
 But certainly it's fun Offline with a few friends, pizza, drinks, and someone willing to go a dirty 
 fighter and make the most of a Low Blow :)
  
  Online is a disappointment once again, and I found it tough knowing that there was no longer a 
 Lobby to go to, so organising matches was harder now. Lag was inevitable and no less than noticable 
 too.
  
  So, getting value for money... Is it possible? Sure if your a big enough fan to not mind too much 
 about a lack of new options and game modes, but if you are easily disappointed with WWE games and 
 did not like Smackdown vs RAW 2007 beware.
  
  Overall rating = 7.5/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game is without doubt the worst wrestling game I have played in years!2007 was lacking stuff 
 I wanted, but this one a year later is pretty much the same mess the last one was and even more!
 
  
  
  The new features include a lame 24/7 mode. It tries to combine both Story and General Manager mode 
 together. But its boring and there is a lot of poorly written text to read. And the game is terrible 
 on telling you how to do things. Such as raise a brands TV rating. Hall of Fame Mode is also a new 
 mode, but it makes no sense. There just challenges, it really has nothing to do with WWE Hall of Fame 
 of boring crap .
  
  Game play has not changed a whole lot, the only thing that has been added is some new weapon attacks 
 and a new submission system. Thats not very cool, its kind of like picking a lock in Splinter Cell. Thats 
 what you have to do to get out of submission, or you tap out. And if you hated those analog controls 
 last time, just to let you know.
  
  Graphics are the best thing about this game. There is still a ton of clipping, and the Divas look 
 sadly terrible. But the guys at least look great. They shine and sweat and can pull off some decent 
 looking moves. There is still that annoying slow motion when doing your finishing moves.
  
  The games soundtrack is not good at all. The songs don't even mix with WWE, and are even recycled 
 from the older games
  
  At least that game was fun and an addictive gaming experience, this is far from it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadskull129
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This was the worst wrestling game in the series. The new 24/7 mode is very boring and theres not 
 much to do. After 5-10 days of playing this game, you will be very dissapointed. THQ should fix 
 this 24/7 problem and actually make it in the year of its name. The 2008 doesnt have many characters 
 because it was released early. The game still has alot of solid wrestling. You might like this 
 game if you're a wrestling lover, but overall this game was very very sad. This game is not worth 
 the money you spend on it. I think Smack Down : Here Comes the Pain was more fun then this game. 
 This was probably the the first game to have a rating below 8.0. If I wanted to play a fun wrestling 
 game, I'd go with Smack Down vs Raw 2006 or 2007. I was very dissapointed when I first played this 
 game. I would rather buy some game like Warhawk or Uncharted than this dumb waste of money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  While my interest in pro wrestling has wanned in recent months, I still enjoy a good wrestling 
 game.
  
  Unfortunately, this was not one.
  
  This year's effort looked quite impressive visually. The wrestlers were very well done and the 
 animations looked as good as ever. Probably because they were the same ones THQ has been using 
 for years.
  
  In the ring, the action seemed much, much slower than in recent years. The different fighting styles 
 made for a deeper experience, but ultimately didn't make things any better. I still like the analog 
 grappling, the ultimate control system and the environmental hotspots.
  
  All that considered, the matches are still enjoyable. The problem with the game is virtually everything 
 else. 
  
  The roster is small and is cut down even more when choosing someone to play as in 24/7 mode. Speaking 
 of which, 24/7 mode is absolutely horrendous when compared to '07's season mode.
  
  If you play 24/7 with a created wrestler, you have to spend tons of time going through monotonous 
 training activities to build up your superstar's stats. In previous games, one only had to play 
 through the season mode to build stats. That's the way they should have left it. GM mode is lame 
 just like it was last year. 
  
  The long and short of it is that the Smackdown vs. Raw series is growing stagnant. Hopefully, TNA 
 iMPACT will be good and force THQ to put out a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zuul971
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  If there was a more overrated game of 2007, I do not know what it was. There was so much hype for 
 this game, but it fell surprisingly short. 
  
  Sound: Sound really had nothing special, but then there's always commentary. Commentary is what 
 makes the matches seem more realistic. They failed big time with commentary. It's basically just 
 a ton of repeated lines, that sometimes have nothing to do with what's happening. It makes playing 
 matches with it on very annoying, but when there's no sound it gets pretty boring.
  
  Graphics: The character models looked great, but there were so many graphical glitches that seemed 
 so easy to detect. Come on THQ! Are you blind? Though the crowd does look good in this game.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay was broken. AI was simply terrible. You can put it on easy and they just 
 stand around the entire match like they have some SERIOUS mental problems, and none of the wrestlers 
 in the game have mental problems. Then you can do the hardest difficulty and they just reverse 
 every single one of your moves. It's impossible to find the right difficulty.
  
  Controls: Okay, SVR07 was the first game I got, so the new controls really didn't bother me that 
 much. But still, come on! You change the controls on us every time now. To make things worse, the 
 changes weren't necessary. Unlike on the last one, you can NOT pick another control set up. Another 
 noteable change was that you can NOT store finishers and use your signature move. They also took 
 awa table finishers, but if your fighting style is hardcore, you can do some of the chair finishers 
 as a regular grapple move with a chair. You can only use stored finishers for your "special" fighting 
 style ability. (I'll talk about that later.) Though many other hardcore fans found the control 
 scheme quite difficult, but I've been lucky enough to be able to adapt pretty well. (I do have 
 a LOT of older games.)
  
  Matches: They were missing a lot of matches that we were hoping they would have/bring back (inferno, 
 barbed wire match, lumberjack, three stages of hell, I quit! matches, and the old hardcore matches 
 where you could go backstage, etc.) But they had all the regular ones with some of our favorite 
 match types they just HAD to have (Hell in a Cell, Money in the Bank, TLC, etc.) plus the new ECW 
 extreme rules match. Sadly there is no longer a bar brawl match.
  
  Movesets: They have a decent amount of moves plus some new ones. Good job there.
  
  So, let's 
 look at some of the new things in the game.
  
  24/7 mode: HORRIBLE! You got to choose a superstar (created or real) and try to raise him to the 
 top. There were events you could attend to get more money and raise your popularity while avoiding 
 injuries. You could not see the events sadly. There were also training excercises that were boring 
 and easy and got you one experience point in whatever you trained. There were no rewards except 
 being able to use pyros and stuff like that as your legend status increased. Your locker room changed 
 aswell. Storylines got very repetitive and were boring. I also noticed the D-pad was very sensitive 
 and that was VERY annoying when I was making decisions. Sometimes I think there was a bug because 
 I am positive I chose something and then something different happens. There was also GM mode which 
 is under 24/7 mode. You can't do GM mode and 24/7 mode at the same time which was very annoying. 
 GM mode let you choose your superstars schedules so it was different, but everything else was the 
 same. It was also annoying how you could only have ONE event per day and couldn't have multiple 
 superstars doing it at the same time. Basically the events and such made this unenjoyable mode 
 even longer...
  
  ECW extreme rules match: Yay, A new match! This match is quite fun and you can choose what type 
 of ECW Extreme Rules Match you want (i. e. fatal-four-way, tag team, triple threat, etc.) You can 
 also choose what weapons you want under the ring. There's a whole little stash of weapons under 
 the ring, and you can choose some of them before the match starts. Another VERY noteable update 
 is that you can light 2x4 with barbed wire on fire. You can also light tables on fire all in this 
 match. This is undeniably awesome, but after watching some old ECW matches you'll see that it isn't 
 close to the real thing. 
  
  New fighting styles: This was perhaps the most noteable change in the game, but it actually really 
 wasn't that big of a change. Now with certain fighting styles come certain moves that only people 
 in that fighting style can do. Now moves are quite limited and how they dealt with this was by 
 allowing you to only have two regular strong grapple holds with four moves and give you two ultimate 
 control grapples. This was a HUGE step back and brought you back to Smackdown! Shut Your Mouth 
 where everything gets repetitve because there's so few moves. Smackdown! Here Comes The Pain even 
 had more even had more moves. I know there's the ultimate control grapples, but that doesn't make 
 up for it. Anyways, each fighting style has certain "special" abilities. Most of these abilities 
 were things you could do in the previous game, and now they just let certain fighting styles use 
 them. The special abilities are:
  
  Technical: Technically Sound, (all moves are automatically reversed and the reversal indicator 
 doesn't appear) pit manuver, (they run at them then maunever to get behind them.) and you reverse 
 all strong grapples and ultimate control grapples.
  
  Hardcore: Hardcore rejuvination, (when you're busted open, you get up and get a full momentum meter) 
 hardcore regeneration, (when you have a chair you'll start hitting yourself with it until you bleed 
 and you regain some health. It can be done multiple times) and you can perform grapple moves with 
 weapons.
  
  Submission: You can instantly escape from a submission hold, but you can't do this as you take 
 more damage, you regenerate health when you put your opponent into a submission hold, and ultimate 
 control submission (you can make the submission hold unescapable for an amount of time.
  
  High Flyer: Evasive roll, (you roll away from your opponent) springboard attacks, possum pin, the 
 ability to run at a turnbuckle with an opponent at and toss them into a good position for a diving 
 attack and then climb the turnbuckle.
  
  Powerhouse: Rampage, (You get up immediately, even if you're in a pin and all grapple attacks are 
 irreversable and all strike attacks have no effect) strong irish whip.
  
  Brawler: Fists of Fury, (you throw a strike combo that is irreversible) you can go into a mode 
 where ALL your strike attacks are irreversable (called Wreck Shop.)
  
  Dirty: You can argue with the ref over a two count pinfall and you gain some momentum if it's not 
 interrupted, super dirty attack, (you poke your opponent in the eyes then low blow them) and you 
 can use the ref shield (you go behind the ref and you can shove him at people.)
  
  Most of these fighting styles just let you God mode for short amounts of time and are quite frusterating. 
 Also, half of them you could do in previous games.
  
  Here are some other things I noticed:
  
  In the crowd area you can break a table and get another. 
 It was annoying in SVR07 where if you broke the table in there, you couldn't get another one.
 
  
  In parking lot brawls there are now weapons and a table. The table does not respawn after you break 
 it sadly.
  
  There is no longer a bar brawl match.
  
  You can not do GM mode and 24/7 mode at the same time anymore.
  
  Conclusion (Yay, it's finally 
 over!)
  
  I think Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 was overrated and very disapointing. I just got it because I was 
 getting a PS3 and I was a wrestling fan. I thought it would be good to have the game just so I'd 
 have SOMETHING to play. I do NOT recomend this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andralo3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME ISmackdown vs Raw 2008 is the latest smackdown game, and I have to say, it is good. Everything 
 seems to be great, but the one major flaw is the AI. The AI settings are, frankly, awful. Like 
 when i was was playing a TLC match, Rey Mysterio had the ring steps and did nothing for a while, 
 then hit people, then nothing, etc. And also when i was on the turnbuckle the computer ran at me 
 a hit me, and that happened all the time.
  
  Gameplay: Solid gameplay, seemingly slower than last years but more freedom. New icons make SD 
 vs Raw 08 better.
  
  Graphics: Top-notch graphics with superstars looking amazing and how they should look.
  
  Sound: 
 The commentry is a bit repetitive in some places, but new sayings and commentators (SD JBL and 
 ECW Tazz and the other dude) make commentary better and more respectable. The sounds of steel hitting 
 human flesh is good.
  
  Length: The new 24/7 mode will take you a while to complete, with the week consisting of many things 
 to do. Hall of Fame might take you a while to do also.
  
  New Features: The new 24/7 mode lets you be a manager or a superstar and takes you through the 
 life-style of them. For 5 days a week you have to train for your next match, skill training, doing 
 activities such as dates and charity events or invade todays show. Or even take the day off. It 
 is very good with very impressive cut sceens. Another new feature is Tournament mode where you 
 can compete in the King of the ring tournament or the beat the clock sprint. 
  The best new feature is each player has its 2 specialities when wrestling e. g. Batista is a powerhouse 
 and a brawler, and you can shoose betweem them before you start. There are 8 of them, with each 
 one provided several special abilities. Some of the abilities you first have to get a stored icon, 
 then it will be useable. 
  
  The Bad: The 24/7 mode will take you time to complete and some voices sound different from the 
 people who they really are. Most things are the same from last year.
  
  Creating a superstar is basiclly the same as last year with a few changes. You will have to create 
 a move set for them and an entrance.
  
  Online is amazing. You can choose from a player match, where you gain any points for the next level 
 and the win and loss wont be recorded, or a ranked match. In ranked matches you can choose from 
 a non-title or a title. In this mode stats will be recorded and you need a certain number of points 
 to gain the next level. Creating a session is easy and fun. You can also invite your friends to 
 your session which is also good fun.
  
  Overall and solid game, but some flaws. If you love wrestling, this is the game for you! 
  LIKE 
 FOR ITS CHARECTERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I have been with this series since its beginnings on the PS1. Yes, I went out and bought the japanese 
 version thinking I wouldn't need to understand the dialogue to kick WWE butt. I was right and it 
 was love at first play. Now, THIS is the wrestling game I've been wanting to play for years. Now 
 let me tell you the short version of my dedication to wrestling games. Back in the day there was 
 a shortage of wrestling games, me and a friend set out to change that, wrote EVERY game company 
 in existence at the time (back in early 90's) with ideas for wrestling games. We were rejected 
 but, thanked and games later saw ALOT of our ideas put into action with a few titles on the NES 
 (YES!) and the ideas I'm sure of many of the WWF/WWE fans at the time you answered the call of 
 lack of wrestling games.
  
  Okay, so after a couple of PS1 games I was looking forward to this series making the jump to the 
 PS2 and it did so in grand fashion. Alot of the games were addictive but, the one thing I never 
 liked was the story and wrestlers acting in ways they would NEVER act on the show. Graphics were 
 great and I would never dream of it being like this back in the day.
  
  Fast forward to the PS3- the graphics are AMAZING in this game. The first time I saw the previews 
 I knew they had the graphics nailed. The wrestlers are true to their nature (finally) one thing 
 I didnt like was the control. It just felt awkward to me. The options to keep your wrestler's fatigue/popularity 
 up or down is interesting but, doesn't do much in the way of gameplay. The stuff you buy in the 
 game is horrible. The addition of "Ravishing" Rick Rude is a bonus (about time) why are we constantly 
 offered the same LEGENDS over and over and over again? gimme Kamala, Ultimate Warrior, One Man 
 Gang, Big Boss Man, anybody but the Rock for the umpteenth time. I am sick of it!! oh, and another 
 thing: now that we are on a high end system how about some bonus content like, oh, I dont know 
 WWE WRESTLEFEST (American Technos/Japan Technos?) remember that one? cant you include that? or 
 is there not enough room left over to squeeze that arcade gem in there? maybe I m greedy but, I 
 want more than just the same ole same ole. Oh, I love how the wrestlers get tired, winded, and 
 look hurt when you really beat them to a pulp but, I want them carried out on a stretcher and broken 
 bones when I use my special on em 10 million times. I want updates on how I destroyed my opposition. 
 I want my actions to mean something (cue patriotic music) I want more than just blood dripping. 
 I want my opponent to say I cant wrestle because I took more than just one too many last rides. 
 Remember how the ambulance came out onto the field in Madden? bring that! (and bring it back for 
 Madden too) I just feel like I m wasting time going through the ho-hum season. Oh, and another 
 thing: STOP PUTTING OUR SINGLES WRESTLERS IN TAG MATCHES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! if I wanted to be in 
 a tag team I should have the OPTION to form a tag team. I want more control over my wrestlers destiny. 
 If I help somebody they should respect me/ally with me if I want them to or if I interfere in another 
 superstar's match I want it to have consequences and develop into a feud. Its time for this game 
 to get off the rails and maybe the direction it should take is an RPG/Strategy type setting. You 
 guys are SOOOOOO close like when you get to pick your answer in the emails (that I like) yet keeping 
 with the arcade like roots. I may not be onboard for the 2009 version unless there are these added 
 tweaks because like Madden its like playing the same game year after year with just a tiny bit 
 added. NO MORE! you are capable of this I know you are.
  
  So, if you own 2007 keep it. If you want a graphics upgrade then buy it but, only if you a hardcore 
 WWE fan. As for me I ve been a WWF/WWE fan since the 80's and I've played just about every wrestling 
 game there is. THQ/YUKES and whoever else I didnt mention either make 2009 or better yet 2010 THE 
 best wrestling game ever or I for one am done. Please?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungLink89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good I Like Alot Of things About This Game. I Like How Title Defences are more 
 of A factor in the game that makes it Funner. I Also Like the Fighting Classes Such As hard Core, 
 high Flying, Etc. that Makes It way More realistic. They did An awesome job improving Graphics 
 to make the more realistic even the Pyro looks More Decent. and its also more enjoyable Now that 
 They did away with that annoying stamina Bar that was present In wwe raw Vs Smackdown 2007. The 
 controls are way diffrent the grappling is more Complicated and is one of my many complaints. i 
 Also think 24/7 Mode is decent but could Have been done much Better More Actual storylines Instead 
 of Just Going week by Week, Match By Match. I Also didn't like the Slim roster More Of the Newcomers 
 Should Have been Included such as Cody Rhods, Santino Marella, Jimmy wang yang among others. I think 
 a divas 24/7 Mode Should Have Been Added I also Think The Other Titles Such As The Cruiserweight, Intercontinental 
 and tag Team titles Should have has A Spot In 24/7 mode it was a bummer that they weren't usable 
 in 24/7 mode. but i Enjoyed this Highly I good Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KengoK
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  First off all i must confess that this is must first wrestling game.. ever.
  I always looked at this game when my friend was playing and saying to my self. nah this is not 
 my game. So I didn't even bothered to play it. but enough with pointless chit chat.
  From the start I felt I little confused maybe because I never played any of the WWE vs. Raw series. 
 After I figured out what should I do I started customizing my character. And there I was absolutely 
 amazed, thrilled, and etc.. The customization is absolutely stupendous it felt like you started 
 playing Oblivion.
  But to my disappointment all was not that great. You don't have unlimited customization option, 
 you have smt like 62-67 layers max. And for me that was not even near than enough. I mean what's 
 the point in making stuff like this? Of course if you would unlocked more layers after you finis 
 the game or smt like that but no. so I ask you is there any point in making limited quantity of 
 layers. for me that was really annoying.
  Storyline. um. yeah there another thing you have some kind of storyline. but it's very limited 
 in terms of variety. At some point no matter if you win or lose you'll get one and the same cutscenesSo 
 if it's said that you have to win you will win even if you lose..
  Oh yeah the cutscenes    I haven't played the game to the end yet.. but it seems like there are 
 smt like 20 different cutscenes and the repeat at a daily basics. And they s.. ck..
  The fight system was really neat even I could handle the controller in about 30min.. and I repeat 
 that it's my first wrestling game.
  I like it, really but at some pointsit feels cheap, very cheap.
  I suggest rather rent the game 
 or download the demo (but there's no demo I think, and that's why I bought the game actually)
  So if you haven't played all the rest great game for PS3, buy smt new instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Jay_Bawler2
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Well the game isn't a total loss, but it is extremely dissappointing. 24/7 mode has potential but 
 is definately unfinished. With the Blue-Ray discs they had more room and should have made events 
 more interactive. One problem I've really had with this game is in 24/7 mode as a Superstar, there 
 are few times to actually make a decision on what your superstar does. Even when these do arise, 
 your choices are very often discarded. Such as you have a chance to give up the title to Stephanie 
 or keep it, whether you choose to keep it, give it up, or just skip that message, you will be giving 
 up the title without a fight. This is just one example and one that makes it virtually impossible 
 to complete the task of winning/defending a title at each of the cross-brand PPVs.
  
  The new system is good though, I like the idea of the fighting styles, this way each player is 
 not so much like the other. The actual training is a good idea to make a real way to build your 
 created wrestlers up and the creation modes are basically unchanged but they can't be made too 
 much better. In terms of the matches, they can't really add more but some work on making things 
 such as the ladder match and how you can use the ladder would be nice.
  
  In the end it's a good game, but far below what THQ should be producing. Once again they had the 
 right idea with 24/7 mode but couldn't have executed it any worse. I think this game is worth renting 
 and then waiting for the 2009 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirit136
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  To be honest, it is my first Wrestling game and im not that much of a fan! But the game is very 
 addictive but could be better!
  Making your own Superstar is simple and easy with a wide range of costumes and accesories.
  My 
 favourite thing has got to be online with a group of friends, its very funny jumping off ladders 
 and dropping an elbow right into your friends stomach or driving there head right into a security 
 wall!
  
  So overall it is good (very addictive) but needs quite abit of improvment, and commentators, well....... 
 They can be a little annoying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  In my opinion the games have only gotten worse and worse starting with 06 through now. I used to 
 love the series, and pick up every one always knowing there will be new matches, better graphics 
 and new roster. 
  
  This game litterally stinks in so many ways. I have it on ps3 and compared to a couple years ago 
 what the hell did they do to the controls. The controls has to be the worst controls yet to ever 
 hit a wrestling game out there.
  
  Secondly the story mode.... there is only a very limited amount of guys you can actually use (maybe 
 10) and other than that you can only use a character you created.
  
  Another flaw, nothing new... other than setting things on fire there is nothing new
  
  
  Roster 
 is already out of date pretty bad... missing many wrestlers and has many that were fired months 
 ago. SO many legends have gone missing from this game with nothing new to offer but rick rude and 
 I could care less if he was on it or not. Where did the hulk hogans go... the dusty rhodes, the 
 aundre the giant and many more.
  
  The voice overs are bad too, I realized something while playing some raw matches. The commentary 
 from JR and King was EXACTLY the same as in the 06 version which I have, not even re-recorded but 
 just reused again in this game. Thats horrible man, exact same lines.
  
  Overall for me these reasons were enough that I hardly play the game... and smack down games used 
 to be my top fave series to sit and play and replay over and over and over again. The controls 
 especially killed it. Last year and this year I just cant figure out who they thought they would 
 impress with the HORRIBLE control system. The game can be looked at as decent, but give us back 
 the same old controls of the old and it would have been the same game but a LOT better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackps3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  this is a great game for WWE fans around the world and the gameplay is abssolutely amazing because 
 the graphics, the speed, and the sound affects are definately spot on realistick ,the fans are 
 great because they are 3D but the let down was definately the difficulty because it is too easy 
 for my liking am a great gamer in the world because i have completed loads of games games before 
 in my life. But i don't go on it that often and i have neally completed it, and the best thing about 
 it is probably the multiplayer mode. There are new types of matches such as the ECW EXTREME RULES 
 match and the MONEY IN THE BANK match these are very fun because on the ECW EXTREME RULES match 
 you can get out which weapon you want and on the MONEY IN THE BANK match you can set up a ladder 
 on top of a ladder so you can run up it to knock the person on the one standing up that has been 
 set up straight because they could grab the briefcase and end the match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallyry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2008 is the latest smackdown game, and I have to say, it is good. Everything seems 
 to be great, but the one major flaw is the AI. The AI settings are, frankly, awful. Like when i 
 was was playing a TLC match, Rey Mysterio had the ring steps and did nothing for a while, then 
 hit people, then nothing, etc. And also when i was on the turnbuckle the computer ran at me a hit 
 me, and that happened all the time.
  
  Gameplay: Solid gameplay, seemingly slower than last years but more freedom. New icons make SD 
 vs Raw 08 better.
  
  Graphics: Top-notch graphics with superstars looking amazing and how they should look.
  
  Sound: 
 The commentry is a bit repetitive in some places, but new sayings and commentators (SD JBL and 
 ECW Tazz and the other dude) make commentary better and more respectable. The sounds of steel hitting 
 human flesh is good.
  
  Length: The new 24/7 mode will take you a while to complete, with the week consisting of many things 
 to do. Hall of Fame might take you a while to do also.
  
  New Features: The new 24/7 mode lets you be a manager or a superstar and takes you through the 
 life-style of them. For 5 days a week you have to train for your next match, skill training, doing 
 activities such as dates and charity events or invade todays show. Or even take the day off. It 
 is very good with very impressive cut sceens. Another new feature is Tournament mode where you 
 can compete in the King of the ring tournament or the beat the clock sprint. 
  The best new feature is each player has its 2 specialities when wrestling e. g. Batista is a powerhouse 
 and a brawler, and you can shoose betweem them before you start. There are 8 of them, with each 
 one provided several special abilities. Some of the abilities you first have to get a stored icon, 
 then it will be useable. 
  
  The Bad: The 24/7 mode will take you time to complete and some voices sound different from the 
 people who they really are. Most things are the same from last year.
  
  Creating a superstar is basiclly the same as last year with a few changes. You will have to create 
 a move set for them and an entrance.
  
  Online is amazing. You can choose from a player match, where you gain any points for the next level 
 and the win and loss wont be recorded, or a ranked match. In ranked matches you can choose from 
 a non-title or a title. In this mode stats will be recorded and you need a certain number of points 
 to gain the next level. Creating a session is easy and fun. You can also invite your friends to 
 your session which is also good fun.
  
  Overall and solid game, but some flaws. If you love wrestling, this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmac290
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  The training exercises in story mode were too difficult to beat. In story mode you really wasn't 
 able to make many decisions and they kept showing the same cut-scenes. Unless you did sumthing 
 different like lose an important match. In creating A Superstar you have 3 different ways to dress 
 your player. First on is Cut-scene, second Entrance, Third is Match. All these features work when 
 playing Exhibition but they don't work in Story Mode. What Happen? These features worked in Smackdown 
 Vs Raw 2007 so why not in 2008? Why do the real wrestlers sweat but the CAWs don't? Why do they 
 keep giving us the same features when createing an Entrance? Can we please more features when creating 
 an Entrance? Everything that was on 2007 should have stayed on 2008 and all they had to do is add 
 more features to it. I will give them their credit for the new features but yall took old features 
 that made the good. I hope the next game will be alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harvey12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Here we are again with another WWE Smackdown vs RAW game.
  As the way evolution goes it is improving just not at the pace it needs to be,
  It has a enjoyable 
 and easy fighting system with plenty to do in the different modes, Lush graphic and great sounds 
 which really emphasise the real thing.
  The things that are letting it down is the season mode which frankly needs to be pushed so much 
 further as has great potential and something to boost the amount of gameplay, And another thing 
 is their is nowhere near enough characters in this game something like a downsize of the amount 
 of wrestlers in the last game is about 15 less.
  
  But being a great fan of wrestling i take this game to the limit and really immerse myself in the 
 whole wrestling experience.
  A recommended fun game for anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror469
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  The graphic are very good made and looks real.
  more cool stuffs has been added to do this .
  I never like to stop playing it to because I love 
 it all and I want my created player to win to be champion.
  The tattoos are crap, I was disappointed with that.
  The entrance was well made, but whne creating 
 a superstar there was something wrong.
  but overall this game is about perfect and so far it is the best wrestling game i have ever played.
 
  This game is cooler then I thought it was going to be.
  I think this one is the best in the whole wrestling games so far
  I am surprised that it's rated 
 6 in here , it should be rated 7 or 8 at least.
  I will buy it but I may not buy the new that may come next year becoz it may not be what I likeso 
 yup yup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2008 is a bit of a letdown. Before the game was released i heard so much good 
 things about it, but when i brought it i realised that it was basically a remake of Smackdown vs 
 Raw 2007.
  
  Smackdown vs Raw 2008 has some new features that make it fun to play; these new features include: 
 The invasion of ECW; which allows you to go some of the superstars from ECW (incl... Sabu, Tommy 
 Dreamer, etc...) , a new struggle submission system; this makes submissions difficult to do and 
 difficult to escape from, eight new fighting styles; this makes the game more exciting because 
 each fighting style has special features that come along with it. Another proclaimed new feature 
 is 24/7 mode, but this isnt a new feature at all, it is just GM mode and Career mode renamed.
 
  
  the games commentary seems to be updated and more accurate and the graphics of the created superstars 
 and normal superstars are also updated, but it doesnt look like any work has been made on the crowd 
 (they might have new clothes or something) . the controls have also been changed in this installment 
 of the Smackdown vs Raw series, they take about half an hour to get used to.
  
  Sorry about the short review but that's all i have to say about this game. if your a fan of the 
 Smackdown vs Raw game series or just a fan of wrestling you may want to go out and purchase this 
 game, im not the biggest fan of wrestling but i am a fan of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taz3551
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This was not a good game when I first started playing, but after I got used to how slow the people 
 move it start to get fun to me. I think they need to make the controls customiziable, we should 
 be able to pick which belt we want to go after like it was on No Mercy (N64) . There should also 
 be a season for divas and we should be able to pick what we want to say a lot more. Other than 
 those improvements it is a fun game to play in the long run. Might not like it if you do not watch 
 it on TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outer_Raven
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  The good:
  -Awesome graphics (in a HD of course) ;
  -ECW superstars have finnaly arrived to this game;
  -Extreme rules match look's freaking awesome 
 with tons of weapons;
  
  The bad:
  - reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal will someone tell the AI to stop countering!!!;
 
  -Damm controllers are freaking me out;
  -Create a wrestler mode is the same as the last game.
  
  The just plain stupid:
  -Comments 
 still suck;
  -The attribute thingy sucks too.
  
  So it's pretty much the same thing: one step forward and two steps back. So i suggest you rent 
 the game first or borrow from a friend before buying this game or you'll be as disappointed as 
 i am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIGHTHAWKY2K1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  SvR 2008 is ok but it has a lot of limitations. The number of moves that a wrestler can do or be 
 given has been cut down. 24/7 as far a playing as a wrestler or CAW is limited, everything is predetermine 
 for you with the exception of a few choices you can make like choosing to stay on a certain brand. 
 You can only choose from 2 button scheme options. 
  
  Speaking of the button scheme - I don't know why THQ/YUKE would change the button scheme in the 
 first place. You have to press 2 buttons just to run instead of just pressing the TRIANGLE button. 
 The square button to strike & the X button to pick up weapons - they could have just left it like 
 past games - X to strike, square to pick up items. IMO the button scheme could have been kept the 
 same like the past games & it would still have accomplished everything. 
  
  CAW is better this year as far as the models go but again there is limitation. Seems like the choices 
 designs & symbols have been limited, some CAW parts have been added but as usual with THQ/YUKES 
 many of them have been removed. CAE mode is about the same as last year only this time the music 
 continual unlike SvR 2007. But there are limitations. It's hard when you created an Asian wrestler 
 & there is no Asian music of any kind to give. THQ/YUKES needs to add different kinds of music 
 from different countries. I won't mention how this problem would have been solved to those of us 
 PS3ers if we got the Xbox 360 exclusive, download your own musicmoving on.
  
  The "new fighting styles" are really nothing to brag about, its just shifting certain abilities 
 & again, there is limitation. For example, if one my CAW is a heel or in the CAW application "bad" 
 & say I have him the hardcore & submission styles, even though he is a heel he can't behind the 
 ref, cant removed the turnbuckle pad, etc.
  
  I'm glad they KOTR has been brought back. 
  
  Same old collision detection, nothing fixed. CAW could have been done better. THQ/YUKES need 
 to get rid of VO  it's a hindrance to the season mode! 
  
  Ever since the SvR series started, its seems like THQ/YUKES takes more freedom away the fans. You 
 can use legends in the season mode, there are limited choices that can be down, the season is boring 
 & repetitious, can play as ECW wrestlers in the seasons, going from 20 front grapples down to 10, 
 a sorry excuse for a roster, etc, etc, etc. 
  
  THQ/YUKES need to go back to the drawing board, review the old SMACDOWN games, and find out what 
 made them good games & start implementing them. Maybe they can take the example of TNA IMPACT, 
 and take a year & a half to develop the game, instead of rushing it. 
  
  SvR 2008 is good in some area but lacking in many. I think giving it a 6.5 is more than fair.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mellomr
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I haven't picked up a new Smackdown game since the 2003 'Here Comes 
 the Pain' edition. So my review will be using that as a basline. From the reviews I have been seeing 
 it does seem that Yukes/THQ are just polishing up the previous version of the game with no serious 
 improvements or new gameplay expierences.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  The graphics have improved greatly and the revamping of the animation sequences is nice. 
  
 
  It has all the match types from the past games with many options to customize how you want the 
 matches to be.
  
  The soundtrack is solid.
  
  Being able to have friends join up with you during career mode is great.
  
  The CAW and CAB 
 modes are spot on like usual with many additions to pick from.
  
  Having the option to go online for ranked, unraked, and title defenses off some depth and replay 
 value.
  
  The grapple system involving the right analog stick to get out of holds is a better system than 
 jamming buttons from games past.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Due to the new animation system and that the pacing has been slowed, it causes collision detection 
 issues and often you find your wrestler facing the wrong way. 
  
  Nothing new for match types, being able to add fire to a hardcore match is not a new match type 
 or being very creative.
  
  Not having a true lock on system makes the match mechanics sloppy. Only being able to use the joystick 
 to guide your wrestler while running will make you miss almost everytime.
  
  There should not have been a limit on which wrestlers could have been used for the 24/7 mode.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishpoo805
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Another year, another Smackdown. Lemme run it down for ya.
  
  Despite its lovely graphics, everything else about this game is a letdown. WWE 24/7 mode is horrendous. 
 
  
  The wrestling portion consists of storylines that are local "indy-fed" level of sophistication 
 (this statement is not entitled towards Ring of Honor or other WRESTLING Feds.) I don't know what's 
 worse, the voice acting or the fact that your wrestler SHAKES HANDS backstage with the guy (s) he's 
 feuding with! 
  
  The General Manager portion is equally bad. Not only is the interface untouched & broken as before, 
 but it's much harder now due to the fact that the rosters are all too small to support this mode. 
 This mode has always only allowed a maximum of 20 total superstars, yet each brand, in actuality, 
 (accept ECW which barely falls short ) have a minimum of 20 wrestlers! This means ECW only has 
 7 SUPERSTARS, while RAW only has 15 and Smackdown at 12! Until Yuke's & THQ increase the overall 
 game roster., this mode WILL NOT function properly. 
  
  Aside from the main game being terrible, there's still some decent gameplay left. The new "WWECW 
 (pun intended) Extreme Rules" match is a fun addition. Also, the new fighting system I think runs 
 pretty well overall. And the improved ultimate control grapples work better than last year. My 
 nitpick is still with the grappling and how awkward and clunky it feels and looks compared to the 
 previous games. (2007 edition stunk because of this issue as well, just not as badly as this one 
 does overall.)
  
  Did I mention how bad WWE 24/7 mode is?
  
  PROS:
  
  Finally on the PS3!
  
  Nice & detailed characters.
  
  Semi-improved grappling system.
 
  
  Improved (marginally) character creation system.
  
  First-Person View entrances (via SIXAXIS controls)
  
  CONS:
  
  WWE 24/7 mode is TERRIBLE.
 
  
  The AI is still really stupid, sometimes worst then last years. 
  
  The roster is comically out of date, smaller than ever before, and missing people that should be 
 on it (No Shelton Benjamin. No John Morrison. No Tag Teams!?! Sabu yet no RVD? No Boogeyman! No 
 Matt Striker! Where are the Cruiserweights?!?) At least we get Snitsky...
  
  "Legends" consist of people seen on TV every month/other month (excluding the late Rick Rude of 
 course.)
  
  Characters do not have the character they once had in previous games. Edge, as well as others are 
 noticeably missing signature ring entrance gear, yet John Cena and the Legends have them! No fighting 
 stances! No real selection of submission moves!
  
  No custom soundtracks! 
  
  Laggy online play returns from the depths of SvR 2007.
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE:
  
  If you're 
 a wrestling mark, you've already bought and possibly returned this game. If not, please rent it 
 first and at worst be out $8 instead of a possible $65. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer12222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This Game May Not have alot of additions but it sure makes up for it.
  
  Gameplay: Its amazing they add a bit more realism in the moves and in the superstars euthaism in 
 their signatures. There maybe some collision issues but they are barley noticable. I Like how they 
 added a section for each type of match and number of players you want as well like if u want a 
 Single Match you go on the 1 V. S 1 section same for tag match go in 2 vs 2. The Only thing i did 
 not like was that it looks more like a sports game from 2k sports more than a THQ game like the 
 play now addition that was not really needed but still as long as they add to it i will love it. Gameplay 
 scores a 9.0. P. S i also loved the 1st person exclusive on PS3. The Only thing i wish was that you 
 could update the roster and entrances. But its pretty up-to-date.
  
  Graphics: The Character Models look realistic and make it look like your actually watching the Show. Only 
 On the PS3 or Xbox 360 will you get full effect of it. The Sweat is also not a new thing to the 
 series but thats why i got it on PS3 for the Graphics and i needed more games for my PS3 (XD now 
 7 games) . Their maybe some clipping issues here and there but dont worry them not really a big thing 
 to worry about.
  
  Sound: Music for the entrances are pretty updated to the show so far which i like to have in the 
 game. Music for the games menu are pretty nice too like they have a pretty good mixture of rock 
 and punk in it. But not a lot of rap but its not that big of a deal.
  
  Camera: Very Little Things about the Camera accept its been pretty responsive in keeping the wrestlers 
 in a good angle.
  
  Conclusion: Smackdown V. S. Raw 2008 is a great game to buy for your PS3 or Xbox 360 collection i 
 would reccomend you buy it. Plus, Dont forgot the inclusion of ECW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspholder
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game when i bought my ps3 on November smack down vs raw was the 1st game i picked 
 up so basically its my first game for the ps3 and it goes great with my 80gb ps3 this is a great 
 game i would give it a 9/10 it is allot of fun but i think 24/7 mode good be allot better this 
 game has great matches for everybody to enjoy but there is one bad thing the wrestlers never talk 
 only like ones but the graphics are great this is the best wrestling game out yet so go pick it 
 up know.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankind7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Ok the only think that bugs me allot is the short roster, it needs one or two superstars like RVD 
 and Kurt Angle, yea I know they arent in WWE anymore but I would like to see them in 2008 edition. 
 But the we have new good things too, come on guys ECW!! We got some of the extremists, the "new" 
 wwecw arena, the one night stand arena and even a pay per view arena, Dicember to Dismember. I 
 ear a lot of complaints about the new 24/7 mode, I think it is great, unlike the season mode that 
 only what we could do was wrestle in the 24/7 you have to deal with fatigue, fame, make the fans 
 chose the brand you'r in, and invade other shows, the story lines in my piont of view are solid, 
 nothing fancy but solid. Other good thing is the graphics, anybody who is whatching you play can 
 really believe that they are actually whatching a WWE wrestling match, so what can I say... PLAY 
 IT!! and than you will know what I'm talking about.
  
  oh... and off topic now WELCOME BACK Y2J!!! :D :D :D
  WWE will never never neeeerrrrrrrrerreerrrver!!! 
 be the same AGAIN!! :D :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opstinger
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of the many consumers who own both an Xbox 360 and a PS3. When a multi-platform game comes 
 out, I want to know which system I should get it for. The common trend seems to be that multi-platform 
 games generally run better on the Xbox 360 -- the system has been out longer, it introduces no 
 new technology, it's easier to develop for, etcetera. Such a trend greatly applies to Smackdown 
 vs. Raw 2008 for the PS3.
  
  Now I'm not gonna go through the elements of the game. I think every user review has gone through 
 that already in sufficient detail. I am accepting of the little kinks and changes Yuke's made to 
 the engine and the integration of the GM and story modes, because at the end of the day, when I've 
 unlocked everything there is to unlock in the game, I'll be spending most of my time in Exhibition 
 mode, playing matchups I would like to see on WWE television. So beyond this, I won't cover the 
 elements of the game -- which are identical on both 360 and PS3 versions anyway.
  
  I'll be candid here and cut to the chase of my utmost concern. Contrary to the 360 version, Smackdown 
 vs. Raw 2008 for the PS3 is a technical disaster. The game runs on an uneven 20 - 25 frames per 
 second, which is unacceptable for any wrestling game, or any game in general. The performance drop 
 becomes so severe that the animations begin to resemble stop-animation. Conversely for the 360 
 version, this game runs somewhere around 40 - 60 frames per second. Why reviewers didn't catch 
 this and make a big deal of it, I don't know, but it bugs the living hell out of me that this game 
 got a 6.5 across all three platforms. The difference in frame rate between the PS3 and 360 is like 
 that of Medal of Honor: Airborne and Call of Duty 4. It's like night and day.
  
  What's worse, the graphics are bad. There are lighting issues that cause the visuals to look washed 
 out, and the wrestler models, from a far camera perspective, appear pixelated. Some have claimed 
 that the PS3 has no anti-aliasing, and while that may be true, there are games out there for the 
 PS3 that manage to produce an equivalent result. What we have here apparently is a PS2 game upscaled 
 to the best of its abilities, with poor frame rate and overall performance. As I've said, a technical 
 disaster.
  
  As mentioned earlier, I own both an Xbox 360 and a PS3. As a consumer, I am not in allegiance with 
 either brand. This review was written while comparing the PS3 version to the Xbox 360's demo version 
 from Xbox Live. Because of the aforementioned technical issues -- issues obviously not intended 
 by the developer -- there is no way in hell I would suggest anyone paying $60 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejokerman1992
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played the newest addition of Smackdown a lot over the last week and have mixed feelings on 
 the game. Being a massive wrestling fan, I have followed the smackdown series from the beginning. 
 Naturally I have both praises and criticisms of this game, which I will share with you in this 
 review.
  The biggest change from the previous games is the new fighting styles: High-flyer, technical, submission, 
 powerhouse, hardcore, dirty and showman. The concept is interesting but could have been a little 
 more detailed. The Hardcore style in particular felt rushed and seemed to have the least effort 
 put into it. However overall it does work relatively well.
  Another new addition is 24/7 modes. In my opinion I think it's ridiculous how you can't have a 
 season mode and gm season at the same time. Gm mode is poorly designed. The new draft system is 
 just weird and the roster is too small for three brands. If you remember in the last game you could 
 easily fill a 20-wrestler brand without legends. In this game you struggle to do that WITH legends. 
 Plus when you come to the end you have to draft the wrestlers whose popularity is in the 50's, 
 they don't do anything for you. A problem with GM mode in the last two games is you'd check how 
 your oppositions show went and you'd notice that they have vacant matches and matches with 2 stars 
 and 3 stars and somehow they draw a 4 star rating which is crap and unfair. This really ruins 
 this mode, which seemed to get better last year but this year it is by far the worst version. There 
 are no updates to this mode, which makes this horrible.
  Obviously the biggest mode in the game is the normal season mode. First of all you can't play as 
 any ECW guys, which is disappointing since they brightened up an otherwise boring roster. Playing 
 as guys like Sabu and Punk is really fun, would it really have been too much effort to include 
 them? I used Jeff Hardy for the season mode and frankly it has changed entirely from previous Smackdown 
 games. You now have a legend status bar which having things like 5 star matches and toping the 
 power 25 will contribute to your legend status. It's hard to explain, but if your reading this 
 you've probably played previous games so just imagine gm mode in the last two instalments but playing 
 as a wrestler. You have morale status, popularity status and even a salary. Sounds all well and 
 dandy don't it but the actual storylines have taken a turn for the worse. I honestly didn't care 
 for the storylines on the other games but they were enjoyable enough to play through. The game 
 doesn't really have great storylines and it just feels rushed. You'll see recycled cut scenes over 
 and over again come on guys this is next gen don't use the same stuff over and over again. You'll 
 find yourself looking at the same crap, which gets old and you'll find yourself skipping cutscenes, 
 which makes season mode dull. Of course a new addition is the option to raise popularity to star 
 in movies and other things, which sounds a lot better than it is. All it is is a picture of your 
 character with a gunGreat!
  They have also brought back king of the ring and beat the clock. They aren't anything special but 
 it's nice that they are there. There are no new match types apart from the extreme rules match, 
 which without doubt is fun, and I don't think there is anything more satisfying then putting Cena 
 through a table on fire. Other match types are un adapted. One criticism I have always had of the 
 Smackdown games is the inability to make table matches, hell in a cell matches etc. dramatic. I 
 thought THQ would change this but they haven't. The create a wrestler is solid as ever but not 
 much has changed from the 2007 game. One thing, which I think is terrible, is that they actually 
 made it so the characters have less moves in their moveset. The 2007 analog control system is brought 
 back and they were always solid. The challenge mode has been removed and replaced with hall of 
 fame mode which I do prefer because those challenges were so damn boring and there are only about 
 10 or so challenges (all on legend difficulty)
  The commentary remains horrible and miss-timed and JBL sounds so uncomfortable in his commentary 
 and get this JBL just repeats that crap that Tazz said in 2007. How lazy can you get? THIS IS NEXT 
 GEN!
  So what are my conclusions? The graphics are great without doubt. Gameplay is solid. Sound is horrible. 
 Lifespan is decent. The modes are disappointing. I may have been hard on this game but lets face 
 it people expected a revolutionary wrestling game or at least superior to 2007 but we didn't get 
 that. This game was ambitious but disappointing and sloppy. They improved things that didn't need 
 to be improved like season mode and gm mode (which they messed up) . They had the opportunity to 
 add new commentary and improve match types. I'll look forward to 2009 and can only hope that it 
 improves these things. In my opinion THQ have made more work for themselves through this effort 
 then they should have for 2009.
  Just an interesting side note to those of you who haven't checked out TNA iMPACT! Go check on gamespot. 
 If Midway doesn't mess up they could have a better game than WWE. This could help the Smackdown 
 series as they have run unrivalled for too long. A bit of competition could give us the game we 
 want.
  
  Thanks for reading- send me your thoughts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed on the first day of playing this game is that the graphics have improved, 
 so theres no need to worry about that the graphics look very nice.
  
  Gameplay isnt that much different though. There are the new fighting styles but they arent really 
 that diff from each other and dont bring as much to the game as I had imagined..
  
  Roster seems to be quite small and missing alot of important people such as London/Kendrick and 
 Cade/Murdoch. There are some great new people in the game though like Jeff Hardy and CM Punk.
 
  
  Instead if Season mode this year we get WWE 24/7 mode. It isnt as exiting as it sounds, you get 
 to train your superstar and choose to do photoshoots etc, its actually pretty boring I wish it 
 was a classic season mode like before. You also get Hall of Fame mode which is like last years 
 challange mode. I like this mode, its pretty good.
  
  Caws are alright this year basically the same as last year, only 32 layers though which takes the 
 piss.
  
  The commentary is a bit wierd, most of it is the same as last years.
  
  Overall the game is very fun to play, the gameplay is still solid, the graphics this year are great. 
 Its very similiar to 2007 but that was a good game and so is this, despite how much better it could 
 be, A must have for wresting fans and even non wrestling fans could find themselves enjoying this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, I know you're supposed to constantly evolve in games, but not de-evolve. This game feels like 
 last years game.... no, actually, it feels like it was a game released two years ago and last years 
 was actually a step up. So, lets start off with the good things first shall we?
  
  Pros: Decent graphics (of course this is on an HD TV)
  The new fighting styles are a nice addition. 
 (could have been implemented a bit better though)
  ECW as a seperate brand is a nice touch.
  More zones around the arena to interact with.
  An 
 Extreme rules match with a ton of weapons.
  
  Cons: Horrid new controls. (Most of the same as last year, but some new things that just make for 
 akward movements, like running, and reversing with the trigger buttons feels wierd.)
  Reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal, reversal......... the computer 
 does this about 100 times per match. (It's really friggin annoying)
  The Create a Wrestler mode is nice, but when you can only level them up one point at a time, it 
 gets old really really fast.
  Why do I have to pay to improve my Mic and On camera skills? WTF?
  No stored finishers? And if 
 I don't use em within a few seconds I lose it? Again, WTF mate? WTF?
  Half the WWE stars are missing.... London, Kendrick... and there are just way to damn many others 
 to mention.
  Load times are ridiculous. (on a next gen system, you think this crap would be faster.)
  Commentary 
 is the same crap as last year.
  
  
  So, there ya have it. A game that sadly will more than likely be a hit on the PS3 simply because 
 at the moment, it's the only WWE game on the PS3. Hopefully THQ removes their head from their... ahem...... soon 
 and next year's offering is better. (I won't hold my breath though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringalls567
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Although glitchy it is very fun. It has a fair learning curve but not a long one. ECW is back and 
 its matches are the funnest and best part of the game. WWE 24/7 Superstar Mode storylines finally 
 connect and transition smoothly. unfortunatly you cat have rest periods if you get seriouly injured 
 like broken back or torn ACL. Tournamest modes have also been put in: Beat the clock sprint and 
 king of the ring. The Createa wrestler mode is just so amzing this year you can almost be your 
 exact self? these are just some of the thing that are great about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-s-b
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is an abomination to all wwe games and i can name 10 reasons.
  Nr.1 there have never been this few legends.... EVER.
  Nr.2 worst commentary ever.
  Nr.3 they 
 should make the season mode like in smackdown shut your mouth, were you can walk around everywhere.
 
  Nr.4 where is Kevin thorn, he came to ecw before Marcus cor von so he should be in the game.
 
  Nr.5 viscera was in svr 2007 but not 2008? WTF
  Nr.6 uh how about Matt striker? you always need someone to beat up so where is he?
  Nr.7 way 
 to few divas
  Nr.8 its on PS3, Wii, Xbox 360, Nintendo DS, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation 2, Mobile. but 
 not pc?! thats bull-crap.
  Nr.9 Kane is my fav character and he has never been badly done in any game until now his entrance 
 he walks like a frigging robot, his pyro thing is like hes popping his shoulder out of his arm 
 or something.
  And Nr.10 a list of characters that have been in the past games but not now
  Rob Van Dam , Shelton Benjamin , Val Venis , Charlie Haas and i could keep counting all night but 
 im really tired so bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MT4e
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  First wrestling game I own since SvR 2006. For me, it is a very good return. I didn't play SvR 
 2007 so I don't know if somethings that are in 2008 were in 07.
  
  The good:
  - The eight new fighting styles brings a new feeling to the game. They all have their special ability.
 
  - A great set of moves like powerbombing on the steel steps.
  - Return of KOTR with other kind of tournaments.
  - New match type is awesome.
  - The entrances 
 are great, although I don't think Batista moves his shoulders in real life as much as he does in 
 the game.
  - Hall of Fame mode is cool, hopefully there will be more historic matches next year.
  - I find 
 the controls more fun to use.
  
  The bad:
  - Lack of wrestlers (Shelton Benjamin, the most athletic, isn't even there and he was doing more 
 than Cryme Time, so were London & Kendrick)
  - People get eliminated too easily in Royal Rumble (bar goes down fast) .
  - Storylines are too 
 repetitive. (24/7)
  - Not much of a bad, but I wanted Hollywood Rock (oh well, next time) .
  - Bad voice over: when presenting the wrestler, some don't look motivated with the tone.
  - PS3 
 don't get custom music, but a pretty much useless 1st person view during entrance.
  - Why put Sabu as a legend when he hasn't even made a career there? No Eddie Guerrero? Owen Hart? 
 Chris Jericho?
  
  I have more goods and bads but are just not in my head right now. There may be more bads than goods 
 written, however it means nothing when you have a fun time with exhibition instead of 24/7 mode 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyking_1993
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The game's graphics, but the game is kind of slow. When you run it fells like your just walking 
 at normal speed. The story line is ok, but that's only because if you win a match it will show 
 an after movie and it looks like you lost the match. I don't know if it's a part of the story or 
 if it's just a glitch. Whatever it is it messed up the story line. The saving in the game is slow 
 and so is the loading for a PS3 game. Well the game over all is ok but the only thing that saves 
 it are the outstanding graphics. I mean the wrestlers look real as Hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Techno_Ted
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  It hard to disagree that this is the worst wrestling game in the Smackdown series, if you do disagree 
 your completly in denial.
  
  Now for all those WWE fan-boys that just popped a blood vessel I do like some of the new features, 
 the fighting styles make matches more realistic and setting tables on fire all good for the future 
 arsonist but what overshadows all the good stuff is one thing, the new and unimproved 24/7 mode. 
 
  
  Words cannot describe how much garbage it is, the fact that in a cut-scene Umaga wanting to shake 
 my hand just feels wrong and soon enough you'll stop caring whats going on and play with vacant 
 2nd player controller just to get the quick pin and quick $$$ to buy the movesets and end the misery, 
 season mode on the previous smackdown vs. raw was good but they go ahead and crap inside a bag 
 and give us this is just an insult.
  
  What also has been bugging me for years is recycling moves and commentary, they have redone some 
 moves but this is the debut wrestling game on the PS3, they could've done more and what can be 
 said about the commentary that hasn't already been said, why are JR and King insulting each other 
 when really they don't and why is Styles saying the same things Cole said to Tazz last year and 
 the year before that, questions no one cares to ask anymore.
  
  Now for a history lesson, before smackdown vs. raw 08 came out the worst game in the smackdown 
 series was Smackdown Just Bring It and this was the first Smackdown game on PS2, Perhaps in a couple 
 years time we'll have ourselves a Smackdown vs. Raw game as good as Here Comes the Pain but as 
 far as 24/7 goes well I'd rather see the plague come back then 24/7 next year.
  
  Maybe they'll try harder now theres gonna be another wrestling game coming out next year, lets 
 just say I hope this game makes an Impact! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datriadx18
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a bitter disappointment in every way. If you love this series, this instalment will 
 have you wondering where it all went wrong. Where do I start?
  For one thing, the saving grace of every Smackdown VS Raw game has been the somewhat unique storylines 
 that keep players engrossed in the game. This year they have been scrapped for an extremely crappy 
 24/7 mode that is so mind numbingly BAD, you'll beg for death after playing it for an hour or so. 
 It's just tedious, the voice acting is pretty balnd and generic, and the glitches are laughable. 
 (Imagine getting a voicemail telling you you're feuding with yourself)
  The whole superstar fighting style thing is a mound of cockadookey as well, cuz it makes the powerhouses 
 nigh on invincible. The highfliers are by far the crappiest bunch and you'll have an annoying time 
 trying to take Rey Mysterio to the top of the WWE ladder, because he keeps feuding with a powerhouse. 
 A few moves and its a 3-count for you.
  In summary, this game is premium ass. I've not even mentioned the outdated roster but I'm pretty 
 sure you were already prepared for that. This years edition is another example of a good developer 
 taking its main franchise and breaking it, a trend becoming really popular in sports games. 
  
  A phenomenal Let Down of epic proportions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Let's get straight to the point shall we?
  
  Smackdown 2008 is like playing Smackdown 2007 in slow motion. 
  The controls are not responsive 
 AT ALL.
  The frame rate is choppy at best
  THERE IS NO FOCUS BUTTON!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedT
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  I have a 9 year old son who loves wrestling his birthday is at the end of october and he saved 
 all his birthday money for this game... his only previous WWE game being "Shut Your Mouth". So after 
 being patient and then blowing 60 dollars (lucky they were american dollars) he gets it home and 
 complains and then goes back to his old game. This game has been really dumbed down to make the 
 controls and options for moves overly simplistic. It is difficult to do anything besides punch 
 the other opponent because anything else takes several seconds to start by which time the other 
 player punches you and the move becomes worthless. In fact at our house the styles are so unuven 
 that it seems that whoever has the Great Kahli, well they are already pronounced the winner. Yes 
 we had to ban from using the character because when using square repeat method he can not loose. 
 80 percent of the time the controls are just too simplified to the point where it is one button 
 over and over and the other 20 percent is wasted with unresponsive controls. My son would probably 
 still give this gaem a 6 but I have to give it the worsed... hopefully someone from thq will see 
 it and get low self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  NOTE :-- I have to say "stile", replacing what should be a "Y" with and "I", due to gamespot not 
 letting me type that word! 
  
  Another winter, another Smackdown Vs Raw game.
  So what sets this one apart from the previous installments then?... well, not alot really.
  
 
  Obviously the biggest addition to this years installment is the "Fighting Stiles". These determine 
 the stile in which your grappler will perform. You have two stile, for example you can be a High 
 Flyer and a Technical stile wrestler; or be a Showman and be Hardcore too.
  
  These work pretty well one you get used to them after years of playing in, basically 2 stiles before 
 (Super Heavyweights and others, i. e. those who can lift Mark Henry and those who can't!)
  
  Create-A-Wrestler is back as expected. This is more or less the same as last years CAW, so not 
 much to say about it. You also have Create-An-Entrance, Create-A-Stable and Create-A-Championship 
 (in which the old NWA titles are sneakily hidden in there, and even the old NWA/TNA X-Division 
 strap)
  
  Gameplay wise, its the same as last years, with alot more hotspots around the arena for the hardcore 
 matches. Again, not much to say here.
  
  The latest (and best) match type, newly added for 2008 is the ECW Extreme Rules match. Anything 
 goes here, flaming barbed wire-wrapped 2x4s, flaming tables, guitars, chairs, shovels, kendo sticks, 
 anything you can get your hands on can be used as a weapon basically!
  
  WWE 24/7 mode allows you to go through a season as a WWE Superstar, or play the role of General 
 Manager should you wish to do so. I haven't gotten around to playing as GM yet, only as my CAW 
 in 24/7 mode. The mode is good, alot of training involved to make it to the top, should you start 
 as a rookie, which is what I chose to do.
  
  Online play is decent, but lags heavily at times. Pressing the Square button to punch for example, 
 you will experience a second lag between that button press and the action, which for online is 
 just not on.
  
  All in all, a good game for fans of WWE (not me anymore) or fans for the Smackdown series (Thats 
 me) .
  If you fit the above criteria, then this is for you! If not, rent it or play the demo if your a 
 360 owner.
  
  ... And thats the bottom line, cos Dave said so!
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shnuftyio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I waited for a year for this game and found myself at first to be somwhat dissapointed. The game 
 has some cool new features however there are in my opinion some dissappointments
  
  The Good: The presence of ECW is great, Extreme rules match is awesome, 24/7 mode gives an epic 
 feel some nice unlockables (that will give you an inscentive to keep playing) like the WWE (F) attitude 
 era belt, nice new variety of hardcore moves some good characters, superstar styles adds realism 
 and strategy. Some animations have been improved/added like chair shots, 
  
  NOW WHERE I LIKE TO CRITICISE! the bad: Ok firstly you may notice the game feels quite slow almost 
 laggy at first but you start to get used to it.. the way wrestlers run looks like its slow motion 
 almost. YOU CANT USE CUSTOM MUSIC FOR CAWS! and that was supplemented for a shitty 1st person mode 
 that i barely acknowledge. Roster is thin, not many good legends this year except finally VINCE 
 is back in the game. THe controls are annoying to get used to i prefer the conventional buttons 
 like in SvR 2006 and even worse is you cannot change it to them. Story mode isnt as complex and 
 immersive as previous SvR's you'll often get awkward cutscenes that repeat themselves and have 
 no significance to the game such as shaking CM PUNKS hand before having a match with him after 
 he assaulted you with a chair previously. The 24/7 mode can be annoying as having to go through 
 each day doing tasks can get boring and tedious its better to just be able to jump into story mode 
 and not worry about getting injured, raising your popularity or earning cash to be spend on raising 
 your popularity. Then there are many little annoying things that get on my nerves such as the blood 
 not running down superstars faces like fight night or WM21, some reason they havent fixed the fact 
 that you cant irish whip your opponent into the steel steps, AND FOR SOME REASON FOR 3 YEARS NOW 
 THEY HAVENT FIXED TLC MATCHES SO THAT YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO CLIMB A LADDER AND REACH FOR A BELT. 
 Speaking of the ladder/TLC system its completely the same if not more awkward its been the same 
 for a couple years now and its getting very boring. WHAT ELSE IS ANNOYING IS YOU CANNOT STORE FINISHERS!!! 
 NOT EVEN ONE!! instead you store your fighting stlye whatever the hell that does i have yet to 
 figure it out since im spending much more time playing tenkaichi 3 which is A GOOD GAME!. I also 
 think they could have made more effort in giving high flyer superstar more than two or three generic 
 off the rope moves. FINALLY the graphics, i somehow am dissapointed with the graphics i dont know 
 whether its because im not playing on HD but i somehow think the graphics of SvR 07 on xbox are 
 better, characters dont seem to sweat like in SvR 07 but perhaps it is just me and you need a HDTV.
 
  
  Anyway that is alll the negative things i can think of right now i most likely forgot several other 
 points.
  
  To conclude SvR 08 (Despite my personal criticisms) is still goood fun especially with friends 
 and is worth buying if your a wrestling game fan, however Im waiting for TNA iMPACT to come and 
 blow us away along with SvR 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JattDon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  This game looks really good and im gona buy it :) Even though the gameplay is kind of the same..... 
 I liked how they added the new struggle submission system, and the new superstar fighting styles. 
 I don't care if smackdown vs raw 2008 gets a bad rating on gamespot cause its still going to be 
 fun. It might get a low rating because in every other smackdown vs raw serious or smackdown serious 
 they were all different they went from arcade to non arcade because they added stamina. Even though 
 this game has no stamina its still not an arcade version like the wii's because the pace of the 
 superstars are much slower than the wii's. Overall I think the game is great with the new features. 
 I have a ps3 and im gona get it for the ps3 even though you can't put you'r own music on in the 
 game it's not that bad. But there is a graphics change..... 360's version of the game has better 
 graphics only a little bit though it's just a bit more colurful.... In PS3's version of the game 
 you can press R2 and you can go first person view only in you'r entrance though. The controlls 
 of the game are a little bit complicated.... It will take you a while to ajust to the gameplay 
 especially if you'r new to playing smackdown vs raw games it might take you a while. It's not pick 
 up and play like the wii and DS. Well.... Overall the game is great and if you were a smackdown 
 fan you will probaly like this game a lot and those of you who are new to the smackdown vs raw 
 games you might like it. It depends but I think overall the game is great.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
