-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/wwesmackdownvsraw2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive array of different moves.
 Great-looking superstars and arenas.
 Robust creation tools, including new create-a-finisher.
 Solid single-player modes.
 Lots of different match types.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak sound effects lessen the impact.
 Lag hampers online matches.
 Characters maneuver somewhat clumsily.
 Occasional clipping and animation issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 499 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Yuke's
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 9, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 successfully returns to the fundamentals of realistic WWE action and impressive 
 creation tools. 

  In the WWE, it's not uncommon for seemingly vanquished superstars to return at random, handing 
 out fresh beatdowns and earning back their former glory. After a disappointing showing last year, 
 THQ's long-running SmackDown vs. Raw series has returned to the ring, having spent the year slimming 
 down and focusing on its core strengths. The work has paid off: a lot of extraneous elements have 
 been removed, the creation toolset is better than ever, and there are two modes that offer satisfying 
 single-player arcs. Though it is still hampered by a number of lingering issues, WWE SmackDown 
 vs. Raw 2009 manages to recapture some of the glory of its younger years.  

           Head punches are a perennial classic.      

  The most notable improvements are in 
 the single-player realm. The lackluster 24/7 mode has been ditched in favor of a lengthy Career 
 mode and the scripted Road to Wrestlemania. In the Career mode, you choose a superstar (existing 
 or created) and enter a bracket to make a bid for the title belt. Each bracket has five opponents 
 including the current champion, and you'll have to earn stars by winning matches in order to get 
 a shot at the title. You win up to five stars for each match by earning points in three areas: 
 match results, technical, and excitement. These categories encourage you to get into the WWE superstar 
 mindset by rewarding you for both pummeling and mocking your opponent. At the end of each match 
 your attributes will increase and your health will replenish based on how the match went -- no micromanagement 
 here. You'll also earn amusing awards for things like striking your opponent 35 times or breaking 
 a barbed-wire-wrapped plank over his or her back. It only takes a handful of successful matches 
 to earn you a title shot, which is great because it keeps your career moving along at a good clip. 
 This action-packed Career mode is the perfect complement to the Create A Superstar mode, and winning 
 belt after belt as you bulk up your created character is satisfying and fun.  

  The other single-player mode, Road to Wrestlemania, features six unique story arcs that let you 
 play as WWE superstars like The Undertaker or John Cena and defeat numerous foes (and a few nemeses) 
 on your quest for Wrestlemania glory. Matches are interspersed with story scenes packed with typical 
 WWE action and voiced by actual WWE superstars, so fans of outrageous melodrama will be well pleased. 
 In keeping with traditional SmackDown vs. Raw strengths, the superstar models, entrances, and arenas 
 are all excellent. While the character animations are good (despite occasional clipping problems) , 
 the wrestlers still lack fluidity when maneuvering around the ring. This feels like a result of 
 staying too true to the source material: though WWE wrestlers do often move slowly, it's not very 
 exciting to actually plod around the ring in a video game. The audio only further detracts from 
 the excitement factor. Four-hundred-pound men hit the mat with all the impact of a child shutting 
 a car door, and the strongest punches sound like a raw chicken breast being dropped on the floor. 
 It dampens the supposedly hard-hitting action, and while the once-dismal announcers from years 
 past have been improved quite a bit, the sound design is in serious need of a shot in the arm. 

  Despite how it may sound, the action is indeed hard-hitting. It's easy to perform powerful moves 
 using the analog stick and a few buttons, and the breadth of things you can do in and out of the 
 ring is impressive. From removing the turnbuckle cover to slamming your opponent through a burning 
 table, there's no shortage of satisfying ways to deal damage. Specific match types have their own 
 nasty additions, from rubbing your opponent's face against the elimination chamber to the powerful 
 hot tag, which allows a tag team partner to build up momentum so that, when tagged in, he or she 
 will get the quicktime chance to unleash two unblockable attacks followed by a finisher. Enabling 
 such a wide variety of moves is one of SmackDown vs. Raw 2009's chief strengths. Like previous 
 games in the series, it too relies on relative position to increase your repertoire, and your wrestler 
 is still prone to miscues as a result. However, missing a move because you aren't quite in the 
 correct position is less frustrating than missing one because your opponent is in an uninterruptible 
 animation. This usually crops up in matches with three or more players, when one player is performing 
 a move on another. In these realistic-to-a-fault situations you get a good feeling for just how 
 exciting it is to stand passively aside while other wrestlers battle it out.  

  In addition to the Career and Road to Wrestlemania modes, the competent AI and unique wrestler 
 abilities make playing single-player much more appealing in SmackDown vs. Raw 2009. No longer content 
 to stand around drooling, computer opponents will actively attack you, tag their partners (you 
 included) , and use environmental elements reasonably well. Though the Road to Wrestlemania and 
 early stages of the Career mode will seem easy to experienced players, it won't feel like you're 
 playing against brainless apes. Last year's fighting style system has been removed, and in its 
 place are unique wrestler abilities that existing superstars have and created superstars can earn. 
 The effects range from attribute boosts (able to remove belt in ladder match faster) to enhanced 
 abilities (can regenerate a small amount of health) . While these abilities aren't particularly 
 powerful, they can come in handy during tight matches.  

           Who says divas can't get along?      

  While you might not have tight matches against 
 the computer, you are sure to find tough competition online. You can use SmackDown, Raw, ECW or 
 created superstars as you face off in ranked or unranked play in any of the match types that support 
 one to four players (six-man matches and royal rumbles only available locally) . Against tougher 
 players, any miscues due to bad position, odd animation, or the semi-frequent lag are likely to 
 cost you dearly, and once your opponent has you on the ropes you'll be hard-pressed to reverse 
 your way out of it. The best new online feature in WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 is the WWE Highlight 
 Reel. Anyone can capture clips from their matches, edit them together using the robust toolset, 
 and then upload their clip or screenshots for all to view and rate. Those willing to invest some 
 time will be able to create some pretty excellent stuff, as evidenced by the existing image of 
 Freddy fighting Jason in a flaming ring and video of Obama giving McCain the Rock Bottom.  

  Of course, these hilarious videos wouldn't be possible without the still-impressive Create A 
 Superstar tool. Once again, with a little time and patience, you can create almost anyone you like, 
 from famous celebrities to hideous abominations. You can then customize your character's move set 
 to craft their fighting style, choreograph their ring entrance, and even create a finisher to decide 
 how he or she (or it) will finish opponents off. The Create A Finisher tool allows you choose from 
 a huge list of move parts and chain up to 10 of them together to create a finisher as quick and 
 brutal or as long and painful as you want. You'll get a constantly updating preview of the move 
 while you design it so you can easily tweak it to your liking. It's really fun just to experiment 
 with all the different move combinations, and this feature really rounds off a formidable suite 
 of customization tools.  

  WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 benefits greatly by restraining its scope. You can still edit rosters 
 in Career mode, but other than that the menu-heavy GM mode has been fully dropped. The result is 
 a game completely focused on action, and on letting you customize and record that action. While 
 some elements still need improvement, SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 is ultimately successful because it 
 embraces the dramatic fights and outrageous showmanship that are the heart and soul of the WWE. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GoldenEmu
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a long time WWE game fan - I have many a fond memory of playing S v R 2007, Shut Your 
 Mouth, Know Your Role and especially WM2000. The biggest enjoyment for me was creating a character 
 and running though their storylines, fighting the real wrestlers in the different match types. 
 I couldn't care less about playing as Triple H or Jericho because I have to admit, I don't really 
 care for watching it on TV. So when they said this year was going to have a full tag-team component 
 to the game, I was sold. Man, was I in for a let down.
  
  While the character creation mode is still there and now with the very enjoyable Create-a-Finisher, 
 the stories have been completely stripped bare. There is no story mode, as you are just playing 
 match after match with no rhyme or reason, save becoming the number one contender, then fight for 
 the title of whatever class you're in. Straightforward, but boring beyond belief. The programmers 
 must have thought so as well in how they made it a completely one-player thing - if you happen 
 to have two people who play on the same profile, the guy who started first has to finish leveling 
 up before the other guy can start. If you stop half-way and let the other guy have a go at it, 
 when you start again, you start from scratch completely. All your stats are reset and you have 
 to play the same matches again to level up again.
  
  Also, the tag team storyline is a dud. Unless you like playing Batista and Ray Mysterio together, 
 there is no storyline. Never mind that they showed the Hardy Boyz together in the commercial - 
 you can't really play as them. Nor can you create one that you can actually play in any story at 
 all - exhibition is all you get for any of your created stables. I never thought I'd say that I 
 miss GM mode, but at least there created characters had some sort of point to them.
  
  I suppose if you are a fan of WWE wrestlers, and all you care about is playing through their storylines, 
 then I guess it's OK. However, you only get to choose a small selection of Wrestlers (6 in total, 
 I believe) . So, if you only enjoy those six guys, have fun. Otherwise, exhibition for you.
  
  In the end, I found this a worthless waste of time. Don't bother wasting the money on this 
 one at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_Keers2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  I buy the WWE games every year and it always improves. This latest addition is great. The main 
 improvement in this game would be the story mode lasting a lot longer and not being as repetitive. 
 There are plenty of wrestlers and enough different match types to keep you entertained including 
 the new 'Inferno Match' where the ring is surrounded by fire. It also included the new download 
 option so you can update any new wrestlers, costumes or features that THQ release to keep the game 
 as up to date as there can. I bought download pack 1 for about 3.50 which isn't bad at all. 
 
  
  I was looking forward the the new Legends of Wrestling game for the PS3 also made by THQ and Yukes 
 and the graphics are unreal and it looks great, however there have totally changed the gameplay 
 for the game so it turned out not to be so great which is a shame. Any wrestling fan should purchase 
 this game, its the best wrestling game out today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  *Announcer's Voice* "Entering the ring, all the way from Edinburgh, Scotland. Weighing an impressive 
 300lbs. The current WWE Heavyweight, World, Tag-team and almost every other belt available champion. 
 Mrrrrr DDDDDDVVVVVXXXXX UK!!!!"
  
  Ok, so maybe that wasn't the most creative name ever thought off, but hey, it's what I do inside 
 the ring that counts. What am I talking about? Smackdown vs Raw 2009 obviously.
  
  If you have played SvR 08 then straight away you enter familiar territory. THQ have really put 
 a lot of effort into jazzing up the menu screens to replicate the menus from SvR 08 . You will 
 be familiar with many of the game modes available to you including Exhibition (surprisingly the 
 best mode) and Career mode, as well as the new mode 'Road to Wrestlemania'.
  
  
  THQ could have done so much more with the Road to Wrestlemania game mode. In short, the game mode 
 is too short, enabling you to easily complete it in one sitting. You choose a path of 7 pre-determined 
 wrestlers (including 1 tag-team path) on their 'Road to Wrestlemania'. Unfortunately it's these 
 wrestlers or no wrestlers, but it's still good fun. There are 6 single player routes including 
 the likes of John Cena (my favourite) , Triple H and Chris Jericho, each having their own path and 
 interesting storylines. During the single player route you get the chance to team up with an offline 
 friend, to play as Batista and Rey Masterio in the tag-team route. Sadly this route is a bit hit 
 or miss. I personally didn't like this route as it wasn't exciting enough, and the storyline itself 
 was pretty basic. I would go as far to say that it is boring, dull and has no surprises in it whatsoever. 
 The characters Batista and Rey don't even fall out, especially when they end up meeting each other 
 for the championship at Wrestlemania. There's no back stabbing or surprises from either of them. 
 This mode is a good idea to have, but I just feel they could have done so much more with it.
  
  Asides from the 'Road to Wrestlemania' mode you are left with Career mode and Exhibition mode. 
 In Career mode you can choose any wrestler you desire and try to win... wait for it... almost every 
 title there is available. This is highly unrealistic, but it's still borderline enjoyable trying 
 to attain such belts. There are no cut scenes in career mode as you hop from match to match against 
 the other AI wrestlers, who can only be described as having as much use as a wet cardboard box. 
 Even on the hardest difficulty they just stand there and take everything you throw at them.
  
  The only other excuse I can think of for entering the empty career mode would be to boost your 
 created characters stats. If you want to create a good wrestler you are going to have to play as 
 him, or her (for all you WWE divas out there) a lot. Stats start at 35 /100 and winning matches 
 will help boost your stats, so you can take your player ( Mr DVX uk in my case) into the online 
 and exhibition modes to kick some candy ass against some friends.
  
  
  So you have created your custom character using the almost identical creation tools found in 08? 
 Check. And you've built up their stats in the Career mode? Check. Ok, so you are now ready to take 
 your skills online? Well, that is if you can. Online for me has been hot and cold. At times I could 
 lay the smackdown on others by putting them through tables etc, but then during other games it 
 just lags and becomes unplayable. It might just be my connection though. The options in multiplayer 
 are similar to that found in single player, apart from the fact you still can't play Royal Rumbles 
 online. It does allow for voice support though.
  
  So now we come to the best thing about the game - the Exhibition mode. You can play your bog standard 
 matches like 2-on-1, Tag-team and Hell in a Cell. This mode in the game really comes alive when 
 you have your friends around. Unlike the non-existent AI your friends can kick, punch and attempt 
 to beat you to a pulp. Gamemodes like TLC and the all new Inferno Match just adds to the excitement. 
 I often found myself shouting at a mate to come over and help me as I was about to be smacked across 
 the head with my very own tag-team belt. Exhibitions are great as you get to choose everything. 
 The environment, wrestlers, rules etc. For me this is just better than playing boring matches against 
 the pointless AI in Career Mode.
  
  Around about now you may be wondering why I haven't talked much about the gameplay? That's because 
 if you have played SvR 08 then nothing has changed. If you haven't, then it's really easy to get 
 to grips with. Just wiggle the right analogue stick around to perform various different moves and 
 that's all there is to it. This helps build up your finisher bar which when full allows you to 
 inflict some pain on your opponent.
  
  
  The visuals are great but could again be improved. The wrestler's visuals are superb and any wrestling 
 fan would be able to instantly recognise a specific wrestler, but you can't help feel like other 
 aspects of the game have been neglected, especially when the wrestlers are interacting with each 
 other in cut scenes and in the ring.
  
  The audio in SvR 09 are good too. Performing moves such as John Cena's FU provides thuds onto the 
 ring floor, and all this entertainment is further strengthened by the return of the commentators. 
 When you are fighting on the RAW brand of the WWE, you'll hear commentary from Jim Ross and Larry 
 "The King" Lawler, where as when you're in the Smackdown arena, Michael Cole and his assistant 
 are there to provide you with commentary. Playing the game enough will drive the commentators insane 
 and they will start to repeat their words, but this is barely noticeable.
  
  Overall I came away from the SvR 09 experience wanting more. The game is great fun when playing 
 Exhibition mode with some friends, and the 'Road to Wrestlemania' mode is a great idea. I feel 
 the developers could have made an excellent wrestling game rather than SvR 08 with a few new additions. 
 Any wrestling fan would love to play SvR 09 though, just don't expect anything too exciting in 
 the single player aspects of the game. Worth a rent, or a cheap purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbreed20
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  i own this game and the graphics are badass looks so real its well worth the price u pay for it 
 the other games graphic were good but not as good as these on 09 yeah yeah we all seen the sweat 
 trick and we all seen the other graphics but on 09 they went further putting the inferno match 
 in there and for the first time on the game the graphics are sweet sure there not the best but 
 there were they should be for a first timer match and for the new superstars making there first 
 appearence they did great on that to 08 superstars had no simularity to the real deal wut so ever 
 and for example mvp looks like mvp on 09 then he did in 08 for ps3 and they did good on santino 
 they could of done better on some of the superstars but even that being said the game is still 
 bad ass it makes all the others look like trash another fact for ur prove it being better is career 
 mode and road to wrestlmania road to wrestle mania looks so real like ur watchin tv and in career 
 mode it just like general manager mode 0n 08 but better earning up ur character stats is now more 
 challenging then on other series cuz u have to work ur way up to the top and not buy the stats 
 cuz that was just to easy they made thing in 09 more challenging so it more fun the general manager 
 on 08 has nothing on 09 so there u have it the prove and for those who still dont believe play 
 08 then play 09 then u will see wut i talkin bout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volsung555
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:24 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs. Raw 2009 is a great game, but all in all it seems to similar to 2008.
  
  exhibition mode- i say this because wrestling games are meant imo to be played with ur friends 
 in person not online or by urself against computers. this game has many of our favorite match types 
 and satisifies in this way. there is a good list of wrestlers in the game (just missing koslov) .
 
  
  career mode and story mode- it takes way too long to level up ur created characters stats. i hold 
 every title except 1 and im still only a 73 lol. it takes way too much time making it really annoying 
 to almost mmorpg grind through matches instead of enjoying them.
  
  graphics wise this game is what you would expect. not over the top but still impressive. the create 
 a finisher move is pretty cool just a little annoying that it finishes some of ur finishers so 
 fast. create a superstar is still the most in depth of any game on the market
  
  overally this game is a must own if u own the rest of the series. a reallly fun and entertaining 
 game to play with friends and by urself. a little bit too much like 2008 but we will just have 
 to wait till 2010 to get that WOW factor that were missing in these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordonshum
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I'm glad I got this on sale... now I'll have to take a loss on it by selling it to Gamestop. 
 The controls are clunky and awkward, the graphics look worse than last year and the year before. 
 They seriously need to get a new group of people working on this series, it is getting pathetic.
 
  
  They have pretty much change around the control scheme, it is nothing like it used to be. The models 
 and entrances are all worse than past versions. 
  
  The voice-overs... man were they bad. Michael Cole and the Coach are one of the announcer combos, 
 they really botched this area of the game. First of all, the Coach hasn't been in the WWE for several 
 months. Secondly, they both give awful performances for the announcing. Everything sounds monotone, 
 boring and out of place. 
  
  This is just a complete step backward for the series, someone should be fired for ruining this 
 game.
  
  If you don't believe me, rent it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bignash21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I, like so many others, was highly anticipating the release of this game. New and improved tag 
 team bouts? I don; t think so. The story line... extremely disappointing. in 2008 the story line 
 was interesting, a little repetitive after a time, but you always had options provided by the Phone. 
 To go further, I really liked the story line in 2007 even more.
  There are some cool additions this time around. The create-a-finisher, though somewhat limited, 
 is fun and addictive. The C-A-W system is not that different from the last one - maybe a few new 
 clothing choices. The create-an-entrance is exactly the same, only a few extra choices.
  Perhaps the most disappointing feature of this game is the exclusion of 2008's "choose your path" 
 aspect. I, for one, loved the fact that you had to limit your CAW character to certain types. I 
 assumed that this would still be a feature of the new game. Dang! I know that THQ will NEVER be 
 able to please everyone, but maybe they should listen to other fans of the game series when creating 
 the next squeal.
  I had my wife buy me this game for Christmas and I am now divided as to whether or not I had received 
 something else. Buy it, it is fun. But if you can only afford 1 game for now, consider something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z-Blood
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  WWE is back and better then ever! I was really impressed this year. After 08, i was really really 
 dissapointed with the series. But this one is great! THE BEST ROSTER YET! And hell, the DLC is 
 coming and i cannot FUKKING WAIT! Especially since the PS3 version has some exclusive DLC baby! 
 But anyways, the graphics are really impressive this year. They amped it up alot. The gameplay 
 is alot more smooth. Less clipping and better physiques. Another thing that impressed me was the 
 fan reactions. THEY ARE SO REAL! And so awesome too! I was highley impressed. So this game pretty 
 much has it all. A great career mode (Road to Wrestlesmania) , great graphics, DLC, and the biggest 
 roster to date! Go grab SVR09 now!
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabross12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  First let me say I am a big fan of the smackdown vs raw video game series, but in no way am I being 
 biased in my score for this game.
  
  Firstly it is a lot better than the previous SvR game, the control system has only had a few tweaks 
 from the last game and is easy to pick play. 
  
  Again THQ has got the roster wrong again by including stars that no one wants to play and is now 
 inactive, and left out stars from the roster like koslov who is currently getting a major push 
 and who has been around smackdown even before the big show came back to wwe and even he made the 
 final cut for the roster. Di Biase jr, Haas, and Bourne have been confirmed as the first additional 
 downloadable content, so maybe koslov and others will make it on eventually. But there is a large 
 roster available that should keep every one happy.
  
  This game introduces the create-a-finisher mode where you can pick up to 10 animations to pull 
 off your own finishing move, it is a good idea, but feels like THQ have just tested the water with 
 this mode and doesnt feel the finished article, but that does'nt mean that it is not good and a 
 waste of time as it is not, it's just a mode that has a lot of potential that has not been realised.
 
  
  There are a lot of various game modes you get year in year out on each S v R game with this year 
 which has the addition of the inferno match, wich is ok for a while, but the novelty wears off 
 quick. The general manager mode is gone and been replaced by the road to wrestlemania story mode, 
 were there are 5 scenarios with different wrestlers and last a few hours each and give's you a 
 load of unlockable characters, costume and move sets.
  
  Each wrestler has 2 finishers and 2 signature moves that they can pull off in the right situation. 
 The game play is fast and the moves can be devastating, there are a few graphical hitches, like 
 arms ghosting through opponents and objects, but appart from that it looks stunning, as usuall 
 you can create your own wrestler and customize his/hers moves and add your own music for their 
 entrance, and you build your CAW attributes up in season mode. It's not every one's cup of tea, 
 you either love it or hate it, I personally love it.
  
  Online mode can suffer from lag, and can be hard to find an opponent, and I found out on a few occassions, 
 if you dont get the 1st hit in you can suffer a humiliating loss.
  
  But the tag team mode is were THQ have developed mostly on and it is not dissapointing, the controls, 
 double moves and finishers with the introduction of the hot tag all work well. The game has plenty 
 to offer and loads of modes to keep you busy and the intoduction of downloadable content should 
 keep you busy.
  
  This is a game that benifits from playing with friends and is a much better experience.
  
  
 All round a good game that will keep you busy for hours and even more if you have friends playing. 
 Online mode is poor, and the added content is a welcome bonus. A must for any fan of the serious, 
 non fans or hardcore beat-em up fan boys would probably best avoid this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelWolfCDS101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  First target, the control scheme. Personally, I don't care for the control scheme of the Smackdown 
 vs. RAW series. It's needlessly complex and often very frustrating. THQ had it nailed with the 
 Wrestlemania series on the Nintendo 64 and the Day of Reckoning series on GameCube. The controls 
 were easy to learn, easy to execute, and flowed well. Eventually you do get used to it and it serves 
 it's purpose, but the targeting system, or, I should say, lack thereof, sucks.
  
  Next on the list is the 'Create-a-Modes'. The Create-a-Wrestler is fairly straightforward and good, 
 despite the lack of options and minor graphical issues. The Create-an-Entrance, however, is disappointing. 
 It has almost no imagination behind it, allowing you little to no customization aside from using 
 custom music tracks. There's no way to get precision camera changes or firework ignitions (which 
 they only allow two of...) . The best Create-an-Entrance I've played was the one contained in the 
 Day of Reckoning series. The only thing that lacked was the ability to use customized music. The 
 Create-a-Team feature is welcome, but suffers from the drawbacks of the Create-an-Entrance.
  
  The last target is the bane of all wrestling games: outdated rosters. It may be labelled 2009, 
 but a lot of the superstars on the roster are no longer with the WWE... hopefully, the 'downloadable 
 content' that's supposed to be introduced to the game will solve this ancient problem.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphics this day in age is almost a moot point anymore; everything looks at least 
 good. This game takes it a little further pushing it closer to that point of realism. HHH looks 
 like HHH, Jeff Hardy looks like Jeff Hardy... This game looks exceptional except for some minor 
 clipping issues.
  
  SOUND
  
  The announcers are less annoying and use less generic callouts, except for, of course, if you're 
 using a Created Superstar.
  
  VALUE
  
  If the downloadable content works as proposed, this game will definitely be worth it... 
  
 
  TILT
  
  The difficulty of the game is fair to hard and is completely adjustable... Feel the AI is reversing 
 your moves a little too much, feel free to go to the options and turn down the rate at which they 
 do so.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall, if you already own 2008 or 2007, you're not missing too much so you might want to wait 
 until it hits the bargain bin before purchasing. If the downloadable content sparks your interest, 
 don't get your hopes up too high, The game's been out since the beginning of Nov. and it is now 
 the end of Dec. with the only downloadable content being for the X-Box 360 version and only 3 new 
 Superstars and a new costume for Jericho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. Plain and short. Its about time we see another good wwe game (no offence 
 every wwe game except 08) . Now its way better than 08, and one thing that i was glad to see is 
 that they fixed the glitch that your oppenent masterbates when you pin them (O. o) It also has an 
 excellent song track and that you can change the song by clicking the L3 button at anytime. Ok 
 so lets get on the game itself. It has a few improved and new matches including the inferno match 
 (!) . Has a better CAW designs but they still dont seem to resemble anything close to the wwe superstars 
 that are in the game. Now another thing i noticed is that no legends are in the game what so ever. 
 Now that would be ok but they have Sabu's triple jump moonasault in the game (and for anyone who 
 doesnt know what im talking about, grapple your opponent with a chair while they are grounded) , 
 so wtf is the point of having Sabu's move in the game, if he's not in it him self? Also the RTW 
 mode has a "questionable" selection of characters. List of good characters that deserved and got 
 into the RTW mode : Triple H, Y2J and Undertaker, now why are 619 and The Animal as the tag mode? 
 Why not the hardys, DX, Evoulito, The Miz and Morrison, or hell why not London & Kendrick? Cena 
 shouldnt be in the RTW mode neither does CM Punk, so instead they should of had Edge, Randy Orton, 
 Jeff Hardy, and see this; Cena makes RTW but no HBK!!? What kind of F*CKING drugs were THQ on? 
 The roster for the game is superb however, and with all kinds of new modes like highlight reel, 
 roster editor, and downloadable content coming soon, its really awesome with the downloadable content, 
 but if theres downloadable content there shouldnt be a sequel then but you know with those greedy 
 bastards at THQ thats not the case. Now another thing is that before THQ starts working on the 
 downloadable content, maybe they should instead fix that horrorendous lag on the online mode! So 
 thats all i have to say and the bottom line is that this game is a huge comeback after last years 
 $HITTY game. And in my opinion deserves a well earned 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Ok don't know how to describe it exactly. Game is good graphics are good and also in the game u 
 can watch Undertaker's title match in Wrestlemania in HD Blueray quality that is so good. Because 
 in my country i don't have possibility to watch them anymore and i was so happy and surprised when 
 i found Undertaker's match in the game, Also Undertaker is my favorite :)
  
  Whatever there's nothing to criticise the game in graphical view. Graphics are good and the game 
 can be enjoyable for a moment. BUT not enough! First of all according to the old series they remove 
 some moves of Undertaker (i am talking about Undertaker because he is my favorite character) . Ok 
 they included new moves but removed some moves also. For example in the old series there was an 
 Undertaker move in which ur opponent punches ur face but nothing happens to you and you continue 
 walking towards him and he was scared etc. i can't accept that they remove these moves.
  
  Career mode is not so enjoyable u choose who u want to fight and that makes it more boring.
  
 
  Storyline is totally dissapointing!!!! Because the most enjoyable part of this game is storyline 
 and in the old series even i finish the game and know all the story i played again and again. Especially 
 after i become champion it was enjoyable to enter the matches as a champion with my belt and trying 
 to protect ur belt was enjoyable too. But in this storyline i couldn't even be a champion!!!! in 
 whole of the story mode i fight with total 3 or 4 guys and it can not be acceptable!!! Because when 
 the story finishes it doesn't let u to continue playing! So u can not do anything in the storyline. i 
 couldnt get the belt i couldn't even fight for championship. i want the game like the old ones!!! in 
 story line u play u become a champion take the belt and if you want u can continue to play and 
 defend ur title etc. But this game totally sux from this point! Also you can not join for tag team 
 championship in the story line this is dissapointing too.... Ok u can do these in career mode but 
 career mode is so boring no story no action nothing in it so the game is not enough in my opinion 
 keep ur money in ur pocket.
  
  Ok graphics are good but it is not enough so my opinion is Smackdown failed this time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3DD3N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is perfect although it has some minuses. There is Vladimir Kozlov & R-Truth missing. But 
 we have gauntlet, inferno, a whole new backstage & locker room brawls, a new outside-ring camera that 
 makes you confusing, a new career mode that you can gain abilities for your superstar, RTW mode, return 
 of the create-a-finisher, Wrestlemania 24 Edge vs Undertaker, updated roster, hot tag, bone crunching 
 tag team finishers, falls count anywhere match, the worst thing is that, you can not unlock legends 
 like Hulk Hogan, Bret Hart etc. But we have Legends Of Wrestlemania on our road!
  
  Let's talk about the last year's game. The half of the roster was missing, the 24/7 mode was repeating, no 
 create-a-finisher mode, etc. The only plus is ECW & the new struggle submission system.
  
  So, there is a whole new game & you should buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  POSITIVES: Great "Road to Wrestlemania" mode, good wrestler voice-overs, Highlight Reel is a cool 
 addition, Finisher creation ability, tag matches are enjoyable.
  
  NEGATIVES: Disappointing SFX again, No legends (Actual WWE Superstars) , extremely poor physics 
 still plague the series, career mode serves no purpose, the game is too easy and rarely poses a 
 challenge, refractive AI.
  
  No matter to what extent the previous Smackdown games have been critically panned, I am one WWE 
 fan-man who's purchased every single THQ rundown of the wrestling arena, since its inception with 
 WW (E) Smackdown: Know Your Role. But the standard, bar and level of the SD games has noticeably 
 fallen since Here Comes The Pain, and the little bits of charisma that remained after Pain, viz. 
 in SVR 05 & 06 in the form of good stories and cutscenes hugely diminished as SVR 07 & 08 heavily 
 disappointed. Now, as good voice-overs and cutscenes make a return in SVR 09, they are bound to 
 the Road to Wrestlemania mode, and you have no chance to play through the story mode with your 
 created superstar, or any other superstar except the Power 25 biggies that made it in the game, 
 which is very unappealing. Also the lack of former WW (E) Superstars and this whole business stratagem 
 to promote the upcoming Legends of Wrestlemania is appalling. This makes for a dreary roster that 
 you will in no time get bored with, as just like the new WWE it's new superstars don't even stand 
 in comparison to the likes of Stone Cold, Masked Kane, The Rock and many other legends. Except 
 a handful few like Undertaker, Kane, Shawn Michaels, Triple H & Batista, there is nothing to look 
 for among the wrestler's list. You'll love the roster only if you're a fan of the likes of Shad, 
 Paul London, Jesse, Jimmy Wang Yang and The Miz.
  
  The Road to Wrestlemania mode is definitely the game's savior and except for this mode, the game 
 doesn't have much else to offer. Albeit the nerds can spend hours at a stretch creating there own 
 "DVDs" with the highlight reel tool and upload them to the respective Network. A major letdown 
 of the highlight reel is that it is unusable during most hardcore and backstage matches though. 
 Also, there is no use if you're not playing on the Hard & Legend difficulty levels as the game 
 lacks appropriate AI equilibrium, and can be inexplicably easy at times.
  
  The in-game sound effects, especially the ring mat-contact sounds are just plain dull and take 
 the fight out of you. All you hear while wrestling in the game is the chants of the crowd and commentary 
 from a very uninterested Michael Cole (voice acting by other commentators is fine, though) . Interestingly, 
 the SFX added to the Road to Wrestlemania cutscenes is excellent, but it is absent from the gameplay 
 alright, which is no sense at all. The SFX from Here Comes the Pain was arguably the best, remember 
 that whizzing sound of Brock Lesnar's clothesline hurling opposition in the air, and the brutal 
 but riveting sound made by the Undertaker's punch. The return of the series to those sound effects 
 would be desirable, as it is these sound effects that craft the in-game experience. Trying to come 
 close to the broadcast style of WWE Programming by the SD games is of no use, as it is in the end 
 a game, and that's why we make games, they make things far from reality seem real. Likes of GTA 
 IV & MGS 4 wouldn't be ruling a million hearts if they were a fraction close to reality. 
  
  SVR 09 is unambiguously not the best of SD games, but it's a refreshing improvement after 2-3 
 years of laid-back "will-sell" programming by the developers. WWE fans and those looking for a 
 game that would require you a good 30-40 hours to explore all its possibilities, can safely go 
 in for this one. And that's the bottom line, coz. Let it be, he's not in SVR 09, I'll throw out 
 the Legends of Wrestlemania case the day I buy it if he's not in it!!! I'll keep the disk, okay
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeHuntre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  This is the BEST Smackdown game EVERR !!!!
  and ill tell u guys why its the best SVR.....
  
  1] More den 60 SUPERSTARS !!!!
  2] NO MORE Lame fighting styles.... There are 12 Abilities 
 this time. And thats a great thing cuz each superstar feels different.
  3] Improved Tag Team MATCHES! which is MUCH better than previous Lame-O-Tagteam matches.... AND this 
 time evry teem has a tag-team finisher! AND also new to SVR is Hot-Tag ability during tag matches! 
 [ But that gets boring....]
  4] New Road-to-Wrestlemania mode features 7 superstars with each ones different storyline. Also featuring 
 Rey-Rey and Batista; s Co-op Storyline!!! I jst played Chris Jericho's Storyline and it aint like 
 previous SVR's boring 24/7.... This time it felt like i am Chris Jericho... Not jst anyone....
  5] Career Mode is AWESOME!! although some ppl wont like it.. but i LOVE it... [ Career mode is WAY 
 better than 24/7 ]
  6] There's a new Create-a-Finisher mode !!!!.... enough said.... 
  7] New Inferno match [ If u keep playin this Inferno match alone, ull get bored.... so grab a frnd 
 of urs and play wit him ]
  8] SIGNATURE MOVES!!! this time its changed a lot.... this tyme if u store a finishing move, ull get 
 a signature move [ u wont get that lame power move or wutever that wuz in svr 08 ] 2 signature 
 moves for each superstar.
  9] Also new to svr is the Roster Editor mode. [ allows u to change ur fav superstars brand or u can 
 switch titles. u can even set the crowd reaction during the entrance ]
  10] Highlight Reel mode [ not available for PS2 version ] This time u can pause the game and watch 
 the replay!! u can then save it. After saving it, u can edit the video and then upload it online. 
 
  11] Downloadable Content! [ u'll have to download some superstars for the complete roster }
  12] you'll 
 unlock new things like Move-sets, Attires, Entrance Music, Entrance Movie, and even new superstars 
 when playing RTWM [ Road to Wrestlemania ]
  
  BAAD things bout the game....
  
  1] Undertaker's season mode isnt the best.... its the worst!
  2] DX's tag-team finisher SUCKS!!!
 
  3] Hot-Tag feature cud be MUCH better...
  4] Many cruiser weight superstars [ Chavo Guirrero, Chris Jericho,] can EASILY suplex The Great Khali 
 ! AND they cant suplex JBL.....
  5] Some superstars [ Chris Jericho, Kane, Jeff Hardy ] have different entrance music...
  8] DX could 
 be better... Their finisher sucks and their tag-team moves are from the old svr games...
  
  Evrything is improved a lot. Jst like the New grapple moves, New Match types and 2 season modes.... U 
 cant expect more from a wrestling game.... Sometimes ull hate the  
 Storylines could be better...
  Im sure u guys wont like it with DX... Neither did i... So ive got 2 words for them..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  The Smackdown franchise has steadily gotten worse since "Here Comes The Pain". Many of us have 
 complained that, not only have the games been the same year over year (with simply a roster update) , 
 but they've even steadily taken features away. Though this somewhat holds true with this year's 
 edition, some additions and (most notably) the refinement of the gameplay, make this franchise 
 fun to play again. There's a lot to cover here. But, I want to make this as detailed as possible 
 for the skeptics (like I was) out there.
  
  The most common concern before the release of SvR 2009 was the limit of 6 storylines for "Road 
 To Wrestlemania". However, this mode is probably the most welcomed of all. Cutscenes, deep storylines 
 with twists, lip synced commentators and superstars, and special stipulations for matches that 
 you won't find in exhibition mode make Road To Wrestlemania fun throughout. To address the concern 
 for the limit of Superstars available for this mode, Career Mode is still avilable for any Superstar. 
 It's impersonal as was previous career modes. But, when using this mode to build a created wrestler, 
 you'll find it's the most fun way to build your new superstar. 
  
  However, there is bad news in this. There's no way to cheat the system in order to get attributes, 
 and abilities. You'll have to work a CAW (Create-A-Wrestler) through this mode each time, if you 
 want him/hr to be able to compete with other superstars. That does damage the game's appeal for 
 those who like to have large CAW lists. But, that's where we see promise in this year's title too. 
 THQ has already announced that they've noticed our complaints, and are already working on a patch 
 to remedy the issue. It is due out in January, and will allow the player to go through career mode 
 and use the accumulated abilities and attributes for all other CAWs you may get in the future. 
 This is exciting news, because it shows us THQs commitment to quality. A commitment we all complained 
 was lacking in the past.
  
  Of all of the franchise's releases, 2008 was the worst by far. We all noticed the potential of 
 fighting styles being implemented. But, lower framerates, sluggish controls, and a system that 
 took moves away (instead of giving us more) destroyed any hope for the new concept. This year, 
 they've abandoned the fighting style concept, and replaced it with individual abilities. Each wrestler 
 can have upto twelve abilities: "Object" will allow you to grapple with weapons, "Referee Shield" 
 will allow you to use the ref to your advantage, "Dirty Pin" will have your superstar use the ropes 
 during a pin whenever they're close by, etc... This works much better than fighting styles, because 
 it truly makes each superstar feel unique and accurate to his real life counter part.
  
  Though the control scheme and the moves are prodominantly the same as last year's, the gameplay 
 is much more polished. New animations were added to bridge reversals and complete moves, which 
 makes the action feel much more authentic. Even the ringside battles get a new camera angle, which 
 doesn't sound like much, but it helps to contrast in ring battles and bring a fresh aspect into 
 a long match. The more serious issue last year was the focus system, and thankfully, it's been 
 refined too. It remains automatic, but now your character changes focus much quicker, and his choice 
 of opponent to attack is much more sensible. It works especially well in tag team matches because, 
 just like real wrestling (well, as real as it gets anyway) an attack from the illegal man will 
 change your focus onto him, instead of the man in the ring waiting to take advantage of the distraction.
 
  
  I noticed a free small refinements that made this title more enjoyable too. The load times are 
 reduced to a third of what they were before, the roster is the larger, the prematch screen lets 
 you turn off entrances with the press of a button, the momentum meter speed now has a "Slow" option 
 (along with the usual "normal" and "fast", and the stamina system can now be shut off.
  
  As far as matches, there isn't much new here. They've added the Inferno Match which isn't anything 
 special. Just beat each other up till the temperature reads 500 and drag your opponent to the ropes 
 to win. They've also added the gauntlet match. In this match, you take on three wrestlers, one 
 after the other, and retain damage from any previous encounters. The tag team match is where this 
 game really shines. It leaves you having as much fun as the illegal man and the man in the ring. 
 Pull down the ropes for irish whips, punch, hold, double team, triple team, tag team finishers, 
 and the sharing of one momentum meter, makes the tag team match infinitely better than any wrestling 
 game before it.
  
  So with all of this praise, why not more than an 8.0? Well, the game is very easy. Even in legend 
 difficulty, after a few hours, you'll beat any opponent easily. They have sliders to adjust this, 
 but sliders increase tendencies and that makes your opponents feel cheap and frustrating. The graphical 
 update is non existent. The graphics actually don't have as much to offer as last years. Character 
 detail was reduced (ie: sweat is not as noticeable, and some jaggies are visible) , and they've 
 still managed to take away some things (Fighting in the crowd, and monitor cable choke hold) . Keep 
 in mind, that in this regard, I am being very hard on them. This is solely because I expect more 
 from a franchise that has been around since PSOne. 
  
  Overall, I would recommend this title to any wrestling fan. And, for those of you that have given 
 up hope since "Here Comes The Pain", I suggest renting this out and giving it a whirl. You might 
 be pleasantly surprised. Smackdown 2009 is nothing less of a big step in the right direction.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafay48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun to play, and it has a lot of new modes of of of of of of of of of of of 
 of of of of of of of of ofThis game is really fun to play, and it has a lot of new modes of of 
 of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of ofThis game is really fun to play, and it has 
 a lot of new modes of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of ofThis game is really 
 fun to play, and it has a lot of new modes of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of 
 of ofThis game is really fun to play, and it has a lot of new modes of of of of of of of of of 
 of of of of of of of of of of ofThis game is really fun to play, and it has a lot of new modes 
 of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of ofThis game is really fun to play, and 
 it has a lot of new modes of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of of ofThis game 
 is really fun to play, and it has a lot of new modes of of of of of of of of of of of of of of 
 of of of of of of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopan2k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Yea i was going banana's over the brand spankin' new game by thq. Like a recovering mental patient, 
 i punched a hole in my wall and screamed in my brother face. I mean i liked every new svr game 
 by thq, even though last years had a dead story mode. So i didn't see why this would be any different.. 
 i decided to buy it!
  
  Morning day*
  i wake up hyped for this cool ars game. I heard that you could add your own music to the caws entrance, 
 and the caws had something like 70% of all their clothes were actualy 3d (not that pasted on texture 
 garbage) . AND i heard the story mode was completely re-done and a total killer. So i grab my jacket, 
 and run out to my local shop keep.
  
  Game time*
  Start the ol' girl up. and i was like wow: cool menu, new matches, cool/better caw creation, story 
 mode is spankin' good time, and new tag moves (but i didn't care cause i never co-op my svr lol) . 
 And as soon as i started ACTUALLY PLAYING the game, i noticed very FEW changes. 
  I mean the crowd looked alot more dense which was cool.. but so what.. i played this game before, 
 and it was called svr 08! 
  That's right folks! I was playing the game i previously owned, smack down vs. Raw 2008. pretty 
 much.
  
  Conclusion*
  it's a slight improvement, but nothing that will make you plant a Brown Betty. However if your 
 a wrestling fan, then pick this up.. those small improvements can go a long way in your caw creations 
 as you carry him through a super fun awesome mad story mode. 
  
  Ps.
  my user is Loopan2k on ps3 online, 
  so add me up if u want.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimDigit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  First of all I want to say that this is a great attempt for a year gone in this franchise I have 
 never been more pleased with the graphics or the smoothness of the game play by THQ. Therefore 
 anything I say derogatory is about the game itself not saying THQ is bad or anything like that. 
 I believe, that; ever since I was a little kid and THQ took over this franchise from Acclaim way 
 back when; they have done the WWE franchise, nothing but good. All that being said, YOU HAVE GOT 
 TO BE KIDDING ME! The improvements over 2006 graphically do not in any way merit missing superstars; 
 of the past or present. I see changes in the interface that have button use implications but don't 
 really change the significance of the activity. What do I care if I have to press an X repetitively 
 for everything in 2006 and a Square for everything in 2009 (ps3) ? I don't care. I care about a 
 missing GM mode about a tournament mode that only works in a King of the ring way though you don't 
 have to call every tournament "king of the ring". I care that I have to buy a stinking router to 
 download new superstars that should have been in the game already. I care that in spite of all 
 the great memory the PS3 has, I''m still stuck with only 30 caws. 30 caws I have to drag through 
 a story less Career mode for them to be able to wrestle half as well as the Superstars. I care 
 that the caws still look like goofy badly made robots compared with care put into making the Superstars. 
 I care that the create a belt, diva belt, Real looking clothes for caws, real interaction with 
 the ring area that is truly innovative, are not in the game at all. I care that there isn't a single 
 hope of taking Umaga Hardy Kahli or even one of the Hardy's on a road to wrestlemania? Come on 
 it's 2008-9 can't we do something better? get stair... call stair... jump with stair on head from 
 top turnbuckle? something? Respect for women wrestlers? Listen 2009 is a nice try you will have 
 fun if you are a wrestling or fight fan but it's too little a revision to not complain about. Lastly, 
 you can't be serious not having the regular legends or chyna, lita, and trish in this game! Times 
 are too hard for that crap THQ exec's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnglishGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I doubt that a reasonable hardcore wrestling gamer has been more critical of the Smackdown 
 series as I have. Be it limited move selections, slow frame rates, unrealistic lengths to downed 
 opponents staying down, or poor AI, I've had something to nag about since the demise of the almighty 
 N64 games. That said, I'm in some uncharted waters as I write here with pretty much nothing but 
 praise for Smackdown vs. Raw 2009. This mainly comes about because, for the first time in years, 
 a WWE game has been released that not only showed that THQ has listened intently to the fans, but 
 they didn't mess anything up while adding improvements. 
  I can see why some of these critics say that this year's is too close to last year's game, but 
 A) I think that criticism is short-sited, and B) they say the same about Madden and it still sells 
 a billion copies. The roster is not only broader, but future downloadable content expands this 
 area even more. The speed, at least on the PS3, is greatly improved; while I love a methodical 
 approach to wrestling, SvR 2K8 just plodded without a chance of a "hot finish." The removal of 
 overall fighting styles has allowed for (slightly) greater freedom of move selection, though some 
 basic classics are still absent (where's my side headlock, single-leg crab or 2nd-rope superplex?) . 
 The AI is inarguably better, and the load times destroy those of the past two titles (players are 
 barely able to read the loading screens because the times are so short) . Road to Wrestlemania, 
 while containing some questionable line delivery and playable action that doesn't transition well 
 into following cutscenes, is infinitely more entertaining than WWE 24/7, and even the animations, 
 in my eyes, have been updated sufficiently (and the flaming begins) . For those who really appreciate 
 the small details, finishers that are flying move from the top rope are now activated with the 
 opponent beginning with his back in the turnbuckle, making these finishers not as easy to predict 
 and block.
  The game still isn't perfect, and only time will tell if it hold up to WWF No Mercy or my personal 
 favorite of the series, SvR 2K6. Criticisms, however, are nitpicky. The weight system exists and 
 often prevents unrealistic suplexes, but there will be occasions when you'll see Rey Mysterio backdrop 
 Big Daddy V or Jimmy Wayne Yang hoist Big Show up onto the top rope, and you'll be taken out of 
 the game. The PS3 version does have some slowdown, but so did No Mercy. The Tribute to the Troops 
 arena is realistically outdoors, yet Wrestlemania XXIV, a much more popular event, is oddly totally 
 enclosed instead of in the Orange Bowl. You still can't store a finisher, but at least you can 
 store a signature move, which is much cooler than storing a fighting style of SvR 2K8, and you 
 can take the signature/finishing move of an opponent if you reverse it, ala the WWE Gamecube titles 
 Wrestlemania and Day of Reckoning. More animations of reversals, particularly of finishers, would 
 have been nice, but that's minor, as is the continued inability to do pinning moves in non-pinnable 
 situations. And to all those that complain about the removal of the Buried Alive match, trust me: 
 the lighting of the Inferno Match alone makes it that much better of a replacement.
  So, again, I can't say SvR 2K9 will be seen as the next No Mercy. Without the momentum meter and 
 amount of damage dictating which moves can be reversed, I don't know how any game will ever consistently 
 match the way those matches would build to a finish. And this game probably won't win over the 
 fans of the ultra-deep-and-intelligent Fire Pro Wrestling, and it won't turn non-wrestling fans 
 into wrestling fans. But, for now, if you like the genre, you'll love Smackdown vs. Raw 2009. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaKeRfAn4LyFe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I must say this is a great game! I have finished John Cena, the Undertaker, and Chris Jericho's 
 Road to WrestleManias, and it felt as if I was actually walking in their boots. I haven't started 
 the Career Mode yet but from what I've heard, it's not that great. Having to raise your stats by 
 how you play during the match is a great idea, but wasn't executed right. For people who make 20 
 to 30 created wrestlers are disappointed because they have to go through Career Mode with all of 
 their created wrestlers. Thankfully for people like that, THQ has announced they will release a 
 patch, so once you've finished Career Mode once, you will get unlimited experience points for you 
 to use for all of your created wrestlers anyway you wish.
  
  They've added two new matches, which are the Inferno match and the Gauntlet match. Both are executed 
 pretty well, and both will be fun matches to play with friends. But, unfortunately, they will get 
 boring after awhile. There is a bunch more unlockables then in 2008. You have alternate attires, 
 superstars, matches, ect. Also there is the addition of Downloadable Content, where you can download 
 alternate attires for superstars already in the game, and also new superstars such as Ted Dibiase 
 Jr., Evan Bourne, and Charlie Haas.
  
  So, all in all, this game should keep you satisfied until 2010. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_yousef
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Match game play:-
  One of the game's most prominent features is the enhanced tag team match. Additions in the match 
 include new ways of tagging the player's tag team partner such as the reversible hot tag, which 
 can help save the player in the match if they are in trouble, and the forced blind tag, where the 
 partner tags theirself into the ring. The player's tag team partner has more of a part to play 
 in this match and will aid the player by holding an opponent by the ropes while on the apron, and 
 the pulling down the ropes for an opponent dashing towards them, sending them out of the ring. 
 Teams will now share their own momentum meter, attributes and double team finishers.
  
  
  Tag teams are a major focus in this game with a reworked tag team match and co-operative season 
 mode. SmackDown vs. Raw 2009 is the first WWE video game to include the Inferno match, a match where 
 the player has to set their opponent on fire. Unlike the real life match which takes place with 
 the ring surrounded by fire coming from gas fed pipes, the ring ropes themselves are on fire. To 
 win the player must increase the temperature of the ring by performing more devastating moves. 
 As soon as the temperature reaches 500F, the player can then begin to set their opponent on fire.
 
  
  Several matches absent in previous games also returned to the series. The backstage brawl, where 
 players can battle in either the locker room or the backstage "gorilla position" with a variety 
 of weapons at their disposal, returned and replaced the parking lot brawl match featured in the 
 last game. The Gauntlet match also returned, which was featured in earlier games as the Slobberknocker 
 match before its removal.
  
  Both the Wii and DS versions now includes new matches, such as the steel cage and ladder match, 
 with the DS version in addition also featuring tables and TLC matches.
  
  Fighting styles, a major feature from the previous version, were removed. However, the fighting 
 abilities used there were kept and enhanced with each wrestler possessing six out of twenty different 
 abilities that would aid the player in specific areas. New to the game is the inclusion of signature 
 moves, moves secondary in importance next to their finishing moves. When in full momentum, the 
 players can choose to store a signature move instead of performing a finishing move which they 
 can perform later.
  
  A new semi-auto targeting system was implemented into the game, which will generally automatically 
 target a particular wrestler the player wants to attack but can also be controlled in-game by the 
 player.
  
  Japanese company TOSE took over from Amaze Entertainment in development for the Nintendo DS version 
 Unlike the previous year's game whose gameplay was focused exclusively on the handheld's stylus, 
 this year's edition instead uses by default the D-pad for movement and the left shoulder button 
 for finishing moves. The DS version's gameplay is now similar to that from the other consoles with 
 full movement control around the ring for the wrestler and a stamina meter to build up for a finishing 
 move. Grappling, attacks and submissions will still be controlled by the stylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan241983
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I like the story mode and the graphics rock and r a little better than last years i like the backstage 
 brawls and the audio is awesome this time because u can here everything drop. to there foot steps 
 and the commentary is right on target. u will be fighting and jr talks about last weeks match and 
 who u fight the next week. and the controls r right on target i think this is one of the best in 
 the series. and the loads times r alot faster i think and legends of wrestle mania looks good too. 
 and it feels like u r watching it on tv thats how real it looks to me. and the tag team is way 
 better this year i like that mode and of course the create a finishers is cool to. so i think it 
 deserves a good rating. thats my opinion. and the inferno match is cool too its better than tna 
 inpact. and they have more moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I didn't buy the game and I'm so glad I didn't but I have a friend who bought it and they want 
 to sell me the game.
  First off as you may know you can only play story mode as 7 wrestlers, HHH, John Cena, Chris Jerichio, 
 Cmpunk and coplay Rey and Batista. First off let me point out wtf Rey and Batista are not a tag 
 team, sure they tag teamed for two weeks, but putting them together is a tag team is spitting on 
 the face of ever real tag team there is. Basically they were just tagged in together cause this 
 game is targeting kids cause this is a kid game. This game should be rated K. 10 and below
  
  Well there is career mode but thats nothing but a cheap rip off of exibtion mode on 08. Remember 
 how people thought it sucked cause no ecw star was on storymode. Well hello people over 3/4 of 
 the roster isn't on the storymode this time.
  What is the point of a bigger roster when you can only play storymode with 7 people. REALLY
  
 
  well thq did go out they added one whole match to it the infero match, wow.
  
  Bottom line is this is a game for kids to have babyfaces kick heel's butt to get a pleasure and 
 some of the storylines that happened to, Edge, Orton, Morrison in the game were disgracing them.
 
  
  and another major complaint is why in the heck isn't Shawn Micheals not in storyline mode. Is is 
 500xs bigger than cm junk "no that junk is not a typo" botchtista "anybody that watches wwe knows 
 what I mean"
  and super cena, and power hungry HHH. But atleast they have two decent wrestlers in storyline mode.
 
  
  If you just have to get this game wait a year and it be 30 bucks, but i hope this game flops cause 
 thq was being lazy, i dunno if it wasn't them exactly but its basically the wwe kissing all the 
 babyface wrestlers bottom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This new smackdown vs raw is very good and a lot of different things to do for example you got 
 the road to wrestlemania wich you can play with about 8 superstars and they all have different 
 story and you got carrer mode wich is like gm mode but you only controll what path you go on like 
 you go for intercontinental and you can chose what match you want to play in. There is a new mode 
 called the higlight reel witch is pretty good to make a good video your talking about 2 hours wich 
 makes the game longer and it will keep you busy. One of the best part about this game is the creat 
 a finisher wich is really cool but there is not as many choices as i thought there was going to 
 be and the thing that let this mode down was you can not creat a submission finisher or a diving 
 finisher that suckes pretty bad but we will definetley get it in the next year one. the graphics 
 of the game is superb some glitches but you will never get a game with no glitches so there is 
 no point of moaning lol. There is a lot of wrestlers and you got about 10 wrestlers to unlock and 
 some are on the way wich will be downloadable and alt costumes. this game is brilliant the best 
 smackdown vs raw yet but if the only thing that kept you bussy last year was the gm you will be 
 a bit dissapointed but there is lot more to do plus you got the new match inferno witch is pretty 
 cool and dumb lol. If your a wrestling fan you must get it otherwise you will regret it and for 
 those who is not intrested in wrestling dont even bother looking at the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
