-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Alien Syndrome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/aliensyndrome/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Aiming controls feel responsive, intuitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Drab level design.
 Monotonous combat.
 Aliens are constantly recycled, dull to look at, boring to fight.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 312 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Totally Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Jul 24, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A sense of murky monotony sucks most of the life out of this action RPG remake of Sega's classic 
 arcade shooter. 

  On paper, Sega and Totally Games' new Alien Syndrome remake for the Wii and PSP has everything 
 it ought to. The top-down perspective, the hordes of mutated alien abominations, and the trigger-happy 
 gameplay all seem to honor the memory of Sega's 1987 arcade classic. What's more, some light RPG 
 elements have been added, including distinct character classes and a fairly granular level of ability 
 customization. Heck, there's even a crafting system for conjuring supplies and upgrades. In practice, 
 though, it's a repetitive and boring experience that fails to evoke the spirit of the original 
 Alien Syndrome, or the superior dungeon crawlers that it attempts to crib from.  

           You're right, Aileen. It is a mess in here.      

  Early on, there are some thin allusions 
 to past conflicts and dark secrets in the main character's past that serve as a lame attempt to 
 slap more of a narrative onto Alien Syndrome than the "kill all the aliens" directive that supported 
 the original. Save for a none-too-subtle reference to  Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan , it's all 
 pretty bland and uninteresting, and once you've been transported onto the derelict research facility 
 infested with the Alien Syndrome in the first level, you don't hear too much more than boilerplate 
 mission directives. It's as if the game itself loses interest in its overarching story.  

  Before you start wasting wave after wave of horrible alien monsters, you'll have to choose a character 
 class to play as, which include demolitions expert, firebug, seal, tank, and sharpshooter. This 
 initial choice will decide your starting stats as well as the type of weapon you'll start out with, 
 though as you earn levels, you'll get points that you can put towards the proficiencies that define 
 the other classes. The sense of freedom in developing your character is false, though, because 
 once you've committed to a certain weapon type, it's not really worth it to put points into building 
 up another weapon proficiency from scratch. Why waste points on unlocking a weaker weapon when 
 you can continue to goose the potency of the weapon you're already using? It's all kind of a moot 
 point anyway, because regardless of which class you choose, the weapons don't feel particularly 
 powerful or, save for the melee-based tank class, very unique.  

  Perhaps the biggest difference between the PSP and Wii versions of Alien Syndrome are in the controls. 
 On the PSP, your movement and aiming are both handled with the analog stick, and when you start 
 firing a ranged weapon, you'll lock into the direction you're facing. On the Wii, movement is handled 
 by the analog stick on the Nunchuk, though you'll control your aiming reticle with the Wii Remote, 
 and wherever you point is where your character will shoot. This makes it easy to shoot in one direction 
 while moving in another. The Wii shooting controls actually feel pretty good, but the PSP control 
 scheme wins out in melee attacks simply because it sticks with basic two-button combos. On the 
 Wii, you're forced to use a potpourri of button presses and arcane gestures with the Wii Remote 
 that make the melee attacks too cumbersome.  

  Once you get into the game, you'll quickly find that Alien Syndrome is essentially a space-age 
 dungeon crawler, but it's not a terribly good one due to issues of both quantity and quality. Though 
 you'll be given predictable assignments like "get the blue keycard" or "rescue the colonists" on 
 rare occasions, more often than not, your job is to get from one end of a level to the other without 
 falling prey to the antagonistic aliens that constantly spawn around you. The first problem lies 
 within the aliens themselves, which tend to be sluggish beasts that, if you didn't need the experience 
 points to toughen up for the occasional, mandatory boss fight, you could just as easily run right 
 past. If you choose to hunker down and fight the aliens, you'll find that their biggest asset is 
 their ability to soak up damage. It doesn't make them challenging enemies, it just means that it 
 takes a while to wear them down, and even in larger numbers you can best most of them with some 
 easily paced circle-strafing. On the rare chance you find yourself overwhelmed by the half-dozen 
 or so aliens that you'll usually face, you can usually just run away, and the aliens will disappear 
 just as easily as they first spawned.  

           One of several indistinct enemies you'll face over the course of the game.      

  
 What's most exhausting about the enemies in Alien Syndrome is the terrible lack of variety. Though 
 there are definitely several distinct types of aliens, they all manage to look kind of blobby. 
 The game also loves a good palette swap, and those greenish worm-things you fight at the start 
 of the game aren't functionally different from the bluish worm-things you fight around hour seven. 
 The environments do little to add to the excitement, though if you like pointlessly serpentine 
 mazes of nondescript corridors, occasionally punctuated with big, empty rooms, then boy howdy are 
 you in luck! Whether you play Alien Syndrome on the Wii or the PSP, the game has a drab, murky 
 look, though the washed-out textures and blocky designs that are hidden by the demure size of the 
 PSP screen can be seen in all their fuzzy, big-screen glory on the Wii. Technically and artistically, 
 this game simply isn't pleasant to look at.  

  Alien Syndrome can be played with up to four people locally, and though misery loves company, additional 
 players don't make the experience any more entertaining. The original Alien Syndrome wasn't terribly 
 groundbreaking, but it still managed to provide some manic, challenging fun. This game is an exercise 
 in formulaic tedium that fails to deliver on the promise of an updated Alien Syndrome, or a passable 
 action RPG experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I loved the Alien Syndrome for the arcade. I had the NES port back in the day, and played it to 
 death with my sister. It was a fun top-down shooter where you save hostages from hordes of aliens 
 and fought an epic boss at the end of each stage.
  
  However, this Alien Syndrome is only semi related to that classic game. There was only 2 missions 
 where you saved hostages. The differences is, they're placed in pre-determined spots this time 
 around. Also, there are only a couple boss battles in this version, and none of them are "epic". 
 It does feature co-op, but you play as the same character. You can pick between job classes though.
 
  
  Alien Syndrome is a PSP port and a generic looking Dark Alliance clone, so my expectations were 
 fairly low going on. I can't say it exceeded my expectations, but I guess it wasn't the worst game 
 I ever played in my life. You can play up to 4 players, so there is some value to the game if you're 
 looking for local co-op. 
  
  I really enjoyed the control system for Alien Syndrome. It reminded me of a Smash TV type game 
 fit under a Dark Alliance. The Wiimote is nearly perfect for this type of gun play. You can strife 
 and shoot at the same time, kinda like in Geometry Wars. You can hotswap your melee and gun weapons 
 with an easy press of the D-button, so there is a nice swiftness to the battle system if you need 
 to change your weapons on the fly. I loved the button layout for the game.
  
  The only thing I hate, HATE about the controls are the camera controls. To rotate the camera right 
 or left, you have to tilt your nunchuck right or left. I hate a real hard time controlling the 
 camera. Sometimes, when I would tilt the nunchuck, it wouldn't respond. I was nearly half way over 
 the with the game until I realized you had to have the Wiimote pointed at the screen before the 
 nunchuck with register. This was kinda frustrating.
  
  I haven't played the PSP game, but I did look it up and research it after playing through the Wii 
 version. If I had to guess, I would say the Wii version is the one to get, because of the local 
 Co-op. They are also minigames you find through out the levels that can increase your Stats or 
 give you rare weapons. The minigames are Wii specific. The other big reason are the controls. In 
 the PSP verison, the gun play doesn't sound nearly as fun.
  
  Overall though, the graphics are really bad. The missions are repeated. The game is WAY to long. 
 There are a total of 40 missions, and they're all basically the same. The music and sound is bad. 
 Outside of the fun controls, they blew it with the rest of the game. It's a shame. 
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Alien Syndrome is an action RPG dungeon crawler, much like 
 the Dark Alliance series of games. At the start of the game you get to pick between 5 or so class 
 of characters. I picked the Tank for it's excellent strength and melee abilities. However, Alien 
 Syndrome is probably closer to Fallout: Brotherhood of steel for the last gen systems. You can 
 fight in melee with staffs, or use a variety of guns, bombs, and flame throwers. For a Dark Alliance 
 clone, I think the battle system is actually varied. However, killing the same monsters, the same 
 ways, 1,000 times per dungeons can get a bit tedious.
  
  You gain experience for each monster you kill. When you gain a level, you get to spend 2 points 
 on four stats. You can raise your strength, dexterity, endurance or accuracy. You also gain 1 skill 
 point per level too. You can raise your various skills. Some skills grant you the ability to hold 
 new or more powerful weapons or armor. Some can boost your weight limit or walking speed. There 
 are a ton of skills to learn and grow.
  
  When you kill a monster, the sometimes drop loot. You can gain alot of new health potions, or money, 
 and sometimes weapons and armor. Each item weighs a certain amount, so Alieen can only carry so 
 much. You'll often have to sell or throw away a ton of items through out the game, which can be 
 a hassle. 
  
  A little robot follows you on your journey, and fights beside you too. He can shoot little lasers 
 at enemies, although his aim is horrible. You can equip 2 items on his robot helper if you want. 
 Your little robot helper also sells you items and equipment too.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as a super solider space marine, Alieen. Hey, 
 that almost looks like Alien. Blah. Alieen is sent on a mission to an crashed space ship to find 
 survivors to and find out what attacked it. Inside are space aliens and random biomonsters. Within 
 the ship she finds a few survivors and hints on the upcoming alien wars.
  
  Blah. There are some twists within the story, but it's a freaking joke. I dreaded all dialog and 
 cutscenes in this game because they're so pathetically generic. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Ok, this is a PSP port and it shows. This honestly doesn't even 
 look good for a PS2 game, let alone a Wii game. Actually, this doesn't even look good for a Dreamcast 
 game. The art style doesn't help either. There is nothing aesthetically pleasing about the game 
 either. So technically the graphics are bad, and artistically they're bad. Not only that, but I 
 ran into a few bugs that made me die or have to restart. For example, my character got trapped 
 between 2 rocks somehow, and I couldn't get out of them, so I had to wait for a monster to kill 
 me. This happened to me a few times.
  
  The cutscenes are static images, but the camera zooms or pans across them to show action or emotion. 
 This is basically how they do Discovery Channel shows. It's pretty cheap method of doing a cutscene, 
 but it doesn't look completely awful I guess. Sometimes they would splice in CGI explosion effects 
 and other stuff to spice it up.
  
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  The music is a basic spacey / ambient soundtrack you would find in any sci-fi related video game. 
 It's actually very similar to Metroid Prime in a way, but the music is much more repetitive. The 
 voice work is pretty bad although. All the cutscenes featured voices, but not all the dialog within 
 gameplay. It's frustrating when they you're in the middle of a fight, but then a piece of dialog 
 shows up expecting you to read it. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  Alien Syndrome flows in a stage by stage basis. When you beat stage 1 you are then taken to stage 
 2. There is no time for rest or towns to visit or NPCs to talk to. You blast through the game very 
 linearly. 
  
  Within the dungeons you have access of a mini map, which shows you most of the map. The map shows 
 your location, the enemies within your area, save spots and your goals. The goals are lit up bright 
 orange, and they guide you to fight a boss or to set a bomb. There isn't a huge variety of goals 
 in the game.
  
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ---------
  15-20 hours.
  
  They don't record your overall time, but they do record your time spent in each dungeon. It takes 
 between 15 to 45 minutes to complete a dungeon, if you try to fight and find everything. There 
 are no unlocks after beating the game that I noticed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathyboy123
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I wasted my money on this game. It is boring, aliens are always the same, stupid controls, i just 
 hate it. If i had to rate it for single player it would be a 1.0 at maximum, for multi player, 
 only 0.5 i would say as usually o it my friend gets stuck at the side of the screen unable to move 
 and we have to start again... and then it happens again!
  
  I also think its too easy, especially the bosses. I mean, come on, usually bosses are supposed 
 to use at least 10 minutes worth of time to kill them, but on Alien Syndrome... it took me about 
 30 seconds! If you want to buy this game ad are desperate for it all i want to say is... DON'T 
 BUY IT!
  Oh and one more thing... a birds eye view? It gets really annoying!
  Personally i think its one of the worst games i have ever bought.
  So... i have rated it as you 
 can see 1.0 and i think that is a perfect score for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashcan_Man
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  To anyone who's read information on Alien Sydrome that likens it to a Diablo dungeon crawler filled 
 with loot, upgrades, action-RPG elements, do NOT be fooled.
  
  Sound/Visual Effort: 
  The only good point I can make about this game early on is that it really lets you know just how 
 bad it is in the first fifteen minutes of gameplay.
  The graphics stand out most in this game, and not in a good way. The opening scenes give the gamer 
 a look at the drab character design with facial features that harken back to the original Playstation 
 graphics. Following up, you get to hear the weak, poorly scripted dialogue the game has to offer. 
 Not much should be expected from an action-RPG with a sci-fi twist in terms of dialogue, but the 
 voice-acting is right DOWN there with the original Resident Evil's.
  
  Gameplay: 
  With a watered-down class system, you could play this game as virtually anything and feel that 
 every time you're still playing the exact same class. What your options basically boil down to 
 are tank, sniper, demolitions. You have a grab-bag of skills to specialize in and upgrade as you 
 progress, but in no way is there a benefit to being a dabbler-in-all, master-of-none in this game. 
 
  
  You use the nunchuk and Wii-mote in an understandable combination, but sometimes things appear 
 better on paper than in actuality. Aiming is not as easy as one would think (anyone ever play SMASH 
 T. V.? THOSE are the controls you wish you had in this game) . But for those who can slog through 
 the first hour or so of the game, you'll find that many of the sprites used are repeated over... and 
 over... and over.
  
  What Sets This One Apart:
  One caveat to the "Diablo-esque" experience the gamer is given is the ability to combine items 
 to create new armor, weapons, etc. In addition to being able to do this on the fly, a helper robot 
 follows you around, enabling you to pawn off unwanted materials for points which allow you to continue 
 creating new items. However, this feature feels as tacked-on as the class system mentioned in the 
 beginning of this review. The menus are confusing: for once, can a poorly made game try NOT to 
 invent its own lingo and currency and stick to dollars so we, the gamers, can understand what the 
 heck is going on?
  
  This game gets a 2.0/10 only because the attempt at making a hack n' slash unique is there... if 
 only half-heartedly.
  
  What It's Worth: $15.00 or LESS if it's used. Let it be the game your younger sibling plays that 
 you don't care if he/she accidentally erases your save file. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Alien Syndrome was originally an action shooter game in the arcades and on the NES, Sega, and various 
 other platforms of the time. That version had the honor of being an "love it or hate it" title 
 by gamers everywhereeven to this day.
  
  Now roughly 7 or 8 years later, we have a spiritual sequel promising a new direction in game play. 
 Alien Syndrome for the Wii has been touted as an Action RPG using revolutionary control setup thru 
 the Wiimote/Nunchuck combo that promises a new direction in the genre.
  
  Having followed this from when it was first announced, it has undergone many different changes 
 during its development cycle. First, it was rumored that it would be a downloaded game on the Internet 
 Shopping Channel and would mark the opening days of competition between Nintendo and Xbox 360's 
 current stranglehold on small scale console indie development. From this a lot of buzz was generated 
 that would first bring in the early fans of this game. Sadly, Sega would decide that it would be 
 in their best interest to produce a disk and thus charge more (and make a higher profit margin 
 then on spearheading a downloaded indie game marketplace on wii) . This didn't phase fans that much 
 because it was still promoted as having online multiplayer which wii at the time lacked (anywhere) . 
 The thought of online multi finally breaking onto wii especially in this genre of game still kept 
 many thronging fans around. Sadly again, it would turn out that for whatever reason Nintendo would 
 not allow Sega or Totally Games access to their online code or services. This was a huge blow for 
 the community and many people would jump ship. It would also not help that the first screenshots 
 would come out about the same time and would show a disturbing similarity to the parallel development 
 of this game on the PSP. Despite all of this a strong contingent will still stay loyal hoping upon 
 hope that the gameplay would be revolutionary enough to prove all the nay-sayers who had left wrong. 
 Indeed, in the final days leading up to release there would be videos, interviews, and demos upon 
 demos all focusing on controls and gameplay.
  
  and now we find ourselves with this game finally been released. So the question is: Did gameplay 
 finally win out against those termed by the core fanbase as "Graphic Whores" and the others who 
 had departed earlier on? Read on to find out
  
  ----
  
  Graphics: (4/10)
  
  This is easily the weakest part of the game so rather then starting with story like I normally 
 do I've decided to get the worse out of the way and work up to the good stuff.
  
  It is very true that the graphics are very PSP-like with just some minor upgrades. To be fair, 
 had this been a downloaded game like it first conceptually started out as then no one would really 
 of paid much attention to this (indirectly, as d/led would of meant lower pricetag usually, as 
 I will discuss later in this review) . However, this is a game printed on disc so therein carries 
 a certain expectation amongst many gamers. Indeed, as of late, wii has been suffering from a glut 
 of cheap cash ins on wii popularity via ports from other platforms, games originally developed 
 on older platforms that would change focus mid-way thru to cash in on wii popularity, or otherwise 
 rushed efforts to get a game out onto wii as fast as possible. This is common with all 1st years 
 for any console. What strikes this game hard is that it has been clearly shown that a lot of thought 
 was put into this at Totally just from all of the blogs, reviews, and videos out there. So what 
 was shown to be Herculean like by the developer would end up looking like this is a bit much for 
 many gamers to swallow.
  
  That isn't to say that it's a graphical wasteland however. some of the weapon designs and effects 
 do show some imagination (especially the melee weapons, more on that later on) . Also, the storyboarding 
 that they use as cutscenes is done in an interesting western styled art design as opposed to the 
 more common eastern "Anime" style common now on the market. However, you have to be a fan of this 
 art direction to fully appreciate it as it's not going to be something that will convert people 
 firmly on the opposite side of the fence.
  
  ----
  
  Sound (5/10)
  
  The music itself is appropriate for a space orientated theme. Not extraordinary and not horrible. 
 The biggest problem with the music is the lack of different tunes. It will not take long before 
 music starts looping again and there are plenty of times when a game just goes all silent. It's 
 kind of disturbing and sad in the same sentence.
  
  Sound effects also suffer in this department. The same grunts, explosions, and gun noises get reused 
 many, many times. It's apparent that music or SE were not the main focus in development. The one 
 saving grace is the Voice Overs.. which is adequate in quality (though more could have been added 
 as it's the main way the game moves the story forward) .
  
  ----
  Story (5/10)
  
  This was a very hard score for me to give on this front. However, the fact remains that the overarching 
 method used to convey this story is thru VOs and they are just lacking in content or frequency. 
 The story itself is that 100 years after the previous Alien Syndrome games where mankind first 
 encountered the disease itself (and the associated aliens) mankind has already expanded itself 
 exponentially throughout the galaxy (in such a quick time) . As such it comes as no surprise that 
 they would come into contact with this same disease elsewhere in the universe. You play Aileen 
 Harding.. tough as nails trooper of your design at start. Ms. Harding is just coming back to duty 
 after an "unspecified disaster" and the implied story element that her love interest has met with 
 some sort of fate causing her from being active. Her father, who just so happens to be the Captain 
 of the starship she serves on and thus her commanding officer, has decided to send her on a mission. 
 A terraforming operation has gone silent for some time and as such a ship was dispatched to investigate. 
 So when the first ship ALSO goes missing it's up to Aileen's ship to find out what's going on. 
 When the game first starts, that missing first ship is not so missing anymore. however it's also 
 now covered with a green glowing "growth". So Aileen is sent in alone to find out what's going 
 on (for some reason it makes sense to send one person in to a ship covered in space moss) . Anyways 
 she lands on the hanger bay and reports in that this bay is empty. too empty in fact. Her dad then 
 tells her to make her way to the bridge and off you go. It's all so Aliens the movie like but it 
 is what it is.
  
  ----
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  
  A lot of work went into gameplay and for the most part it was successful in making a playable dungeon 
 crawler type of gamebut in no way is it revolutionary to say a mouse. This best thing to say is 
 that it plays a lot like Diablo (the first one) but with a full range of motion mouse (the wiimote) 
 instead of a normal one. but it has some quirks to it.
  
  You move with the stick on the nunchuck and point with the wiimote in the direction you want to 
 point whatever weapon is in your hands (note that the wiimote doesn't dictate what direction you 
 move.. a la Robotron) . You shift between missile and melee weapons via the down key on the d pad 
 and there are hot keys set up for the mini map, and instant use of health packs and recharge packs 
 (think mana) on the rest of the d-pad. You can have one melee weapon and up to two missile weapons 
 equipped at one time and clickable on the fly (via down, a, and b) though you have to swap to each 
 weapon when you want itthis doesn't mean that you can only carry 3 weapons, as all of your gear 
 such as armor, weapons, and random items are based on your weight capacity (based off of skills, 
 your Strength score, and any specials on items vs. the actual individual weights of each item) . 
 Z is used to pick up items while c is typically used in mini games or as a menu option on the various 
 screens. You fire a weapon by pushing whatever button it's assigned once equipped and swapped or 
 in the case of melee weapons by either hitting B or doing more complex movements with both the 
 wiimote and nunchuck.
  
  There are a couple of problems with controlsfor starters, it can be sometimes hard to have your 
 character do the type of motion you want it to do during melee combatespecially a finisher move. 
 For some reason, I always had trouble getting it to register when I tried it. Thankfully, only 
 one class focuses on melee weapons and you can usually get away with never using one throughout 
 the entire game should you be so inclined. Another issue comes up with camera controlsthe game 
 will sometimes zoom in and out without your input (which is normally you pushing the 1 or 2 button) it's 
 seldom, but it is annoying. Also, much like in previous Action RPGs on the wii, camera controls 
 are controlled by rotating the nunchuckso if move your hand around in odd ways the camera can 
 start to spin out of control.. thankfully, it's not quite as touchy as the now infamous Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance for Wii.
  
  The 5 classes are diverse at the start, however it is possible to access any or all other classes 
 weapons thru skill assignment.. so they can be not as unique end game as you would initially think. 
 In general class skills can be broken up into 3 groups, Equipment, Boost, and Support. Equipment 
 skills dictate what gear you can use at any time (as well as sometimes providing a bonus to a group 
 of weapons) . Flame weapon is an example of a Equipment Skill that allows you to obviously use Flame 
 Weapons. Boosts basically increase a score value on something, usually a resistance but there are 
 boosts that increase melee skills. Infection Resistance is an example of a Boost skill that lowers 
 damage you take from those types of attacks. Support skills are skills that provide a benefit to 
 you in other ways or depending on the skill provides a benefit to others playing with you at the 
 time. Pack Rat is a good example of a Support skill that increases how much you can carry.
  
  In general solo play is decent (going in bits of frantic fights and just nothing to do) .. but 
 the big fun is in multiplayer. Here up to 4 players can cooperate in the slaying of various monsters 
 for fun and prices. It reminded me a lot like (of course) multiplayer Diablo or D&D Heroes which 
 is high praise indeed. It's multiplayer that really saves this game.
  
  ----
  One final point to mention that doesn't figure nicely into the 4 categories above is the price. 
 It's hard to justify this purchase at the $50 price tag (and I'm not saying this because I can't 
 afford it because that's not the issue) . This is a game that could of very easily used either a 
 bigger budget or more development time. That's sad really, because their engine is rock solid and 
 there is a lot of fun to be had.
  
  My recommendation is to at least first rent it. Dispite all the trashing of this game on the boards, 
 it is a great multiplayer game for you and your friends (solo not so much) . If you have access 
 to other players then look into trying to find this game elsewhere for less then the general commercial 
 asking price (there are places that will sell this for way less then $50 even now with it out so 
 recently outside of used bins and no that doesn't imply piracy) . However, if you're looking for 
 a single player experience or just starving for RPGs or Action RPGs this isn't a game to rush out 
 for. Hopefully, Totally Games will be able to use the engine they've created and refine it into 
 their next gaming attempt to great effect. I rounded my score up because there is potential here, 
 but it won't be until the next game that we'll truly see it I'm afraid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodozhang21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Although I still have a lot of game left to play, I can tell this diablo like shooting game is 
 a great game for my husband and I to play together with. My husband is a RPG nerd. I sometimes 
 don't care for too detailed story line. This game is perfect. You get to release your energy by 
 blasting alien looking monsters. It doesn't require too much brain power and yet there is enough 
 variety in terms of upgrades, level raising and stats raising to keep it interesting. From personal 
 experience, I advise you not to waste proficiency points on meelee stats. It's not worth it. Eventually 
 you will need to attack enemies from far away. So increase your proficiencies in various ranged 
 weapons. The flame weapon is my favorite so far.
  
  I rate this game highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveXLR
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  So here is my review of Alien Syndrome! I'm going to have different catagories and yada yada let's 
 just go.
  
  ~Story~
  Well for the story, as the name sugestests, there is an alien syndrom going around causing people 
 and machines to become aliens. now this is obviously a problem and you are here to stop it. Now 
 this game takes place 100 years in the future from the origional alien syndrome which was basicly 
 an arcade shooter where you fended off aliens. So now in the presont everyone thinks this virus 
 is gone for good... wel they were wrong!!!!!!! :o It is now back 100 years in the future! But don't 
 think that Lieutenant Aileen Harding (the main character) will give up without a fight! This game 
 does a great job of telling the story as you go through. Story gets 7.5 out of 10!
  ~Gameplay~
  When it comes to gameplay this game is a mixed type. This game has several features 
 including RPG (you can upgrade weapons and there are other classes) , shooter, and a small bit of 
 adventure. there is also several minigames where you destroy the alien virus that is causing all 
 this. Now on to the main point of the game, SHOOTING!!!!!!!! The controls are very easy to figure 
 out, you just point and shoot using the B button. There is also the option of using mele weapons 
 that are great if you like motion controls, for instance you spin the Wii mote to do a spin attack 
 or slam the mote and nunchuck down to do a strong finisher move. Now finaly on to the class system. 
 There are many options for everyone, if you like to have some mele action you can be the tank, 
 if you like to have a little bit of everything you can be a seal. There is also a multi-player 
 mode which is my favorite part because of the fact that you can have 2 to 4 different classes battling 
 aliens at once! So that's about it! Gameplay gets a 8.5 out of 10.
  
  ~Graphics~
  Now that the story and gameply is taken care of, we have the graphics. Well the graphics, as you 
 wold expect for a Wii game, are not all that great. Though it does have it's strong points like 
 in the mini-games, the graphics in the mini-games are actuly quite nicly done. Though in the actual 
 gameplay it is a different story, it looks pretty block at times but the character you play as 
 has the best graphics, but are still bad. So graphics gets a 5 out of 10.
  
  So to end this review I give Alien Syndrom a 7.0 out of 10.
  ~SteveXLR~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfoot6072001
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game is so terrible! Its one of the worst, no wait.. THE most awful game on the WII. It actually 
 made me stop playing videogames for about 2 weeks. It is the epitome of why ports are bringing 
 down gaming. The game is just an attempt to make money. It is so cheap and rushed it makes me ill.
 
  
  First of all, the graphics are uglier then a horses behind. It looks like a first gen psone game. 
 The graphics are ugly- ugly colors, ugly character models, cut scenes are laughable. Not only weak 
 from a technical stand point but even from an artistic view, it's so UGLY. 
  
  The game play is very repetitive. It is hard to mess up a dungeon crawler but Alien Syndrome manages 
 to screw up one of the simplest genres. There also is no tutorial or any explanation of how to 
 do anything, even something simple like changing your weapon. You can Progress though the levels 
 by just running though them; you don't have to kill a single enemy. The enemies never change; they 
 are exactly the same on the first level as they are on the last level. Their health doesn't increase, 
 their attacks don't change. The weapons are weak and pointless. The only positive thing is the 
 motion controls but it does'nt even begin to make up for the rest of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  While Segas 1987 shooter Alien Syndrome was never considered amongst the upper echelons of coin-op 
 classics, the games lickety-split gunplay, cooperative slaughter and relentless waves of suicidal 
 monsters made it a guilty pleasure, and popular enough to be ported to every conceivable console 
 back in the day. But despite attempting to reinvent the game for a new generation, the developers 
 have failed to evolve a formula that was already tired and dated.
  
  Despite the march of time and technology, the extraterrestrial scumbags that roam the isometric 
 corridors are as bland and unimaginative as the pulsating worms you blasted 20 years ago, and theres 
 little satisfaction in blasting the same monsters time and time again (even if they are a slightly 
 different colour) . Even worse, the aliens in this Smash TV-style shoot em up move with all the 
 grace of Vanessa Feltz wading through treacle, making it easy to run away from belligerent beasts 
 when you cant be arsed frying them with a laser. And while the aliens are wholly uninspiring, 
 the monotonous, empty environments where they roam do little to rectify the situation, leaving 
 only the nagging realisation that some game franchises would be better off left for dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majicebe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Upside: Diablo-ish. Experience, leveling, random items, proficiencies (skills) , and tons of baddies 
 to bust up. The Scarab (shopkeeper that follows you around) is an awesome companion to make the 
 journey a lot more interactive. Menu system works pretty well, with some flaws. Weight system made 
 the game better, despite it's occasional annoyance. Camera movement (left and right) is interesting 
 and not too touchy. Reminded me of a mix between Diablo and Smash TV.
  
  Downside: Insanely repetitive. Most games will use the same 30-50 models with different skins over 
 and over... this one has about 8 models and a 16 color palette. This wouldn't be so bad if they 
 didn't bunch them altogether; it wasn't until level 13 (I believe, or at least around there) where 
 I finally saw an enemy unit I hadn't already killed the cousin of at least a 1000 times already. 
 The graphics are straight out of PS2 (at best) . The menu system is pretty good, but the number 
 of items you can see on any given screen is annoyingly small.
  
  Overall: It's a dungeon crawler... in space, and it's done in a fun, old-school way. The graphics 
 are something prior to the Gamecube, but you stop noticing after a few minutes. Definitely rent-able. 
 Maybe should've been a DS title, but who can blame the company for trying to appeal to a new audience. 
 This is the first Wii game I've rented (the rest have been Gamecube due to the abysmal number of 
 Wii titles out) , and I'm glad I did. Short, sweet, and worth the time... to rent.
  
  Bottom-line: I'd buy that for a dollar!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverKeyMan
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  After 2min of playing this game, did I give it a fair rating? Probably not. But considering I gave 
 up on it before even getting to the bad guys tells you how much this game sucks. Imagine 2-player 
 mode, with the camera spinning in circles, and neither of us knowing why the hell this is happening. 
 F this game, the developers that made it, and the playtesters that earned a paycheck without actually 
 fixing the control scheme. I'm beginning to think that the Wii is only good for party games, since 
 Red Steel was hardly stellar either... Damn review requires 100 words. Did I mention how much this 
 game sucked? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dktie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  When starting this game, i had a few pre-conceived notions. having played all gauntlets... excluding 
 seven sorrows... and the original alien syndrome and tanks on Wii play, i thought i new exactly 
 what i was getting into. and for the most part i was right. im going to assume youve already read 
 an overview of what the game is like. so here is my take.
  
  - metroid prime artwork: yeah, the graphics look like some late N64 game, but you know what? when 
 your in the middle of a alien blasting firefight, graphics dont matter, especially on the Wii. 
 the sci-fi style art is really cool though... on the N64.
  
  - gauntlet multiplayer (or better) : playing through this game with 1, 2, or 3 other people if one 
 of the areas that this game excels in. i think its better than gauntlet, some people may not, but 
 this is my review. its better than gauntlet because of the freedom to play by yourself, or with 
 friends no matter which file you started on, or if you started with someone you can start your 
 own file this that character. if only it was online.
  
  - resident evil style weapon upgrades: the weapons in this game is the reason i kept playing for 
 so long. it made me feel like the first time i played resident evil 4, i played through the game 
 3 times, just to find the Chicago typewriter. i played through alien syndrome twice to get the 
 flame geyser. and to completely upgrade my character. maybe it doesn't have as much in common with 
 RE4 as i'd like it to. but i kept playing for the same reasons. trying to get more weapons is really 
 really fun.
  
  - RPG elements: everything in this game is up to you. as far as what you want your character to 
 be. the menu system is very confusing at first. but after about 3 hours of struggling, it clicks 
 and you realize its actually pretty straight forward.
  
  thats my take. there is sooo much to this game i cant type it all. but what i can say is this:
 
  anything BAD about this game is easily overlookable because of the sheer enjoyment i got out of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  When I rented this game I was ready to expect the worse, in fact the only reason I rented it in 
 the first place was because it was co-op and I had already beaten Ultimate Alliance. But Alien 
 Syndrome surprised with a difficult shooter/RPG. Its got some fun minigames and a great co-op mode. 
 And unlike made out to be, great Wii controls. When you thrust the Wii remote forward you stab, 
 if you swing it, Aileen Harding, the main character will swing her weapon in that direction. So, 
 if your looking for a co-op game and your bored of having to use Marvel characters, try Alien Syndrome. 
 It might just make a believer out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flames297
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  alien syndrome never got boring and all four of my friends would come to play.
  The only problem was we wanted more big bosses instead of the mini ones all of the time. it was 
 a little too easy. But otherwise the game wasn't quite worth buying but rent it for two weeks beat 
 it then send it back.
  the critics were really cruel to this game on their reviews but i thought it was better than that.....
 
  i really liked the way they put the menu together and the way you could save then pretty much 
 copy your character so your buds weren't always behind and die so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxmonkeygamerxX
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the worst game i have ever played Mainly because it looks like a rip-off of Metroid. 
 Anyway the game isnt all that too great the controls are okay but the camra is annoying it keeps 
 Zooming in and out when you move the camera. The grapics are the worst ive seen on the Wii there 
 all ugly and bland, the environments look the same, and i think i saw the first enemy in the game 
 in the last level WITH THE SAME HEALTH. There are no cutsceans just pictures with voiceovers. The 
 sounds okay and i get a little joy when hear an Aliens scream of pain. There isnt any replay value 
 just playing through the game on hard and expert, but why would you play through it once?
  
  Bottom line stay away from this game its that ba 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8_19_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Good: Shooting controls work well, plenty of RPG elements, long story mode and 3 difficulty levels 
 to keep you playing, tons of weapons, 4-player co-op, good voice work.
  
  Bad: Dated, PSP graphics and sound, repetitive gameplay, unresponsive melee controls, no real cutscenes.
 
  
  Graphics: You can tell right away- this is a PSP port. Ugly characters and aliens, bad lighting 
 and textures, and just an all around ugly game. 6/10
  
  Sound- The alien's screeches are mind numbing and dated, the explosions and gunshots are PSP quality, 
 and there really is no music in the game. Some pretty good voice work, though.
  6.5/10
  
  Gameplay: You go from level to level, each with objectives to complete. It will usually involve 
 going from point A to point B, but there are hoards of Aliens to conquer on your way. There are 
 four character classes, each uses a different kind of weapon. As you move on and level up, you 
 will increase your stats and skills. You will also have to upgrade your weapons and armor. Pretty 
 typical. Eventually, the game is bound to get tedious, and I'd be surprised if you had the patience 
 to beat all three difficulty levels. The 4-player co-op is the best part of the game. You can play 
 throught the game with up to four players, and work together through the whole game. It gets chaotic, 
 but it holds up. My only 2 complaints with the game itself are this: Repepitiveness. Doing virtualy 
 the same thing time after time just gets old. and second, the Melee controls. This isnt a huge 
 issue, but the controls are rather unresponsive, making melee weapons hard to use. Alien Syndrome 
 is and all around good game. Nothing great, nothing terrible, just good. Its long, controls well, 
 and is a good multiplayer experience.
  
  Reccomend: Rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rttlr316
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Talk about a sleeper, after reading the reviews for this game I was skeptical about renting this 
 game. After playing it though, I don't regret it at all.
  
  I must admit, if you're looking for eye-popping graphics and incredible ambiance and sound then 
 this more than likely not your game. But, if you looking for a fast paced shoot-em up with incredible 
 multi-player and re-playability than this is the game for you and some friends.
  
  The character customization is some-what basic but it really allows for a lot of possibilities 
 to customize your character to your play-style.
  
  The music is eerie, and the sounds are decent, the levels look fairly unique and there are billions 
 of baddies to kill every map. The game doesn't make your eyes feel like they want to explode after 
 playing the game for 10 minutes. (Ultimate Alliance)
  
  Where the game is lacking in graphics, it makes up for in raw gameplay, and tilt. There are a few 
 mini-games scattered throughout the game such as unlocking chests, and restoring artifacts to make 
 them more powerful. These mini-games are a nice touch and can be fairly difficult if you're not 
 sure what to do off the bat.
  
  
  There are a few problems with the game, there are some menu bugs, such as when leveling you may 
 accidentally distribute points where you do not want them causing you to re-load, but since you 
 can re-load at the checkpoints the flaw can be over-looked. So far in my opinion this is the best 
 Action-RPG out for the Wii, over Ultimate Alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-wii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  this is a kick ass game its one of the better games released for the wii
  
  This game is sort of like Gauntlet but with a single female character with a lot of guns and such
 
  
  i can't believe how much the game has involved but in the same way its has not changed at all i 
 remember playing the first one on the Nintendo and thanking this game is great and now here i am 
 4 generations, of consoles later playing the same game and absolutely love it
  
  if you like games like Gauntlet then I highly suggest you play this game if nothing else at least 
 rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunner602
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  I went out and bought the game a few hours after it came out. I love multiplayer games and I had 
 high hopes for this one, since the last Alien Syndromes were pretty decent.
  
  First thing I noticed was the awful graphics. They look about on par with PS1. There were game 
 cube games with better graphics. There are a number of X-Box Live Arcade games out there with far 
 superior graphics. Not that graphics are everything, but they help make the game a bit more exciting 
 and enjoyable to play.
  
  Second, the sound is very poor. The music skipped right off the bat, which left just the extremely 
 annoying foot steps noise. Weapon sounds are pretty good, and the alien noises aren't bad.
  
  Cutscenes are completely static. They're essentially matte paintings with voice overs. Not 
 that the art is bad or anything, but they could have put a bit more time into it.
  
  When I first skimmed through the instruction manual, it appeared to me that you could choose between 
 four different characters, since it's a four player game. Unfortunately, every player is forced 
 to play Aileen, a rather unexciting-looking woman.
  
  While you do get to choose a class for your character, the classes are pretty unbalanced. Some 
 classes start with amazingly powerful weapons, while others start with weak ones. The more powerful 
 your weapon, the more points you earn, which lets you create items and upgrade your character faster.
 
  
  Level design is pretty boring. You kind of just wander around killing stuff and opening doors.
 
  
  The Wii controls can be pretty frustrating. Things aren't intuitive at all. It's hard to remember 
 what buttons do what. I constantly had to sit back and think about what button I needed to push 
 to get into, and then out of the character menu. Aiming with the Wimote isn't too bad, as long 
 as you have a good angle with receiver. Sometimes the crosshair will suddenly jump off the screen, 
 but that doesn't happen very often.
  
  Overall, the game feels like a mediocre title for Playstation 1. Don't get me wrong, I love the 
 Wii and I hate Microsoft, but this game belongs on X-Box Live Arcade for about $12. The fact that 
 they're charging $50 for this is insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedlith
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Do not waste your time. This game is terrible. Graphics are poor. Too much going on at times. Kind 
 of seen this scheme before in other games.
  
  If I had to pick a good point about the game, Id have to say its fun when you have 4 people playing. 
 The controls are not bad, but they could of been better. The whole balanced thing of how much gear 
 you can carry sucks. Its takes away from running and gunning. I hate games where you have to recharge 
 your gun. There were times when there were so many aliens on the screen that I would run out of 
 bullets/power and I would have to use my javelen sword/thingy to defend myself. It didn't work 
 out so well when I had to do that.
  
  Again, stay away from this game. It is like Marvel Ultmate Alliance and I thought that sucked too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Despite all the negative context relating to this game, it is all I would say very wrong. It offers 
 hours of fun and intresting gameplay. Wether it be the upgrades or just the sheer joy of shooting 
 so many friggin aliens. The co-op is superb. I played this game with 4 people for what seems an 
 entire night and I still wanted to play at the end of it. This game obviouslyt wasn't created to 
 be a graphic power house so to say it fails in that catergory is to plead ignorance. The makers 
 obviously wanted a long, in-depth RPG style shooter that offers not just one person but many people 
 long hours of fun. I do believe they've done so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCB19
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from Movie Gallery, and after 45 minutes of forcing myself to play this game, 
 I wanted to shoot myself. The game throws enemy after enemy at you, and in the 3 levels I played 
 I only saw 2 enemy types (excluding bosses) . While the shooting controls do work fairly well, you'll 
 sometimes lose sight of your cursor in the alien packed screen. The motion sensitive Wii controls 
 work terrible. They require you to quickly shove the remote about a foot forward towards the TV 
 to do a simple melee attack, and I could not get this to work consistently. The game also forces 
 you to do stupid minigames that have one set of instructions right before it, and they expect you 
 to sit there and memorize a completely new button set. The game is also amazingly repetitive. It's 
 gameplay consists of the game engine throwing wave after wave of generic enemies at you, and you 
 shoot them until you get to the end of the level. The other thing about this game that is increasingly 
 irritating, are the graphics. I have seen better graphics on the on the Nintendo DS. I know most 
 people who have Wii's don't really care about the graphics, but it looks like the developers just 
 took a game engine that they found on the internet for free and spiced it up a little. Seriously. 
 I have seen better graphics on games made with Microsoft's free XNA software that were made by 
 16 year olds in a week. The only good thing I can say about this game is that with the terrible 
 graphics engine it doesn't lag up. Yay Alien Syndrome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbeacom
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This games goes back to the good ol' days of Run -N- Gun. It's very much like Champions of Norrath 
 but with a grenade launcher vs. aliens instead of orcs.
  The controls are great. They work perfect. It takes some getting used to the nunchuck, as you can 
 tilt it left or right to rotate the camera as you run, but once you get used to it, it works well. 
 Aiming is a cinch and comes naturally. The mini games to upgrade your DNA with alien nanites is 
 pretty fun too, much like Trauma Center. Weapons are fun, and upgrades and leveling up is as you 
 would expect it. People **** about the graphics, but I don't see the big problem. Your character 
 and the environment look good, just the monsters are a bit low poly. The colors are good and the 
 framerate is steady. Its fun alone but much better with a buddy, much like Xmen Legends with up 
 to 4 players. Give this game a rent or pick it up when it hits 29.99. If you like xmen legends, 
 and champions of norrath, or Baldurs gate Dark alliance, I think you'll enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  oh gosh i was hoping for a great game. you know the game dont have to be perfect , and the graphics 
 dont have to be perfect as well, its wii fun dont go by the graphics RIGHT. this is going to have 
 to stop we are going back to the ps1 days, i dont mind ps2 fine are even a little worse. but this 
 is just crap. if the wii was my system i would feel awful to let somthing like this on it, also 
 i like to say when you frist start off the game why does that one guy look like Adolf he does. 
 and this postcard pics of the people in the game and then they talk but there mouth dont move is 
 awful this is like ps1 days. bad job sega bad job nintendo for letting this dog pile on the wii 
 and the public, somtimes i wonder if the wii is a gamecube inside, we paid 249 bucks for a new 
 fancy controller, tell me someone tell me this is not the best the wii can do. dont buy the game 
 dont waste your time. awful game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl777
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  The Bottom Line is I would take Chicken Shoot over this piece of scam artistry. I have never seen 
 a game so celebrated and hyped up to turn out to be a piece of geniune crap, that when you compare 
 games such as the recent online free MMO Dungeon Runners, Alien Syndrome Fails vastly which is 
 terrible as dungeon runners is free and already sucks. I cant believe I spent $60 + tax on this 
 should have been free java game on a website such as shockwave games. I finished the game in under 
 2 hours to my surpise being the shortest game I have ever played. This game isnt a game that you 
 finish between meals it's a game that you finish when you get up in the morning and spend 5 mins 
 playing before you go to school or work. Content is seriously lacking (for already obvious reasons) . 
 I had this game preordered for nearly a year now and I waited for an ugly PSP port to wii. No use 
 of the wii's capabilities. This game uses the worst possible camera angels as well, should have 
 been a GBA game. FInally I must say I feel utterly scammed and disapointed and this is fanboyisnm 
 at it's finest if anyone gives it a high rating, there barely any RPG elements attached to this 
 game, very slow very easy, very disapointing and will leave you throwing the game out the window 
 for the cows. NEVER SHOULD HAVE BEEN MADE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmario78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, I rented this game today, and despite the bad reviews, the this actually an amazing game!
 
  The gameplay is similar to Diablo, literally. Using the nunchuck:
  You move with the control stick, shield with the Z button and I forget what c does... (I think iy 
 picks up items)
  Wiimote: You use the arrow keys to do various things like heal and **** but the way you control 
 is like an action rpg on the pc.
  You look with moving the wiimote.. and you shoot with B and do something with A ?
  Zoom and and 
 out with 1 &amp; 2, (why not + &amp; -?) and + opens the menu (save, load, quit, etc...) and - 
 opens your inventory. So, it's an action rpg.
  How? Easy, think Scurge: Hive, that underrated game for the GBA.
  There are a few classes, flame 
 thrower is one, seal, sharp shooter, bomb expert, some melee class, and... maybe two more.
  The monsters come fast, and don't stop coming.
  Value: Worth it, it'll keep you goin' till Metroid 
 Prime 3 comes out.
  I truly think this game is legendary. Get it, it's really worth your time.
  All and all, it does 
 what it's supposed to do, it delivers what the genre promised, and it does it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiejmonster
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is very easy to pick up and start playing. There are several subtle nuances that are 
 much appreciated in advancing the ease and enjoyment of the game. It is fun playing alone or with 
 other people and playing is very satisfying. However, I couldnt help but think that the game could 
 have benefited from consumer testing before being launched. The inventory access really slows the 
 game down and could have been modified so that all players can access theirs at the same time. 
 Overall gameplay is solid but not spectacular.
  
  Graphics: Game looks like it belongs on an early gamecube game. The wii graphics are supposed to 
 be a step up from gamecube but its hard to tell. While graphics arent everything it would have 
 added to the experience to make everything a bit more crisp and brighter.
  
  Sound: The sound of gunfire and monsters dying work for the game and add to the experience. Its 
 not bad but there is definitely room for improvement.
  
  Value: The character classes do add to the value of the game, but it is a bit repetitive. Playing 
 alone is much different than playing multiplayer and both experiences are fresh.
  
  Tilt: Overall it was fun to play and the storyline could be skipped. While there are some things 
 that could be improved there are also alot of little things that were done correctly that save 
 this game from being broken. It made good use of wii controls and the game was not frustrating, 
 which is always a plus when using the wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aransom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to say much about how this game looks. It doesn't look that great. What do you expect 
 from a game that started out as a PSP game? Low polygon count, the textures aren't that detailed, 
 no special lighting effects ... If the purpose of this game was to show off what the Wii is capable 
 of, graphics wise, it would be an abysmal failure.
  
  If you can get past the crummy looks, this game is really fun. You control a futuristic female 
 warrior. She goes around exterminating alien creatures with an assortment of space-age weapons. 
 This game has RPG elements, you gain levels, and can upgrade your character's basic characteristics, 
 strength, speed, ect. Also, you upgrade many special skills. For example you can increase your 
 resistance to poison, or you can increase the maximum level of your armor. There's too many of 
 these special skills to mention them all here. Enemies drop the stereotypical health, ammo, energy, 
 when you off them. (I once had a roommate who didn't play videogames, and he couldn't understand 
 why when Link killed a bat it left behind a heart. It didn't make any sense to him. I guess he 
 had a slight point, why would a slug-like alien creature leave behind a first aid kit, or a pile 
 of ready-to-use bullets when you kill it?) Anyway, there's no departure here from the time tested 
 formula of killing things and picking up useful stuff they leave behind. One thing that doesn't 
 show up in many RPGs is included, you have a limit to how much stuff you can carry. You can increase 
 this, but instead of throwing away the junk you can't carry you can give it to SCARAB, your trusty 
 robot sidekick, and he'll turn it into 'money' that you can use to 'buy' all sorts of items. In 
 addition to selling you stuff, SCARAB also shoots at enemies, and you can make him tougher with 
 certain power-ups. Apparently, the aliens aren't smart enough to figure out that if they destroy 
 SCARAB you'll be a lot easier to kill. Maybe SCARAB is built out of some indestructible material, 
 that unfortunately can't be used to make you an indestructible suit.
  
  As far as the Wii controls go, they work well. You move with the analog stick, and you use the 
 Wii controller's pointing abiltiy to aim your weapons. You have a little crosshair that you can 
 put anywhere on the screen. The ability to run in one direction, and shoot in the opposite direction 
 comes in handy. Enemies spawn here and there, and you'll fall into this pattern: move forward, 
 wake up enemies, back up while shooting them, go forward again.
  
  The main reason I got this game was for the mulitplayer mode. Think of this game as Gauntlet with 
 lasers (luckily shots do not hurt other players in Alien Syndrome, but it would be nice if a voice 
 told you 'you are about to die') . Up to four can play in cooperative mode. No online multiplayer, 
 so you'll have to make some friends, or stop I. M.-ing and 'gasp' go to your friend's house.
  
  Anyway, I recommend giving this game a try. If you only care about the single player game, 
 maybe you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkraven42
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, I'll blanket this by saying that this game is certainly not for everyone. Some love it, 
 some loathe it. Simple as that. If your a fan of top-down shooters for the PC (Alien Swarm, Shadowgrounds... 
 etc) you'll probably fall in love with this game, and the multiplayer will be the icing on the 
 cake. For RPG fans, there's definitely an offering here. Very diablo-esque, there are a number 
 of weapons to choose from, and rare items pop up from time to time with special stats (sometimes 
 good, sometimes... not so much) . It's not too hard to get a decently powerful character in this 
 game, which I like. Multiplayer is definitely a blast. Its simple, which some will consider a downfall, 
 but I consider it a blessing... Multiplayer games for the wii have a tendency to be a little esoteric 
 (I'm thinking DBZ here...) I needed a game that my friends can just pick up and play, and yet still 
 has some level of complexity to keep it enjoyable. For me, Alien Syndrome fits this bill perfectly.
 
  
  As for my gripes: The graphics, in short, blow. Hard. This is by far the worst looking Wii title 
 that I own... On the other hand, there are no real graphical glitches per se (that I've noticed) 
 Its not a gorgeous presentation, but everything is solid. For me, the graphics are the least of 
 the issues.
  
  The camera controls are really quite annoying. You have to turn the Nunchuck in order to rotate 
 the camera, and this is never turned off. Fortunately, you have to turn the thing a good 90* before 
 it'll register. Unfortunately, sometimes it doesn't register at all, inexplicably (I don't know 
 if its my Wii or what...)
  
  Other than that the controls are quite intuitive and fun. Aiming is a breeze, and melee attacks 
 provide some nice variety. I happen to quite like the control scheme.
  
  Overall, I suggest you rent before you buy, some people simply have not liked this game at all, 
 while others absolutely adore it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Read the review deck, that is the most accurate 2 sentence description I can make do define this 
 game. If you've played any or all of those, you will know what to expect. If not, please read on. 
 For the breakdown of each of the 5 categories in the score.
  
  Gameplay : This is probably the most important part and saving grace of this game. Like I said, 
 if you don't know what the heck the three games I talked about are, here is your chance to find 
 out.
  
  The game uses both the Wiimote and Chuk. The chuk controls your movement with the joystick. The 
 Z button picks things up and interacts with the environment. C button activates your shield (sorta 
 like in Halo, but you control it) . Th shield will recharge over time, but can recharge faster using 
 recharge packs. A and B are used to shoot and attack with your ranged weapon or melee weapon. Swinging 
 the Wiimote does heavy melee attacks, or with a combination of the A button plus a fancy circle 
 or other attack you do a spinning stun attack or a devastating finisher (which for some reason 
 rarely works for me) . 1 and 2 zoom the camera angle and + and - activate your menu screen.
  
  So that's the layout of the buttons, but you might ask, how does one get the Hunter the Reckoning 
 style play, and by that I mean running in one direction and shooting in the complete opposite (another 
 example is Smash TV for your old school gamers) . Simple, the Wiimote is your pointer which you 
 can aim anywhere and your character (Lieutenant Aileen Harding) will shoot there. For once a good 
 use of the Wii's controller (although any dual analog stick can do this...) . This is handy though 
 as sometimes there are intense firefights against bosses which other enemies swarm you. Other gameplay 
 things to know about... Let's see.
  
  You start off choosing your class which determines which weapons you are proficient with, your 
 health, your accuracy, your melee damage, and other abilities, much like an RPG such as Diablo 
 2, Neverwinter Nights, Marvel Ultimate Alliance, etc. I haven't figured out which is best yet, 
 but I personally liked the Sharpshooter as ranged weapons are more fun in this game thus far in 
 my opinion, although there are a decent number of weapons (100 or so) to get and use.
  
  You don't go to shops as is traditional, but your handy little robotic buddy, called a SCARAB (I 
 forget the acronym) carries your stuff and can break down old gear for more resource points. Resource 
 points = gold/money/credits. You buy stuff from your SCARAB with these, including new weapons, 
 armor, health etc, almost anything. These can be simple armors ranging from Mk 1 to Mk whatever 
 (Mk = level of quality) . Additionally extra qualities like resist infection or reflect damage or 
 regenerate are imbued into items, just like in Diablo 2 for instance. So it makes you self reliant 
 and you can replenish goods in the middle of battle supposing you need them.
  
  By the way, your little SCARAB has a gun and he does help you out often.
  
  Two other things 
 need to be addressed. Well they are of the same issue.
  
  As far as I have played, the game has two minigames. Both are important as they lead to great treasure 
 and upgrading your characters stats. The problem is the games, although completely described in 
 what to do, are nigh impossible to accomplish either due to the crappiness of them or just flawed 
 controls. For instance, to upgrade your stats you have to modify your DNA with By swatting away 
 evil Nanites with your plasma beam . Two things are wrong here. Try as I might to follow directions, 
 there is no swatting whatsoever. Second, my Professor would be turning over in his grave at the 
 scientific inaccuracies of that statement... assuming he was actually dead in the first place. 
 This is the most unforgivable offense to this game, where two things are important as that to be 
 placed in a minigame that is seemingly impossible due to crummy controls and the fact they were 
 just added in because Minigames are cool right? . Yes indeed... if they don't suck. Graphics : 
 Hooooooo boyyyyy.... Where to start here.... These graphics would be good for the N64, Stellar 
 for the PS1, and sub par for release era PS2. The textures are horrendous... in fact I dont think 
 there are any. The models are atrocious. Think Neverwinter Nights without a patch or mod... Lots 
 of angular juts, highly polygonal feet and such. The particles and explosions are just terrible, 
 THOSE are on par with the PS1 no doubt. Seriously, everything is a droll repetitious starship type 
 maze of corridors and such. Very dark and dirty. The enemy models look like giant bugs or slimy 
 worm things and their models are no better.
  
  The animation is last or, prior to last generation. I mean everything about it is baaaadddddd....
 
  
  Which is funny, as the cutscenes are very stylized and actually good comic book style panels, which 
 I though were going to be an indication of the level of graphics... I was wrong. Now granted, like 
 in my Twilight Princess review, I may have to take into account I am playing on a 1080p TV, but 
 this game just looks baaaaddd.... (sorry for the long consonants) . Sound : In stark contrast to 
 the graphics, the sound is actually very good, in fact great. The music is a haunting space melody 
 that is appropriate to a game called Alien Syndrome I believe. The voice acting (what ever there 
 is of it so far) , is actually halfway decent, and I hope to hear more of it during the excellent 
 cutscenes.
  
  The enemies snarl and rip and spit acid. Boxes explode, cranes hum away in the corner stacking 
 boxes in a hangar bay, but my most favorite sound effect of all is the sound of the Gauss Rifle 
 weapon. It sound EXACTLY like a SciFi weapon should. I can't describe it any more than that, but 
 that it sounds exactly right. I was giddy with delight over that. I can't wait to hear more laser 
 weapons later on in the game.
  
  Value : Well for 50$ it is cheaper than a PS3 or 360 game, but the graphics said to me this game 
 should have been released on the PS2 at the very least. Anyways, I don't know how long the game 
 will last, but there is up to 4 player cooperative mode, so providing you can stomach the graphics, 
 it should be fun to play with another person at least twice through.
  
  Tilt : Man... the graphics really are horrible. I mean realllllllyyyy horrible, but the core gameplay 
 is the old school style I want to see come back, especially with the cooperative play. To be honest 
 the game is halfway decent, if hampered by horrible graphics and some poorly implemented mini games 
 though.
  
  Again, the biggest turn off is the graphics, so if anyone can stand last or prior to last gen graphics 
 on a supposed current gen system, then I say give it a rental at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  I went out and bought the game a few hours after it came out. I love multiplayer games and I had 
 high hopes for this one, since the last Alien Syndromes were pretty decent.
  
  First thing I noticed was the awful graphics. They look about on par with PS1. There were game 
 cube games with better graphics. There are a number of X-Box Live Arcade games out there with far 
 superior graphics. Not that graphics are everything, but they help make the game a bit more exciting 
 and enjoyable to play.
  
  Second, the sound is very poor. The music skipped right off the bat, which left just the extremely 
 annoying foot steps noise. Weapon sounds are pretty good, and the alien noises aren't bad.
  
  Cutscenes are completely static. They're essentially matte paintings with voice overs. Not 
 that the art is bad or anything, but they could have put a bit more time into it.
  
  When I first skimmed through the instruction manual, it appeared to me that you could choose between 
 four different characters, since it's a four player game. Unfortunately, every player is forced 
 to play Aileen, a rather unexciting-looking woman.
  
  While you do get to choose a class for your character, the classes are pretty unbalanced. Some 
 classes start with amazingly powerful weapons, while others start with weak ones. The more powerful 
 your weapon, the more points you earn, which lets you create items and upgrade your character faster.
 
  
  Level design is pretty boring. You kind of just wander around killing stuff and opening doors.
 
  
  The Wii controls can be pretty frustrating. Things aren't intuitive at all. It's hard to remember 
 what buttons do what. I constantly had to sit back and think about what button I needed to push 
 to get into, and then out of the character menu. Aiming with the Wimote isn't too bad, as long 
 as you have a good angle with receiver. Sometimes the crosshair will suddenly jump off the screen, 
 but that doesn't happen very often.
  
  Overall, the game feels like a mediocre title for Playstation 1. Don't get me wrong, I love the 
 Wii and I hate Microsoft, but this game belongs on X-Box Live Arcade for about $12. The fact that 
 they're charging $50 for this is insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heir_of_Isildur
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  I went to hang out at my friends house and he said he had bought a new game. It was this Alien 
 Syndrome . I had never heard of it, and to be honest thought it looked stupid. First impressions.... we 
 didn't know what the crap we were doing... all we knew was that I was a guy with a repeating light 
 blaster and he had a flamethrower and some wierd sword thing... and we had to kill slug like creatures.. bleh, 
 at first.
  
  And then... we got our first upgrades, found our sense of direction, and pretty much played 6 hours 
 straight. This game is an amazing find and is perfect for multiplayer because you can play up to 
 four people at a time!!
  
  Alien Syndrome=Contra + Metroid Prime
  
  Awesome. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
