-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Animal Crossing: City Folk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/animalcrossing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some genuinely amusing dialog and characters.
 Stocking the town museum is satisfying.
 Great fun to play in short bursts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few characters repeat the same dialog ad infinitum.
 Dearth of new content.
 Date and time dictate your progression.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,804 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
City Folk offers more of the same Animal Crossing gameplay that you know and love, with the emphasis 
 on "same." 

  Depending on where you live, Animal Crossing for the GameCube first made paying off mortgages fun 
 sometime between December 2001 and September 2004. Actually, it was the fishing, the fruit picking, 
 the shopping, the customization, the item collection, and the socializing that was fun, but paying 
 off the local money lender in order to upgrade your home was one of very few clearly defined goals 
 in the game. Later, Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS added a number of new features 
 to its predecessor's winning formula, and the handheld proved to be a great platform for the game, 
 given that it's best played for only an hour or so each day. In City Folk for the Wii, you have 
 an opportunity to start a new life in Animal Crossing all over again, but the new features on offer 
 aren't significant or exciting enough that you should head back down to the bottom of the property 
 ladder if you've already climbed it.  

           The Mii makeover is a nice touch, but it prevents you from wearing accessories.      

 
  Before getting on the bus to Animal Crossing, you have the option to import save data from Wild 
 World, though it's only your character's appearance and the contents of the local store's catalog 
 that get to make the road trip with you. This makes sense, given that importing a completed museum 
 collection or a large house full of tastefully coordinated furniture would leave you with little 
 to do in your new town. Nevertheless, there's no escaping the fact that achieving these goals a 
 second (or even a third) time on the Wii really doesn't feel any different than it did on the GameCube 
 or the DS. So, regardless of whether or not you're a Wild World veteran, you'll be starting out 
 with a tiny home and owing money to Tom Nook, who, every time you pay him off, insists on remodeling 
 your house to make it bigger and to keep you in his debt.  

  Fortunately, Nook is also the owner of the local store, and he'll buy anything that you wander 
 in there with for a decent sum. Without first needing to purchase any equipment, you can gather 
 fruit, seashells, and one of City Folk's new features: mushrooms. You'll have to make frequent 
 trips back to the store because, as in previous games, your pockets can hold only 15 items. That's 
 a pathetically small number considering that you spend the majority of your time picking things 
 up, and it gets only worse as you purchase a fishing rod, a shovel, a butterfly net, and other 
 pieces of equipment that take up valuable space. Of course, you don't  have  to carry all of these 
 around with you, but there's nothing worse than seeing a rare insect that you need for one of your 
 museum's exhibits and then realizing that you left your net at home.  

  When you're not busy accumulating money to pay off and purchase furniture for your home, one of 
 the more satisfying activities that you can engage in is finding items for the town museum's insect, 
 fish, fossil, and art exhibits. It's also one that, unless you cheat by messing with your console's 
 internal calendar, is likely to take you the best part of a year to complete. That's because many 
 of the insects and fish are seasonal creatures that will show up only when the weather and the 
 time of day suits them. To catch them, you equip the net or the rod and then use the A button to 
 swing or to cast and reel in, respectively. Insects will try to escape if they spot you, and fish 
 will often play with your bait a few times before actually taking it, but the challenge generally 
 comes from finding them rather than from catching them. Predictably, there's an option to move 
 the Wii Remote in a way that imitates the use of a net or fishing rod if you prefer that to using 
 the A button, but the latter is far more reliable. Similarly, it's possible to play the game using 
 only the Wii Remote, but movement is a lot easier with the Nunchuk's analog stick than it is when 
 using the remote as a pointer.  

           Nook could make a fortune if he stocked pants with bigger pockets.      

  As you walk 
 around Animal Crossing, you'll inevitably encounter some of your anthropomorphic neighbors. In 
 keeping with the randomized layout of your town, these furry folk are randomly selected from a 
 large pool of animal characters so as to ensure that no two players' experiences are the same. 
 Your interactions with them typically take the form of humorous conversations that, on occasion, 
 will culminate with you being asked to run an errand for them in exchange for a piece of furniture. 
 Many of these errands are simple delivery jobs that can be completed quickly, whereas others seem 
 designed specifically to keep you coming back to the game every day. For example, you might be 
 asked to purchase a specific item that, because the stores' stocks change daily, might not be available 
 for weeks or even months. The townsfolk are a friendly bunch for the most part, and you're encouraged 
 to write them letters and send them gifts in the hope that they'll respond in kind. Clearly they 
 have no idea what the contents of your letters are, but they're prone to gossiping when other players 
 visit your town or when they move away, so you definitely shouldn't think of them as characters 
 to confide in or share secrets with.  

  Taking Animal Crossing: City Folk online so that you and your friends can visit each other's towns 
 is fun for a while; you'll find fruits that don't grow in your town that can be planted upon your 
 return, you'll find different items for sale in the stores, you'll almost certainly get to meet 
 a very different cast of characters, and you can chat with your friend using the optional Wii Speak 
 microphone the whole time. Furthermore, the cross-pollination that occurs as a result lasts a lot 
 longer than the duration of your visit, so don't be surprised if, days later, one of your neighbors 
 strikes up a conversation about your now-mutual friend. Details like this rarely fail to raise 
 a smile, though it might turn to a frown if said neighbor likes that friend so much that it decides 
 to leave your town for theirs. You won't always get advance notice that someone is planning to 
 leave, either, and it's hard not to feel some disappointment when you pop into residents' houses 
 to pay them a visit and see that all of their belongings are packed into boxes.  

  Retail therapy can work wonders when you're feeling down, and though Tom Nook's store is certainly 
 worth visiting every day to check out his new stock, the city introduced in City Folk is where 
 you really want to be when you're in a spending mood. Just a short bus ride from your town, the 
 city feels quite different, not only because there aren't any fruit trees or rivers in sight, but 
 also because it's hard to walk for more than a few paces without bumping into a new character. 
 Unfortunately, this is as much a result of the city's diminutive size as it is of the constantly 
 changing cast of animals going about their business. On any given day, you can exhaust all of the 
 options available to you in the city in significantly less than an hour, and that includes the 
 time it takes to get a shoeshine and a new haircut or a Mii makeover. In addition to a couple of 
 stores offering items quite different than anything that Nook ever gets in, the city boasts a theater 
 in which you can learn emotes for use in conversations by watching short performances, and an online 
 auction house in which you can buy and sell items. On paper, the auction house is one of the more 
 exciting new features, but in practice its functionality is extremely limited; only players on 
 your friends list can buy from or sell to you, you can bid on only one item at a time, and like 
 so many of the points of interest in the game, it's available only at certain times.  

           Many characters will only pass through your town on certain days.      

  The fact 
 that the Animal Crossing games use the real date and time to determine what's going on in the game 
 is undoubtedly one of the series' most interesting features. After all, there aren't many games 
 in which time passes even when you're not playing. Unfortunately, this feature can also cause frustration; 
 when the stores close, you can't sell anything and so your progress comes to a grinding halt. Fishing 
 tournaments are held only on Saturdays, you can only buy turnips with which to dabble on the stock 
 exchange on Sundays, and you could conceivably go an entire year without meeting some of the more 
 interesting traders and performers who pass through your town if you don't happen to be playing 
 when they visit. You can celebrate holidays in City Folk if you're playing at the right time, but 
 these are known by generic names and don't always run for the entire day. For example, Thanksgiving 
 is referred to as Harvest Festival and is celebrated with a party at the town square at 3pm, and 
 there's no mention of Christmas even though there's a character who gives out presents on December 
 24.  

  Animal Crossing: City Folk looks, sounds, and plays a little too much like its predecessor on the 
 DS to be worthwhile if you already own that game. The visuals are cute and colorful, but dated. 
 The cheery audio isn't as impressive on the Wii in 2008 as it was on the DS in 2005. Furthermore, 
 the gameplay is largely unchanged and, unless you're at home with your Wii at all times of the 
 day, it's better suited to the DS. With all of that said, City Folk is every bit as engaging and 
 entertaining as its predecessors and so, if you managed to miss out on those and have an hour or 
 so to spare every day for the next year, you'd do well to move in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (98 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dragonpie9
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  if you've ever played animal crossing you'll know what i'm saying when i say whats the big difference 
 its pretty much the same game with a few new features and items all they did was spit shine the 
 game and add a big city trying to make you buy it i mean sure you'll spend time on the game paying 
 off the loan again and again but once you pay it all off you can't do much after that you'll sit 
 there going what to do now mabey i'll bother bob again but no they are usually impossible to find 
 and you will spend what 2 minutes trying to find them before you just turn off the game then get 
 yelled at by resseti when you start the game again and he won't go without a long hard yelling 
 and then insault your breath or BO. on the plus side you can go online with your friends and talk 
 to them with wii speak or get your hair done with pink mohawk or white volcano hair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameblues
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  Welcome all to yet another very special review. Today I will be reviewing Animal Crossing: City 
 Folk for the Wii. This game is the fourth installment of the series which includes Animal Crossing (N64, 
 only in Japan) , Animal Crossing (Game Cube) and Animal Crossing: Wild World (Nintendo DS) . The game 
 is much like its successors, but with a couple differences.
  
  CHARACTERS: Not only do you have your own character that you create at the beginning of the game (or 
 import from Wild World) , but you also have your neighbors and town/city regulars. The neighbors 
 from what I have seen have very different styles, but can share the same personality or animal 
 type with another neighbor. A few were added into this game, and all the old ones are back for 
 more. Now there are animals like Pelly, Tom Nook, K. K., Tortimer, Gulliver, Mabel, Sable, Redd, 
 Dr. Shrunk and more. You can find Pelly, Phyllis, Tom Nook, Booker and Copper, Blathers, Celeste, 
 Brewster, Mabel and Sable and Tortimer all at their regular spots from previous game. However, 
 many have moved into the city. Lyle now works for Happy Room Academy, and is not selling insurance. 
 Redd moved from coming to your town in a tent to the far left of the city. Dr. Shrunk now has his 
 own comedy show and Katrina, Harriet, Lloid and Gracie all have their own parts of the city also. 
 Overall there were a few nice chances and they were easy to adapt to. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay has not changed as much from what I have seen, except for the Wii motions. 
 These Wii motions include throwing your fishing rod like an actual one into a river, ocean or pond 
 and pulling out of the water, and with your net you swing your remote down to catch a bug. These 
 controls seem pretty good for the most part, but there were a few problems for me. For example, 
 whenever you used the pointer to run or walk the menu would pop up, making this very irritating. 
 This game sticks to the basics of the other games, making this a very easy game to adapt to for 
 new gamers and old ones alike. Gathering bells to pay off your house and other stuff is a little 
 harder than in Wild World, due to its non-portability, but is very awarding after you do so. With 
 only very few problems and the stick-to-basics routine, the game play gets an 'OK' score. 
  
  STORYLINE: Let's just make this short and simple. You are new to a town and travel to the city 
 to have fun and your only goal is to collect every item possible and pay of your house. There's 
 nothing more and nothing less. For this simple storyline, I have to give this section a good score, 
 because they actually let you pick your own storyline.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: This is the problem that everyone seems to have for some reason. The game urges you 
 to play the game at least for a couple minutes a day, but is it really worth it? I don't know about 
 anyone else, but I certainly think its worth it. This game can be very easy if you just work towards 
 one simple goal: upgrade your house. Very simple. After that, the replay value seems to dwindle 
 down. I can't really tell you to play it again, because it is your opinion, but based on other 
 peoples' opinions and my own opinion, the replay value is pretty good.
  
  
  Overall thoughts: If you don't have a lot of time and want something exciting, I wouldn't get this 
 game. If you are more of a casual gamer and are fascinated with calm games, this is probably a 
 good game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo3rules
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:20 am PT
Review:  This game starts off like all the others your a boy\girl who just moved into a town to start his\her 
 new life. You start off with a crappy house where you have to pay off your mortgage to get a bigger 
 house. Its fun to do but it does get a little repetitive if you've played the others in the series 
 but if your a newcomer to the series you wont find this a problem. The game has also added a cheesy 
 city for you to walk around in. And ,well ya that's it. I found the city too be more of a waste 
 of time than a new addition. The game is still great because it's as addicting as ever. If you're 
 a newcomer to the animal crossing franchise you will adore this game, if you're a ac fanatic you'll 
 find it the same old animal crossing game. So if you're fishing, catching bugs or simply having 
 fun with friends online its a awesome experience. I gave this game a solid 8\10. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwarfrogue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the bad. The game is the easiest game i have ever played. I wish that putting furniture 
 in your house had at least some effect on your life like if you had an energy meter and buying 
 a punching bag and putting it in your home and using it would increase the capacity of the meter 
 or watching the tv would inform you of stuff that is happening in your town. Also the game is exactly 
 the same as the other games so you might find it boring if you've played the other games. That's 
 pretty much all the bad stuff other then the fact that the characters voices can be a bit annoying. 
 If you have never played any animal crossing games before then this is a great game, the graphics 
 are good and there are thousands of items in the game. it almost never gets boring because it changes 
 every day and people are always moving in and out of your town, there are new bug and fish to catch 
 and fossils to find which you can sell or donate to the museum. you can also go to other peoples 
 towns and chat with them on the wii speak with WI-FI which works well and almost never lags. there 
 is also a city to go to which features new shops and opens up the game much more. So if you have 
 never played an animal crossing game before this is great but if you have then you should wait 
 until nintendo changes the game a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokip
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Animal City Folk is almost a complete remake of the first.
  
  The storyline is almost exactly the same as the first. You move away and start from scratch in 
 a town. Since you don't have a house a friendly raccoon named Tom Nook sells you a house. There's 
 also the part of you having no money to pay off the house to pay the mortgage so he hires you part 
 time at his store. It's not a bad thing, since once you finish the part time job, you still have 
 some more to pay off and your on your own to pay the raccoon and live your life.
  
  Even though the graphics are almost the exact same from the first it's still pretty good. At times 
 the environment is relaxing due to visuals. The design of characters, buildings, and item looks 
 good and have a variety of items to design your house and clothes to wear .
  
  Music is just as relaxing as visuals. There is a huge collection to choose from to put an entertain 
 guests with in your room. But when your not in an house or building you go to the same music that 
 can get a little boring.
  
  Controls are good for moving the character while using tools don't seem too realistic. You do have 
 the choice not to use the wii movement and just use the A button. It's very easy to switch by tools 
 by just pressing right or left on control panel. 
  
  A brand new feature that is in City Folk is the city (as the name suggests) . The city is not a 
 place where you have the ability to move. The city should be consider more of a shopping mall where 
 you buy pricey items, learn emotions that are costly and might not be worth it, or change hair 
 color/style. You can also put a mask on your character which allows for your Mii to be the face 
 of your character. Although if try to put an accessory on it disappears from your face.
  
  Even though you can only control one player on your system, you can have friends come over to your 
 town through wi-fi. But there are very few activities to do other than have contests of fishing 
 or checking your friends houses. The city isn't a playable area during wi-fi.
  
  The game can get quite boring at times , since of the only thing pressing you forward is to pay 
 off the house and very little activities that can be done to earn money. This game is a more like 
 a half step for Animal Crossing instead of a full step due to the almost the exact same thing as 
 AC for gamecube. This game is just plain old-school 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillzPenguins
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game and it's addictive just like Wild World. I like the new additions the 
 City and the new furniture sets. The online aspect is excellent but like always you must be wary 
 of who you allow into your town. The WiiSpeak device is a great device for those who don't have 
 a wireless keyboard because the Chatbox and WiiMote can be frusturating to use. I would recommend 
 the game but would forewarn of it's likeness to Wild World.
  
  The enviroment is pretty cool though because it's split level. It does have a glitch in the grass 
 so that it can dissappear if you upload the game to many times or visit many peoples town via Wi-Fi. 
 It can end up looking like a desert if you don't lay patterns down. If you do you'll end up missing 
 out on fossils and breeding hybrids. It's a problem that can be irratating but only affects you 
 if you care about your town appearance wise.
  
  The characters really haven't changed very much. The only addional side quests are Hide & Seek 
 and to occasionally fish out a key from the river. Triggering the events is still random and rare. 
 
  
  The furniture sets at Gracie Grace are new and very pricey. You'd have to accumulate over a Million 
 bells just for one set. There pretty awesome though. I really like the sweets set it's modeled 
 off of pastry and candy and the gorgeous set it's sophisticated with gold, black and red theme 
 colors . It's just that it's seasonal so you have to wait a year to get them all without Time Travel.
 
  
  Overall the game is very cool even if it's Wild World with a update pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerrmansam
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is an Brilliant game brought back to life, this time its dragged along the town with it. You 
 can go to the marquee (theater) and pay 800 bells for a emotion, which is used for meeting friends 
 with Wi-Fi. Redd's shop is still here, if you've got the DS Version. But my Neighbors say that he 
 sells simple items for three times the price, so beware what you buy! There are many other things 
 in the city, but lets move on to your town. There are the same places you see on the DS . For Example, 
 Able Sisters, Tom Nooks and The museum. Booker and Cooper are still at the gate ( why don't they 
 go out for a walk once and a while? ) . You can upgrade your house and still pay off your mortgage. I 
 rated this brilliant game 9 out of 10. It kept me entertained for hours and hours and hours and 
 so on.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  This is my first review and i will improve my ideas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  Once again you feel tired and annoyed of your life on the big city and want to move to a calm place 
 where you can meet some animal villagers, build your own life, perform different activities whenever 
 you feel like doing them and hanging out on a peaceful village away from it all. So it is time 
 to get into Animal Crossing one more time, and do everything you did on previous versions all over 
 again. It sounds fun, right? Correct, but only if you overlook all the major opportunities Nintendo 
 missed.
  
  For those who are not familiar with the game, Animal Crossing takes you to a virtual world where 
 there are plenty of things to do. You start by moving into a village where you meet a Tom Nook, 
 a Raccoon that is the local businessman. He proceeds to sell you one of the four houses available 
 on the village until he discovers you do not have enough money to pay for your house, so he makes 
 you his assistant on the local store for a day.
  
  This assistant job serves as a tutorial to show you the vast possibilities the game has. Animal 
 Crossing is one of those endless games with really high replay value, which will last for as long 
 as you want it to. While living your life you can buy furniture to make your house look great, 
 fish, catch some bugs, dig up fossils, interact with the villagers, plant different kinds of fruit 
 and help villagers with some errands and much more.
  
  Your virtual world will interact directly with your Wii internal clock, which means that if it 
 is 7 pm in real life the same will happen to your village. This brings a lot of variety to the 
 gameplay as there are events, and other secret happenings that only occur at a certain day, at 
 a certain time. As the seasons change your village's environment is affected and the fish and bugs 
 that can be caught also change. This makes the game a long lasting experience that could take over 
 a year to be fully enjoyed. 
  
  Your village has four major buildings: Tom Nook's store, where you buy and sell things, the Museum, 
 where you donate bugs, fish, fossils and paintings to fill a huge collection of exhibits, the Town 
 Hall, where you can pay your debt with Nook to get house expansions, send letters to villagers 
 or make donations for new constructions around town, and the Able Sisters which run a clothing 
 store.
  
  As you can see there are indeed many different things to do around town which is absolutely fantastic 
 but there is a major problem though. Those activities are exactly the same previous versions of 
 the game presented, sadly Nintendo was lazy enough not to change anything about it. Everything 
 is the same the fish you catch, the bugs you see, the fruit you plant, the sets of furniture you 
 can purchase even the game's presentation.
  
  Even though I do agree that the game's graphical art fits it pretty well it is hard to be satisfied 
 with no changes at all in this aspect. The Wii's hardware is powerful enough to improve the visuals 
 which are exactly the same as the DS version, with better frame rate and less grainy visuals. The 
 same applies to the sound effects and music that even though are quite nice are still being reused. 
 The developers could have easily enhanced the graphics while keeping the game's atmosphere and 
 original art intact, but the lazy approach becomes quite clear once you turn on the game.
  
  The "big change" on this version appears on its title, the so called City. On City Folk you 
 can catch a bus on your town and head to a square that is away from your village. There you will 
 find Crazy Redd's shop - ran by a fox that sells suspicious merchandise at a very high price - 
 the Happy Room Academy  an institution that gives you points based on how well organized your 
 house is  a theater  where a crazy character teaches you facial expressions to show your emotions 
  Gracie Grace  a fancy store with very expensive clothes and furniture  the auction house  
 where you can put some of your items up for auction  a saloon  where you can get a haircut or 
 make your human character look like a selected Mii  and a fortune teller.
  
  The City may seem like a very nice feature at first, but truth is all the buildings and stores 
 found in the area were already present on past versions of the game. What the city does is simply 
 gather all those buildings  which indeed add a lot of new possibilities  around a square with 
 a fountain.
  
  Even the online aspect of the game is basically the same as it was on the Nintendo DS version. 
 You can exchange Friend Codes with other people so that they can either visit you or you can go 
 to their town, there is a limit of three visitors per village though. Visiting other people and 
 noticing how two villages can be completely different from each other is a very nice experience.
 
  
  While visiting you can either communicate by using the cursor to slowly type your message on a 
 keyboard-like input, or you can make use of Wii Speak which is the microphone that comes bundled 
 with the game. Wii Speak works incredibly well and it captures sound effectively, it is perhaps 
 the only major improvement that can be found in the game. What is annoying about the device though 
 is that it will sometimes capture other sounds other than the player's voice and make communication 
 a little bit confusing, but other than those rare moments it works very well.
  
  After visiting another town some nice interactions between two different villages can be triggered. 
 For example, the items displayed at your auction house will appear on your friend's City. There 
 is also a female cat that will appear on the village telling you that she lost her daughter on 
 the village you just went to. So one can say Nintendo did work on improving some small aspects 
 of online interaction.
  
  The final verdict on City Folk is that it is a fantastic game if you have never played any title 
 of the series. The game has lots of depth and options, with great dialogue, amazing humor, many 
 activities to do, special visitors, special events and a huge replay value that is really hard 
 to be matched nowadays. Unfortunately if you have already tried any of the past games you have 
 already seen everything this game has to offer and there will be no surprises here, still you may 
 end up enjoying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I am giving this game a 7.5 out of 10 because of one thing. It is the same game with the same graphics 
 as the others. The only difference is the new city option. Every animal crossing has the same story 
 and everything! I mean Nook's stores dont change. Nookingtons is the last expansion. They should 
 have made like a mall or something. Also there is a weird landscape. There are hills and random 
 stuff. You start out with only 2 bridges! Now the good part........ I do enjoy the wifi and playing 
 with friends. I like going to other towns and seeing their houses and hanging out. I also like 
 how you can get your mii as a mask that you can use any time. I also like how you can donate to 
 the town to get a bridge, fountain, and a windmill. Anyway, Animal Crossing City Folk let me down 
 and was basically Animal Crossing Wild World but on the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  On the outside animal crossing looks like a game meant for kids. But don't judge a book by its 
 cover or in this case a game by its box art.
  
  Animal crossing: city folk is an amazing game. There is really no point to the game, you just live 
 your life however you want to. You buy a house, and have to pay off the mortgage. Once you do that 
 you can upgrade your house so it becomes bigger and better.
  
  There are many ways for you to make money. You can fish, pick fruit, dig up fossils, or do chores 
 for your neighbours. 
  
  With that money you can then go to Tom Nook's store and buy furniture for your home. You can design 
 your home anyway you like from wall paper, to carpets, and any piece of furniture you can imagine. 
 You can also use that money to buy clothes, and let me tell you there are a lot of different outfits 
 you can wear. 
  
  In animal crossing: city folk you can now go to the city. In the city you can go get a hair cut, 
 buy furniture/clothing from Gracie Grace, watch a comedy show, and many more things.
  
  Another new feature in city folk is the ability to use wii speak, and Nintendo WFC. you and your 
 other friends can visit each others towns, and chat using wii speak. 
  
  The biggest complaint people have about AC: CF is that it is just like the other two in the series. 
 If you have gotten bored with the previous installments then there is not much more that city folk 
 adds, but it is still an amazing game and the best in the series.
  
  If you have never played an animal crossing game before, and are considering picking one up then 
 do not hesitate, go and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticklife123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Okay where to start with animal crossing city folk, well i'll start on this side. This game you 
 either love it or you hate it. Okay so the story is that you have just moved to a new town where 
 all you'r neighbours are animals. You choose the name of you'r town and you'r character and move 
 in. At the start you will first select a very small house (capable of holding a cardboard box, lamp 
 and stereo) . Which you'll have to pay off by working for Tom Nook (the owner of the shop in the village) The 
 jobs are quite simple and over in a matter of minutes but then he gives the choice up to you, once 
 you gain more money and pay off the mortgages you'r house gets bigger and a new mortgages is presented 
 with the final house having a massive room and second floor and a massive basement. You can earn 
 the money for these upgrades by fishing, bug catching, fossil collecting, selling furniture you currently 
 own and selling anything else you find. There are 6 main buildings you will need to know about in 
 animal crossing !!!!!1) Nooks store, it may start off small but the more you spend the bigger it 
 will get, you can buy furniture for you'r house here, tools (like fishing rods, bug nets) , flowers, letters, house 
 flooring and wallpaper. You can also sell any other stuff you don't want here for money which you 
 can use for anything else. The second main place is the able sisters shop where you can buy clothes (there 
 is millions of clothing pieces, including hats, jewellery, strange headware, t-shirts and umbrellas) 
 but you can also create you'r own designs and wear them, put them up on you'r wall and other stuff 
 like that. The new option in city folk is that on t-shirts you can pay a few hundred extra bells 
 for a pro design which lets you design the back and sleeves so all the sides are not the same. Then 
 you can share designs online with friends. The third place you need to know is the museum, any fish, bug, paintings 
 or fossils you find should be taken here to identify and donate. The museum is empty when you arrive 
 and need's you'r help to be filled. This means donating any new fossils you find or any new fish/bugs/paintings 
 you find. You can get a cup of coffee at the cafe add-on for 200 bells each day (by the way the currency 
 is bells,100 bells is probably 1p) but it doesn't do anything. The main part of the cafe add on 
 is many players try to collect songs from k. k slider (a dog that plays music) so they can try and 
 collect all his cd's for their stereo back at their house. This adds to the play time a lot as he 
 only turns up each saturday to play one song (That means 56 weeks about) . There is also a stargazing 
 section in the museum where you can create constellations which you can see later but this is not 
 important for anything. The fourth building you need to know is the town hall where you can use 
 the abd to deposit you'r money in the bank (as you can't carry that much) and send letters that you 
 can write to either people in you'r town or people online in other towns. You can donate to the 
 town fund and gain new additions to you'r town and make you'r own town tune. Take treasures from 
 the recycle bin and dump stuff in there. The next area is the town gate, this is probably the biggest 
 part of city folk, this let's you venture out into another players town where you can do whatever 
 you want with them. You can trade rare tiems for bells or fish with them. nearly anything is possible. Just 
 look at this: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=5Cm9p2J3mMg.
  Anywhere you can alos let people visit you'r town (you will need to exchange friend codes) and take 
 stuff from lost and found, change the town flag to one of you'r designs. The final area is the bus 
 stop where you can get a lift to the city, here there is katrinas fortune telling shop where you 
 can fulfill dreams, the auction house where you can place items on dsiplay and bid for rare items. The 
 happy room academy where you can check the house design for the movement an also redds shop where 
 you can get costy but rare goods once a week. The main shop is gracie gracie where everything is 
 rare and costs loads (very usel; ess at the start of the game) !!!! In you'r town there can be up to 
 10 neigbour animals whio will move in and away if you don't frequently talk to them or send them 
 letters. The characters are very nice and detailed with special characters like Joan and saharah 
 visiting rarely (and don't forget pascal) . Any neigbour you'r cant find in you'r town randomly appear 
 in the city. The game is very enjoyable and filling the fish and bug encyclpeida is very long and 
 fun. Decorating you'r room and town is great (you can plaxe tiles on the floor to make your town 
 have a theme (mine is urban if you want to come add me and message me, Friend code;5327 6002 8090 (sam 
 from Ilkley) ) and finding rare items is also very good gameplay element. You'll have to learn about 
 the main ways of making money online though because i can't write that much. This is a great game 
 and online is very fun. Nintendo's animals are back in town!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superpowerstar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  best game in the series, amazingly awesome, nothing is better then learning how life goes when 
 
  you are 6 to 16. it also includes fishing, bug catching, and setting up furniture. The funny part 
 is talking animals that are nice & sweet, but some are mean and nasty. Going to the city is the 
 second best part of the game. It makes Animal Crossing fun & new . There is a vast variety of stores, 
 including the Surveillance Center. The Surveillance Center offers you the Silver Shovel that you 
 can only get once. The Shovel allows you to hit rocks & more money comes out of them.
  The City also has a really nice store that sells interesting furniture & clothing. You can meet 
 neighbors in the city that you don't usually get to meet in your town. There are also other visitors 
 that pop up randomly. 
  I find the music in the City relaxing during the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirForceAngel
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I checked out Animal Crossing: City Folk after seeing the odd commercial for it and that it also 
 got a 7.5 from GameSpot.
  
  I have to say though, from a hardcore RPGers point-of-view this game is dull, drab and completely 
 uninteresting. You have no option to customize your character and let us all face the fact the 
 defaults are butt ugly.
  
  The game is completely insignificant in every way. There is way too much huff-and-puff [running 
 all around the map like crazy trying to satisfy an annoying raccoon, of all beings] . I can't skip 
 over the annoying "dialogue" [in which the characters somewhat resemble the adults in the Peanuts 
 cartoon series, talking in an alien language none of us can understand] .
  
  I am sure this game is great for people who aren't interested in plots or good gameplay and strategy. 
 It's really just a time-waster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derekgilreath93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to play if you like the DS AC: WW you will love Animal Crossing: City Folk. 
 This game give you the idea of being your self and you get to do what you wont. This is the best 
 in the series. When you play this you will love it from the start you will play it for like two 
 days in a role then for get to eat then go another day of playing the game then you will get some 
 thing to eat. But you will get tired of playing it. And you will not wont to play it some days 
 but you have to remember ever day is something new. You get diff stuff in the store ever day and 
 you have to pay off your house that nook wont you to pay a but load for it. But that what makes 
 it fun you have to go and fish and plant trees also play with outer people all over the world that 
 whats make it fun. And all the new parts they put in. I wont tell you ever thing but as you should 
 know now that their is a city that you can go to. And their is Six diff things you can go to and 
 a dude that will change you shoes color 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dog64
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing made it's American debut in 2002. For the past six or seven years, we have spent 
 countless hours talking to our animal friends and giving those priceless bells to that crazy raccoon, 
 Tom Nook. Animal Crossing was a different kind of life-sim. One that was relaxing, easy and fun 
 to play, and made your play experience as life-like as possible. However, with time, life in your 
 town can become kind of dull as the events begin to repeat year after year, and your villagers 
 are always asking you to get back that Gameboy from Butch. So in 2005, Animal Crossing fans got 
 an update, with online play to boot, for the DS. Fast-forward to November 2008, and we get another 
 update with City Folk, or the first update for home consoles.
  
  By now, it's no secret of the vast similarities between Wild World and City Folk. But before we 
 start on those, let's start with the good things about living in a town that's only a bus drive 
 away from a city. 
  
  City Folk offers you four houses of choice. But instead of them all being next to each other, you 
 can choose from one of four houses that are scattered about town. One may be close to Nook, another 
 may be close to the Town Hall, and another will be right on the beach for those wanting to hear 
 the sounds of the ocean. With bells, the games currency, you can buy upgrades from Tom Nook to 
 make your house larger to put more furniture in. And in City Folk, you will find new furniture 
 series to collect and more appliances and other collectible items. 
  
  City Folk also offers updated graphics. This is definitely the best looking Animal Crossing to 
 date. Compared to the previous two games, the colors are more vivid and the textures are sharp 
 and clear. Fish and insects look very realistic, and make realistic sounds as well. You can look 
 up at the sky and see stars at night, and a blue sky during the day. Other times it may be raining 
 (or snowing, in winter) in town, or just overcast. The acre system of the Gamecube game is also 
 removed, so walking from place-to-place in town is seamless and smooth.
  
  In addition, Tom Nooks operating hours have changed. Nook N' Go closes at 1:00 am, which is great 
 for those who do a lot of fishing at night. But for some odd reason, Nookingtons closes at a rather 
 early 9:00 pm. Happily, though, Nook will offer to reduce his store back to Nook N' Go if you would 
 rather have great hours than store inventory.
  
  Sadly, there isn't much more to offer in City Folk. Just about everything else in the game is rehashed. 
 Most of the music in the game is completely ripped from Wild World, except for the music in the 
 city which is done very well. You'll also be collecting much of the same furniture, bugs, fish, 
 wallpaper, flooring, and paintings. To be fair, there are some new bugs, fish, and furniture sets, 
 but not enough to be called an update. The upgrades you get for your house are also exactly the 
 same as the Gamecube game, and the same goes for Nooks store upgrades. The online portion of the 
 game also seems untouched. You and another player exchange codes, and then you can visit each others 
 towns where you can text chat or voice chat with the new Wii Speak device. You can also exchange 
 items or designs, or go fishing together. And, that's pretty much all you can do, unless you like 
 chasing and hitting other players with nets and axes.
  
  A lot of things got skipped over from the update department. Even though there are more tools and 
 items to collect, you still only have 15 slots in your pockets. There are also no new fruits, or 
 no new stores or buildings in town. You can take a nice bus ride, where you get some love advice 
 from Capt'n, to the city, but the city is pretty much just a hub for the same traveling sales people 
 and other shops that were in previous games. There is an auction house, but you can only use it 
 during certain hours of certain days only between players you have exchanged codes with. The city 
 does offer a new store, Gracie Grace. This store has expensive clothes and furniture sets for you 
 to spend you extra cash on. This store is a nice addition, and will probably be the place you visit 
 the most in the city. All of the stores in the city do close at night, so after midnight there 
 is really no reason to go to the city as there is nothing to do.
  
  It's sad that Animal Crossing: City Folk is not the game that it could of, and should of, been. 
 There is still much of the same gameplay here that makes Animal Crossing what it is, but after 
 all these years, it is beginning to show its age and there needs to be some serious updates to 
 make the game fresh and new. If you have never played Wild World or any Animal Crossing game, you'll 
 find much to do and fun to be had in City Folk. Otherwise, it's really just more of the same.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archoniam
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great. Most people put it down, but I seriously believe that people that 
 play games like The Sims, There, and Second Life. For an Animal Crossing game, which I have high 
 expectations for, I was impressed to see this game was better than my previous purchase of Animal 
 Crossing for the GameCube. Sure, it may be repetitive, but it's a big improvement from previous 
 games. Along with the now standard neighbors, nagging old bitty of a shopkeeper, and inviting friends 
 to your town and more, Animal Crossing: City Folk even added a few extras to the mix. These extras 
 include movement from the DS to the Wii, a city where all the major shops are, even the WiiSpeak 
 accessory. I say again, this game is a definite winner for the people who like games like the Sims, 
 There, and Second Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonnyJavid
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing (GC) was a really interesting game for the GameCube. Animal Crossing: Wild World 
 was the best Animal Crossing of the series. Then Animal Crossing: City Folk came. And guess what..... 
 is was the same.... a little though was diffrent. In your town you can decorate your house, you can 
 talk to animals, do favors and all that kind of stuff. But for the frist time you can come to city 
 and meet previous animals from the Animal Crossing's. You can go to a show, to the Happy Room Acadmeny, 
 GracieGrace which sells furniture and clothes (and very expensive) . there's a auction house, a 
 shoe-shinner, a barber shop and more. You can use WI-FI to go to a town or your friend can come 
 to your town. there's also WiiSpeak where you chat with your friends online. Animal Crossing City 
 is recomation for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  
  Graphics
  Do the people at Nintendo or who ever made this game try? It's a wonder why Nintendo is at the 
 low end of the graphics chain? I don't know what to call it. But PSP graphics are better. Everyone 
 looks like cookie cutter characters, but I supposed there meant to look that way? you know with 
 triangle noses and heads larger than the house you live in. It's what Animal Crossing was meant 
 to be like and your left with no choice to change that.
  
  Gameplay
  I really don't know what to say. I mean it was my first Animal Crossing game, and I don't know 
 what you do in those types of games. The control scheme is quite nice. You can simply go with just 
 the wii mote and point and click to where you want to go. Or have the nunchuck do that for you. 
 You can pick up fruit by shaking a tree and picking it up with B!! I know exhilarating. I nearly 
 pissed myself
  
  Story
  You move in, make money, make your house look nice, invite your friends. The end....... Very well 
 written
  
  Overall?
  I don't know. I had no fun playing this game. I wondered around doing next to nothing, blah blah 
 blah i wish there was action. This was like a sim cept all your friends are animals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhotpeppers
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  When the original Animal Crossing was released alot of people said it was a kidde game and people 
 that were daring enough to try the game, most of them loved it After that wild world was realeased 
 but it was almost the same thing as the original. Now City Folk was realeased. It has almost nothing 
 new but it is stilll a great game and is the best of the three. If you're not familer with animal 
 crossing it is life simulation with almost no goals except to pay of you"re loan to Tom Nook. The 
 animals in you're town get up in the morning and go to bed at night. The one new addition is the 
 city. The animals in the city only have a handful of things to say. You hear reapeats to often. 
 The city is a square of shops. Most which were already in previous animal crossing games. The City 
 seems forced. Nintendo should have made the city better. But the is still so fun. I have had it 
 for a month now and I still play it everyone. Online is back but you still need friend codes. Nintendo 
 nobody likes Friend codes. As for the wiispeak it works well you can understand what people are 
 saying and you can talk when the games loading. The graphics are a bit better but there not as 
 good as they should be on wii. The sound is pretty good but it was the same songs on Wild World 
 put on Wii. I gave it an 8 because it is very fun and addicting. But it's not revoulotionary and 
 is the same game as Wild World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Sous
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk Was One Of The Main Resons I Belived In The Wii. My Wii Was Basically 
 A Nice Paperweight Minus A Few Gems Like Wii Sports And Smash Bros, But Untill Animal Crossing 
 Came Out I Was Pretty Woried The Wii Phase I Was In Was Over Before It Had Even Began. Bam! Here 
 Comes City Folk To Flip My XBOX Off And The Wii Back On. Animal Crossing Was To No Suprise, The 
 Same Core Game It Has Always Been. Its Still About Making Kooky Friends, Buying And Selling Items, 
 Fish And Insect Collecting, Star Gazing And Of Course The List Goes On. But This Time, Animal Crossing 
 Brings Us The Abillity To Not Only Leave The Town, But Instead Of An Island Adventure, We Can Shop 
 Away In The Big City! The City Itself, Although Limited, Provides Countless Hours Of Fun And Enjoyment 
 For All Ages And This I Guarantee! I Have Seen It To Many Times Where People Will Bash And Bash 
 This Game Because All They Like Are FPS And Sport Games, But As Always, They Play It For A Few 
 Minutes And Cant Stop! Although It Did Not Improve Enough To Merit A Higher Score, It Is By Far 
 One Of The Top Wii Games Available To Date And I Recommend It To Anyone Who Has A Wii. Great Times, 
 And Great Enjoyment Come One In One With Any Animal Crossing Game And To My Delight, City Folk 
 Follows This Lineage Without A Doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aag360360
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is most certainly a guilty pleasure of mine. I heard good things about City Folk, 
 so I picked it up for my 6 year old sister. After I had gotten my hands on it, I could see why 
 she was so damn obsessed with it... but really, it's no different than virtual work.
  
  The "game" consists of paying loans, donating stuff to museums, and selling crap to some raccoon... 
 wtf? While this may sound entirely idiotic, it carries a strange charm that is difficult to pull 
 away from.
  
  Nintendo definitely knows how to be kid friendly... and everyone friendly at the same time. I find 
 myself waking up early to rush to this game before my sister gets on, where I clear out the stores 
 of anything useful. Hahahaha.
  
  I really need to stop using that Wii Mind-control channel... BAAAAAAAHHH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Now the only reason I purchased this game is because I lost my gamecube version of Animal Crossing. 
 I loved the gamecube version, but instead of buying a used copy of that I wanted the new Wii version. 
 I thought it might be something a little new and refreshing, but I was wrong.
  
  If you've played any of the other installments of animal crossing you know the main point of this 
 game, which is to just to live life. You live in a small town (which you can give it any name) 
 and you basically just do daily tasks in the town. There are many things to do. For example you 
 can: fish, go shopping, talk to your neighbors, dig for treasure, celebrate certain events and 
 holidays, catch bugs, and even decorate your house any way you want. It can be a very fun game. 
 if you've never played it, i recommend you pick it up. But for veteran players of the game, you 
 might want to stick with the version you already have. The only difference in this game is the 
 online ability (which i never used) and the ability to go into town to find more shops to buy stuff 
 at. 
  
  If this game wasn't so enjoyable I would probably give it a lower score for being basically the 
 same game as the Gamecube version. But things in your town constantly change. There are new bugs 
 and fish to catch. New fossils to find and donate to the museum. New neighbors move in and out 
 of your town. I mean you can play this game forever. Im sure it can get old after 3 or 4 months, 
 but you can never beat the game, so it has the best replayability of any game I've ever played. 
 It can also get kinda boring after playing for more than an hour each day. Each day there are new 
 things to buy and look at and new things to talk about with your neighbors. So this is an excellent 
 game to play along side an actual game you can beat. I play this everyday for 15-30 minutes, then 
 I wait for the next day to play it again. 
  
  So, if you already own the DS or Gamecube version dont waste your money on this. If you've never 
 played Animal Crossing before, you should probably pick up this version. It has the most to offer. 
 It will easily keep you entertained for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Gamecube had a great formula but there were thing missing. Wild World DS was great 
 but left stuff out from Gamecube and since it was DS, missing some essential features. City Folk 
 is the two added together plus a little bit more. Now the formula is perfect. And since I loved 
 the first animal crossing games but did not get far or cheated, this is a good first start. 
  
  Good- Great Graphics and Framerate, They Perfected the Animal Crossing Formula, Its Animal 
 Crossing, Great Wi-Fi. USB keyboard makes it perfect for online.
  
  Bad- Its a lot like the others, You proabably need to buy a USB keyboard to play online to its 
 fullest if you do not have Wii speak, Certain city elements are totally worthless.
  
  I did love the first two, but this one is the best. If you got the biggest house and full museum 
 and all that in the first two Animal Crossings, then you may want to skip over this.
  
  The City is fun. Crazy Redd, The Shoe Shiner, The ATM and The Hair Place are the only things of 
 worth there though. The theater, HRA, Gracie Gracie, and The Fortune Teller are worthless. Gracie 
 Gracie charges you 200000 bells for a dresser. A little Insane if you ask me. The auction house 
 is very dificult to use because you have to be right on time and they do in once in ever forever. 
 But hey its better than not having them. the city is a great addition.
  
  Overall Animal Crossing City Folk is a lot better than either of the first and Is worth picking 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxBloodPoolxX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I am a giant AC fan so I bought this game, without reading reviews or anything.. first off, it's 
 pretty much the same game as wild world and the original game. Seriously, not much difference at 
 all. They just brought hollidays and a couple more events and the city of course. Same goal in 
 this game as the rest: pay off your debt to tom nook and upgrade your house to the final stage 
 and finally pay it off. 
  
  Now, the city is... rather small. about 6 shops and places including a theater in which the kooky 
 doctor that teaches emotions is there. There is katrina, the psychic, from previous games. There 
 is graciegrace which is a store much like tom nooks and mables, only alot more expensive, and more 
 "fancier" things. There is the infamous redd's store in which you buy fake paintings. hah. There 
 is the hair salon, where u can now get a hair cut and or change your face to a mii charactors mask 
 that you have stored on your wii with not having to get nookingtons which is Tom nooks final improvement 
 on his store. And new to animal crossing there is the auctioners store in which you can auction 
 off your belongings for a funner way to sell things, and buy things other people have for sell. 
 
  
  This is basicly all the new, in animal crossing: city folk. the rest is the same. fishing tourneys, 
 bug tourneys, hollidays consits of the same ones on the gamecube addition....
  There is alot more npc's tho. like jack on holloween that will give you holloween style furniture 
 if you have candy.... that is. 
  
  but, here is where it gets fun.. if you have friends that have this game AND wifi. then you will 
 get the most out of this game. I for one don't have many friends with wii's and this game. but 
 am trying to find people on forums to play. so i can get foreign fruits and ect. for more bells. 
 but like i said, it is hard to find people.
  
  Overall, i wouldn't recomend buying it. if you have ac: wild world, stick with it. for it is basicly 
 the same game. just no hollidays and no city. not worth 50$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everlong12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game just after Christmas and I have to say I love it. I enjoyed the orignal, 
 missed out on WW and even though this game is similar in many was to the orignal, there is so much 
 more added.
  
  I couldn't see much difference in graphics and the music is still the same but there are now plenty 
 more KK Slider songs and customization of clothing.
  
  The city adds new fun and opportunity to meet new animals to move to town.
  
  The greatest 
 add-on is the online interaction with Wii Speak. At first it was a little awkward talking to a 
 complete strangers (obvisously not a problem if you have friends that play) but it is an experience 
 no other game has brought Wii-ers yet. I can see this game lasting a long time with its vast collectibility 
 and the new interaction with each new friend you make.
  
  I look forward to seeing this game through for a long time. Hope to see you in my town soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peasantquest101
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk is a slow pace relaxing game for casual gamers. No matter what i say 
 you will have no idea what animal crossing is like untill you play it because it is so unique but 
 i'll try. The whole point of the game is to just have fun. There is no story line or anything you 
 just need to play the game as if it were your own life. In Animal Crossing there are tons of things 
 you can do. You can go fishing, hunting for bugs, digging fossils, and more. With all the stuff 
 you can sell it for money at a store or donate it to fill up an empty museum. Your house starts 
 off small but once you start to pay off your debt it expands and becomes huge. As you can tell 
 there are many things to do in the game and special events happen every week including fishing 
 contests and holiday partys. Beleive me you have no idea what the game is like untill you play 
 it. I would highly suggest this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sper56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  So basically a perfect game... Sure there were a few letdowns. E. G. Almost identical to the DS 
 version, however some major improvements. Instead of every citizen being crammed into the the tiny 
 house, everyone gets their own, expandable house. Pretty decent graphics. Expensive furniture shops 
 keep's the player into the game, by requiring them to save up and earn "bells". The graphics are 
 pretty nice (for only being what? 480p/i?. Overall, a fun game that is Great to be played with 
 friends. (I hate the GameSpot eight hundred minimum character requirement) ... (yeah really really 
 hate it) ..... (yes, I still hate the GameSpot eight hundred minimum character requirement) ...... (OMG 
 when are they gunna let me send this review??)
  
  The minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters. Your review is 739 characters long.
 
  
  (wooooow) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubivore10
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start the game is too similar to AC: WW, but that isn't too bad. The town is bigger, 
 you can do more, have more freedom and have a blast. The controls are pretty awkward, but not to 
 the point that you can't over come it. The title is, or course, Animal Crossing: City Folk, but 
 that city feature actually is really lame. The only real store there is way too much to buy anything, 
 most people hate the Happy Room Accademy, and the theater sucks. The auction house also seems to 
 be only open at 6:00 A. M. The city is neat if you want your shoes shined, get a baloon, or getting 
 your hair done. The town though is lots of fun, and Wii Speak makes things even more fun. Overall 
 the game is great, but has flaws that Nintendo really should have seen. Being able to use the classin 
 controller would also be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser02
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  for those of you who said that this was the same as the other two and gave it a low score because 
 of it look at pokemon and zelda and even mario sports thre all the same game with only a little 
 new details look at pokemon diamond same as red and blue only more pokemon and the map is a bit 
 changed. in this superb game you can collect money furniture fossils or bugs and fish decorate 
 your house with music furniture and pay of your loan to make your house feel super huge you can 
 even put on new wallpaper and carpet. this game offers realistic holidays like christmas and halloween.
 
  
  
  story6, you move in to a brand new house then a cheapscape comes and says you have to pay a lot 
 of money for the smallest house in the world
  
  reaplayability 10, perfect ten whether catching fish or bugs or just collecting furniture
  
 
  graphics 8, mayby third best on wii
  
  sound6 the songs get tiring and boring not very catchy
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMasterXD
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Just what the description says, I love these games. The only thing that I would change about this 
 game is the liberty that people from other towns can do, I wish that they wouldn't be able to take 
 your designs or dig up your fossils. That is just plain mean, even when you ask them to stop. Another 
 thing I would change is the fact that you can't send fish or bugs in the mail. I know it's common 
 sense but, sometimes you just gotta do those type of things sometimes. Although there is somethings 
 that I don't like about this game, it is still one of my most favorite games/series.
  The good things about this game are that there are some pretty neat accessories and furnture. How 
 some things are the same, yet different, for example: if you saw two shirts in the Able Sisters 
 shop, one was a night sky tee, and the other was a green zap suit, so you try the tee on first, 
 it sounds like any other shirt when you put it on, next you try on the green zap suit but instead 
 of the usual sound that you hear when you put something on, its makes a "ta-da!" type of sound, 
 that's what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing has been around in North America in 2002. It started out as a Nintendo 64 port 
 to the Nintendo Gamecube back in 2002. Then in 2005 a remake of Animal Crossing has been made for 
 the Nintendo DS under the title, Animal Crossing: Wild World. Now in 2008 there's Animal Crossing: 
 City Folk for the Nintendo Wii and does it live up to other Animal Crossing games? Let's look up 
 the details for this game right now.
  
  Animal Crossing: City Folk is about a boy or a girl who moved away from their parents to start 
 a new life in a small town. Rover notices that your moving to a new town, then you tell Rover where 
 are you going and what's your name. Then when you arrive, you go to the Town Hall to introduce 
 yourself, then you find one of those four houses around town to live in. Then after you choose 
 your house, you meet Tom Nook and you give the money for the house and he realizes you don't have 
 enough money. Then you must work for Tom Nook to make up some money and after your done, your life 
 begins.
  
  Animal Crossing: City Folk is a free roaming game that takes place in a small town and the big 
 city. It contains the exact time that is on your Wii Menu and you can change the time at anytime 
 to time travel. In Animal Crossing: City Folk, you buy stuff using your bells and sell stuff to 
 gain bells. You can also customize your own clothing and you can donate stuff to the museum. Along 
 the way you help your neighbors on stuff whenever they need. Also in Animal Crossing: City Folk 
 you can go online by Nintendo WiFi Connection to invite people or come over their town to have 
 fun.
  
  In the City you can go to Crazy Reeds for some new furniture, you can go to Dr. Shrunk's shows 
 to learn new emotions, there's a ATM to put your bells, there a Gracie Grace store where you buy 
 crazy expensive stuff, the Auction House to put stuff on sale, the Shampoodle place where you get 
 your makeover, and the fourtine teller which it tells your fourtine.
  
  Well the graphics looked better than anyother Animal Crossing game so far. But it looks somewhat 
 dated for a few reasons. Well it still has it's pixels on the characters like the first game. The 
 environment looks clean and everything in this game is fully three dimentional instead of three 
 dimentional with two dimentional stuff. The water looks nice and so is the city, but the fishes 
 still fool you like in the previous installment.
  
  The music is recycled from Animal Crossing: Wild World, well it sounds a bit nicer on the Nintendo 
 Wii than the Nintendo DS. The K. K. Slider music is still muffled up than what you hear in concert 
 like in other Animal Crossing games and the television sound in Animal Crossing: City Folk still 
 sounds jibberish.
  
  The sound effects are recycled as well, it used some sound effects from both Animal Crossing and 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World. But for Animal Crossing: Wild World sound effects, it sounds nicer 
 and in good quailty as well. Even though they are recycled, it's still worth hearing from time 
 to time again.
  
  The controls knocks things up in this game, this game uses the motion controls like all the other 
 Nintendo Wii games, you can also use the USB Port to put in a keyboard and you can type on there 
 as well. You can use Nintendo's Wii Speak to contract people and it works just like a real mircophone, 
 but it's sound quality sounds terrible.
  
  This game is still on the hard side from Animal Crossing: Wild World, but it's worth your money 
 if your a fan of Animal Crossing or Life Simulators. There's two versions out at the moment and 
 both of them are worth the price and it has some good replay vaule as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfox12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  We have always wanted an Animal Crossing for the wii, but does Animal Crossing: City Folk live 
 up to expectations? There are many pros... and cons to discuss. So I'll make it quick.
  
  
  
  There's lots to do in animal crossing, from running errands for neighbors, to saving up 
 money to pay off a debt, to visiting the city, to just plain fishing. You'll always be busy, but 
 the nicest thing is that there is no time limit, and no pre-set goals. Just take your time and 
 do whatever you want. Although the main goal is to pay off your house. Another nice factor is the 
 ability to customise almost everything. Like you clothes, shoe color and appearence, hairstyle, 
 headgear, furniture, and the amount of trees, flowers, and other things in your town. Plus, there's 
 lots to collect, like different species of bugs and fish, as well as fossils, and the very rare 
 paintings, and collecting them all can be quite satisfying.
  
  Your town, (you can name it anything you want, and the layout is randomly designed) is just one 
 of the places to go. The new feature here is the city. While rather small, there are some shops, 
 and plenty of people to chat with. There are even a few secret areas and things in the city, (nope, 
 your not getting it out of me!) . You can also visit other friends towns via Wi-FI. (The part that 
 bugs me are the insanely long friend codes)
  
  
  While it is a great game, it does have some minor downfalls.
  
  -it's nothing REALLY new, sure, 
 some new features, but not much.
  
  -It's the same thing as GCN and DS, no new goals.
  
  -some things your neighbors say can get REALLY repetetive.
  
  -graphics are slightly dated.
 
  
  
  So, let's see the score:
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Like I said, it's a little dated, I know it's supposed to be cartoony, but still.
  
  Gameplay: 
 8/10
  Like I said, LOTS to do.
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  It's IMPOSSIBLE to do it all in one sitting, it'll take at least 30 lol.
  
  Stress factor: 
 2/10 
  It's soooo layed back... the only stressful parts are when all the shops close and your pockets 
 are full.
  
  Fun: 8/10
  It can get boring at times, but good fun and lot's of stuff to keep your hands full.
  
  Overall 
 rating: 8.5
  
  Animal Crossing: City folk has a lot to offer, and it's a lot of fun, but it just seems to be lacking.
 
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing's fun has always puzzled me. How simple fishing, conversing, shopping and running 
 around, is something that keeps people coming back for more no matter how old you are, or how FPS 
 obsessed you may be. 
  
  City Folk delivers all of that strange charm a whole lot more.
  
  While it may not differ an incredible amount from both the original and wild world it keeps 
 and adds the amount needed to provide the definitive useless experience. No offence intended
  
  But down to what it adds.
  Obviously the city. Containing shops mostly of people who once 
 randomly showed up in your town, now have a permanant residence. 
  These include Redd Katrina and Gracie.
  
  Furthermore, the happy room academy now having an 
 office in the city, now bases your room on another room that changes every week or month i cant 
 remember.
  
  The Nintendo Wi-Fi connection also broadens your experience, not only because they can come to 
 your town, but because of the auction house in the city, you can buy other peoples junk along with 
 being able to talk to your fellow animal crossingers with wii speak, included in the special animal 
 crossing bundle!!!!
  
  Otherwise there is little difference maybe the fact the houses are randomly placed, so you sleep 
 in seperate houses but otherwise its a lot of the same.
  
  The sound is the same old cheer ful tone with constant letter noises coming from big headed animals.
 
  
  Graphics only flow better so its a minimal improvement.
  
  But all in all this installment in the animal crossing franchise is only bettered. 
  With a lengthy 
 play time and strange abilities of addicition Animal Crossing city folk is a great game for gamers, 
 kids and casual gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk is a good game and a must for any Animal Crossing Fans. Animal Crossing 
 Wild World for the DS is ALSO, a good game. The difference? Not much. It's nice to go the City 
 and explore the different shops, but you're usually not there for more than 10 mins max. Actually, 
 the city consists of: Redd's Shop (DS) , Emotions Guy (DS) , HRA Office (new) , Gracie's (seasonal 
 stuff only) , an Auction store (for town members only) , Shampoodle (DS) , and Fortune Teller (DS) . 
 Unfortunatley, the City has alot of potential but falls short. For instance, why would place an 
 item for bid for only my townmembers to see and bid? And why have I been playing this for 2 weeks 
 and still not seen any other items for sale or bid at this auction? The Auction in my opinion had 
 alot of potential if it was done like an ebay style with others from all over the world, but instead 
 it's like a waste of space. Gracies is seasonal, so unless it's 4 months down the road you've seen 
 it all the first visit. The HRA room is the only noteworthy addition as you (according to the strategy 
 guide) "Compete with other Wii 24 players around the world" to have the honor of having your room 
 displayed in the model room for all to see. It's actually a good idea because now there is a purpose 
 for buying themes to your rooms, and puts a competative spin on it. I question it's validity though, 
 as I recieved the honor of model room but didn't feel I met the criteria. We'll see how it plays 
 out.
  
  The games does however fall short in the items area as well. The item list is almost the same to 
 the DS Wild World, and so are the themes with maybe only a handfull of new ones. There's plenty 
 of new characters as well as special characters that that seve different purposes with hard to 
 come by items. Although, their very pressence is hard to come by as well.
  
  I'm a little back and forth on the controls. The biggest shortcut and handiest in the DS was the 
 Y button atomatically transfering items from your pocket to storage or to Nook if selling. There 
 is no short cut in City Folf so have to mess with the wii remote to carefully click each item 1 
 by 1 and it can get frustrating. Although the quick tool equiper makes up for it, so when you wanna 
 switch to any tool withought searching your pockets, you can hit left or right on the directional 
 pad and scroll though your tools. Very helpfull.
  
  I really expected more with this game, but I'm still addicted to it. That's why it's still worth 
 picking up. Hardcore AC fans will dig it because well, there's nothing different from what their 
 used to, and those who haven't played Wild World for DS will love it more because, it will be an 
 all new gam to them. What else can I say other than, I think I'll go play Animal Crossing City 
 Folk. Again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk has new features added to it ever since Wild World came out. Since I 
 got this game on Christmas, I do not know if there is suppossed to be anything special during this 
 occassion. The city is new in the Animal Crossing world, however, there are several problems with 
 it. One of them is that everything opens up at a really late time. One of the shops actually opens 
 up at one in the afternoon, which sucks if you are awake really early in the morning with nothing 
 else to do. The city also (in my personal opinion) is also kind of messy in several areas, which 
 does not really represent Animal Crossing at all. Another bad thing about the city is that you 
 need to get on a bus to get there, and Cap'n (forgive my spelling with it is wrong, I do not know 
 how it is spelled in Animal Crossing) is really talkative on the bus. The good thing is that Rover 
 the cat (you remember from the first Animal crossing) is back. Some features have stayed from Wild 
 World such as the place where you can get your hair done, however, it is in the city, not in Nook's 
 store. The coffee shop and the gate where you can leave or invite friends over is also here. The 
 Able Sister's and Nook's shop are separated, though, which sucks if you want to go to both. There 
 is also the problem about the equipment you can use. It is harder to use some of them such as the 
 shovel. While hitting rocks, I was only able to get 600 bells because of the complexity. Overall, 
 Animal Crossing City Folk is a good game, but I believe that there is only one great location for 
 all of the Animal Crossing games, on a portable system. It is not really the type of game you want 
 to play on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitt78
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  If you've played Animal Crossing: Wild World for the DS, then you've pretty much played Animal 
 Crossing City Folk. That set aside, there are plenty of new things in this game that don't make 
 it an exact clone of ACWW. The new city, connectivity options, furniture sets, series, new neighbors, 
 and even new ways of getting gold (and now "silver") tools make the whole experience worthwhile. 
 The most obviously prominent feature in this game is the city, and while it's not all it's cracked 
 up to be, it's still a great place. Going from left to right, you have Redd's shop, an ABD (basically 
 an ATM) , the theater, HRA headquarters, GracieGrace, the auction house, the shoe shining guy, Shampoodle, 
 and Katrina. Redd's shop is everything that it's ever been, but instead of a password, you need 
 an invitation from a friend or neighbor. The ABD is just what you'd think an ATM would be - put 
 Bells in, take Bells out, only you can pay your mortgage with this. The theater is where you can 
 learn new emotes from Dr. Shrunk, and occasionally a lizard. The HRA headquarters is where former 
 insurance agent Lyle will offer you a free membership with the HRA. If you've played any Animal 
 Crossing game before this, you'll know what the HRA is, but if you haven't, they basically rate 
 your home based on functionality and feng shui. As you get more points, you can get rewards. In 
 the HRA headquarters, there is a model room in the back. This model room is cool because if you 
 have WiiConnect24 turned on in both the game and Wii, it will download the winning room from a 
 server, then display it in this room to model after. If WiiConnect24 is turned off, it will simply 
 take one of your neighbors' houses, or your house.
  
  GracieGrace is a highly overpriced, but highly exclusive, department store owned by Gracie. Everything 
 in there is designed by Gracie. In here, you meet Labelle, the other Able sister. GracieGrace sells 
 extremely high quality (and extremely high priced) furniture, wallpaper, carpeting, accessories, 
 and clothing styles.
  
  The auction house is a haven of failed potential. While it's a great moneymaking opportunity (or 
 it would be if it used WiiConnect24) , you can only exchange items between your friends that you 
 have added in the game.
  
  The shoe shiner will basically change the color or style of your shoes to match your clothes. If 
 you're wearing dark clothes, he'll change the color to a darker color. If you're wearing multicolored 
 clothes, he'll change the style to something crazy. Shampoodle is basically everything that it 
 was in WW, only you can get a Mii Mask this time. Katrina's place is the same, as well.
  
  Aside from that, a lot of the things in this game that involve your town are similar to what they 
 already were. There are so many little new additions that I can't list them here. You have to play 
 the game to find out about the greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucario234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  To start of I own all of the animal crossings and this is close to beating out wild world and yes 
 I do like wild world better then the origanal not that I didnt like it but I really liked wild 
 world. So I got this game with christmas money and have played it for very long maybe even to long. This 
 game sure has not changd much at all except the city.
  
  
  
  But lets get started on the game. first of all the graphis are nice and clear otherwise you cant 
 really say that there is much to say about the graphics. As I had said the way you play has not 
 changed at all wich isnt really to bad. The city is incredibly fun. the city does add some depth. Overall 
 the city is fun but I do think it could be a bit bigger a be more stores.
  
  
  
  Overall this would be a great game to start out with if you havent played ithe series and to followers 
 of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing keeps the formula from the previous two games, make a life for yourself in a village 
 full of anthropomorphic creatures with some bizarre dispositions. In your new village you'll experience 
 a very open world of choices that can be compared to The Sims or Harvest Moon, you have no defined 
 goals and it's up to you to make this sandbox into a game. After building your character (or importing 
 from the DS) you'll step off the bus into your new life, just remember that with great life comes 
 great debt, you'll quickly meet everyone's favorite racoon tycoon, Tom Nook. Nook'll recruit you 
 into his shop and give you a tutorial by sending you off to do some quick meets and greets before 
 he casts you off into the world, this'll sound familiar to players of the last games and sadly 
 so will most everything I have to tell you about City Folk.
  
  Being cast off into the world can be a disorientating experience, your only real goal is to pay 
 off your mortgage by pawning off items you find, fortunately there's a good list of other things 
 to do if you take the time to look around. Most of these tasks bring a lot of monotony and it'd 
 be easy to burn any joy out from the game in just a few hours, but here's where Animal crossing 
 uses a rather unique trick, the internal clock. You could gather fruit, but there's only so much 
 each day, you might want to shop in the store, but their stock only recovers overnight. This can 
 require you to change your gaming habits as you can't see what Animal Crossing has to offer by 
 playing a 20 hour weekend, instead you are rewarded for taking it easy and just playing for an 
 hour or so each day. Failing to attend to your village for some time will upset your villagers, 
 fill your town with weeds and bring a plague of bugs on your house, this can be a problem depending 
 on your gaming habits. If you're someone who plays your Wii daily already it's probably no big 
 deal to throw in Animal Crossing for a few minutes, personally I find these restrictions better 
 suited to the DS but that's a personal preference. There's a definite draw to returning to the 
 village for a short while each day to see what's new in your town, new people visit, events occur 
 and new items are stocked op on shelves, of course if you connect with a friend then there's a 
 another whole village to explore.
  
  The DS brought the first level of online play but allowing people to visit your town and trade 
 items, City Folk extends the connectivity in a few ways that were sadly missing previously, Downloadable 
 items, Inter-town mailing, and the much touted voice chat using the new Wii Speak. The improvements 
 show that Nintendo were paying attention to what the fans were asking for, of course you still 
 have friend codes, but there are other features clearly learnt from experience, like being able 
 to go to the post office and report an animal who's been taught to swear like a sailor. Some other 
 improvements such as having the animals in your city not lock themselves away when players visit 
 and the option to have 4 characters each with their own house show off the extra capabilities of 
 the Wii, although some restrictions still apply, such as not being able to visit the city or simply 
 design patterns while the doors to your town are open.
  
  You'd expect the city to provide the big changes but sadly you'll find that it's mostly just a 
 refuge for animals that used to set up shop in your village. Gracie (fashion) , Katrina (Fortune 
 Telling) , Shampoodle (hair styles) , Redd (rare goods) and Shrunk (the shrink) are now just a bus 
 ride away whenever you need their obscure services. There are a few new things to do in the city, 
 like shoe shining and exploring the HRA academy, but all of this could of just existed in your 
 current village and is different just for the sake of change.
  
  Since you'll spend a lot of time talking to the AI creatures that live in your town it's fortunate 
 that this is one area of the game that has received a fair bit of attention, even though it's never 
 mentioned. Animals have new lines of dialog and tasks for you to perform, nothing revolutionary 
 but playing games of hide and seek or fishing someone's keys from a river adds some surprise variety. 
 Animals will also talk about the other humans they've met and will occasionally ask you to pass 
 messages across to them, such as "Next time you see Doug remind him to come talk to me about interspecies 
 procreation" or whatever the wacky AI is into. The other animals can keep you entertained for a 
 while but the reason for Animal Crossing to exist is for the multiplayer, whether you're on the 
 same system or using the WiiConnect24 features.
  
  Controls are still a worry to me when a Wii game is released, but fortunately Animal Crossing keeps 
 things pretty basic and simple, sure you can hoist the controller to cast a fishing line or swing 
 a net if you want to, but you'll get the same reaction by simply tapping A. Things control best 
 with a controller/nunchuk configuration rather than simply using a stand alone controller, using 
 the nunchuk to walk around and then using the controller to activate, rather than pointing at the 
 screen to stumble around the town, typing is a lot easier when using a Wii controller rather than 
 scrolling through letters. You also use the Wii controller to paint the patterns which requires 
 a very steady hand, these patterns are also a fine example of how the series hasn't evolved. Sure 
 you can now make designs that allow you to customize the front and back of a shirt but you're also 
 still restricted to the same old basic pallet selections. In this day and age of HDR graphics it's 
 hard to tolerate using a Mario paint style 15 colour pallet.
  
  The monotony of Animal Crossing may not appeal to some, but it can be a great way to keep in contact 
 with family, it sure is easy to get into and if you have some distant relatives who've already 
 picked up a Wii for the bowling and fit then this can be a fun way to keep people together. For 
 those who play by themselves then you'll find Animal Crossing still appeals to the obsessive compulsives 
 that liked the previous games as long as you're not expecting any drastic improvements. There's 
 no NES games (as expected) to play back at your house, no real decisions or choices to make about 
 your life that'll effect anyone else, it's still just a game where you'll do mundane tasks to earn 
 enough money to expand your house so you can fill it with more garbage. In the end you'll either 
 love this or hate it, just don't expect much more than the feeling of an expansion pack over the 
 previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalton800000000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Greatest game ever. It's like having a life inside the game. Selling fish, catching bugs, talking 
 to friends, it is all very fun. they have don many great things to the game like adding the city, 
 being able to go to Rossetti"s hideout, and the different bugs and fish. I played the original animal 
 crossing, it was fun but not as fun as animal crossing city folk. I like how you can upgrade tom 
 nooks store, from nook's cranny, to nook 'n go, and so on. Gracie Grace has a lot of fancy clothes 
 but very very expensive. It is better to shop at tom nooks store. Redd's store always sells counterfeit 
 items like paintings. you never know if he is selling you a real painting or a counterfeit one. you 
 can even make a new flag. mine is the greek flag, and my friend from greece made it for me. i love 
 how you can play with friends over wfc. they can move into your ton and do basically everything 
 you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  I really think its not as bad as it looks. I mean yes it's juist like wild world, but its an addicting 
 game if you like that kind of stuff, though. You see you can basically do anything you can do in 
 real life, dig up fossils or catch bugs and go to the store and your house and stuff. So I think 
 this game is a bit underrated if you ask me. The best part is going to the city. You can take the 
 bus to the city and meet new people and go shopping and see a show and get your fortune told. In 
 certain holidays you can get presents, like a t shirt or something cheap like that. You can also 
 like use your Wii speak and chat with friends over Wi fi  
 I JUST PUT ALL THOSE DOTS THERE BECAUSE THE REVIEW HAS TO BE 800 LETTERS LONG!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysrock981
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk is a great sequel to the past animal crossing games. You go around furnishing 
 your house, making money, filling the museum, hanging out with friends online, and more. There 
 are a few main parts of the game-
  Tom Nooks Store- Tom's store is extremly important. You buy your tools here, get your house from 
 him, and get many of your items like paper, and furniture here. He expands 3 times, making his 
 store larger every expansion!
  The museum- Blathers is the main museum employee. You give her fossils, bugs, fish, and paintings 
 to put in exhibits. Also in the museum you can look at the stars and on Saturday nights @ 8:00PM 
 KK Slider will come to the cafe for a live preformence. 
  The Gate- Here is the most important part of having friends over Wi-Fi in AC: CF. You can open the 
 gate to alow friends in, or to go out. Also you can change Wi-Fi settings. You can also check events 
 in the town, and check the lost and found.
  The City- Take a bus to get to the city. In the city, there's an auction house where you can have 
 auctions with your friends over Wi-Fi. Also there's the HRA, which grades your house. Gracie Grace 
 fashion store (HINT: Everything in here is VERY expensive, so bring a lot of $ if you want to buy 
 something from here) , Shampoodles to get a makover. There's also Dr Shrunk the comedian who isn't 
 funny, but you learn a new emotion move. Then there's Crazy Red. His store isn't open from the 
 start. HINT: Be nice to your nieghbors, if you are they'll invite you to become a member of Crazy 
 Red's store. There's also the Happy Room Academy, where you can join and every sunday, get a rating 
 on your house.
  Town Hall- Here is the post office, and the town center combined in one building. Outside will 
 be a bullitin board telling of special events happening. The town center takes care of problems, 
 and takes donations. HINT: With enough donaiton $ the town will eventually build a bridge, then 
 a fountin, then a lighthouse or windmill. The post office is where you send letters. Inside the 
 town hall, there is also a machine where you pay off your debt to Nook.
  
  The Good- Animal Crossing: CF brings the same animal crossing we've grown to love.
  New things 
 in the game keep it pretty fresh.
  The city is a nice feature.
  The WiiSpeak and visiting towns make Wi-Fi on AC: CF pretty fun!
  
  The Bad-
  AC: CF can seem 
 like a repeat of past games at times.
  If you don't have Wi-Fi, AC: CF would be nothing new for you.
  Prices seem to be extreamly expensive 
 in this version. 
  
  My bottom line- If this is your first animal crossing game, you'll love it! If you've played before, 
 the novelty will not be there as much. But still fun no matter what!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schroeder1764
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  The good:
  - There's always something to do in Animal Crossing, no matter what version (unless, of course, 
 you've gotten every item, participated in every event and won it, donated every item needed for 
 the museum to complete its collections, etc.) There's always new items at Nook's each and every 
 day, there are always different fossils and gyroids to dig up, there are always things to do with 
 your neighbours, and there is always time left to hang out online with your friends and later on, 
 visit the city.
  - While some people say that it's the same as the others, you also have to realize that there are 
 small but very important changes to notice, many of which are great for the game (the addition 
 of the city and all its new buildings, new animals, new items, things you can get when you donate 
 to the town fund, etc.) It's a matter of figuring out what these new bonuses are and enjoying them.
 
  - Now, you don't have to wait for that one day every week or 2 weeks when Redd visits, or that 
 once a month or so when Katrina comes. They're all in the city. While this may now seem too easy 
 for people, it's usually not. Redd still restocks his items only once a week (usually on Wednesdays) , 
 so you won't be getting everything you need from him right away.
  
  The Bad:
  - Gracie Grace: Yes, this may seem like a nice store on the outside, and you can even use a shopping 
 card for it if you have deposited 10k in bells into the bank. But HAVE YOU SEEN THE PRICES!? They're 
 unreal! 120k in bells just for a gorgeous carpet. I mean, come on! Furthermore, she only restocks 
 every season, from what I'm told. Personally, I don't think Nintendo did that great of a job on 
 that one.
  - So far since Christmas, many users have been experiencing problems with their wifi connections, 
 with regards to this game. A Nintendo representative has told me that this is many because of problems 
 on their end with their servers. All the same, problems like this make the game less and less appealing 
 to people who would like to visit their friends' towns and message them and whatnot.
  
  In conclusion, I think Nintendo did a great job with this game. There are a few downsides, but 
 what game doesn't have those? The game may be similar to the old ones, but there are some subtle, 
 new changes which help make the game more interesting and appealing to users like me. I would easily 
 recommend anyone to get this game (and give me their friend code info while they're at it :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SragentThom
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Even going into this game with moderate expectations I still find myself utterly disappointed. 
 As someone who thoroughly enjoyed the Gamecube original (and while not quite as enthusiastic about 
 the DS follow up, I still appreciated what the game had to offer) , I'm quite familiar with the 
 series, to say the least. City Folk  the first fully fledged console sequel  seemed like the 
 opportune moment to update the series and take it forwards into the next generation.
  
  Apparently not.
  
  The sad truth is that the game is nothing more than a slightly enhanced 
 port of Wild World, and the tacked on city is not nearly enough to cover up the utter lack of new 
 content. We all know the formula by now. You've just moved into a brand new town and local store 
 owner Tom Nook has been kind enough to hook you up with your own place to stay. In return, he makes 
 you do menial chores for him to pay off the debt on your new house, eventually upgrading it from 
 a tiny little shack into an impressive mansion, and along the way you'll collect furniture to decorate 
 your pad with.
  
  To earn money you can fish, collect fruit, hunt for insects, or do small errands for your neighbours. 
 Once you've paid off your debt you have the freedom to do pretty much anything you want. There 
 are no clearly cut goals to work towards and the world of Animal Crossing is always alive, whether 
 you're playing or not.
  
  Essentially the structure is identical to Wild World. There are absolutely no new activities to 
 partake in, which is particularly disappointing. It's just the same old routine with nothing new 
 to spice up the experience. Nintendo have also failed to address a few common complaints, such 
 as the limited inventory system. You'll still have to constantly make room for new items, which 
 in this day and age is just unnecessary and outdated.
  
  There are a few little tweaks, though, such as the return of real life holidays from the Gamecube 
 original. I'm sure most will agree that the made up holidays in Wild World were pretty terrible 
 so this is certainly a much appreciated change. NES games are once again absent, although I suppose 
 it's a little more understandable this time as Nintendo don't want to compete with their Virtual 
 Console service.
  
  Of course, a large part of the Animal Crossing experience is the social interaction. And while 
 chatting with your animal neighbours is fun to start with, it soon looses its appeal once you realise 
 they're just saying the same thing over and over. Animals are still limited to a few base personalities 
 (lazy, ditzy, grumpy, etc) which determine what they say, and there's absolutely nothing else to 
 differ them. So chances are your favorite animal probably says the exact same things as one of 
 your least favorite animals. It sort of kills the immersion and it's an issue you would have expected 
 to be addressed by now.
  
  So much of the game has been rehashed from Wild World. All of the buildings (besides the city hall, 
 and a few parts of the museum) and townspeople have literally been copied and pasted directly from 
 Wild World. Take Brewster, for example. He does the exact same animation in the exact same place. 
 K. K. Slider plays in the exact same spot, and the whole room looks exactly the same as it did before. 
 As does every version of Nook's store, and the Able Sisters shop. Nintendo could have at the very 
 least changed where the custom shirts are located or something, but they're in the exact same place. 
 The vast majority of furniture, clothes, fish, bugs, and fossils have also just been copied and 
 pasted over from previous versions. Beyond a few more sets of furniture to collect the amount of 
 new content is minuscule. And while there are a few extras such as the ability to play as your 
 Mii and fully design your own shirt, it's just far too little and doesn't change anything in any 
 sort of remarkable way.
  
  In fact, Nintendo have even gone so far as to reuse the soundtrack, which basically consists of 
 Wild World songs with the odd remix and original track thrown in for the new areas. Why they didn't 
 use the superior Gamecube music, or better yet, completely new music like every other game in existence 
 is beyond my comprehension. Even the little animations when you're stung by a bee or reel in a 
 fish have just been pulled directly from Wild World. I simply can't justify this level of laziness.
 
  
  The biggest new addition to the game, the city, unfortunately lacks any real substance. Perhaps 
 "city" is a misleading name because it's nothing more than a small square surrounded by a few shops 
 and inhabited by the odd wandering animal you can stop and chat with. Sadly, you'll soon realise 
 that all of the places you can visit are just rehashed storefronts from previous games, which definitely 
 cheapens the feel of the place because it essentially offers nothing that you couldn't do before. 
 As a matter of fact, it actually somewhat kills the replay value and incentive to play on certain 
 days, because instead of waiting for certain animals to show up in your town, you can now just 
 go and visit them anytime you want. The city is a concept with great potential but unfortunately 
 the execution is incredibly half-baked. You'll soon tire of everything there is to see and the 
 tedium of having to hop on a bus to visit storefronts which were previously accessible in your 
 own town is sure to annoy. Why can't you get a job to earn some extra cash? The city desperately 
 needed more interactivity, and in its current state it simply seems like a mere afterthought.
 
  
  On a more positive note, the Wii controls work well and naturally make navigating the menus a much 
 more streamlined experience. Much like the stylus, you can use the Wii remote to control your character 
 by pointing at where you want to walk, although I imagine most will just opt for a traditional 
 analog stick instead. You can also use motion based gestures to dig holes and catch fish, but for 
 the most part I found the response to be somewhat inaccurate.
  
  Visually the game remains unchanged. The textures are a little sharper and the character models 
 are smoother, but essentially it looks exactly the same as its predecessors. What looked slightly 
 out of place on the Gamecube now looks utterly outdated on the Wii. After 7 years, it's no understatement 
 to say that the series is in desperate need of a facelift, but unfortunately Nintendo seem perfectly 
 content with using the same N64 graphics over and over. The game runs in 480p and includes a widescreen 
 mode, but these do little to enhance the experience.
  
  The online play is still surprisingly limited to four players, which is a rather baffling design 
 choice when you consider that the towns are quite a bit larger than their Wild World counterparts, 
 and the Wii has substantially more processing power. If you want to visit a friend you once again 
 have to exchange friend codes, enter each others details, and then wait for them to open their 
 town gates. The whole process just feels archaic and clunky. An interesting new addition is the 
 online auction house, but for some bizarre reason it's only limited to people on your friends list, 
 which pretty much kills any potential the feature may have had. It's completely nonsensical because 
 it's much easier to just visit the other person's town rather than go through the entire auction 
 process. It would have been great to bid on items from random Animal Crossing players all around 
 the world, and I can't fathom why Nintendo would impose such an utterly ridiculous limitation.
 
  
  For the most part the online experience is identical to Wild World -- yes, the online is identical 
 to a handheld game released back in 2005. The fact that Nintendo have made no progress since then 
 either shows incredible incompetence or an utter lack of effort. Why doesn't the city function 
 as an online hub where you can meet up with other players? That's the sort of progress the series 
 needs, but it seems Nintendo are just uninterested in delivering anything beyond an absolute barebones 
 experience.
  
  I can't help but wonder what the Animal Crossing team did with all of that development time. In 
 all honesty I wouldn't be surprised to learn that they were just sat there twiddling their thumbs, 
 because nothing in this game suggests otherwise. It doesn't please me to write such a negative 
 review because I sincerely believe that the series has great potential. Unfortunately, City Folk 
 is nothing more than a colossal missed opportunity. Instead of coming up with innovative new ideas 
 to enhance the series, Nintendo have just repackaged Wild World and slapped a $50 price tag on 
 it. A lazy and uninspired rehash indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: busterboots
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  The game is alright but is to easy and stupid. Like I said you sell stuff to this tom guy and he 
 expects you to work until you pay off your mortgage. Then after you pay off the first house tom 
 says ill get you a better roof. Then after the fact he tells you that it costs like $120,000 for 
 a little more room. Probably not one of the best ideas Nintendo has come up with. Especially since 
 it only gets a 7.5 out of ten. While I am at it I will go and buy "Adult Life"
   
 put all the dots because you need to have at least 100 words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohr2
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Well your thinking of getting Animal Crossing: City Folk for the Wii thinking that it's going to 
 be good and OMGWTFBBQ it has a CITY but Gamespot's review is a 7.5=good right? then why the 3? 
 simple IT'S THE SAME
  
  
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  Nintendo 64 graphics NEXT!
  
  
  Sound: 0/10
  
  Firstly the sound effects: well as I said they are the same and the same they 
 are. This is largely accepted on the DS when it was released but on the Wii which has some sweet 
 VO on Metroid prime 3? which came out a YEAR ago but instead it's like a Banjo game but without 
 good music
  
  
  Music: -10/10
  
  WHY WHY WHY WHY? Your screaming thinking why the -10? because there is no music other then crappy 
 midi "town tunes" . 
  Really the sound effects are just huge piles of crap but this? This is SATAN'S CRAP
  
  
  
 Gameplay: 5/10
  
  The only saving grace from this... thing but really it's just the same. Nook forces you to pay off 
 a loan for a huge portion of the game.
  
  
  
  New stuff: 0/10 The new city? just a place where all the special vendors are. New furniture? only 
 a few new ones
  
  
  final thoughts: don't buy this game don't even rent it. I was thinking"hm city folk we get to live 
 in a city" instead we get a square? My score would be -5/10 but i can't go in the negatives so:
 
  
  
  
  Real score: -5/10
  
  The lowest it can go: 1/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2002, Nintendo released a new intellectual property called Animal Crossing. It was a game 
 where you could kick off your feet, relax and enjoy doing absolutely nothing at all. Think of it 
 as a very simple Sims, doing things in the game that you could do in real life. In 2005, Animal 
 Crossing made its way to the DS with very few changes and now in 2008, it's finally on the Nintendo 
 Wii, and the gameplay is now more stagnant than ever.
  
  As with the previous two titles, you start the game by moving into your town. Name your character, 
 name your town, pick where you want to build your house. You meet the mayor, meet all your neighbors, 
 and meet Nook the shopkeeper and loan broker who starts you off with a part time job and home loans 
 that you'll constantly be repaying. It starts off EXACTLY like every Animal Crossing before it. 
 
  
  Once you move in, it's up to you to maintain your town. You'll want to drop in at least a few times 
 a week, because weeds grow that need to be pulled and if no one occupies your house, it will become 
 infested with cockroaches that need to be squished. Flowers tend to dry up, so they need to be 
 watered. Neighbors will move out if you don't drop in and say hi every once a while. Your trees 
 will survive no matter what, but when you first start, there will be tons of trees, and eventually 
 you can buy an axe to chop a few of them down, or buy sapplings in case you want a few more.
  
  What's a town without a town hall? This is the hub of any civic activity. You'll find an ATM 
 where you can manage your savings account and pay off your loans. You'll find a recycle bin where 
 you can dump trash you find, as well as find items that people no longer want. The town hall also 
 shares its space with the post office. You can write letters to any neighbor in town, but if you 
 want to write a letter to someone else's town, you'll need to first visit them or have them visit 
 you. There's a town tune that plays whenever you talk to someone, play an instrument or when the 
 clock rings in a new hour. You can also check for a report on your town's condition. Your goal 
 in that regard is to keep the town maintained as perfectly as possible, which means no weeds, no 
 trash laying about, the right balance of greenery, etc.
  
  You'll also have a general store, which will sell furniture, tools, flowers and tree sapplings. 
 It starts off as a shack called Nook's Cranny, but it will eventually upgrade over time and become 
 bigger and bigger, offering a more diverse inventory. There's also a points system. The more you 
 buy, the more points you get and the more points you get, the higher your rank goes. As your rank 
 goes up, you'll get store discounts and you can trade in your points for rare items. Nook will 
 also offer prices on turnips. Every Sunday, a turnip vendor will arrive selling turnips at a different 
 price each time. Nook's prices will change each day, and if he offers a price higher than you paid 
 the vendor for, you can make a sizeable profit.
  
  The town has a museum, and it starts off completely barren. The museum relies on you to fill it 
 with exhibits, such as fish fished from the river or ocean, fossils that are dug out of the ground 
 (new places to dig appear daily, an incentive to check in every morning) , bugs that are caught 
 and paintings that are found or purchased from a rare items dealer. You can also check out the 
 night sky and make your own constellations in the observatory.
  
  The most important structure in your town is obviously your house. It starts off as a rather small 
 and quaint cottage. When you pay off your first loan Nook gives you, he'll then give you the option 
 to expand your house. You'll go through several upgrades each time, and each time the home loan 
 will increase. It's highly suggested that you work as hard as you can to get these loans paid off 
 quickly so that you can have the maximum space allowed to enjoy filling your house with furniture 
 and other items. 
  
  Your house's appearance is graded by an organization known as the HRA. They give out points based 
 on where you place your furniture, whether you have matching carpet and wallpaper, how many pieces 
 of furniture you have in a set, and how many rare items you have displayed. The game also utilizes 
 Japanese art of feng shui. If you place certain color-themed furniture in corresponding areas of 
 the room, you may notice an increase in your general luck when it comes to finding money or other 
 rare items.
  
  And that's what the entire Animal Crossing series is known for: collectables. You can decorate 
 each level of your house (except for the bedroom for whatever odd reason) with rugs, carpets, wallpapers, 
 tables, chairs, dressers, appliances, etc. Some of them just sit like most furniture does, but 
 others are interactive such as instruments that will play your town's tune, Super Mario Bros. items 
 that animate or make noises, bowling pins that totter., etc. Most everything can be purchased from 
 stores, but some items can only be obtained as gifts in the game by fulfilling a certain condition, 
 or participating in a seasonal event.
  
  There are special events that come in to play depending on what time of year it is, such as Thanksgiving 
 and Christmas. Most of these events, though, are excercises in monotony. Find a special character 
 hiding somewhere in your town, get a present. Find him again, get a present, most likely a duplicate. 
 Repeat ad nauseum. It's probably best that you make a lot of friends online and keep your duplicates 
 so you can trade or sell them to those who don't have them, because you run the risk of driving 
 yourself insane trying to complete the entire set. 
  
  New to the Animal Crossing universe is the city, which the game's subtitle is based upon. The city 
 might seem new, but it actually isn't. It's merely an epicenter for all the special vendors and 
 characters who dropped by at random times in the first two games, so they're now accessible whenever 
 you need them (according to store hours) . There is one new feature, however, and that's the auction 
 house. Here, you can display items you want to sell, or bid for items on display from your friends. 
 The more friends you have, the more items you'll see in the auction house, provided everyone participates.
 
  
  Just as with Wild World, City Folk utilizes Nintendo WFC. You can type short lines of text to people 
 you play with, or if you opted for a copy of the game that came with Wii's new peripheral Wii Speak, 
 you can voice chat for the first time in any Wii game. Unfortunately, Wii Speak is a room microphone, 
 and uses the TV's speakers to deliver voice from the opposite party, meaning everyone in one room 
 will hear what's going on in the other and vice versa. A headset microphone would have preferred.
 
  
  The sad thing about City Folk is that this great potential for an online game has been completely 
 wasted. There are no special activities to engage in when someone's visiting your town. In fact, 
 you become more limited to what you can do when someone's over. You can't donate things to your 
 museum, and you can't pick things up in your house when someone's inside. All you can really do 
 when you're playing with someone online is fish in the same waters, pull weeds together or just 
 trade/sell items. One could think of countless activities that players could partake in, such as 
 tag, or go kart racing, sports, basically anything at all. You can't even take a bus to the city 
 together. The fact that you can't occupy the city together online is just flatout pathetic.
  
  Graphically, there's not an ounce of Wii power being utlized. Not a single thing can be done 
 in this game that can't be done on the GameCube. The artstyle of Animal Crossing is simple in nature, 
 yes, but there's no reason why it couldn't be refined. Super Mario Galaxy is a perfect example 
 of how to take a franchise and make it look the best it can be using the power of the Wii. Basically, 
 what you're going to be looking at with City Folk is nothing more than a polished N64 game and 
 it's just inexcusable. It's even worse when displayed on an HDTV thanks to the game's maximum resolution 
 of 480i.
  
  Audibly, nothing has changed or been improved. The sound effects are exactly the same as they have 
 been since its GC inception. The game has a soundtrack that changes with each hour, and even then 
 every track is precisely the same as the two games before it. It even continues to use the same 
 incredibly high-tempoed gibberish when characters speak to you. This is probably one of those games 
 you may want to just mute the TV and pull out an iPod.
  
  The real shame of this game is that the core gameplay has never deviated in six long years. There 
 might be some who may love that fact, but there are many more who would be expecting Nintendo to 
 finally make improvements or additions, and those who do will be severely let down. There is absolutely 
 nothing new in this aside from an auction house and maybe a few pieces of furniture here and there. 
 Even so, collecting something you haven't seen before doesn't change the gameplay a single bit. 
 Again, some people may love Animal Crossing for what it is, but that does not justify paying full 
 price for the same game three times. Nintendo has shown to consumers that they are becoming complacent 
 this generation, and Animal Crossing: City Folk is their most crowning example. What a waste, Nintendo. 
 What a waste.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  So, from first glance everyone will say "This is exactly the same as Animal Crossing for the Game 
 Cube!" I felt cheated! Ha ha.
  
  But actually, after I sunk my teeth in, i really found out that Animal Crossing: City Folk is a 
 brand new game with just the old charm!
  
  The game is run by the time in the world, holidays in real life are holidays in Animal Crossing, 
 it even goes down to the time of day, pretty neat! 
  
  There's a lot of things that Nintendo does right in Animal Crossing. Firstly, it's truly very funny 
 (Me and my mom and dad play this, it's got something for everybody) . The characters are fun, the 
 responses you're set up with are also fairly witty and whenever you catch a fish, your character 
 makes a pun! Oh ha ha, how adorable!
  
  Secondly, the graphics aren't that great, but the consistency in the game is amazingly accurate! 
 anything you do will and can be remembered by the non player characters, which is nice, and if 
 you don't sign on for a while the other characters know that you haven't been in town for a while.
 
  
  And lastly, there are a lot of fun little things to do, catching fish and bugs, digging fossils, 
 and finding that good ol' money rock!
  
  All in all, I like this game a lot, I think there's something in this game for everybody who plays 
 it, it defiantly has charm! And is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradMaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is loyal to it's fans and stay true to the series. The basic gameplay is the same as always, 
 go to a new town, get a new house and from there start off however you like. 
  
  You start in a bus along with the same cat as always. You give him your name and the town's name, 
 then you arrive at town. After that you have to go to the Town Hall, then pick the house you want, 
 now the four houses are scattered around the town, located in different places. You get to pick 
 the one you like the most. Instead of having a mansion for all players (as in Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World) you get to a separated house for each character similar to the ones in the first game 
 in the series for the Gamecube. After you pay the loan you will get an expansion, keep paying it 
 off and you'll get another expansion. You can do so until your house ends up with a huge room as 
 first floor, a second floor with another room, the attic and the basement. After you pick the house 
 you get a part-time job from Nook and after that it's up to you how your going to play.
  
  Some new additions are in the game. There is now a city, where you will find various new stores, 
 and old ones like reds, the fortune teller and the shampodle. There is now an auction house, the 
 happy room academy now get's its own place where a house from a player. Lyle the owner of HRA evaluates 
 all rooms in town for every connected player on Wii Connect 24 and in your town, then that rooms 
 is displayed proudly as a model room. There's a new store called GracieGrace which sells rare but 
 expensive items and clothes. Kicks' Shoeshinery is a new addition also, he changes the color and 
 style of your shoes to go with your clothes. There's Marquee where you can pay 800 bells to see 
 Dr. Shrunk perform and then you can learn various emotions from him, and finally Resseti Surveillance 
 Center, witch doesn't has anything to do but freak Ressetti out.
  
  The game also has new clothes, accessories, fish, insects, furniture, wallpaper and flooring. The 
 fruits stayed the same as always, and new villager are available too. The game now has Nintendo 
 themed clothes and accessories, from Metroid to the Zelda series. If you were wondering about the 
 events, then I'm glad to tell you that new events are in the game. All the stuff and features from 
 previous games are available in this one too. You can even move your character from the Animal 
 Crossing Wild World game to this one. Now you get stuff added to your town for donating bells, 
 you get a new bridge and even a new lighthouse or windmill if you donate a lot of bells.
  
  The game has a wide array of new features and stuff along with improved graphics and visuals, and 
 is sure to hook you up for some long hours of gaming, but still this game is not for everyone. 
 If you like action packed games, but you never liked innovative games that don't have any action 
 in them then don't consider this game. Rent it first before getting it and see if you like it instead. 
 This is an awesome game that I would like to recommend to everyone, if your unsure about it, do 
 as I said before, rent it, and you'll see if the style fits you, but above all give it a try you 
 won't regret it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmdragon97
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Definitely the best in the truly wonderful series of animal crossing games. The main thing about 
 these games is that in a weird way it is not a game at all, and is more a recreation of your own 
 life... in a way! The best thing about animal crossing for me is the huge, huge, huge, and i mean 
 huge selection of clothes,  ETC. only problem and i severely 
 emphasise the word ONLY!!! Is that every animal crossing game to date has been exactly the same, 
 in one way or an other such as; they all have the same objectives, and goals and encounter only 
 very subtle changes. Although there is one big improvement, of which is the brand new city. Usually 
 players will find themselves in a small and lovely town on the outskirts living their lives to 
 the full!! But now if they fancy some more down to earth happenings in the city with exclusive 
 brand new shops... They can!!! So on a whole the best game not only in the series but on the wii 
 altogether, one more teeny tiny problem; oldschool gamers of the series and huge fans may be too 
 realistic and too far away from the basic point of the game... Other than that please enjoy a truly 
 great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Story
  Well, in this game there is no story in this game. You do what you want to do. Tom Nook builds 
 you a house, and you have to pay off the mortgage. After you do so, he will offer to make your 
 house bigger, you pay that mortgage, and so on.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is where City Folk takes the cake. The game starts off with you picking one of four houses 
 to live in. Once you find the one to live in Tom Nook will approach you and tell you that the mortgage 
 of your new home in 19,000 bells (the currency in Animal Crossing) . Since you don't have any money 
 to begin with (assuming you didn't "move" from your DS) he'll allow you to do some odd jobs to 
 cut your mortgage payment down to 18,400 bells. There is no set time to have your mortgage paid 
 off so you really don't have to worry about it. Tom Nook also owns a store that you can buy things 
 for your home such as furniture, carpet, wall-paper, roof-paint, etc. He also sell stuff like trees 
 and flowers, along with tools to help out with daily life like watering cans, timers, axes, fishing 
 rods, bug nets, shovels, and slingshots. Now, everything that I've listed does cost money. You 
 earn money by selling stuff at Nook's shop. You can sell fish, bugs, and fossils. You can also 
 donate these to a museum. But the kicker is..... it is the same as the past two of them!!! : ( 
 
  
  Animal Crossing is all about sommunication so it is important to maintain a good relation ship 
 with your neighbors. You can do this by sending them letters, doing stuff for them, and above all, 
 being nice to them.
  
  City Folk introduces a new area in the Animal Crossing franchise called, "The City." There are 
 many new shops in the city such as GracieGrace, the HRA, Shampoodle's, Redd's newshop, Katrina 
 has a shop, An auction house, and a theatre.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  City Folks graphics are hard to describe. They are the same old Animal Crossing graphics, but sooo 
 much better at the same time. The color and lighting that they use in this hame are amazing. In 
 other words, best-in-series.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  The control in City Folk is way better than that of Wild World it is not even funny. The addition 
 of motion control when fishing, bug-catching, and wood-chopping is great. Good job Nintendo.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  UGH, it is the exact same as in Wild World. It is okay at first, but then it just begins to soun 
 like bathwater (after a little bit you just stop hearing it at all) . I believe that this is City 
 Folk's greatest downfall.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  A great game that is fun for all ages. I reccomend this to anyone who hasn't picked up a Wii game 
 in a while, and is waiting for "the next big thing". Trust me, it will make the time pass by a 
 bit quicker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lando5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk is a decent game, if not a little bit of the same thing. But, if the 
 great formula isn't broke, why fix it?
  
  From the start, I was happy. I could import my character from Wild World into City Folk. That made 
 my day right there.
  
  My first few hours in town seemed like deja vu. Same chores for Tom Nook, villagers you could recognize 
 from previous games, etc. However, I was happy in that the player's houses were spread randomly 
 throughout the town. That made an interesting addition.
  
  Playing more and more, I have found what I've already seen in the previous two Animal Crossing 
 games. The same basic "to-do" things are here: fish, catch bugs, donate to the museum, go shopping 
 at Tom Nook's store, and make friends with neighbors. Going to the city is a fun addition, but 
 it feels a little tacked-on to the main gameplay.
  
  The graphics and sound get my high marks. The graphics are just brushed up from previous games, 
 but small changes make a big difference. The sounds, too, are from older games, but they sound 
 great on the Wii.
  
  Even if you've played Animal Crossing before, I would definitely recommend picking up City Folk. 
 I might have sounded hard on the game, but it's probably the best game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaRoy121
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Another addition to the Animal Crossing series, Animal Crossing City Folk is just more of the same 
 Animal Crossing fun. The game is alike to it's prequels but has new additions too. The graphics 
 are nice but the music may get on your nerves. With additions of new bugs and fish many fishermen 
 and bug catchers will enjoy this game more than Wild World and the original Animal Crossing. With 
 Wi-Fi and the City this game is really enjoyable. You'll probably be playing it for months. PROBABLY. 
 The auction house is an enjoyable part of the game. There you buy items that people put up for 
 auction on Wi-Fi. There you can get many rare items that you can't find at Redd's or Nook's. It's 
 like Animal Crossing's version of ebay. Shampoodle is the new haircut shop. Now instead of waiting 
 for Nook to upgrade his shop to get a haircut you can just take a free bus to the city. The downside 
 is that the haircut is random. Gracie Grace is a shop run by Gracie. The clerk is supposedly the 
 Able Sisters' 3rd sister. That place is a lot of money though. In total I give this game a 9.0. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppita001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the first animal crossing video game I 'd played. It is so awesome! The most amazing game 
 I played on the wii. It just has a little something extra that glues your hands on the wii mote 
 for hours. I really love how the people in the game, well actually animals, in the game are so 
 cute. I could stare at them for hours. I love how they look. Its so cool how you can design and 
 buy clothes and put them on your character. They look adorable. I really recommend this game. At 
 first the game was a bit boring to me until I found out you can do really cool stuff such as my 
 favourites bug catching, fossil hunting and fishing. So cool. I also love the events, really fun. 
 Even when the game was boring at first, my hands were still glued to the wii mote. I just couldn't 
 let go. I think the game could of improved by, having a lot of neighbours, more than just one city 
 (would be cool if we can go out in the country) and if money was a little easier to make. I find 
 it quite difficult to get money. What an awesome game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way first so that there's no confusion. If you owned the GameCube version 
 of Animal Crossing then this Wii sequel is more of an update than a proper, brand new game. Your 
 enjoyment of it will depend on whether you don't mind going through many of the same tasks again, 
 and how much you'll make use of the game's Wi-Fi features. As a result, the majority of this review 
 is mainly for the benefit of those who didn't have Animal Crossing on the GameCube, since for them 
 Let's Go To The City will feel like a much newer experience.
  
  In case you're not familiar with the Animal Crossing series and have played neither the GameCube 
 game nor its DS sequel, allow us to fill you in. Animal Crossing is a life simulation game in which 
 you take control of a character who's recently moved to a new town. After finding a house and meeting 
 the neighbours, you pretty much have free reign to do whatever you want in the village: go fishing, 
 design clothes, buy and sell goods... there's a wide variety of options available to you.
  
  Stop, Nook, Listen
  At the start of the game, after choosing a house, you're given employment 
 at Nook's Cranny, a shop run by the local raccoon shopkeeper Tom Nook. As in previous versions 
 of the game, you're given a few tasks to do in exchange for some money that goes towards your mortgage 
 (which must be paid off before you can make your house bigger) . However, these tasks are virtually 
 identical to those in the other versions of the game: plant some flowers outside the shop, deliver 
 a carpet, write an ad on the town's noticeboard and so on. At this point you'd be forgiven for 
 thinking that this was simply the GameCube game with pointer controls tacked on.
  
  Thankfully, as the game progresses it becomes clear that it actually has a lot more going for it. 
 Although it always feels like little more than an enhanced version of its older brothers, these 
 enhancements do improve the experience. Whether it's subtle improvements (like being able to swap 
 between tools by simply pressing left and right on the D-Pad instead of having to go into a menu 
 and equip them) or more obvious ones (such as the online features and the new city area) , everything 
 that's been added to the game will make you think "ah, nice one".
  
  Naturally, the main addition to Let's Go To The City is the new city area, which can be accessed 
 by going to the bus stop at your town's front gate. It's not really a city as such, just a small 
 plaza area with nine different services available to you. That said, it's a cheery little place 
 which makes a pleasant change from the typical Animal Crossing surroundings. It's also a great 
 way to meet other characters in the game, because anyone who doesn't live in your town can be found 
 walking around the city or inside its shops at random moments.
  
  
  Bright Lights, Big City
  While it's a bit limited, the city does include some interesting shops 
 that become more useful as you play the game more and start racking up the big bucks. Shops like 
 Gracie Grace and the auction house aren't very useful at the start of the game, but once you've 
 got a lot of bells in your account you'll be able to start buying expensive furniture and bidding 
 on rare items. It's a nice way of adding to the game's longevity while also giving you another 
 goal to aim for (one day we'll buy that Sweets Table in Gracie Grace, even if it is 120,000 bells) .
 
  The city also allows you to get a haircut whenever you feel like it (or exchange your Animal Crossing 
 face for a Mii one) , get your shoes shined, learn new emotions (handy for online chats) , get your 
 fortune told and visit the Happy Room Academy to see how to improve your house's dcor.
  
  As well as the city, the game's other big selling point is the wide range of online features available. 
 Up to three other people can visit your village at the same time, and you can make use of the Wii 
 Speak microphone (which is available as part of a bundle with the game) in order to have voice 
 chat with them. Security isn't really a problem because, as you'd expect, you need to trade Friend 
 Codes with someone before they can visit your town or talk to you.
  
  Making The Link
  There are other little bits and pieces that make use of the Wii's Wi-Fi connection, such as the 
 ability to take a photo at any point by pressing the 1 button then saving it to an SD card so you 
 can send it to a mate using the Wii Photo Channel. There's also the promise of free downloadable 
 content, which in theory should keep the game constantly fresh (much like Mario Kart Wii's competitions 
 do) , but of course at the time of writing we couldn't test this since Nintendo had yet to make 
 any content available for download.
  
  
  Then there's the auction house, located in the city, where you can place rare items up for auction 
 and have other people compete to make bids for it in a sort of Animal Crossing version of eBay. 
 
  
  In another nice touch, seasonal holidays have returned to the game, having been absent from the 
 DS title. This means on Halloween you can find Jack and give him some candy to get some special 
 furniture, on Christmas Eve you can get presents from Jingle the reindeer and on Valentine's Day 
 you may get a letter from a female resident with a gift in it. Which would be romantic if they 
 weren't all from rabbits and hippos and stuff, and the thought of having any sort of romantic relationship 
 with them didn't seem wrong in every possible way. Before any cynics start thinking "big deal, 
 Halloween and Christmas Eve were in the GameCube game too", there are also some new holidays that 
 are appearing for the first time in an Animal Crossing game such as Easter (or Bunny Day, as it's 
 known in the game) and a carnival which comes to the town.
  
  Whether or not Animal Crossing: Let's Go To The City is worth buying depends entirely on your previous 
 experience of the series. It seems that the game isn't really aimed at those who owned the GameCube 
 version of Animal Crossing. Indeed, if you owned the GameCube and DS titles then you may not feel 
 that a city area and a few new online features are enough to justify buying a third version of 
 the game, since much of it is the same. That said, we fall into this category and the Wii version 
 has taken over our lives all over again.
  
  
  If you owned the DS game but never had the GameCube one then it's a different story. Nintendo clearly 
 wants DS owners to see the Wii version as an upgrade, as many of the TV and magazine ads Nintendo 
 is releasing to promote the game make a big deal of the ability to copy over your character and 
 possessions from the DS game so you can continue playing the Wii game from where you left off. 
 As a result, if you're a DS owner treating the Wii version as an upgrade then we have no problems 
 recommending Let's Go To The City to you. You'll certainly find enough here to keep you happy, 
 such as the return of numerous Cube features (which will of course feel new to you) and the enhanced 
 graphics which blow the DS visuals out of the water.
  
  Naturally, however, the people who will get the most out of the game will be those who have never 
 played an Animal Crossing game before. If you fall into this category and the game is guaranteed 
 to be an entirely new experience then it's one of the most essential Wii games out, and one of 
 the most involving games you'll ever play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokefreak113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  City Folk is one of the few games out there to fully compensate the users creativity. Sure, it 
 is much like Wild World, but many new features (Point-based Nintendo itens) keep the balance. This 
 game is one of the very few out there that allows you to do things your own way. Not many other 
 games do that.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.0
  MUSIC: 7.5
  GRAPHIC UPDATE: Minor
  
  Sure, most would say "been there, done that". I would, if the game weren't so damn great! It's 
 virtually impossible to run out of things to do, from paying your debt to bug catching to earning 
 Majora's Mask. I can't think of one bad thing to say about it, try as I might.
  
  I may have only rented this game, but it is addicting and I'm buying it once I get the chance. 
 And Christmas is just around the corner!
  
  If you've played Animal Crossing before, you'll love this. If you're new to the series, try Wild 
 World first. Liking it will allow bonuses in City Folk.
  
  So if you're a good boy or girl, Jingle the Reindeer will come and bring you presants. One of them 
 might be Animal Crossing: City Folk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefanatic544
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The last game for Animal Crossing was Wild World for the DS. And a few years later, Animal Crossing: 
 City Folk was released for the Wii! The game couldn't be on a better platform than the Wii. The 
 graphics are better, and the Map is twice as big! You can also use Motion Controls to do things 
 like fishing, bug catching, and digging things up, although just using the standard "A" button 
 is much more proficient. 
  The major differences between this and Wild World is the City. To get to the city, you have to 
 go to the bus stop (which is in front of your front gate) , after a while the bus will come to pick 
 you up, and after some barely understandable talk from the Bus Driver, you'll be at the City. Now, 
 the city has many things to do from: buying clothes at Gracie Grace, to getting your fortune told 
 buy a cat. Now most of the things you can do in the city are basically the same you could do in 
 Wild World, just not in one centralized location. There are some new places which are worth mentioning 
 however which are: The Auction House, The Marquee, and the Fortune Teller's shop. 
  In the Auction House you can put things up for bid, or you can bid on items yourself. The major 
 flaw with this however, is that you have to have someone else's Friend Code in order to do this. 
 In The Marquee you pay 800 Bells to watch a comedy performance (hah, I'm good aren't I?) , earning 
 you e-motes. In the Fortune Teller's shop you can get your Monthly Charm or your Daily Fortune 
 for 100 Bells. Aside from the City you can do everything you did in Wild World. 
  Unfortunately, City Folk is too much like Wild World. Because aside from the City, there isn't 
 really anything different you can do. The similar feeling is what made me give this game a "7.5". 
 I recommend this game to anyone who likes Animal Crossing, at it is still a great game to play. 
 People who have never played an Animal Crossing game and is interested in it should definitely 
 get this one, because you can't compare the similarities with Wild World, thus making it a more 
 enjoyable experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fragments__
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  So been there, done that?
  Devoted fans everywhere are outraged.
  How can someone say that about there precious game.
  
  With ease. I, as a former devote-ee, 
 spent my fair share on this game and was VERY disappointed. Its the same exact game as the DS looking 
 good on the wii with an extension.
  To be fair, the city itself isnt too shabby. And i am loving the Mii feature.
  But still it lacks 
 substance for me.
  
  Im someone who likes to feel a sense of achievement, and my idea of that is not by having a pristene 
 house perfectly decorated with the finest furnishings and garnishes. Im not a housewife.
  Dont get me wrong, i enjoy the idea. Fishing, in particular, i enjoy. Because i happen to be lucky 
 with it.
  But i spend my day cleaning and making sure my own house looks acceptable to unexpected visitors 
 after my shift.
  I wanna a game to escape into, not remind me terribly.
  
  Although my partner seems to thoroughly enjoy it...
  ........ then again, he does love housework! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manocanada
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been an animal crossing fan since it first came out on the game cube. Animal crossing is 
 suck a strange game, that it is fun. You are the only human in a town full of all sorts of animals 
 (that can talk in jebirsh) that are your neighbors. The point of the game is to earn money to pay 
 off your house. If you have played Animal Crossing recently on the Game Cube or DS i do not recommend 
 this game unless you are a die hard fan. It's great if you have not played the recent animal crossings 
 to the ground. There are some new things like new fish, bugs, and fossils. The city part of the 
 game is disappointing, it dose not have anything worth doing. You could stay in your town and not 
 ever notice that there is a city on this game. You also have more customization, with your character 
 and house. It is a fun game, but i warn you if you have played animal crossing recently on the 
 other systems you are wasting your cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllMetroids
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty much like Wild World but with the new city added to it.
  You pretty much do the same thing day after day: either go fishing catch some bugs buy some stuff 
 donate fossils that sorta thing. The events kinda switch it up a little but they dont come often 
 enough and they arent that great.
  I wouldn't recommend this game unless you have never played animal crossing or if you have wi-fi. 
 So if you got wi-fi buy, never played before buy. With wi-fi you can go to a friends town and buy 
 their stuff take the fruit plant it at your town chop some trees. The main thing in this game is 
 just making your house the best it can be. There is this thing called HRA (Happy Room Academy) who 
 will give you points depending on where you furniture is what kind you have that kind of thing. 
 Nintendo is said to be giving away free things through wi-fi but nothing has come yet. This game 
 would be a lot better though if there was a bigger town because its small but you can donate money 
 to add new things.
  
  Well that's all this is my first review and I hope this helps you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WindowXP22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is so cool, i cannot wait to get this game for Christmas! There is nothing i can say 
 about this game because i feel that this game deserves a 10 out of 10 because i like this game 
 that i will play it all day and every day.
  I have also think the wii speak opion is a good thing too.
  Animal Crossing: City Folk's gameplay 
 is built upon the gameplay of previous Animal Crossing games. The Wii Remote pointer and motion 
 controls can be used for handling tools, such as axes, fishing rods and bug-catching nets. [1] Also, 
 players live in individual houses spread apart from each other, unlike Animal Crossing, in which 
 all four houses are located in a central plaza, and Animal Crossing: Wild World, in which all players 
 share one house. Each town has 6 animal villager residents when the game first begins, and the 
 maximum number of villagers by the end is 10. In previous iterations of Animal Crossing, the player 
 is only able to customize clothes as a whole; in City Folk, players can now customize the front, 
 back and the sleeves of clothes if they choose; these are called "Pro" designs.
  
  The player will be able to celebrate as time progresses several real world holidays, such as Christmas 
 Eve, Christmas Day, Thanksgiving, Fourth of July, Easter and Halloween, although they are named 
 differently in the game itself. [2] Holiday-associated characters from previous games return, as 
 well as new additions such as Zipper T. the Easter Bunny, Pav (a peacock who celebrates "Festivale") , 
 and Nat (a chameleon who hosts the "Bug-off") .
  
  
  [edit] City 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-lewiis
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is one of the staple games of the Nintendo franchise, not as big as Mario or Pikachu, 
 but higher u than Nintendogs or Kawashima. The object of the game is simple, live an idyllic life 
 in a village. Of course 'ideal' needs hard work. Nintendo has fallen over at that bit. This is 
 the third game in the series and is merely an update rather than a better game. With Wild World 
 there was the addition of Wi-fi and much improved graphics, as well as updates to the museum, and 
 a few new bugs and items. That was okay, but the major thing that made it such a thrill was the 
 fact it was portable, so you could be snuggled in bed at 1am, not being able to sleep, boot up 
 your DS and find a friendly place to do some late fishing. With that element gone, Nintendo needed 
 to work extremely hard to surpass the Gamecube incarnation. This is a total failure to that. 
 
  
  Fans have been screaming for years what they want with the game, and they are simple requests, 
 such as new environment features like bushes and hedgerows, new fruit and more special little gems 
 like the tents and igloo's of the original. Nintendo has improved on Wild World, but to be honest, 
 I'm not all that certain that they've even surpassed that, yes the graphics are better and the 
 holidays are back (though not all of them) , and there's a city which, as an oxymoron is for some 
 reason smaller than a town. This game likes to screw with convention. Next game will be set in 
 a Hamlet with Skyscrapers.
  
  Whilst mentioning the holidays, the reason the majority of them were absent was due to the idea 
 of making the game culturally neutral and, on a smaller degree due to the smaller amount of memory 
 a DS cartridge is bundled with. A console game has as much memory and vaster programming capabilities 
 than a stamp sized cartridge, yet many things such as 'morning aerobics' and 'lighthouse watch' 
 are missing, as well as a number of old villagers. There is no real reason to justify this, other 
 than to say Nintendo has just been plain lazy this time round.
  
  Whilst we're at it, each villager that has survived the abyss of the cutting room floor, has a 
 worrying less amount of interaction than in previous games, an observation to note is the way many 
 villagers simply stare into open space, emulating zombies. At times I have wondered if I were playing 
 Resident Evil. Add to that the villagers have a pathetic amount of dialogue (the number of times 
 that crocodile has told me he has a headache is nauseating) . 
  
  On the plus side, the graphics have been a massive improvement from previous titles, looking far 
 crisper and cleaner, and Nintendo has added a handful of new bugs and fish, such as lobsters. The 
 city is a nice touch, if somewhat ambitiously titled, Gracie Grace being a nice touch, and is an 
 interesting challenge to see if you can buy one of everything before they sell out in 3 months, 
 although this comes with the disappointment that Gracie has been all but written out, making pointless 
 cameo's in her shop from time to time.
  
  The additions that have been made are a beautiful touch to the game, and do add to the gameplay 
 potential, as you can show off the fruits of your labour, by flaunting a full bit of kit based 
 on Link or Samus, or go fishing by the welcomely returned lighthouse. All these 'upgrades' are 
 expensive and obtained from separate sources, meaning you'll be dishing out bells for months before 
 you get them, which adds much needed longevity to a game like this.
  
  Able's addition of a 'pro' design now means you can make totally custom kit for your wardrobe, 
 meaning any football fans can make a replica of their favorite teams colours. It's sometimes the 
 small touches you like the best, another being the addition of a brand new type of flower, carnations. 
 Even Rafflesia fans need not wait for their town to flood with weeds, as one can be freely observed 
 in the town museum.
  
  The game has both strengths and weaknesses, and is more of a hybrid than anything else, with good 
 points and bad points of previous games. For first time players, this is a must, but veterans will 
 no doubt feel somewhat letdown that their pleas for attention to detail have been ignored.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Best in series!!!!!!! First day I played it for 3:07!!!!!!! If you have not played a AC [like me] 
 you should get it 100% It's great for relaxing if you have lots of hard intense games and you wanna 
 relax it's the game for you. it's really fun!!!!!!!!!! why not get it no reason!!!!!!!! So if you 
 don't get it you are a nerd!!!!!!!! So get it if you gave a Wii !!!!!!! So you basically start 
 of in a bus make a name for you and your town and then get off in your town with no cash [ witch 
 are called bells ] and then Tom Nook a raccoon gives you a house and you pay it off. Then your 
 off the took and you can fish bug catch and dig. You can shake trees for fruit and ext. So this 
 game rules get it!!!!!!!! Even if you have all the games and you aren't bored and you don't need 
 a rest get it!!!!!!!! By Nick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thaymez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I feel like the gameplay is better than on the ds in the sense that you can change items much faster 
 with the D-pad on the wii-mote. Also the presents don't go flying through faster than hell in this 
 one so you can actually grab it.
  
  As far as new content goes, it seems like there is a lot but still to get stuff can still take 
 a very long time, not that this is a bad thing. The city is kind of bland with not very much to 
 do there. Red doesn't upgrade very often, maybe once a week. Over all theres not much ore to do 
 beside start paying more of your mortgage off all over again. 
  
  The online content is about the same as well and it is very irritating to use the wii mote to type. 
 I suggest getting the mic for this one. Also it's still a pain in the ass to find friends. I suggest 
 if you like to play online then go to the friend code forum for Animal crossings write here at 
 gamespot. It seems to be the easiest way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing has always been one of those Nintendo charmers that keeps me coming back, because 
 there's always something new happening every time you power your console and play it. City Folk 
 is basically an updated port of the DS game with some interesting new features and the tried-and-true 
 charm you've come to expect.
  
  Much like the Animal Crossings before it, you play as a miniaturized munchkin avatar of yourself 
 starting a whole new life in a town populated by animals. Then ... well, do whatever you feel like 
 doing, but not before you have to work part-time at Tom Nook's store, of course (he has it in for 
 you in every Animal Crossing game -- there's just no escaping his wrath.) Although somewhat humiliating, 
 the crummy part-time employment opportunity is a small tutorial of some of the stuff you get to 
 do in the game. Afterwards, you're free to live your life in your little town -- how you choose to 
 enjoy it is entirely up to you.
  
  The controls for City Folk are, of course, the Wii remote and the Nunchuck as you'd expect it to 
 be. However, I found that this control scheme in particular makes item management a lot easier, 
 since you don't have to fumble with the D-Pad when you're equipping items and such. Just point 
 and click. You can even equip, swap and remove items on the fly by simply using the cross-key pad 
 on your remote without ever having to navigate the menu -- one less headache to worry about. Moving 
 around in the world is quite easy, although at times I have had minor trouble getting doors to 
 open and moving furniture around, but in time, you grow accustomed to it.
  
  Of course, there's quite a bit of things to do in City Folk. Like past games, you've got your very 
 own house which you can customize with furniture Tom Nook sells at his store among other things, 
 and as you pay your mortgage, your crib gets bigger so you can store more STUFF. How cool is that? 
 In addition, you can dig up fossils, catch insects, fish and find seashells bn the seashore. Fossils, 
 fish and bugs can be brought to the Museum so you can amass an enormous collection -- a great activity 
 for gamers of the completist nature (like me) . You can make animal friends in your town -- many of 
 whom come and go as time progresses. City Folk is a much friendlier and welcoming environment, 
 and its residents are a lot nicer and more polite this time around. Compare that to the GameCube 
 version where most of them tend to view you as somewhat of a stupid uncultured lout, are simply 
 ill-mannered and rude, treat you like a piece of gum scraped from under their coffee table or just 
 don't like you. A friendlier environment makes for more rewarding and fun gameplay where you actually 
 want to get to know your neighbors rather than trying to be friends with someone who sticks you 
 with filthy hand-me-downs and matter-of-factly reminds you of your insolence. Having nice neighbors 
 and living in social harmony -- Isn't that what Animal Crossing is all about?
  
  One of the most interesting new features in City Folk is as the name suggests -- visiting the City! 
 There, you can get a complete Mii makeover (which I think is the best part!) , watch a theater show 
 to learn emotes, buy stuff you can't find in Tom Nook's place (at economy-breaking prices, no doubt) 
 , and even get your shoes shined. You can meet new animal people with each visit -- some of them 
 might even move in to your town. Trust me when I tell you -- the City is a real fun place to visit 
 every so often. I wish the city could have been a little bigger than it is with more to explore 
 and such, but eh -- it's got enough charm to warrant repeat visits. 
  
  And, of course, what would Animal Crossing be without online, social networking? (Animal Crossing 
 for the GameCube, that's what!) Like Wide World before it, you have the opportunity to have friends 
 from far and wide come visit your town, or you going to visit theirs, with Nintendo Wi-Fi and Friend 
 Codes. And it's not just for the sole purpose of talking and exploring one another's digs -- you 
 can gather valuable fruits, items and other things to bring to your own town (in the case of fruits, 
 you can grow fruit from different towns as trees in your own soil, maximizing profits) The Wii 
 Speak microphone accessory takes chatting one step further, allowing people to communicate by simply 
 using the sound of their voice. I found this to be a neat feature when playing with a friend of 
 mine, and it's almost as if he was there in the room with me. In many cases, it's much more livelier 
 than a keyboard, but there's also that option if you choose not to use the Wii Speak, and that's 
 perfectly fine, too. 
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: City Folk isn't ashamed of being what it is -- a fun, casual life-simulation 
 game that has plenty to offer and new things to discover every day that you play it. And the world 
 continues to evolve even with the Wii shut down, so it's never the same game twice. If you loved 
 Animal Crossing, you'll really like this game. If you haven't tried it before, here's your chance 
 to move in and make yourself comfortable.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pvspartan36
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk capitalizes on the same addictive gameplay that the original Animal 
 Crossing and Animal Crossing: Wild World had, and this makes this, for many players, a return to 
 common. Luckily, there are some new things that are worth checking out.
  The cartoony graphics aren't anything special. They will seem horrible to your average PS3 junkie, 
 but to those willing to open their minds to it and to previous Animal Crossing players, the graphics 
 will seem delightfully charming.
  The gameplay is really nothing new, which is one of the unfortunate things here. As the lone human 
 in your quaint town full of animal residents, you can buy a house, decorate it, and sell some stuff 
 for money among other things. Nothing in the game is really extremely expensive (not most stuff, 
 anyway.) and the things you can sell range from tree fruit, which replenishes every day, to sea 
 shells, which replenish every few hours, to fish and bugs, which can always be caught. Once you 
 get enough money you can pay of your mortgage to upgrade your house, or you can check out the city.
 
  The city is more of a side quest than a large new feature, but it is still pleasant. Learning 
 emotions can be done at Dr. Shrunk's theatre, Crazy Redd can be visited any time without a password, 
 or you can visit Gracie Grace for some rare and rather expensive items. (7,000,000 bells for a 
 couch?!) Several other past characters have set up shop as well, so be sure to visit.
  Some other new features that make the game more enjoyable: the control pad can now be used to swap 
 between tools or put them away; Custom designed shirts at the Able Sisters' can now have separate 
 designs for the front, back, and sleeves; and lots of new holidays, characters, furniture, bugs, 
 fossils, and fish.
  As usual, some people may write off Animal Crossing as nothing more than a tech demo, but please: 
 don't judge until you've actually experienced the addictive nature of Animal Crossing: City Folk. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantorch95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk is abit like the other installments but the city makes it different. 
 The city has a couple of stores but the fancy new shop is the opposite of cheap. Here's my review!
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Same storyline again. At the start you get a new house, then you work for Nook, make money, pay 
 off loan, and expand. The only thing that is different is the city. Also at the beginning you can 
 download your DS game and start playing from there. All of the items (shovel, fishing rod, net, etc.) 
 are back and there is some new furniture. Over all it's just the same gameplay as before.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics are a mix of the original AC with the over head scrolling from 
 AC: WW and with a sharper quality . When you catch a bug or fish it looks realistic better than 
 the DS version. 
  
  Sounds: 7
  The same music as in AC: WW. You still have the annoying squeaky voice when the animals talk but 
 luckily you can turn it off (yay) . Theres still the town tune that plays when you talk to someone.
 
  
  Online Play:
  Online play is fun if you have lots of friends that can come and visit. Also with online play you 
 can use the auction house in the city.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  It's nice and fun with some newer things but really too much of the same stuff from the previous 
 installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhg53
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk brings back the DS version of Ac but with a few changes that you don't 
 really see at first. The city is a big one. There you can do a lot of things you would have to 
 do just hopeing the person would show up in your town. There is also a fancy new shop that sets 
 new standers on the amount of bells you need for shopping. On to the review!
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Same old same old. You, the the start, get a new house, work of Nook, pay it off, 
 and expand. Repeat. So what's new? Well like I said before the city. Also you can download you 
 DS game and start from there in terms of playing. There is a new control set up that lets you use 
 your items like the fighing rod and net just by pressing a button. You just scroll through all 
 you items and look for the one you want use it and you can put it back. Over all it's just the 
 same gameplay as before.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Now for the Wii this has some nice graphics. When you get a bug you can really see it like you 
 would almost in real life. Back in the DS version is was blocky but they really pumped it up.
 
  
  Sounds: 7
  Another some old same old. You got the same music in this game as you did in AC: WW. The only thing 
 bad is when the animals talk you get this very high squecky sound but luck is on your side, you 
 can turn it off. There is still the set twon tune so you can have your favorite theme song or some 
 random noise play when you talk to some one.
  
  Speed: 7
  Well it's based of real life time so it is a bit slow. The loading time are fast but there is no 
 rush in the game. But it tends to move a little faster when you have friends come to your town 
 over WiFi.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  Final thoguhts: It's nice and I like some of the newer things but really too much of the same old 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsoon56
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  this game QUICKLY got really repetitive because it is the exact same thing from the last two games. 
 what i mean is that once u get tehre, u need to work for tom nooks, you go around picking fruit 
 to make some money etc etc. this game really dissapointed me because me myself am a huge AC fan. 
 Even for me, this game got really boring because it is 99% just like WW. The only difference is 
 that u can go to the market, and there is nothing special there anyways. Its cool how you can upload 
 ur WW character onto your Wii, but that dissapointed me too because all i get are my clothes, hair, 
 and face. I thought maybe i can get my money, but no 14 mill all gone ( if the game let me keep 
 my money i would still play ) its just seems to me that it isnt worth it to do everything you can 
 (like catchin all the fish, get all fossils etc) because it has been done already in WW and even 
 in the GC AC. 
  
  TF is just WW but for the Wii.
  
  
  i do not recommand buying this game, unless you have never played the previous 2 AC games
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is great for all ages. I mean even my mom plays it. It's got so much to do and its not 
 one of those games that tells you how to live your life. Now the bad news is if you have, or have 
 played Animal Crossing Wild World, then you'll notice that some characters are the same and the 
 game play is still the same. But the good news is...
  Each character you make gets there own house.
  The tow is much bigger and there some new landscaping.
 
  The city is self explanatory.
  There are some new characters. Lyle doesn't bother you in your own town.
  Redd, Gracie, and Harriette 
 have there own stores in the city. There is a ATM now.
  Buy donating you can get some cool stuff for your town.
  There are more events.
  That about 
 dose it. To fully understand you gotta play. At a friend your cousin's, grandma and grandpa's ext. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Like Wild World And The Gamecube Animal Crossing Put Together, But 
 It Has More Stuff Like The City, And Wii Speak For Wi-Fi! You Can Copy Your DS Guy To The Wii If 
 You Want! Or You Can Start Fresh! It's Still Animal Crossing So You Still Get A Job At Nooks! But 
 When You Finished, You Can Go To The City! You Don't Need Nookintons To Get Your Hair Done This 
 Time, You Can Go To Shampoodle In the City And Get Your Hair Or Mii Mask So You Can Use Your Favorite 
 Mii!
  
  What I Really Like About This Game That You Can Have Your Own Houses Again, Going To The City Were 
 There's Cool Stuff, You Can Use Your Mii, Wii Speak So You Can Talk To People Online, And The Holidays!
 
  
  What I Really Dislike About This Game Is No Earthbound And Pokemon Items, And Designing At Able 
 Sisters Is Harder!
  
  So Animal Crossing City Folk Is Just Fun And Better Then The Other Animal Crossing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haze3lol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  So there is not a ton of stuff added to the animal crossing franchise, but why would you want it? 
 I mean its perfect the way it is, and the bonus stuff that they did add on is awesome too, but 
 all i want is the animal crossing. I had animal crossing for the gamecube and Nintendo ds and they 
 were both awesome but it's time for an update to it, and that's city folk. Its not an entirely 
 new game, its animal crossing. I do not think this game should get a frickin 7.5... are you nuts?? 
 How does animal crossing get that low, because they were expecting everything to be different. 
 Well i don't know about all of you, but i like animal crossing just the way it always has been. 
 It seems to me that gamespot just looked at the new things added, and rated it on that. What about 
 the actually game? You know that animal crossing does not deserve a 7.5 atleast an 8.5 at that. 
 The game is something diffrent from anything else, and if you havent played an animal crossing 
 game before, i suggest you try it. It may look like a little kid game because of its looks but 
 you can be 50 and still enjoy it. Buy this game, dont listen to gamespots score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is one of the most popular games out there, for one reason, you can play forever 
 and never get bored. There is just so much to do. It's not like a normal game, where you play through 
 the story and that's it. There really is not story in this game. You can just keep playing with 
 no grinding or frustrating bosses. The game is overall great, there are many bugs, fish, fossils, 
 and rare items to collect. Which keeps you playing for more than the average game. Now this all 
 sounds great to someone who has never played an Animal Crossing game before. Unfortunately to Animal 
 Crossing veterans, this is the game game we played on the Gamecube and DS. It's essentially Wild 
 World on the Wii with a few new things. If you played Wild World a lot, I would not recommend getting 
 this one as well. While the new city will keep you entertained for a while, it's basically old 
 characters in shops. Wi-fi is really fun with friends, but unfortunately you can't visit the city 
 with friends. The game is really fun, it's a nice relaxing game to play day after day. The Wii 
 controls work great, and the city is a nice addition. If you played Wild World and had enough of 
 it, I would not invest in this game. But if you never played an Animal Crossing game before, you 
 will love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphaturtles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  LOVE the game it is most definitely the best animal crossing and cracks the top three wii games 
 i have. The combined elements of the last two games and fantastic new features makes it an instant 
 classic. Can be played daily with the same enjoyment as the very first day. With new events like 
 mushroom hunting and monthly fishing tourneys tha vary in type. Has intuitive controls, new content, 
 and revamped old content. Anyone who has gotten bored with their wii games or is even remotely 
 considering this game should definitly get it. If you disagree with what i say it is alright, this 
 is my opinion.
  
  
  
  (space filler plz ignore) good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imagamer89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk is an AWESOME game. There is also the DS, and Game Cube versions. But, 
 Once I bought the Wii version I spend more time on my nintendo WII. At first I thought when it 
 came out EVERYONE would know about it. But, now since it is out its kind of like a game a lot of 
 people dont care about. But when you play it is almost like it is one of the most anticipated games. 
 You can do A LOT of things on it. But to make it better, there is a city now! So, next time you 
 look for games, dont waste you cash on crap like, Wii music, spend it on Animal Crossing: City 
 Folk! ( You may of thought that was the ending but its not.) The rating is low because people say 
 "Its all the same." It may seem like that, but its everything everyone knows and loves, and more. 
 (Also I got it the day it came out! ) But when I got to the store I thought it didnt come out yet 
 because there was no signs up for it! lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  In this game you pick if you are a boy or girl and name. You start off in a bus and this purple 
 cat named Rover is asking you questions like if you are a boy or a girl. Your name. Your town name. 
 Just like the other Animal Crossing games. After you get off the bus then you are in your town 
 and you have to use your map to go find the City Hall. After you go inside the city hall you have 
 to use your map and there are four houses that are not taking so you can pick one of them. When 
 you pick one the raccoon that everyone loves Tom Nook appears and you have to go work for him doing 
 the same jobs like the other Animal Crossing games. After you are done working for him you are 
 free. You can explore your town or you can go to the city and shop there. In your town it is just 
 like the other Animal Crossing games there is a city hall, two shops, neighbors, and a museum. 
 In the city there are just shops that you are going to need money for. You can wear a mask that 
 makes you look like your mii. The game has the same furniture and same stuff so nothing changed 
 in the game from the other two.
  
  The good of the game is that the city is awesome to go to. The graphics for this game are clear. 
 
  
  The bad of the game is that it is just like the other Animal Crossing games. The game deos not 
 have that much gameplay. You will be really bored.
  
  Overall this game is not the best Animal Crossing game out of them all. But this will be a great 
 holiday game to get. I rate this game 8.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Positive:
  + very bright, fun atmosphere
  + towns are big
  + graphics and frame rate are incredibly smooth
  + superb Wii controls that don't overdo themselves
 
  + unique, quirky sense of humor
  + relaxing, fun music
  
  Negative: 
  - the game is hardly even an update to Wild World
  - Nook's store takes way too long to expand
 
  - the city is small and lacking anything that's actually worth your time
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World on the DS was a huge hit because it managed to be so and big and fun 
 on such a small console. Three years down the road, we now have a third entry in the series that's 
 a great game by all means there are just so few differences between it and its predecessors that 
 it feels like a quick cash-in by Nintendo.
  
  City Folk starts the same as the other games, but this time you're coming in by bus rather than 
 train or cab. You name your town, answer a few questions, are introduced to a bit of the game's 
 shining, brilliant sense of personality and humor, and then you're off. You start by working for 
 Tom Nook, the raccoon owner of Nook's Cranny, to pay off a bit of your mortgage on your new house, 
 but once you finish a few jobs you're on your own to do whatever you want.
  
  Animal Crossing's towns have always been big, but this game somehow feels bigger than before. As 
 far as activities you have fruit growing that you can sell to Nook for money, go fishing or catch 
 bugs, participate in the fun little activities that go on around town, and more. The gameplay mechanics 
 involved are incredibly simple but it still manage to be pretty enjoyable.
  
  One of the things that gives Animal Crossing such a huge appeal is its unique, charming personality 
 and sense of humor. Talking to neighbors, which could be an extremely boring pastime, is spiced 
 up with bits of quirky humor. Blathers (the museum owner) always makes a reference to how he's 
 the only worker there and how there's nothing in the museum's collection. Lyle, while annoying 
 to talk to as he takes up a lot of your time, is actually pretty witty and funny. Every turn of 
 a corner in City Folk will reveal yet another aspect of its fun personality and sense of humor.
 
  
  City Folk also has some nice music tracks. Whether you're just walking around town or cruising 
 through the city, the tunes are nice, relaxing, and very fitting to the environment. The sound 
 effects are also pretty decent, retaining the game's feel and not getting in the way. The only 
 problem with the area of sound is that everything, including the music, is recycled from Wild World 
 (except the music that plays in the city of course) . This is kind of disappointing but I don't 
 know how much I wanted it to be all new in the first place.
  
  If you've ever played an Animal Crossing game before, you'll probably have noticed by now that 
 all this great stuff is exactly the same as it was back on the DS. Well, if you had that thought 
 you are unfortunately quite correct. Despite being a great, solid game, City Folk features hardly 
 anything new to the franchise. It's still fun, it's still packed with charm, but it's all exactly 
 the same as we've seen before. So now I'll move on to the few things that are different about this 
 game.
  
  Being a game on the Wii, new controls were a must. Thankfully Nintendo fully delivered here with 
 some excellent, smooth, and convenient control schemes. You can use either the remote alone or 
 with a nunchuk, but both control modes work very well. The nunchuk is basically for those who want 
 to move with a control stick rather than by pointing your way on the screen, but even that feels 
 surprisingly smooth and works very naturally. Pointing at an icon on the bottom of the screen, 
 which is quick and convenient, can access any section of the game's menu. The best part about the 
 new controls, though, is using the remote's control pad to equip items, which saves those precious 
 few seconds every so often that previous games in the series wasted. There is also the option to 
 swing the remote for fishing and catching bugs, which is pretty neat.
  
  The main difference in the game overall is probably the option to go to the city. Once you're finished 
 working for Nook you can hitch a ride on the bus any time to head off to the city. When you arrive, 
 the first thing you will probably notice is just how small it is. There is simply one main courtyard 
 with about five buildings to go into, none of which feature anything incredibly interesting. Almost 
 all the shops and attractions feature characters from Wild World that only came around occasionally, 
 but now you can see them any time you want. There is also an auction house, which is really the 
 only worthwhile diversion in the city. Unfortunately bidding is only open here every once in a 
 while.
  
  City Folk also features some decent, simple, and smooth graphics. The character models, while revealing 
 little detail, are very smooth and lively. The colors used on the environments are pretty vibrant 
 and make it look nice. The great graphics are complemented by an ever-consistent frame rate that 
 never falters and almost makes the DS game feel choppy in comparison.
  
  Those three differences aside, you basically have a Wii version of Wild World. But despite the 
 fact that there is so little change, it's still a great game in itself. If you've already played 
 an Animal Crossing game you're better off leaving this one alone, but if you've never played a 
 game in the series before then this is the perfect place to start because it's truly the best Animal 
 Crossing yet; the lack of change just earns it a lower score than its predecessors.
  
  Gamplay: 8.0
  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 9.0
  Value: 9.0
  
  FINAL SCORE: 8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Great Game. There I said it. I also said it in 2002 when it came out for the game cube. That is 
 a long time for a game to remain almost exactly the same. At least with Zelda with we get a different 
 art style or lay out once in a while. 
  
  If you have not played Animal Crossing.. GET THIS GAME.
  If you are broke... buy Animal Crossing 
 on the game cube or DS used for cheap.
  
  If you have Animal Crossing on DS/game cube there are a couple things to factor in:
  1. Wii controls 
 and menu tweaks are great.
  2. Its basically the same game you've already played (could be good or bad depending how you feel 
 about the game)
  3. $50..
  
  
  What's new anyhow????
  
  -take the bus the city.. everyone who used to travel occasionally to your town now has permanent 
 stores in the city
  -use your mii as a "mask" for your character.
  -new items (not sure on the number guessing around 200)
  -new fish/insects (not sure the number 
 but def. under 10% new)
  -new controls (mentioned elsewhere here)
  -better design a shirt maker
  -slight tweaks to game (now with an ATM)
  -that is all I can 
 think of off hand.. there are more.. but not many.
  
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation: 8/10
 
  Easy to navigate menus. Lots of different ways to control your guy/gal. Mapped tools (shovel, fishing 
 pole. etc) to controller D-pad. Not many complaints here.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Simple yet effective MIDI sounding tunes evoke the retro music of video games past (acquired from 
 KK Slider on Sat nights.)
  Overall good... but more of the same.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Come on Nintendo.. This looks the same or worse than the Game Cube version. Fish look better. Shirts 
 are more detailed. Uses "rolling log" world camera view from the DS.
  
  Replay: 10/10
  Just as good as ever... same hooks. Work towards that bigger house while collecting goodies and 
 having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  When you first play this game the first thing that you will notice is that the graphics are waaaaaay 
 better than the other versions! And when I say better, I mean better! 
  
  The game starts out in the original animal crossing fashion. Your a young adult starting out your 
 life and heading to a town that you name. You can also name your character too. You will meet a 
 cat named Rover and he will take you throught the naming process. When your done the bus that your 
 in will pull up to your town and you will be free to walk around. Then you will meet a certain 
 raccoon...
  
  The thing I really liked over the other versions of this game is that there are more things to 
 spend your money on. In the ds version all you could buy was clothes, furniture, and coffee. In this 
 version in addition to those other things you can have your shoes shined, get your fortune told, see 
 a show so you can use a different emotion, buy paintings. Also if you look in the hints and cheats 
 tab on the left of this page you will see that there is plenty of other things to do with your 
 cash. This really adds to the replay value of the game because it makes you want certain things 
 and makes you work towards more goals than just paying off your house or getting all the things 
 in the museum.
  
  The WI-Fi is back and it's way better because of the wii speak microphone which is sold seperately 
 for $30. The WI-Fi still needs work though because it's only fun in short burst much like the game.
 
  
  Overall:8.5
  
  This is a great purchase especially if you haven't played the other animal crossing's. It might 
 be similar to the other versions but isn't that a good thing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willekens
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Like we're used to see from a Animal crossing game, all the positive things from the previous games 
 return but this time with a little touch of the Wii. New things such as the city or the Wii speak 
 ability don't really convince me to buy the game when it comes out. Multiplayer has been improved 
 a little from what i've seen so far but also not really any BIG changes compared to the DS version 
 of the game. Combine the game in total : i think for new adventurers for this game a definitely 
 must-have game, but for the ds owners only if you're a huge fan! i know a lot of people are looking 
 forward to the release date but i think this hype will be a disappointment because people expect 
 to much of the game. the last point i want to talk about is the characters you meet in the game 
 i think each character has to few phrases to really get a good conversation going. it's still a 
 good game but not if you've play the DS version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  ok well i went all out with this one the wii speak/ (game lol) /guide and other random **** but down 
 to the real biz, it is what it is a fun interactive, play when ur bored game. if you want some thing 
 to do on a rainy day or for the winter get this game if not id hold back. ill just let ya know 
 the ups and downs now.
  
  
  UP, s! amazing graphics the best on wii hands down/ fishing, bug hunting have been given the power 
 of the wii controls but if ya downt like em u can just go back to the old controls. which brings 
 me to the CONTROLS of this lil thing what ever the hell ya wana call it but anyways. u can go free 
 style (which i fine more wii'ish) or you can use the knum chuck T-Ing-a-ma-Bo-B-er if ur to much 
 of a old school person!.... lol jk but yeah controls and stuff AMAZING.
  
  D O W N 's ok were down i hope cuz thats what im a talk about now the thing i hate the most is 
 BELLS. EVERY dam thing in that game costs soooooo much and then if uve played runescape u know 
 whats happened to the money thing if ya havent let DR. J-RAD the owner of this ****ty revue tell 
 you. they dont let you cheat your way through a lil bells (AKA COLD HARD CASH!) in fact i think 
 that it takes more time to make 10K bells then it does to grow a tree but now that ive got that 
 outa my blood/sweat/and monster lol jk. but really anuther key disappointment is the play time 
 ull take 27min just to get past nook then u almost wants to just save and go skip a day but yeah 
 im bored so ill wrap it up. over all A M A Z I N G game for a lazy day if not ull get bored if 
 all ready bored ull enjoy FOR HOURS...& HOURS........& some more dam hours and for the wii speak 
 dont get it if ur a mo-fo with no friends and yeah i digress... Ps MN kicks any states ass lol 
 bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rovelius
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  So I've been playing this wonderful little game for two days. I was both pleasently surprised and 
 a bit disappointed by City Folk.
  
  As most of you know, City Folk is the latest entrant in the Animal Crossing series who've been 
 running for almost 8 years. The first one was released on GameCube and introduced us to the series. 
 It was a huge BOOM. I'm not lying when I'm saying that I poured more than 600 hours in the GC version 
 - I had a full catalogue, perfect town, everything paid off and a completely exotic orchard.
  
  There are two reasons why I got myself City Folk : first, I never laid my hands on Wild World, 
 the DS version. And secondly, I lost my copy of the GC version years ago at the hands of a nefarious 
 pawn shop. City Folk could be considered as a mix of the GC and DS versions.
  
  Gameplay. City Folk doesn't differ much from the previous Animal Crossing titles - the main focus 
 is still to get pissed, annoyed and tired of doing repetitive, boring and tedious chores over and 
 over =D. But, doing these awful chores is the very reason why, like so many people, I like Animal 
 Crossing : in the end, you're always VERY well rewarded for your efforts, whether they be in the 
 short or long run. The level of customization in this game is insane and is a heaven for any talented 
 people.
  
  Back then on GC, the game's ''revolutionary'' aspect was that even when you weren't playing, your 
 town kept on moving ahead. The game's time will be set according to your console's internal clock 
 and date settings. Minutes pass in real time - no more running around like a madmen, trying to 
 get the most out of one single day, like in Harvest Moon.
  
  The big new thing with City Folk is, like the name suggest, the addition of a city. Anytime, you 
 can hop over in a school bus with Kap'n driving it and go to the city. However, the city itself 
 is another proof of Nintendo's late laziness - the city is nothing more than characters who previously 
 randomly made their appearances in your city like Redd, Gracie and Katrina. In a way, it's YET 
 another way to furthermore make the game easier for the casual players everyone like so much. I 
 do like the city, but if you played any Animal Crossing game before, don't expect to be ''blown 
 away'' by it, as it is nothing new.
  
  One real complain I have about gameplay is the removal of the ''Can I help you with something?'' 
 contextual messages with animals. Back on GC, it was a far easier way to get more varied furnitures. 
 In City Folk, all of this was removed and is now fully automatic. Talking to animals is now next 
 to useless as they'll have an exclamation mark over them when they'll be in need of something. 
 Their chores now involve getting particular items like fossils or any furniture part of a specific 
 set. No more deliveries. = (
  
  It should also be noted that online mode was added to City Folk. Online, you can use either a USB 
 Keyboard or the newly released Wii Speak microphone from Nintendo to communicate with your friends. 
 Oh and the accursed Friend Codes are back. City Folk is completely lag-less online and is a very, 
 very great experience. I have one word of advice regarding online : Don't let any cheater/hacker 
 ruin it. Do NOT grab items named '' '' as these will mess up your game. I'd recommend playing only 
 with friends you trust. Other than that, the online is a blast.
  
  Oh I have another complain about the online mode and it's the fact that the game feels like you 
 don't have a choice to go online. Why? Because you simply don't make enough money in your own town. 
 Exotic fruits from other villages sell for 500 bells each. Now, imagine you keep planting more 
 and more trees until you reach the limit of trees - 200. And don't forget that one tree gives 3 
 fruits. So that means 600 fruits x 500 bells = 300000 bells every three days. Not too shabby, hmm? 
 There are also the turnips though I won't get into that, I feel like my review will reach 5000 
 words if I do.
  
  Graphics. Well... okay, I saw a lot of people saying that City Folk had blended GC's graphics with 
 DS' content and that is not entirely true. First and foremost, the GC version had N64 graphics. 
 It was supposed to be released on N64 and ended up on GC. City Folk's graphics are NOT from the 
 GC version ; they are brand new and weren't simply ''copy&pasted'' like most people are ranting 
 about. Remember the 2D trees in the GC version? Or the miryads of 2D furnitures? All of this was 
 thankfully replaced by 3D models. Unfortunately, the models don't have a high polygon count, so 
 if, for example, you're running around with your character's hairs baking in the sunlight, you 
 should see small squares of textures being reflected. Even the GameCube could handle these graphics. 
 Remember that the Wii is not even completely twice the equivalent of the GameCube's horsepower.
 
  
  I won't get into how old and outdated City Folk looks like compared to games like Brawl or Corruption. 
 I never personally cared about the graphics in a game, but reviews must take'em into consideration. 
 There's one thing I like about the technical aspect of City Folk's graphics : they're better than 
 Galaxy's. Let me explain. In Galaxy, the textures are ugly. Period. You don't notice because of 
 all the bloom which was thrown in - and yes, it does achieve great results. But in the end, you 
 have a handful of players who base their reviews and opinions solely off the bloom and not the 
 actual work of Nintendo, which are the textures. City Folk, unlike Galaxy, has very great textures. 
 If only this game could also have bloom... it would be even more beautiful.
  
  Sound. This is where, in my opinion, City Folk utterly fails. The sound effects and everything 
 are all right, what I hate in this game is the BORING soundtrack. Every single tracks sound the 
 same, they don't even last for 20 seconds and keeps on looping for one hour. I don't know who recorded 
 the soundtrack but this guy doesn't have any music talent at all. In my opinion, they should've 
 sticked with the fun and awesome soundtrack from the GC version - remember the song that plays 
 when it's raining? Or that one at 14:00 PM?
  
  Personally, I've downloaded the whole soundtrack from the GC's version and I let them play on my 
 computer when I'm playing City Folk. It's highly more enjoyable and I'd recommend it to anyone.
 
  
  BOTTOM LINE !
  
  Pros :
  -Updated graphics which are a win in my book
  -WiFi is awesome
  -New furniture sets and few more tidbits here and there
  -A winning mix of 
 the GameCube's and DS' versions content
  -The calendar events like Christmas are back
  -The same old formula you and I know and love so much
  
  Cons:
  -Horrible soundtrack which 
 makes me sleepy. Get the GC one !
  -Removal of almost every interaction with villagers
  -You won't be making much money until you play on WiFi
  -The City itself does nothing new, it's 
 not a letdown but isn't amazing either.
  
  City Folk is the definitive Animal Crossing game, just how Resident Evil 4 : Wii Edition brought 
 everything together. It may have its flaws but it's still a very solid game. If you liked any Animal 
 Crossing game and still aren't tired of its formula, I HIGHLY recommend you to get this game as 
 soon as possible. You'll enjoy it.
  
  I give Animal Crossing City Folk a 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk is the newest Animal Crossing game this time released for Wii. The story 
 starts the same as the last two games, but with addons such as being able to play as your Mii's, 
 going to the city, and more stores to go to.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the gameplay is unflawed. New modes such as going into the 
 city and being a Mii. Wifi online play and Wii Speak capability. Importing your DS character is 
 a nice convenience. Nearly all of the same modes are left intact and unharmed. You can celebrate 
 holidays again.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that there are things that waste your hard earned money in 
 the game. You can't wear things on your head if you're a Mii.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing City Folk is more of the same, but that's ok. Especially with online play, 
 and the other new modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasagnahog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Okay, so City Folks isn't a brand new concept nor is it that much different from the Game Cube 
 version. It is, however, a huge improvement on the original game. All of those things that have 
 annoyed me about Animal Crossing have been fixed. Remember animals mentioning things to you that 
 would NEVER happen, or saying thet they would like a movie theatre? The dialogue makes more sense, 
 the animals get you to play more fun little mini games, and there is more stuff to do. It is as 
 if they finished their thought of everything they had wanted to put out the first time but ran 
 out of time or money.
  
  Also, I LOVE using the WII remote to fish. I could just do that for hours. If you loved animal 
 crossing, wanted an upgrade, but didn't want to play it on a tiny DS screen, then City Folk is 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatpanda
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  It is what it is. It's not ground breaking - It's not earth shattering. It's ANIMAL CROSSING and 
 one of the best ways I have ever found to relax and collect.
  I enjoy catching different fish and bringing them to the musuem as I do with bugs and fossils. 
 I think it's just an addictive little fun game.
  If you need non-stop action, this is NOT the game for you.
  If you want to relax and build a 
 town and personalize it and make fake frends as well as real. Then this is the game for you!
  I wish I knew how to catch a flea though - If you have any idea how to catcha flea please message 
 me and let me know.
  I think the addition of the City part is very cool and paying off your mortgage and getting new 
 houses and all that. I like it very much. 
  I would rent it but not invest too much time into it and then buy it if you like it because you 
 WILL invest time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cha0zDemon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  When I first heard about this game, I was extremely excited. Not only would we get another Animal 
 Crossing game, but we would get an Animal Crossing game for the Wii! Once I finally got it, the 
 first thing I noticed was how familiar the game seemed. Now this is not a bad thing, because I 
 remembered the experiences I had with Animal Crossing in the past, and this made me so much more 
 excited to get into it.
  
  Controls
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  One of the first things I noticed as I began to play, was how well easy it was to get used to the 
 Wii's controls. Moving around is easy, and picking up items, changing your equipment, or opening 
 your inventory or map is just a button-click away. Another great part about the Wii's controls 
 is how the motion sensor in the Wii remote can be used to swing your fishing rod or net, making 
 the game that much more interactive.
  
  Gameplay
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  I have heard too many people complaining on how the gameplay in AC: CF is "Too familiar." The gameplay 
 is one of the main reasons that made Animal Crossing so memorable. If Nintendo changed anything 
 big with the gameplay, this game wouldn't be the same game we all know and love. Even so, the game 
 has many new things which will keep you coming back for more. The biggest improvement in the series 
 is the addition of the city. Now, the city isn't as impressive as it may seem, but the many different 
 things to do will keep you coming back for more (And it is nice to get out of the town every once 
 in a while) .
  
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  In conclusion, I think this is a great game that anyone can get into. This is a great title for 
 newcomers to Animal Crossing and veterans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sockers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a game most everyone knows and loves. Ever since it's premiere on the Gamecube, 
 it's been charming the socks off of people with it's cute characters and addictive gameplay, and 
 City Folk is no exception. While it's true not much has changed, that doesn't distract from the 
 fact that Animal Crossing is a great game. 
  
  Animal Crossing's premise is that you are a cutesy, cartoony young human, moving into a town full 
 of anthropomorphic animals who all have their own unique personalities. The fun thing about Animal 
 Crossing has been that there's always something for you to do - whether it's going about socializing 
 with the animals, fishing, digging up fossils, catching bugs, or simply mucking about, Animal Crossing 
 makes seemingly mundane things fun and is a great game to kick back and relax with. 
  
  City Folk adds some new things to the fray, the main being the city. In the city there are a few 
 new things like a more high-end store and shoe shining, but it's still basically the same Animal 
 Crossing; however, there are enough charming new touches for old fans to enjoy to keep the game 
 feeling fresh and not like a total repeat. City Folk is easily one of the must-haves for the Wii 
 - but it can be said that Animal Crossing isn't for everyone, and if you didn't like the original 
 or Wild World, you certainly won't enjoy this one. This combines elements of both into a really 
 satisfying experience, and is possibly my favorite in the series so far. 
  
  The bottom line is people really should enjoy this game, and instead of complaining about what 
 it could have been, enjoy it for what it is - which is the same, charming game that will, like 
 many other classic games, never lose it's flavor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  The long anticipated Animal Crossing has finally landed on the Wii. Many will find that, despite 
 the clear lack of doable change, Animal Crossing: City Folk is as fun and charming as the original. 
 I enjoy the game more than the score I gave it, but it seems Nintendo was a touch lazy during the 
 production of this game -- being it's basically a port of the original with a few ad-ons here and 
 there. Ultimately, however, it is the best yet, and is still extremely enjoyable.
  
  City Folk; the term fits well, of course, being that the player now has the option to head out 
 of their town to the bustling, in this case, one block city. My first thought was...'What a frickin' 
 rip-off!' The 'city' contains about 8 places to go to only... in about a 50 square foot area. This 
 was, by far, one of the biggest disappointments that the game produced. After a while, the disappointment 
 will soon lead to contentment.
  
  In all honesty, nothing else has changed. A few minor things will be noticed by the player, but 
 that's about it... Shame on you, Nintendo.
  
  Based on this startlingly short review, Animal Crossing: City Folk is simply a game that will be 
 enjoyed by fans of the first, but will more than likely disappoint those who were expecting a drastic 
 change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luffy513
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to believe that it's been about 3 years since the DS version of Animal Crossing. Once 
 again, you're on your own to make a living in your village full of animals. And once again, it's 
 just as addictive as the first and second time.
  
  You start off as usual. You're new, you buy house, you do chores for Nook, then you're on your 
 own to pay off the debt, make friends with neighbors, and so on. This time around, the game is 
 much more polished up than the last, and there's more content. Gameplay-wise is perfect. The menus 
 are easily accessible through the pointer feature. You can also control your character around town 
 by pointing in the direction you wish him to go, and press A. I find this useful for the times 
 where I'm lazy or tired, and just use one hand to play, which is quite relaxing. You can also use 
 motion controls to swing the net (which is useful for hitting neighbors in the head without worrying 
 about talking to them by accident) or fishing (both casting and reeling) . You can also use the 
 A button for all tools. City Folk features 64 bugs and 64 fish this time around, compared to the 
 50-something bugs/fish in the last game, and mere 40 fish/bugs from the first game. You can also 
 take pictures, save them onto your SD card, and post them on your Message Board.
  
  The city is nice, and hasn't taken too much away from the village as I feared. You can get fortunes, 
 go to the very expensive store for clothes and other items you don't particularly need, learn emotions, 
 do your hair (or get a Mii mask) , and go to Crazy Redd's if you have the password. The village 
 seems a little bigger, and it has the return of cliffs and waterfalls, as well as a nice little 
 round-about ramp to get to the upper part of your village (the part on top the cliff) . It's a nice 
 little change to a traditional formula. The non-jagged graphics are a VERY welcome change, as well. 
 Gone are the blocky faces and blatant 2D fruits/trees/fish/bugs... well, you get the picture. Everything 
 looks a lot better. An impressive part, though, is that in your Bug and Fish menu, you can view 
 3D models of each Fish and Bug. It was a nice little surprise.
  
  Sound is ok, but it could be better. As I suspected before the game's release, much of the music 
 has been recycled from Animal Crossing: Wild World. I think there's a touch of Gamecube soundtrack 
 in it too, but don't take my word for it. The "Animalese" from the villages is still fun to listen 
 to, and some characters have a new pitch of sound for their "voice", if you wanna call it that. 
 Some other sound effects have been improved and sound slightly better, too.
  
  Online multiplayer is great. Friend Codes aren't too much of a chore, as you just add each other's 
 code and your good to go. Afterwards, though, you can actually send letters from your town to your 
 friend's town now, thanks to WiiConnect24. It's a very welcome feature and keeps me constantly 
 writing letters to my friends. You can't go to the city with other players, though. Wii Speak works 
 very well, though. In my experience using it, as long as you don't keep the mic really close to 
 your TV speakers, you'll be fine. The voices are really clear, and hardly broke up (unlike my experience 
 using the 360 headsets) . Unlike the DS version, City Folk is more accessible to multiple players 
 this time simply because it isn't a portable game. My dad loves Animal Crossing, but was unable 
 to participate in it because he doesn't have a DS, so this game is more "family friendly" in that 
 aspect. 
  
  Overall, I'd warrant Animal Crossing: City Folk a buy if you still can't get enough of the series 
 like me. Nintendo didn't try to fix what wasn't broken. It's always fun to start over and build 
 up your town again. As long as you don't Time Warp (you know what I mean) , you'll have tons of 
 fun with this franchise all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Master359
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game yesterday and its great! Just to let you know ive never played animal crossing 
 in my life so i was surprised at how fun it is. You get to have your own town and live life I am 
 still on the part where i have to pay the money off (getting money is kind of a pain) Every town 
 is different so its cool Tha town is prretty cool and lots of stuff to do In the town hall you 
 can send mail create a town song donate and use a banking system. Overall get this game.
  
  Gameplay: fun 10/10
  Sound: kinda repetitive 8.0
  Graphics:10/10
  Story: not much of a story 
 more freewilled 10/10
  Overall 9.8 dont like the point system Good Game!!! If your thinking about getting it get it dont 
 waste time unless you aint got any bells haha money in game!!! I recommend this game to people 
 of all ages unless you cant read....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars138
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
 
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone
  Animal Crossing City Folk Is Great For Anyone 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightninja240
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This review comes from a player who has not played AC: WW, but has played the Gamecube one. This 
 game is missing some more new elements but it is still as great or if not better than all the other 
 animal crossings. The online game play is a great add-on so you can play with friends. The game 
 also offers the city in which you can change your hairstyles or wear a wii mask. AC: CF takes use 
 of the wiimote.
  You can fish and catch bugs through the wiimote, if that's your style you can just press "A" and 
 it'll still work :o.
  Plus more fishes and bugs for your catching needs.
  
  This game will have you hooked for months if not years. Players should give this game a shot instead 
 of just looking at the ratings it gets. You gotta experience it to fully enjoy it :o!
  Buy it if you haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1snoop2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I think if you like the previous games you will like this one. the game is perfect because it is 
 realistic. like you pay your morgage, you can help the town fund, go fishing, plant flowers, decorate 
 your house, go out to town, the list never ends!! sure there's no point but the calms and relax's 
 you and gives you the chance to live life to it's fullest. this came has a great new feature which 
 should of bin there from the very beginning .............. THE TOWN!! the town has lot's of exciting 
 shops, activitys and people to talk to! miss how you can choose your house? WELL IT'S back, belive 
 it or not you can have more than one family in a town! what else is new and exciting? there's a 
 banking machine system!! to be honest i recommend you play this game for hours and hours to really 
 learn yourself in a new way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkKid44
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: City Folk is exactly what you expected; Animal Crossing.
  The game may be the same old AC, but fans and newcomers alike will still adore this masterpiece.
 
  
  As usual, you move into town (this time via yellow school bus =D ) and you settle in, work off 
 your house for a bit, meet your neighbours and then your ready to rock.
  
  You get to name your character and town which brings back that same feel of: it's YOUR life.
 
  
  I could spend hours trying to explain AC, but instead I'll just breifly touch on your life. You 
 can sell your items, pay off your debt, fish, fossil hunt, catch bugs, pick fruit, do favors for 
 your neighbours (rhyme, huh? =D ) ect.
  Your life in your town is yours to decide what to do. That's what makes the game feel so relaxed.
 
  
  SO, that's the basic AC formula, but now onto City Folk's new inclusions...
  
  
  CF offers the City to visit. It really isnt THAT much, but it's a nice little bonus feature that 
 lets you get out of the small-town scene once in a while. The Shampoodle (where you can change 
 hair styles/colors and add a Mii mask to your character) is located there, GracieGrace (a REALLY 
 expensive, high-class
  store) an Auction House (for bidding and selling items online) , The Marquee (where you can learn 
 new emoticons from Dr. Shrunk) , Katrina's Fortune Telling Shop, Crazy Redd's and Kick's the shoe-shiner. 
 
  The city offers just some new places and past-areas that are now relocated. But I like having the 
 City. I feel it makes you get off your butt and get out every little while.
  
  Also, CF has online play (which is basically the same as WW) . The only new feature in it is the 
 Wii-Speak microphone which allows you to talk to the friend that's visiting your town. 
  It works well, but I would've much perfered a mic and headset for more private conversations. But 
 really, it works well and doesn't boast a problem at all, it really is a nice touch.
  
  In truth, that's about all the new features. But what I find that makes CF better than it's previous 
 titles are the small things. Like; graphics are an improvement, other charcters interact more realistically, 
 new items, new fish/bugs, new charcters ect.
  These little things are visible and makes CF feel like a better AC experience.
  
  
  All in 
 all, Animal Crossing: City Folk is an amazing game. It's addictive and lots of fun to play. Every 
 day is something new and fresh. 
  Sure, it IS basically AC and WW mashed together into one, but that's a GOOD thing. It's still the 
 AC we know and love, and it's still fantastic! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomejdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Animal Crossing. One of my favorite series. I was very excited to hear Animal Crossing was 
 coming to Wii. And here it is, Animal Crossing: City Folk.
  
  I've played all the other Animal Crossing games, so although I haven't played this game an extremely 
 long time yet, I do know enough to write a good review of it.
  
  --What's changed? --
  Quite a bit has changed here (although the basic principle and gameplay is mostly the same) , and 
 not many people are appreciating what has changed. In the village, real holidays are back (this 
 is a change from Wild World) , there are now four houses spaced differently all throughout the town. 
 This gives you a better opportunity to live near something you want to, and I like it. 
  There are now motion controls when fishing, using the net, etc. It's a nice change, and I like 
 the control system. The nunchucks are optional, however, I recommend you use them, it makes it 
 much easier. The town gates have changed a little, and there's now a bus stop to head to the city. 
 I haven't upgraded my house yet, so I can't tell you how that's changed. Oh, and Lyle, Redd, Shampoodle, 
 and some other special characters will no longer appear. They are now in the city.
  Speaking of which, let's talk about the city. Once you board a bus in your village, you will be 
 taken to the city. It is arranged in a circle-like pattern with various shops. There's Redd's shop, 
 which won't be available from the start. There's a theatre. That's where you can pay 800 bells 
 to watch Dr. Shrunk perform and get a new emotion. (His jokes are terrible, just to warn you. Haha.) 
 Next, there's an ATM where you deposit and withdraw from your bank account, pay your mortage, etc. 
 Next you have the HRA, where Lyle will tell you his life story and then will let you join the HRA. 
 You next have GracieGrace which is a store that sells extremely expensive, but nice, stuff. You 
 then have an auction house, where you can put items up for auction, or bid on others. Next you 
 have a shoe-shining place. Then there's Shampoodle who will do your hair. Or, you can choose to 
 look like on of your Miis. It's a very nice feature. Then you have Katrina's, who will do your 
 fortune, or your town's charm.
  Sometimes in the city, there will be a guy who will give you a prize. You can get balloons, bubbles, 
 etc. This is a new thing, and is pretty fun to get. As you can see, the city may look small, but 
 there is quite a bit to do!
  There's probably some new stuff I'm missing, but I'm just trying to show some of the major new 
 features, and to show that quite a few things are different.
  
  --What's the same? --
  The principle of the game is the same. You're a guy/girl moving in to a town with animals that 
 has no money, has to work for Nook and pay off a mortage, buy items, grow trees, fish, catch bugs, 
 etc. Things have changed, but if you're looking for a completely new Animal Crossing experience, 
 this probably isn't it. I've owned all three games, and let me tell you, City Folk is still very 
 fun, even if it's still the same premise. Oh, and if you don't want to start completely over, you 
 can transfer your character and catalog over from AC: WW. I chose to just start over anyway.
  
  --Graphics? --
  Well, it looks like an Animal Crossing game. What do I mean by that? It looks 
 typical of the Animal Crossing graphics you've grown to love. Now, I'm not saying they haven't 
 improved. The colors are vibrant and very nice looking. The graphics, of course, have gotten sharper 
 and better looking. Animal Crossing City Folk is a very nice looking game in general.
  
  --Online? --
  A lot like AC: WW, but improved some. Anything you type appears over your head, helping 
 others find you. Plus, it looks better. You have the option of WiiSpeak, which is voice chat, plus 
 you can type with a USB keyboard. (I highly suggest either WiiSpeak or a keyboard because it is 
 annoying typing with the WiiMote in this game in my opinion.)
  
  -Overall --
  Are you looking for a brand new and different AC experience? Well, this isn't wildly different.
 
  Are you looking for an AC with better features? This definately fits this category.
  Are you looking for a very fun game in general? This fits great. This game is VERY fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  First things first: if you've never played Animal Crossing before, buy this game immediatly. It's 
 simply one of the finest experieces on the Wii. If you're an old fan, don't trust the critics. 
 You'll appreciate all the new features and fine tuning that was done to this game that make it 
 the best AC yet. Critics would have you believe that it's just the same game all over again, but 
 think about this: Halo, Grand Theft Auto, Tetris, they never stray from their formula; they just 
 keep adding new features. Why? Because you don't fix what aint broken. And Animal Crossing is the 
 same way.
  
  One of the things that make this game so great is how streamlined everything is. You no longer 
 have to open up a menu and drag you tools to your character (although you can do that if you want 
 to) . Now you can simply press left or right on the D pad to cycle through your items which is very 
 handy considering how much you need to change tools. My personal favorite feature is that you can 
 now design patterns on the fly without having to go all the way to the tailor's and pay them money. 
 Now you can simply open up the "designs" tab and design away without paying a dime. It's worth 
 noting however, that if you DO go to the Tailor's, you can design more in-depth clothing patterns 
 and work on the front, back, and sleeves, while in previous titles you could only design one pattern 
 that would appear on all sides of the shirt.
  
  That's hardly everything. This is a communication game, and that descriptor shines through now 
 more than ever. Using WiiConnect24 you can stay connected to all your friends towns 24/7. You can 
 write letters to anyone in any of your friends towns, or write them a message and send it to their 
 wii message board without even leaving the game. If you use WiiConnect24 residents of your friends 
 town will sometimes move into YOUR town, and vice versa. 
  
  There's so much other crap that I could go on about. I haven't even touched on the city- which 
 is awsome by the way. Bottom line: wheather you're a well seasoned AC fan, or new to the series, 
 AC-CF a must own Wii Game that anyone- hardcore or casual- can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlopMeDo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game is great when it comes to comparison with the other AC's.
  I love how there's a city and different controls and so on, but I just think they could have added 
 a little more. I wish that cofee actually did something and I wish you could play arcade games 
 if you bought an arcade machine.
  
  I like it how you could import your character from Wild World to the game so that was cool.......... It's 
 just that it doesn't have much depth.
  But then again, it's a life game so there isn't an end. It's a bottomless pit and that could be 
 good or bad.
  
  The graphics have improved, Wii speak is with it and that's cool, you can axe people and be a criminal 
 (just kidding) .
  The music is outstanding for me. The songs get stuck in my brother's head.
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS: 
 9.5
  GAMEPLAY: 8.8
  TILT: 10
  ONLINE: 8.5
  SOUND: 9.5 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spamin76
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for a little more new stuff, but all and all I am please with the game. This game 
 did not do much that previous titles have not already done other than the wi-fi. This will be a 
 very big deal to some people, but not so much to others.
  
  The graphics are improved over the previous games, but not by a tremendous amount. Still the graphics 
 are cute, fun, and well suited to this title.
  
  The wii-mote control scheme could be better, but you get used to it soon enough.
  
  There are 
 some minor load times, but unless you are really impatient, these will not matter much at all. 
 I was surprised at first but after two hours I didn't even notice anymore.
  
  The game has kept its quirky humor intact and that is a huge plus.
  
  This is a solid entry 
 in an already great series. It's nice to have a game that is fun, interesting, but very laid back. 
 No dodging attacks and split second timing, yet not casual either. To really see all the animal 
 crossing games have to offer, you really need to sink a ton of time into it. And it is delightful 
 and relaxing time instead of frantic button mashing.
  
  If you were already a fan, then definitely pick this one up, and if you have never played an animal 
 crossing, this is an excellent place to start.
  
  While the game is very kid-friendly, the surrealness and some really great inuendo make the game 
 interesting and funny for the older crowd. I would say that even though it is cutesy, the game 
 is not really intended for kids. Some of the characters are down right hysterical charicatures 
 that will just be lost on younger people. My wife and I were just rolling from some of the dialogue 
 - much of it is downright clever and quirky. Reseti and Kap'n are among the best.
  
  If you have a wii, this game is really worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Hurrah! Animal Crossing: City Folk is finally here! Like me, I'm sure that there are some people 
 who are really excited about this game, some that really think it's lame, and some that didn't 
 know a thing about the game. To start with, Animal Crossing: City Folk is the third game in the 
 series, and has its American release on November 16, 2008. The previous one (Animal Crossing: Wild 
 World) on the Nintendo DS was released in 2005, and the original one (Animal Crossing) was released 
 on the GameCube in 2002. Wow, Animal Crossing has been around for 6 years!?
  
  Moving In
  Unlike your normal type of video game, the Animal Crossing series isn't really a series that you 
 can beat. Instead, you just keep playing and playing and playing. This game is actually based on 
 real life. When you first start the game, you'll be coming into town on a short bus with a driver 
 named Kapp'n. On the way, you'll be asked some general questions such as your name, what your town's 
 name is, your gender, etc. After you're done answering those questions you'll arrive in town, and 
 will get off the bus. Your first stop will be at Town Hall, where they'll redirect you to your 
 house. As soon as you stop at your house, Tom Nook (the city shop owner) will run up to you and 
 will tell you how much it costs, and that you need to pay it off. He'll then tell you that you 
 can work at his shop for a little while to make a tiny bit of money that will help towards paying 
 it off. Although the profit is barely anything, this labour is forced. Luckily, it's easy. Tom 
 Nook will make you do errands such as introduce yourself to everybody, get you to deliver some 
 items to different people for him, plant flowers around his store, and other really simple things. 
 When you're done work with him, whatever you want to do is up to you. At this point, you'll probably 
 want to work towards paying off your house mortgage, so you can try and make some money. If you 
 don't feel like making money, you can explore the game, design some clothes, visit the city, chat 
 with neighbours, get some coffee, customize your house and character, decorate your town, and much, 
 much more.
  
  Making Money
  If you feel like paying off your mortgage and getting that out of the way, there are many ways 
 to make money. Some of the biggest are fishing, catching bugs, selling seashells, and selling fruits. 
 All Animal Crossing towns back onto a lake, and have a stream running through them. Those bodies 
 of water have fish in them that you can catch, and sell to Tom Nook for money. If you prefer to 
 get money from bugs, you can try to catch them and sell them to Tom Nook. Bugs will roam around 
 all over your town. From spiders to butterflies to cockroaches, there's a wide assortment of different 
 kinds, and they all sell for different amounts of money. For example, big, rare spiders might sell 
 for thousands of bells, but small, common butterflies will sell for very few. Different kinds of 
 bugs and fish also depend on what time of day it is, and what month it is. For example, some fish 
 are only available in September, and some bugs are available year round, but only at night. The 
 Animal Crossing series is one of the only series that incorporates real time into the game.
  
  If you just want to make money the easy but slow way, selling seashells and fruits is probably 
 for you. You'll notice that around your town are many trees that have fruits on them. Just go up 
 to those trees, shake them, and the fruit will fall! Then, you can pick up the fruits and sell 
 them to Tom Nook for 100 bells each. Seashells will appear at the bottom of your town on the shore 
 where the lake is. Just pick them up and sell them. After a little while (less than a day) more 
 sea shells will reappear so you can sell them again. Fruit reappears on the trees after a few days. 
 One of the biggest (legit) ways of making money is by selling fossils. Every day, a few fossils 
 will be hidden underground in your town, and will sell for a few thousand each. Unfortunately, 
 there's very few that appear each day. If you don't need to make money, you can donate bugs, fish, 
 fossils, and paintings to the town museum. When your donations are there, you'll always be able 
 to go in and see your collection. Note that you don't get any money for donating to the museum.
 
  
  Have Fun!
  When you've made enough money to pay off your mortgage, deposit it in the town hall. Then, you 
 can go and see Tom Nook in his shop. He'll thank you, and will ask if you would like your house 
 bigger. If you say yes, he'll increase your house size by the next day. He'll also tell you how 
 much it costs, which will be much more than the first payment. It just keeps going on like this 
 until your house reaches its maximum size. He increases the size, you pay. He increases the size, 
 you pay. He increases the size; you pay, and so on. Eventually the mortgages will get quite large 
 and will take a while to pay off. In the meantime, you could have some fun. Life in Animal Crossing: 
 City Folk doesn't have to be all work! You can really be kept busy by your neighbours. They often 
 talk to you, try to sell you stuff, and make challenges with you. For example, they might start 
 a contest with you over who can catch a certain fish fastest. If you win, they'll give you a gift 
 that you can put in your house. If you're playing at night and they're all asleep, you can still 
 fish, catch bugs, plant flowers and trees, decorate your house, and more. There's never a lack 
 of things to do.
  
  The City
  A new feature in Animal Crossing City Folk that was not in any of the other Animal Crossing games 
 is the city. In the other Animal Crossing games, you could only stay in your town, but in City 
 Folk, there is a bus stop that can take you to a city outside your town. In the city, there's a 
 plaza with a fountain in the center. Around the fountain are many stores that you can't find in 
 your regular town. The stores are: Katrina's, Shampoodle, The Auction House, The Shoe Shiner, The 
 Happy Room Academy, GracieGrace's, The Marquee, and Redd's Shop. You might realise that some of 
 these stores are from Animal Crossing and from Wild World, but they weren't in store format. For 
 example, "The Happy Room Academy" was in Wild World, but there was no store. Only letters in the 
 [game's] mail were sent to you. You'll also recognise some of the store workers as characters from 
 previous games. In Wild World, Lyle sold insurance and in City Folk he works for "The Happy Room 
 Academy." (I guess he went out of business...)
  
  You're probably asking yourself what these new stores are and what they sell, so I'll describe 
 them here. Katrina's is a shop where you can get your fortune told. Shampoodle is a store where 
 you can change your hair style and color. You can also get a Mii mask on your character in this 
 store. The Auction House is where you can bid on items that are there. You can also place items 
 up for sale so that other people can bid on them. As soon as something is sold, the money that 
 is earned is placed in your [in game] bank account. In The Shoe Shiner, you can pay for a person 
 to change your shoe style or color. In The Happy Room Academy, you can ask them to rate the room 
 in your house, and you can view a room that's featured that week. At GracieGrace's, you'll find 
 extremely expensive furniture, some that's even more expensive than your house! At The Marquee, 
 you can sit through a show by Dr. Shrunk. After the show, your character will learn an emotion. 
 And finally, at Redd's Shop, you can visit his store but only with an invitation. The city is an 
 interesting idea, but could have more stuff to do there.
  
  New/Returning Features
  Another new and useful feature that's in Animal Crossing City Folk is the menu toolbar. In Wild 
 World, you'd have to click an arrow at the top of the screen to bring up the menu, but in City 
 Folk, the menu toolbar is all at the bottom, making it much more convenient. Another convenient 
 trick that's in City Folk is the ability to quickly switch tools. In previous versions, you'd have 
 to go to the items menu to switch tools, but in City Folk, you only need to push on the D-Pad buttons 
 to switch. This saves a lot of time and makes the game more enjoyable. The way the town is made 
 has also changed back to what it was like in the GameCube version. In the GameCube version (and 
 now in City Folk) the town can have multiple levels. In Wild World, the town was set to one level, 
 but it's been changed back.
  
  Another big change is that the four humans that can live in your town will no longer be squished 
 into one house like in Wild World. Instead, everyone will have their own house like in the GameCube 
 version. This is nice because then you don't have to fight over who gets what space in the house, 
 and so that everyone has to pay for their own house upgrades. However, unlike the original GameCube 
 version, the houses will not be all in one square, but will be scrambled around the town.
  
  Wi-Fi
  Animal Crossing: City Folk takes advantage of Nintendo's "Nintendo Wi-Fi" connection 
 service. Instead of just playing by yourselves, you can also connect and play with people on the 
 other side of the world! All you have to do is ask that person for their Friend Code, give them 
 yours, and add each other. You can then go to each other's towns and play together. Some of the 
 many things that you can do are: fishing contests, bug catching contests, hide-and-seek, tag, trading 
 items, and more. To improve online communication, Nintendo is releasing a new peripheral called 
 Wii Speak. It's a microphone that sits on your television and plugs into your Nintendo Wii. With 
 it working, it will pick up sounds that are heard in the room and will transmit them across the 
 internet so that the person you're playing with can hear them. If both players have Wii Speak, 
 you can have a nice conversation over the internet. If you don't want Wii Speak, that's okay too. 
 You can plug a USB keyboard into the Wii and communicate like that, or you could use the Wii Remote 
 and an on-screen keyboard. Nintendo Wi-Fi is great if you ever want to play with someone else.
 
  
  Conclusion
  In conclusion, Animal Crossing: City Folk is an amazing and fun game. It's very addicting and is 
 hard to put down because there's almost always something happening. Be sure to play on holidays 
 and on your birthday so that you can participate in the celebrations that take place! Of course, 
 this review is based on my own opinion. As Animal Crossing is either a game that you love or don't 
 care for, you should take note of the activities I listed above. If the activities I stated before 
 don't appeal to you, than this game probably isn't for you, but if they do, or if you liked any 
 of the previous versions, than this game likely is for you. I wouldn't bother renting it, as it's 
 a game that requires playing over time. If you do rent it, you probably won't get to experience 
 much of what the game has to offer. Have fun!
  
  Cool:
  - The city
  - Wi-Fi and Wii Speak
  - Separate houses instead of only one
  - How it uses real time
  - 
 Multiple levels in towns
  
  Could Be Better:
  - More stores in the city
  - Only 8 character town names 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
