-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Anubis II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/anubisii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Broken movement and jumping controls.
 Broken combat.
 Hideous visuals.
 Repugnant soundtrack melody .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.5
Critic Score: 1.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 2.8, 242 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: UFO Interactive
Developer: Data Design Int.
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You mean there was an Anubis I? 

  According to fictional archaeologists, ancient Egypt was overrun by tiny walking pyramids and swarms 
 of killer gnats. They all suffered under a sky the color of banana-flavored baby food, living in 
 terror of a howling wolf dressed up to look like a sarcophagus. These archaeologists then created 
 a platformer called Anubis II in this vision, putting you in the sandals of the wolf and tasking 
 you with defeating an evil... something. Somewhere. What could possibly go wrong?  

  As it turns out, as much as you can imagine and more. As the titular savior of Egypt, you must 
 navigate through some ramps and platforms, and then more ramps and more platforms, combined with 
 some ramps and platforms. Most of them are yellow. Others are gray or brown. Using the Nunchuk's 
 analog stick, you scuttle around like a toddler in a 50-yard dash, and jump onto those ramps and 
 platforms using one of two equally abhorrent methods. You can fling the Nunchuk upward, which is 
 unresponsive and, frankly, a stupid idea; alternately, you can use the Z button, which at least 
 works. However, having to both move and jump using the Nunchuk is simply terrible and contributes 
 to plenty of hand cramps.  

           Pictures are worth a thousand words. And this picture says 'this game sucks.'      

 
  Furthermore, the regular mechanic of running around is broken. Your wolf has about three animations 
 when running, and he responds poorly to analog-stick movements. He tends to keep moving even after 
 you've stopped pressing the stick, so be prepared to fall off of platforms often and through no 
 fault of your own. There are only two speeds: completely still and five-year-old-on-caffeine. Likewise, 
 there's no subtlety to your direction, given that you don't have a full 360 degrees of turning 
 motion. Rather, you seem to be limited to 16 different turning increments, which makes the clear-cut 
 act of simply moving around an enormous struggle. It's like playing Berserk on the Atari 2600, 
 only you have a few more pre-set facing angles.  

  While there is apparently some sort of story at play, at least according to the manual and the 
 box, the game doesn't clue you in as to what your true purpose is. As a result, your only goal 
 is to collect various floating pyramids that let you unlock the next level, where your mission 
 is to unlock the next level, which then tasks you with... unlocking the next level. Sadly, you 
 have to jump to get to these pyramids. Jumping happens with the same amount of ease with which 
 you run, which is to say that it's jerky and unresponsive. You've got the same range-of-turning 
 issues here, coupled with a broken camera. The camera doesn't really do much on its own, but your 
 own control is limited to resetting it directly behind you (and doing so doesn't even result in 
 a transition animation -- it just jerks there in a single frame) . It's absolute insanity.  

  There's some combat, too. You can either waggle the remote to watch your wand clip through scarabs, 
 or clip through pyramids with feet, or clip through... some other kind of bug. Half the time, waggling 
 the remote does absolutely nothing, and when you do manage a swing, you can never tell if you are 
 making contact because there is no enemy collision detection. When you defeat an enemy, a heart 
 floats away, and if you manage to jump to it, you will replenish some health. But you need to deal 
 with the terrible movement controls to get to it, so good luck with that. You can also hit B on 
 the Wii Remote to enter a free-targeting mode and fire blue balls of fire at stuff, but this works 
 atrociously. The targeting crosshair is all jumpy, and the camera goes absolutely nuts, often getting 
 stuck in some awful position and forcing you exit targeting mode to reset the camera.  

  On top of all of this, Anubis II is an ugly, ugly game. Environments are all colored in some shade 
 of yellow or another, which makes this the only game in which unsightly gray textures are a visual 
 respite. Your foes have about two animations each and appear to have been drawn by a chimpanzee 
 with an eight-pack of generic-brand crayons. There is a single music track, a midi jamboree tune 
 that doesn't even remotely fit the Egyptian theme and will have you clawing at your ears five minutes 
 after you start. The few sound effects are terrible, such as the onerous thud Anubis makes when 
 he lands, which sounds like someone hitting a cast-iron pot with a drumstick.  

  There's more, of course. Between levels, there are some impossibly dumb minigames that give you 
 no chance to figure out what you're supposed to do before they're over. There are times when you're 
 supposed to wave your wand, but the game can't distinguish between a wand wave and an attack, which 
 forces you to sit there for five minutes until you do the mysterious magical motion that gets it 
 right. Ultimately, what you need to know is this: Anubis II is one of the worst games ever created 
 and fundamentally broken. If you play it, you can never get back the three hours you wasted on 
 this unique brand of torture.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: conkerrulez2334
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is just terrible. everything about it is just bad. the graphics are HIDEOUS!!! the controls 
 suck. you have to move the nunchuck up to jump but you would expect it to be the A button. and 
 guess what? the jumping controls are unresponsive. in fact, the controls for just about everything 
 for this game are unresponsive. when you make the fox thing move, when you stop moving the nunchuck 
 stick up, the fox thing still keeps running sometimes. the camera is very messed up. most of the 
 time, it won't stay behind the fox thing that you play as. the level designs are just plain bad. 
 and don't even get me started with the combat! you move the wii mote left and right to swing your 
 staff thingy. and most of the time, when you hit the enemy, it does absolutely nothing! so sometimes, 
 even if you hit the enemy 90 times it wont drop dead. and the game was not very creative either. 
 like, if you fall in lava, the fox thing just falls down instead of burning to death or sinking 
 in the lava. and even worse: the game ninja-bread man and this game are almost exactly the same. 
 the ninja-bread man and the fox thing move at the same speed, the camera on both games are screwed 
 up, the controls in both games are the same and still unresponsive, they both jump just as high, 
 and both games have terrible combat. the only differences are the level designs, the amount of 
 levels, the enemies and the main character. so, don't rent it do not download the rom and DO NOT 
 buy it. ever. PLEASE RATE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcogamer07
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The first problem I have with this game is the title. Why is it called Anubis ll when there isn't 
 even a prequel? Is the sequel actually a prequel? This is a good indication that there is no storyline 
 to the game. Anubis ll. Why not Anubis? Also, the cover art is pretty weird, a cartoon fox storming 
 through an Egyptian tomb. Well, let's check it out.
  
  The first thing is the storyline. There is no storyline at all. The only way you know what purpose 
 you have in the game is to look at the back cover, if you are actually crazy enough to buy and 
 own the game, let alone play it. Otherwise, there is no purpose to this game whatsoever, there 
 is no cutscenes. he goal is to simply get to the end, at the last level there's a boss (which I'm 
 not sure of since I hadn't made it very far) , and that's it. The end. There's only like 5 or so 
 levels, and like any bad game in that style, it's hard as all hell.
  
  The music is simply disastrous to the ears. Some nice upbeat music for an Egyptian game. The least 
 they could do is add a little of an Egyptian feel to the music, but no, no way. They put in what 
 sounds sort of like 70s disco music. How would you like to play a bad game, and listen to Village 
 People (which are absolute crap) ?
  
  The graphics. This game is graphically ugly. The sky is vomit yellow, everything is a polygon, 
 and looks like something you would see on the N64. The graphics would be okay on a later Play Station 
 or Nintendo 64 game, but this was 2005, and the Wii version was made in 2007. This was done on 
 a seventh-generation console. There is no excuse for these kinds of graphics. There is hardly any 
 colour, it's all yellow or brown, it looks absolutely hideous!
  
  I haven't even started talking about how bad the gameplay and controls are. The gameplay, you walk 
 around in Egyptian themed levels, picking up scrolls, pyramids and artifacts. The controls are 
 so delayed and sensitive. You either move too far and fall off a ledge or platform, or you don't 
 even move at all. The joystick is used to move around, and Z is to jump. If you press Z twice, 
 Anubis does a double jump in midair, and this is something you're going to have to master if you 
 want to beat this game. You need to double jump to get across pretty much every single gap in the 
 game. It feels really awkward, kind of like in Karate Kid on the NES, where you have to press upwards 
 on the D-Pad to jump. It is complicating to maneuver, and will often hurt your hands while you 
 play and give you cramps. To attack with your staff, you wave your controller back and forth. This 
 is really delayed. Half the time, it doesn't even work, there is no enemy collison detected. Anubis 
 just stands there, and this is a problem when enemies are ganging up on you, because you need to 
 whack them with your staff to get them off of you.
  
  The combat in this game is really broken. You only have two attacks you can use. The staff which 
 I explained earlier, and the shooting blue fireballs you have. When you press the B button, you 
 go into a targeting mode, and this is really awkward. The camera is so broken that half the time 
 targeting is just spent shaking the Wii controller to get it back in place. The camera is really 
 broken, it just zooms all over the place, and you can never see what you're doing. Trying to change 
 your camera to the right angle is always a pain, even if you're just turning so you can see the 
 platform in front of you. It zooms all over the place! It's a giant mess! The target is so awkward 
 and sensitive and it is so hard to aim what you're shooting at. This is one feature you are going 
 to have to get use to in Anubis, the horrific broken camera. You can never see what you're doing, 
 and many times, it can even get you killed. Say you're on a platform above a giant mob of enemies. 
 You try to jump across a gap, and the camera just zooms around all over the place. You jump and 
 fall. All because the camera screwed up! This will heavily affect your gameplay and is one of the 
 reasons why this game is a hard son of a gun.
  
  The enemies are pretty weird, they look like bobbleheads. You have walking pyramids, walking skulls 
 wrapped in dirty toilet paper, I guess they're supposed to be mummies, and swarms of killer bees. 
 These enemies are hard to kill because along with the broken cameras, the broken targeting system 
 and the awkward, broken combat system, the enemies move around you very quickly and have quite 
 a bit of hit points. A standard enemy in this game takes about 5 hits to bring down. When they 
 die, they drop hearts with wings that you could pick up to regain health. This is a pain because 
 the hearts begin to fly up when the enemy dies and you have barely enough time to grab the heart. 
 Many times the camera will do it's weird tricks and by the time you see the heart again, you've 
 already wasted too much time.
  
  You have five hearts to start with, and you can have up to ten hearts in your health metre. However, 
 thanks to the horrific controls and camera, the enemies hit you and drain your health very quickly, 
 so you need those hearts. When you die, you start again at a checkpoint that you pass through along 
 the way. You have three lives, and if you lose all of them, you have to start from the very beginning.
 
  
  The gameplay is also not to mention boring. It takes no mental skills at all. It mainly consists 
 of mindlessly running Sonic speed around poorly designed Egyptian themed levels and collecting 
 pyramids, scrolls and artifacts with the worst controls and camera in history.
  
  This game was rated one of the worst games of all time and let me tell you. From what I played, 
 it was for all the right reasons. :P
  
  To conclude this review, it was one of the worst games I've ever played in my entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheinei
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is by far THE WORST THING I HAVE EVERY SAT MY EYES ON. 
  I think this game was made just so those butthole designers could get a quick dollar. This is one 
 of those games where little kids go to the store and they say "mommy I want this!!" just because 
 the cover looks pretty and dont know what a bad game is. When I played this game i thought "It 
 cant be that bad" BUT IT WAS. EVERYTHING tries to kill you. Its REALLY easy to fall off the board 
 and die. And ALL of the enemies run as fast as you do, so you CANT GET AWAY. THERE ARE NO CUTSCENES. 
 The closest thing to a cut scene is A DOOR OPENING. THERE IS NO PLOT. In order to get the storyline, 
 you have to read the back of the case. I seriously think the designers finished this game in 2 
 days. I would say get this game for a dumb kid who doesnt know the difference in a good game or 
 a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible in every single way. The graphics look like a first gen ps1 game, and everything 
 looks muddy. Also , the game has No story to it. The controls are horrible. Seriously, flicking 
 the Nunchuck to jump? Terrible! Also, his swing attack doesn't even respond, so running away from 
 enemies is key to survival. Please avoid this game at all costs! $10 isn't enough for this torture! 
 Just stay away! The level design is terribe, and the platforming is so frustrating! Just don't 
 even consider buying this horrid, trecherous game! Its not even a game! It's pure torture! It's 
 not even worth a rent!!!!!!!!!!!! Just buy Super Mario Galaxy, Super Smash Bros Brawl, or Okami 
 instead of this! Even if it was the last game in the world, I would not play it! The gameplay is 
 boring, hard, and frustrating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidChampion
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a WTF game, it does not belong in here!!!! It's not a sequel!! You know why they say 
 its a sequel... NOT!!!! Anubis The 2nd is the banished son of Anubis the 1st, that means the god 
 Anubis is in fact.... ANUBIS II'S GRAMPA!!!!! This is ssa ni xob which means @$$ in box!!!! Don't 
 play it. You'll have a stroke. This game is @$$!!! LENGTH, SHMENTH!! I TELL YOU!!!! The game haz 
 nou pluht. And worst of all... YOU'RE IN PHOENICIA!!! NOT EGYPT!!!!! This will also be the last 
 episode of Angry Everything Nerd... well... the last episode of reviewing video games, of course. 
 DON'T RENT IT NOR BUY IT!!!! It's the incarnation of Osiris in the flesh! Well, the flesh of the 
 box, which is plastic. YOU'RE NOT THE BOSS A' ME, DUMBY!!!!!!! That's it!!!! You're so busted!!!! 
 CHARACTERS, SHMARACTERS!!!! I TELL YA!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperactiveno1
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Ok... well my dad bought me this game and my first impression was "wtf?!". The cover art of this 
 game looks pretty bad and when I read the discription I thought that there was no way im going 
 to play this. I did anyways because I thought that I should give it a chance. I only played the 
 game for like 20 minutes before declaring that it was a total waste of time and that I was right 
 of it to be a piece of sh*t The graphics of the game are pretty bad and looks like it belongs on 
 the PSP or N64. There is NO PLOT to the freakkin game. You just collect scrolls. What the hell 
 are the scrolls for anyways? The controls are very obscure and to getting a heart (life) in this 
 game is so hard because the damn thing just floats up in the air. Its impossible to even jump and 
 get it. PLEASE do not think about getting this game! It belongs in the trash can... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_0rder
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  Wow, just looking at the cover you know this was going to be a crappy game. I saw the screen shots 
 before renting this and i was like wow, the game might be interesting if the developers put enough 
 effort into it. So i gave it a chance since it was my first Wii game, but to my disappointment, 
 the game was no where near my expectations. Graphics looked like monkies scribbled something for 
 15 mins and kept it at that. The controls are frustrating to the point where you just want to sell 
 the game or worse... 
  
  I didn't even know what the point of the game was after one level (that's right, I completed one 
 level and still didn't know what the heck i was doing) . It basically told me to collect and fight 
 to get to the next level. I was like wow this is a cruddy game; the camera was being retarded, 
 Anubis (the one who you play as) couldn't tell the difference between a swing a jump. It took me 
 about a good hour to reach the next level, then i asked my dad "Where's the receipt?" 
  
  I didn't enjoy the game at all; instead i was frustrated. And if you noticed there is no Anubis 
 or Anubis I or Anubis 1 for this. The whole game seemed to be a complete failure and rip-off.. pretty 
 disappointing for the Wii if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenRamoth
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, so I bought this as part of a buy one get one, where I bought a DS game, can't remember what 
 it was, and then I bought this, since it was the only other option, since all other games were 
 horrible. 
  
  Well, so I came home, and decided not to read the Gamespot review, since it would bias my game 
 play.
  
  What can I say? Controls, sucked, no details, no background, character are blocky, music is cheesy, 
 and the whole game is horrible to play.
  The Combat.. um.. combat? you're swinging a wiimote for no reaction to get no damage when you do 
 hit the enemy. The shooting effects are lame, and I'm sad to say I chose this game.
  
  So, I ended up giving this game to some relatives who have young children, and so that way maybe 
 they can get over how bad the game is.
  
  Pretty much, avoid this game. Unless of course, you like kicking yourself for wasting money. Then 
 go ahead, start kicking yourself now and waste some cash.
  
  Oh yeah, and believe gamespot when they say this game is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMidnax
Rating: 1
Date: May 30, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I received this game from my dad for my 14th birthday, back in late December 2007. It was in a 
 2 in 1 package with another game called Ninjabread Man - which I thought was a bit odd at first 
 sight... but after tearing off the plastic and trying out the games for myself, I could see why.
 
  
  I don't know who copied who here, but this game is identical to Ninjabread Man in every way possible. 
 Well, okay, so they're different aesthetically, but that's it. Seriously/ I'll elaborate on their 
 identical-ness in a moment.
  
  First, I'm going to note that the title of this game is very misleading. Even though it's called 
 "Anubis II", this game is NOT a sequel to any other game, alright? There is NO "Anubis" or "Anubis 
 I". Anyway, moving on.
  
  Story - 2/10
  
  Okay, your Anubis, the Guardian of the Underworld... and that's about it. The game has absolutely 
 no intro, cutscenes or dialog whatsoever. There was what I think may have been a short plot summary 
 on the back of the game case, I honestly can't remember what it said, but regardless, there's absolutely 
 nothing that elaborates on it in the game. To be completely honest, the game doesn't seem to have 
 any story whatsoever, just like its brother, Ninjabread Man. It don't think it can even be called 
 a skeleton - "ghost" would be a much more fitting term.
  
  I was unbelievably disappointed. Seriously, when I saw the title, I thought this game would at 
 LEAST have a cool plot line. Boy, was I wrong.
  
  
  Graphics - 3/10
  
  Unless you're either stupid or completely ignorant of history, you'll know that this game has an 
 ancient Egyptian theme just by looking at the title. In fact, this was the reason my dad bought 
 the game for me in the first place - because I have a thing for Egypt stuff.
  
  The scenery itself is nice - pyramids, glyphs, mummy-like monsters, obelisks, etc. The sad thing 
 is, the graphics are utter crap. Pretty much the only thing thats reasonably well-animated is your 
 character, Anubis, but even he's nothing special. The graphics are cheap, blocky junk like from 
 the days of N64 - and again, this is the exact same case with Ninjabread Man. On top of that, the 
 detail is very sparse and bland and the very limited variety of colors makes it all the worse. 
 Honestly, I don't know how someone could be stupid and brazen enough to release such fugly looking 
 video game. Maybe the designers were too busy shooting up on the job to give a flying f***.
  
  
  Music - 2/10
  
  Not much that can be said here. I don't usually pay much attention 
 to background music when I'm playing a game, yet I can still tell you that Anubis II's music isn't 
 that great. Basically just quiet, run of the mill rhythms that play in an endless loop, again, 
 just like with Ninjabread Man. Not the kind of cool, jammin', ancient Egyptian tunes were all hoping 
 for.
  
  Gameplay - 1/10
  
  If everything else wasn't bad enough as it is, the gameplay is what takes the cake. Basically, 
 you just aimlessly wander around the level, killing annoying, boring ass enemies and collecting 
 these scrolls in order to advance to the next level. Yaaaawwwn. Very boring.
  
  As for the controls, even worse. Jumping is done by thrusting the nunchuck upwards, which believe 
 me is extremely awkward indeed. I think they would have been better off making it a basic button-pressing 
 thing just like the good games, but alas, they just had to complicate things, didn't they?
  
  Another thing. Anubis's main weapon is the Scepter of Ra, which he swings like a sword. It's 
 SUPPOSED to work by swinging the Wiimote... but half the time, this simply doesn't happen. It's 
 very strange, and it is also a big problem with Ninjabread Man. More than half the time, it simply 
 won't sense you desperately swinging your Wiimote, which makes killing even a single, simple enemy 
 nearly impossible without losing most, if not all, of your health. It's mind bogglingly annoying 
 and will frustrate you to the point where you feel like smashing your Wii through the TV, so beware.
 
  
  Overall - 1/10
  
  Basically, this game is just flat out horrible. Don't get me wrong, I'm not the kind of person 
 who just goes around giving 1's to games I hate. This game truly deserves it and there's tons of 
 people out there who agree with me. Practically no effort or money went into it, which really is 
 too bad; this had an outstanding potential to be a great game. But the saddest part, is that somewhere 
 in all of this bull is a wonderful game waiting to be decrappified.
  
  To be honest, I didn't get very far in the game. In fact, I never made it past the first level. 
 After several hours of frustrating attempts at trying to work around the horrible control problem, 
 I simply gave up. Believe me, you would have done the same.
  
  I happily returned this game, along with its twin Ninjabread Man, to the Blockbuster up the road 
 from my house a few days later, and I was more than pleased to be rid of them. I was so glad my 
 dad paid less than 20 bucks for both games, because I exchanged them for a copy of Super Mario 
 Galaxy, which is a game I have fallen very much in love with.
  
  Would I recommend this game? No. Effing. Way. 
  
  Don't even bother renting it, let alone buying 
 it. Regardless of how cheap it is, it's a complete and utter waste. Save your hard earned money 
 for the games that you will actually enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the worst game ever made and that's saying a lot, cause I've played Superman 
 64. Here you play as some jackal thing that is supposed to be Anubis. Graphics: 1/10. This game's 
 graphics are horrible and totally outdated. How little effort did they put into this? Gameplay: 
 1/10. It's the most basic of platformers. You jump from thing to thing with nothing special or 
 unique during any of it. And the controls... (shivers from disgust) . The most frustrating control 
 scheme on the Wii and maybe of any platform. You can flick the nunchuk up to jump, which is stupid 
 and unresponsive. And sometimes after you stop tilting the analog stick Anubis still keeps moving. 
 To attack AND cast spells, I guess, you wave your Wii remote. Sucks that the game can't tell the 
 difference. Sound: 1/10. One, I repeat, ONE music track through the entire game. It doesn't even 
 fit the theme of the game. Story: 1/10. Everything you need to know is on the box, cause the game 
 won't tell you much more. In the end, unless you want to waste money or torture yourself for a 
 few hours, DO NOT buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 29, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  God. The last time i reviewed the game "Ninjabread Man", i said "Ninjabread Man & its brothers? 
 DON'T BOTHER!" Yes i said "brothers" because the game also had other clones of it, like this game (Anubis 
 II) for example. You see, theres these series of awful games & its got Anubis, Ninjabread Man, 
 some girl wearing a gay looking bunny costume, some pumpkin guy & others called "Myth Makers".
 
  Anyways, on to this review....
  Ok, you wasted your hard earned money on a game & in it goes into your Wii (well it was begging 
 you "Please, give me mercy")
  Now you start to say "It reminds me of another game i played (Ninjabread Man) " YEP, you heard right. 
 This game is the same thing as Ninjabread Man, except its set in Ancient Egypt, & your this kind 
 of wolf or something, & instead of a candy cane, you have a Egyptian tool used by the BC. Still, 
 you have the same thing that Ninjabread Man had. Bad controls, bad camera, bad graphics & the other 
 crap. 
  Get a good game!
  I hope Data Design & Popcorn Arcade die in a fire!
  
  Good:
  NOTHING!
  Smash this game to make your self proud.
  Your character howls like a wolf 
 when he dies
  Bad:
  Its the same thing as Ninjabread Man
  EVERYTHING!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDXDXDXDXDXDXD
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  First of all, there isn't an Anubis 1, which is pretty strange to begin with. The motion controls 
 are terrible and it takes an hour for the game to recognize your movement. The controls are poor, 
 especially when you want to jump, because you have to shake the nunchuk to jump, which usually 
 fails. The graphics are a disaster, just by looking at the back of the game box you can see how 
 bad they are. The audio is broken, and it sounds like nails on a chalkboard. After two minutes 
 of playing you get bored of the uninteresting missions and it isn't worth going to the end of the 
 game. This game is a rip-off, because 50 dollars for a game this bad should be crime. Do not get 
 this game, because your only gonna torture yourself. It gets frustrating to shake the remotes over 
 and over again just to move. The fighting is horrible, because it takes a million slashes with 
 your wand to kill one enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii60_3
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a complete waste it's horrible, it's dull, lame, looks hideous compared to a Zelda TP 
 or a SSBB. I don't know what the developers were thinking with this one. Nintendo, if you want something 
 done right with the wii you gotta do it yourself. I hope this game doesn't sell more than 2000 copies 
 people may think this is what the wii is for in graphical terms. Something I really hate is the 
 camera, if the camera isn't good I cannot enjoy the game and this game is one of them. This could 
 really be the worst game on the wii and maybe the developers can learn from this, no developer is 
 perfect, but they have to start stepping it up on the wii and make something that can compete with 
 nintendo franchises, but so far many developers just take a gamble and try to make sales and I hate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullwinkleJ
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Anubis II, which I believe is the first in a series about the dogheaded pharoah Anubis the Second, 
 is purportedly a platformer for the Wii. It's cleverly priced at $20 with bright, colorful pictures 
 on the box. It is very alluring in a  kind of way. 
 Of course, if you had the information before thinking that thought, you would know how bad it is: 
 bad.
  
  I love platformers. Even mundane ones that get reviews like typical and not innovative and jump 
 around, shoot baddies, collect things - been there, done that. I have been there, and it's a place 
 I enjoy hanging out. I'll do that again and again. Anubis II has made the monumentally poor decision 
 to map the jumping controls to the nunchuck. But wait, you say, though probably not out loud unless 
 you're on a chatty basis with your computer, other games have mapped jumping to the chuck - even 
 with a flick of the wrist. Yes, but those other games weren't platform games about precision jumping. 
 They also didn't make you flick your wrists twice to double jump. They also also didn't make you 
 move with the chuck's control stick and jump at the same time in acrobatic maneuvering onto platforms 
 that are very difficult to gage, distance-wise.
  
  But that's not even the biggest problem, the Wii remote is used for all attacks in the same way 
 as Zelda. You know how satisfying it is to flick the remote and swing the sword as Link, knocking 
 into the bad guys repeatedly? Imagine if the remote didn't register your swing. Frequently. Add 
 to that the whole difficult to gage, distance-wise bit from the last paragraph and apply it to 
 approaching bad guys, and you have what my four year old calls a recime for disastoh. I'm going 
 to go back to EB and beg the manager to let me do a rare exchange. I'm hoping to get the untested 
 Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire. Hell, I'm already $20 in the hole. For $20 more, how bad can it be? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is just done so badly done I don't know where to begin. The graphics are bad, we're talking 
 PSX / PS1 bad (only without the texture tearing) . The controls are bad. The gameplay is idiotic. 
 It's just bad.
  
  The Wiimote aiming is jittery. The jumping is impossible unless you use the C button instead of 
 jerking the Nunchuck up. The camera hates you.
  
  Heck, I think the underpaid developers hated their lives so much, they wanted to give as much pain 
 and suffering as they could to anyone dumb enough to buy their company's product.
  
  I can't even think of anything worse to say about it - other than the pain I had to endure watching 
 my 7yo daughter come to terms with the fact that the game really, really, truly, sucked. At first 
 she started to look sad when me and my 10yo daughter laughed at how bad it was, so we hushed and 
 let her try it.
  
  Well, she learned something. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
