-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Avatar: The Last Airbender
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/avatarthelastairbender/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting mix of action and RPG elements.
 License doesn't feel tacked on.
 Simple, colorful cel-shaded graphics fit the game nicely.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Neither the RPG aspects, nor the fighting are fleshed out enough.
 No co-op play.
 Too many fetch quests and backtracking.
 Motion-sensing controls feel tacked on and make the game worse.
 For some reason, the Wii version is $10 bucks more.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 6.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 244 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: AWE Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Avatar had the potential to be an enjoyable game, but extremely repetitive and tedious gameplay 
 mean that most of that potential went untapped. 

  Games based on cartoons that are popular with kids, teens, and adults have often struggled under 
 the weight of trying to appeal to each audience simultaneously. After all, it's not easy to make 
 a game that a parent will enjoy as much as their child. Such is the case with Avatar: The Last 
 Airbender, an action role-playing game based on the popular Nickelodeon show of the same name. 
 The game has some interesting, yet underused, RPG elements, and the fighting system initially appears 
 as if it has some depth, but the overall game is so simple and easy you'll never need to do much 
 more than mash on the attack button to see the story through to its conclusion.  

          If you enjoy killing wolves, we've got good news for you.     

  Avatar takes place 
 in a world that's in the midst of a global war. There are four nations, divided up by the ability 
 of some of their citizens to "bend" (use as a weapon or magic) fire, water, earth, or air. The 
 Fire Nation is trying to eliminate the Water, Earth, and Air Nations in an effort to establish 
 itself as the planet's dominant force. The three nations' only hope for survival lies in the hands 
 of Aang, a 12-year-old Airbender, who also happens to be the Avatar -- the one person who can bend 
 all four elements. Not only will Aang have to fend off the Fire Nation, but there are thousands 
 of machines that threaten the land, as well. But Aang won't have to go at it alone. Katara, Aokka, 
 Haru, and Aang's faithful sidekick Momo will all team up to save the day. The story is pretty simple, 
 and for the most part it's entertaining. All of the characters are voiced by the same actors from 
 the cartoon and much of the series' humor comes across here, though it sometimes feels forced. 

  Avatar mixes light RPG elements with a healthy dose of fighting. The action is viewed from an isometric 
 perspective, which works well for showing off your surroundings while still remaining close enough 
 to be conducive to fighting. The controls are quite simple -- you really only need to know where 
 the attack button is. You can block, but you'll rarely need to. You begin the game with only Aang 
 (and Momo) , but you'll eventually enlist the services of Katara, Sokka, and Haru. Each character 
 has its own advanced/bending move that can be performed by pressing a shoulder button and a face 
 button. On the Wii, these moves are done by pressing the B button and moving the controller up, 
 down, left, or right. This works poorly because it's awkward and the game often fails to recognize 
 moves or performs the wrong move. You can upgrade your basic attack and special moves by earning 
 experience points. The game upgrades these abilities for you by default, but you can control this 
 feature manually if you so desire.  

  It's nice to have four fighters at your disposal, but outside of the few occasions where you're 
 forced to go at it alone with a particular character, there's never any need to fight with anyone 
 other than Aang. The three party members that you're not controlling are controlled (poorly) by 
 the CPU. They offer very little assistance during battle and seem content to just perform special 
 attacks over and over. However, you will need to use each person to perform "focus moves." Anytime 
 you come across a ravine you can't cross or find a pile of boulders blocking your path, the game 
 prompts you to perform one of these focus moves. Figuring out which character needs to do the move 
 is revealed by trial and error, though sometimes the scenario relates to someone's innate abilities. 
 On the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube, focus moves are performed after you successfully complete 
 a quick timing-based minigame. The Wii does things a bit differently. You're briefly shown a symbol 
 and then you must paint that symbol from memory using the Wii Remote as a paintbrush. Some sequences 
 have just one symbol, while others have as many as three. You're judged on your accuracy, but it 
 doesn't really seem to matter how accurate you are; so long as you're close, you pass. It's fun 
 to paint symbols the first couple of dozen times, but by the end of the game it's just mind numbing. 

          There are four people in your party, but you rarely need to use anyone other than Aang. 
     

  You'll spend most of your time killing the same sorts of enemies over and over again. Wolves, platypus 
 bears, bandits, firebenders, and various machines are most of the obstacles between you and saving 
 the world. They generally roam in packs and attack by lunging at you, but some of them shoot fire 
 or water, as well. Since both your health and chi (special attack power) regenerate when you're 
 not being attacked, even the most difficult enemies can be dispatched by attacking, running away, 
 and then attacking again. Eventually, you'll find that you don't even need to fight most of the 
 standard enemies -- you can simply run right past them. You'll want to fight some of them so you 
 can get new gear and earn some money, but money and items are so readily available that once you 
 get some decent equipment, you won't need to fight much. Boss battles are incredibly easy and require 
 only patience to win. Each boss follows the same pattern of attacking and then leaving you an opening 
 after their attack is done. All you have to do is keep your distance, run around, and wait for 
 the painfully obvious opening to appear. There's a save point before each boss, so you never have 
 to worry about dying. In fact, there are tons of save points everywhere, which makes it odd that 
 there's no autosave or save-anywhere feature.  

  The game is broken down into several different stages, and you'll have to complete many tasks before 
 moving to the next area. Aang's primary quest is to save the world, but this doesn't mean he gets 
 to just run off and fight the Fire Nation -- he'll help many other people along the way. If you just 
 stick to the main story, you can probably get through the game in about six hours. Should you try 
 to help everyone out and find all of the hidden items, the game could easily last upward of 10 
 hours. Helping people is where the game gets boring. You're constantly beseeched to find toys, 
 help fishermen, track down a lost person, or gather up random materials so someone can make something. 
 You can skip the side quests, but because some of the main quest goals are tasks as mundane as 
 finding lip balm, you're going to be doing plenty of menial tasks either way. When you're given 
 a quest, its direction is shown on the small overhead map/radar in the corner of the screen. There's 
 a larger map that can be viewed in the pause menu, but it just shows a large view of the area -- there's 
 no indication of your destination. You can also check your quests by looking in your journal. Where 
 the whole process gets annoying is when you make the mistake of talking to someone that wants you 
 to do something else while you're already on a quest. This resets the quest marker to the new quest, 
 and while you can still complete the old task, you'll have to do it without the help of a marker. 
 This makes for lots of roaming around, hoping you find your objective. If you really feel the need 
 to wander around even more, there are hidden treasure chests scattered about, as well as items 
 in each level that only Momo can find. One way to break up the monotony is to play Four Nations, 
 which is a simple yet enjoyable tile game. Your goal is to either play all of your tiles or play 
 a tile that your opponent can't play. If you win, you earn new items. Four Nations isn't something 
 you're going to boot up the game just to play, but it's a pleasant diversion.  

  Avatar's visuals are simple, yet appealing. The characters are all cel-shaded and look just as 
 they do in the cartoon. Animation for both the main characters and the enemies is rather repetitive, 
 which is disappointing given the fact that the game is based on an animated series. Rather than 
 being hand drawn, the cutscenes are all rendered. This fits in with the overall look of the game 
 but may be disappointing for anyone hoping for the game to play and look more like an episode of 
 the show. The game's environments aren't terribly complex, but that doesn't mean they look bad. 
 Each area is brightly colored and has a cartoonish look to it. There are plenty of effects like 
 rain and snow, too.  

  As mentioned earlier, the main characters are voiced by the actors from the show, and other than 
 being hampered by a less-than-stellar script, the performances are fine. NPC characters don't fare 
 as well. You'll hear the same canned phrases throughout the game, and to make matters worse, you'll 
 hear them regardless of what's happening onscreen. Other than a cool theme that plays when you're 
 controlling Momo, the music is forgettable.  

          All of your favorite characters from the show are in the game.     

  If you're trying 
 to decide which version of the game to get, it looks and plays identical on the PS2, Xbox, and 
 GameCube. The Wii version is the most expensive, it doesn't look any better than the others, it 
 has the most unfriendly control scheme, and the motion-sensing elements add nothing to the game. 
 The Wii version is also the only one where you can't lock on to enemies. The controls are unresponsive 
 on the Wii, too. You'll frequently need to press a button several times before it registers, and 
 it's basically a crapshoot as to whether or not a special move will work. Even the game's menus 
 are made a chore to navigate because of the controls. And to add insult to injury, the Wii version 
 has been known to freeze up on occasion.  

  Avatar: The Last Airbender isn't so much a bad game as it is one that's disappointing because it 
 fails to capitalize on its many interesting concepts. Even though it's geared toward kids, the 
 game is so watered down that even they won't find it challenging. The RPG elements are underdeveloped 
 and the fighting quickly becomes tedious due to its simplicity. The failure to include co-op multiplayer 
 support of any kind doesn't help either. Just being able to play with one friend, much less three, 
 would have made the whole experience more fun. Toss in some unfriendly design choices and lots 
 of backtracking, and you're left with a game that's just not that much fun to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Avatar: The Last Airbender was actually a much better game than I expected. I knew it was a Dark 
 Alliance-type game, but I didn't know it was soo similar. It's actually a deeper game in some regards. 
 I love how open the maps are, I love finding the quests from the NPCs. The graphics, for a PS2 
 port, really hold up. The celshading looks really good, and the backgrounds and enemies are still 
 nice to look at. 
  
  Avatar didn't utilize the Wii to the best of it's abilities, but they didn't abuse the Wii either. 
 I liked the limited Wii stuff in the game. The button layouts were perfect. The only problem, which 
 is completely minor, is using the Wiimote while micromanaging your pieces of armor and accessories. 
 
  
  I'm not an Avatar fan by any means. I never seen the show and I didn't know anything about the 
 characters or background on anything. I did get an idea on it with the opening intro. Some things 
 seemed off by me, but I didn't mind the story at all. It was funny at times. 
  
  Overall, the game was shockingly good. If you dig games like Baldur's Gate or Viking or X-Men Legends, 
 then I wholly recommend this title. This game got extremely poor reviews. I'm not sure why, but 
 coming from my perspective, and I've played a TON of these dungeon crawling hack n'slashers, I 
 say it's pretty solid.
  
  I'm actually excited to play the sequel. 
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Avatar: The Last Airbender is a straight up action RPG. The 
 game seemed designed mostly after Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, or more specifically X-Men Legends. 
 
  
  Avatar doesn't include co-op in any way. However, it does offer a better single player experience 
 than your average Dark Alliance clone. Like in X-Men Legends, you can fight along side with 3 AI 
 controlled partners. You can switch between characters on the fly with the D-Pad. This allows you 
 to solve puzzles requiring a different characters special abilities, or you can switch if you like 
 another characters fighting style.
  
  You gain experience for killing anything, or completing quests. If you gain enough experience you'll 
 gain a level. The game level caps you at 20, which is disappointing, because I level capped long 
 before the game ended. Anyways, once you gain a level, you are awarded with a skill point you can 
 distribute among your skills. I just left it on auto-assign, as I didn't use my skills often enough 
 to care.
  
  Like any RPG worth its weight, you can equip armor and accessories, however, no weapons. You can 
 equip 3 pieces of armor and 3 accessories. There really isn't anything that differentiate them 
 though, as they all effect the same stats. 
  
  The combat does get repetitive, and there isn't much strategy involved to it. You can smash your 
 way through the game just smashing the A button over and over again. Later in the game, when you 
 fight stronger enemies, I started to use my skills, but it was a bit to late for that. 
  
  The most repetitive thing about this game was the boss fights. If you fought one boss, then you 
 fought them all. The only strategy I could figure is to attack the boss. Then he will use a special 
 attack. After that, it will tire for a minute, which is when you swoop in to attack it. You just 
 repeat this over and over again until it's dead. The variety of bosses is also disappointing.
 
  
  To use a skill, all you need to do is hold down the B button. This then shows a collection of 4 
 skills you have equipped. You then move your Wiimote the direct of the skill, and that's it. It's 
 pretty simple to figure out and use. If you want to use the spinattack (which is the Up skill) , 
 you then hold down the B button and slice up with the Wiimote.
  
  The other Wii-specific motion in the game are mini-games that are required to open hidden chests 
 or to use your bending powers. These minigames remind me of Okami's paint brushing. They show you 
 a symbol, then you have to re-draw it in the exact order. That's really it for the Wii-mote stuff.
 
  
  There isn't a challenge at all in this game. Boss fights are simple, figuring out what to do next 
 is simple. There is nothing you'll get stuck on or frustrated with. That could be a good thing 
 or a bad thing. However, games like X-Men Legends and Badlur's Gate were pretty simple too.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Aang, the last Airbender. Aang, and 
 his group of friends, Katara (Waterbender) , Haru (Earthbender) , or Sokka (Firebender) get mixed 
 up in a war between the Fire Tribe and the rest of the world. A mysterious person is unleashing 
 attacks on villages across the world with robots, and Aang is trying to put a stop to it.
  
  As I said before, I'm not familiar with the show at all. They show a short animated clip before 
 playing the game, which explains Aangs origins, but nothing else. I can see a fan of the show getting 
 into the story, because it seemed completely directed towards fans only. For a non-fan, like myself, 
 they didn't flesh out the characters enough.
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  I think the graphics hold up pretty well for a PS2 title. I would even go as far as say they're 
 better than Marvel Ultimate Alliance. While the enemy design does get repetitive, I do like the 
 animations of the enemies, characters and everything else on the field. I love the world map and 
 how it was designed. It was very colorful and rememberable. 
  
  I enjoyed the cutscenes as well. I honestly expected a bunch of anime clips taken from the TV show 
 and spliced into the game, but they actually rendered all the cutscenes with the game engine. The 
 characters are celshaded, and look awesome. The faces, the hand movements, everything is perfectly 
 animated. 
  
  I had the game crash on me a few times though. It would just freeze up, and I could power off or 
 anything. I had to unplug my machine to reboot it. One thing it froze while I was saving! I'm glad 
 it didn't erase my file. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  The music was forgettable, for example, I can't remember a single tune from it. It probably wasn't 
 anything offensively bad atleast. I dig the voice work though. I can't say if they're the same 
 actors from the TV show, since I never seen it, but it's not bad really. Some dialog isn't fully 
 voiced, while others are. If you talk to a NPC, you might just hear a first word or short phrase 
 out of them, instead of their full dialog, like in a Zelda game. My favorite part about the NPC 
 voices is when you walk by a group of NPCs, they might chat to each other. Kinda like in GTA or 
 Simpsons Hit and Run, they might say stupid crap while you walk past them or hoover around them. 
 I liked that bit. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  There are 7 worlds in all. The world map reminds me of alot of Viking: Battle for Asgard for the 
 360. When you start a world, you are given almost complete freedom to run around the island and 
 do whatever you want. It's non-linear in that sense. Within the island are usually a town or two, 
 or scattered NPCs to talk to. You can find quests from random people and complete them, which leads 
 to a final boss encounter on that island. Once you fight that boss, you are then taken away from 
 that island, and shipped to a new one. Like Viking, you can't backtrack to previous islands.
  
  I like the world map set up, but as I said, I was disappointed that you couldn't backtrack. 
 I skipped a few sidequests earlier in the game, and I wished I had finished them. 
  
  The islands and quests get repetitive after a while though. You usually start off in a town, you 
 then find a guy that plays minigames. You can then find the mayor or head person of the town, they 
 give you a main quest. You can then find a merchant, and he wants you to find random items for 
 his store. Each island has a Momo quest, which requires you to switch into the Momo character (the 
 little Lemur that sits on your shoulder) . You can travel through the map looking for secrets only 
 he can find. Then there are secret chests you can find on the map, etc. If you played one map, 
 then you played them all. It's still fun to explore them maps though.
  
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ---------
  8-12 hours.
  
  They don't record your time with 
 the game. I'm sure it's possible to blow through this title in 6 or 7 hours, but I took my time 
 to do most of the quests given. 
  
  The final boss was pretty simple. The game ends with a cliffhanger and credits. That's it. You 
 can "continue" your last save, but that just leaves you before the final boss. There's not a whole 
 lot to do otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtube_tv
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Avatar the last airbender, the quote first book game, is going on the same plot as the first book 
 and is actually an okay game. but one thing they probably should have got is the multi-player thing. 
 that would have made the game so much more fun for everyone. 
  
  The game play how they set it up is okay, i have to admit that the places are a little weird. i 
 really don't remember the southern water tribe being that big or Haru's village inside a forest? 
 they could have made it a little more 3-D too. i think they Wii can handle that.
  
  The graphics are okay, they aren't the best compared to other games on the Wii and for that fact, 
 on the gamecube too. they should have used a little more time on the game, that would have helped 
 a lot more.
  
  In the end, i would rate the this game an 8 out of 10. the game is really addicting, but everything 
 about the game needs just a little bit of help if you know what i mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Task1000
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much when I first saw the first cutscene of this game, I thoght to myself, "are they on 
 drugs when developing this game or something"? It looks like they were being cheap on this game. 
 I know that the gameplay was weak but this is ridiculous also Aang looks like a he shoved mashmallows 
 inside his cheaks. When I first experienced its gameplay I thought to myself, "Where the living 
 hell am I suppose to go!?" Yes I can just go to the internet and find a good walkthough, but too 
 bad its just not worth it! This game isis almost to the level of UNFAIR!!! Trust me I'm still at 
 the first level of the game, and I have know idea where to go. Infact all you can do in this game 
 is nothing but get jobs, jobs, and less action. So overall if you're an Avatar fan please don't 
 waste you're money for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  this game is made from the cartoon show which i watched and was the reason i bought the game. the 
 game deffinately could have used a 4 player or at least a 2 player mode but it was only 1 which 
 really bored me. it has a great story line though. i dont like how the story revolves around a 
 robot maker that kinda killed for me. it should have been more killing of fire benders. the controls 
 are just plain bad and the graphics are also pretty bad but for some reason it was still very fun 
 the first time through as you can upgrade aang and the other 3 characyers with items that you get 
 from your enemies after you kill them and from completing missions. overall you will like the game 
 if you are a fan of the show but otherwise it isnt a fantastic game and deffinately could have 
 been better. i wouldn't buy it at a full price and get it pre-ordered at less than $50 otherwise 
 its not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoorah12
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Avatar is set in a beautiful world of four nations, and the avatar trying to save them all from 
 the over-cocky fire lord. This game could have been great if they had fully utilized the wii mote. 
 However, they chose to poorly, and quickly put together a game without putting much thought into 
 it. The game reminds me of a game made off of a movie and is just plain terrible! The graphics 
 looks like they were put together sloppily and extremely quickly. The game designers obviously 
 put no work into making the game beautiful and enjoyable in any way, seems to happen a lot with 
 games that are released to multiple platforms. The creators cannot focus on fully utilizing a specific 
 platforms abilities therefore making the game just all around suck! Overall, avatar is a terrible 
 game that was a waste of every buck spent. I advise you not to waste yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX_242
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the show like I am, you know how much better this game could have been. Bad 
 ggraphics, bad gameplay, boring, the whole aim of the game is confusing and the missions are stupid 
 and mostly pointless. I think hey could have made it a really good game, but they decided to slack 
 off, and make a poor game. the game could have been based on the first season, the first part, 
 as watchers would know, would be sledding, then an escape from a fire nation ship, a thrilling 
 adventure, but something went terribly wrong. not one to keep your eye out for, and definitely 
 not a buyer, easy and very short, and very boring. BAD GAME, could have been loads better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  OO no not another Nick show going to be a video game!! THQ and Nick some how can't make a good 
 game ever! this game suffers from the same things all other THQ Nick games
  
  If your a fan of the avatar series then you will want to eat this game up.. if not you will be 
 like wtf..
  
  i will keep this one short and sweet then the rest of my reviews I am not a fan at all of Avatar 
 and this game is a terrible ripp off of a game like Marvel ultimate Alliance.
  
  There are no real wii controls and the only thing that uses the wii remote is kinda crappy lol
 
  
  The game features you wack bad guys and go to the next bad guy and smash a.. not fun
  
  Overall this game is boring and stay far far away from this game unless you are a fan of the 
 series
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: BORING hitting the a button over and over
  Graphics: average graphics but nothing great about them
  Sound: its kinda boring nothing greta 
 about this either
  Value: You will def. enjoy this game if you watch the show but like me if you don't then you get 
 very little for your money.. even though i got this game for free
  Overall: like every Nick game ever made its pretty bad. this game could be great cause its not 
 like spongebob or fairy odd parents but this game is just as bad as those.. maybe change controls 
 and make it more enjoyable to everyone except the select few 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandemicRcks502
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 16, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Avatar The Last Airbender sucks ass. The gameplay gets really boring really fast. Plus, you'd think 
 by now they'd be able to put better graphics in a game than this. The sound is pretty jacked and 
 unrealistic. The characters are really stupid too, because in the first boss fight against the 
 fire spitting machine the cinematic shown after the battle has Sokka explaining that it's from 
 the Fire Nation. Well DUH! Who else is gonna be able to make a giant kitchen utensil (which was 
 a VERY lame joke in the game) that shoots %@*$#! fireballs at you?!? Look, I understand that this 
 review is kind of disconcertingly short, but I've said all that can be said about this lousy crap-ass 
 piece of garbage. That and I'm going to throw up if I have to talk about this game for much longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyFanatic
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  This doesn't really deserve a full-fledged review. While the show is very inventive and one of 
 my favorite things to do with a TV, (You don't want to know the others... O_O) this... thing is 
 a generic dungeon crawler with abhoring graphics, an apalling story, and cruddy sound. Unless you're 
 an Avatar obsesser like me, then I suggest you steer away from this cheap way to sell cow manure 
 for $50 a piece. Truly, THQ, Nick, and anybody else really botched this one. Although... THQ has 
 never made a decent game in the past.
  - RoyFanatic
  
  (no ASCII this time, only for quality games. Like WarioWare) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Avatar may not be one of the best RPG like the so called WOW but players will find something more 
 than just a simple childs game while one of the best part of the game is that charecters like aang, katara 
 and ect are from real voices and while levels are not many cause basicly...
  it can be finished within 4 to 5 hours of non stop gameplay while players will also experienced 
 some glith in the game its quite often they will experience it
  while the tagline says Master the Four elements well no you wont master all of them casue as you 
 can see the only element you cant control fire because aang can only bend air in the game and also 
 even if aang cant bend water, earth nor fire well zuko wont even join the team since the situation 
 was like that while towns and city also fell very lifely as people will talk and walk which is 
 similar to Fable
  the fun part is finding tresure but its just to hard to find treasure while player and me aswell 
 soon realise that there isnt a 2 player sequence like x-men legends soon players would start to 
 fell Oh great ive just wasted $60 only to realise that there isnt a two player mode 
  Boos fights are nice as they are chellenging yet also fun and it takes a few tries to win them 
 if your not cheating
  armors and nice and challenging to choose and buy and also hard to decided to see who gets which 
 armor
  
  environments anre extremely nice and well detaied especially in omashu i mean you could see buildings 
 below when your at the top of omashu and charecters are well detailed but the most nicely detaild 
 id Soka and charecter movements during the cutscene are quite realistic
  
  while my coisin one seem to have a small glitch with the sounds system sometimes in the game where 
 the sound effect will appear 10 to 12 seconds after the speaking nor the hit of someone or something
 
  overall the noise dont really sounds nice for some moves like the tornado
  
  Avatar is one of or my favorite show the game is not the best of them all but one of the best for 
 kids and the game works both best in WII and Xbox
  as both have more detaile
  but nor really the PS2
  still i dont mean the PS2 sucks or anything
  it just dosent work great 
 on it
  but still simple in nature its still a descent game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
