-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Barnyard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/thebarnyardmovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Immerses you in the movie's skewed world.
 Refreshing open-ended design.
 Dozens of minigames and helper missions.
 Lots of visual and auditory detail.
 Wii version's motion-sensitive controls give the game a hands-on feel.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames aren't all that unique or challenging.
 Not enough spoken dialogue.
 Better controls and graphical upgrades don't fully justify the Wii version's higher price tag.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.7, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Blue Tongue
Genre: Adventure
Date: Dec 4, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the motion-sensitive controls don't fully justify the Wii version's higher price tag, they 
 do make a fun sandbox game seem even more engaging. 

  Like most of the other GameCube games that have been ported to the Wii, Barnyard takes advantage 
 of the Wii's motion-sensitive controls and has undergone a modest graphical upgrade, but it's otherwise 
 identical to the original GameCube release. However, unlike many of those other games, the waggle 
 controls in Barnyard work great and give the game a more hands-on feel, while the uptick in visual 
 quality makes the farm and the characters on it look that much nicer. Although those improvements 
 don't fully justify the $20 price difference between the two versions, they do at least give Wii 
 owners a reason to choose that version if they or their kids have already decided to add Barnyard 
 to the home game library. Ultimately, what matters most is that the game itself is fun and diverse. 
 Instead of leading you through a series of run-and-jump missions that simply duplicate the film's 
 story, like the majority of movie-inspired games do, Barnyard lets you explore the farm, talk to 
 characters, and tackle dozens of missions, minigames, and collect-a-thon checklists on an open-ended 
 basis. It's that freedom of discovery, combined with the charming anthropomorphism underpinning 
 the characters, that helps set Barnyard apart from all of the other movie-based games out there. 

          In Barnyard, you work to become the number-one party animal by helping other characters, 
 competing in minigames, and buying nightclub goodies for the barn.      

   

  In the three-dimensional world of Barnyard, the animals on the farm behave like people. Otis, a 
 carefree cow, likes to swim in the pond and play gopher golf. His father, Ben, keeps track of chores 
 on a clipboard and keeps raccoons and coyotes at bay with his milk squirters. There's a chicken 
 named Peck who dreams of flying, so he routinely has the other animals launch him out of a slingshot 
 so that he can sail across the farm, usually to disastrous results. There's a pack of cows that 
 likes to race their bikes and go joyriding in the local farmers' cars. Every day, just for grins, 
 these same cows sneak up behind the mailman and mock him behind his back. You are dropped right 
 into the middle of this menagerie, taking on the role of a teenage cow that has just been delivered 
 to the farm. This cow wants to make a good impression, so he (or she, depending on the choice made 
 in the beginning) decides to join the animals in their activities.  

  There's plenty to see and do. Just by wandering around and talking to the other animals, you can 
 play gopher golf, blast coyotes and raccoons with your squirt-gun-like udders, control Peck's journey 
 as he sails through the air, dance behind the mailman's back, and so on. These minigames aren't 
 all that difficult, but they sure are amusing. Doing the robot behind the mailman or squirting 
 milk at raccoons like Keanu Reeves in  The Matrix  is hilarious. Some characters have tasks they 
 need help with, which typically involves bringing back a certain item or visiting multiple characters 
 situated at various spots on the farm. Most missions only take a couple of minutes to complete. 
 The reward for completing them is usually a cinematic scene advancing a loose subplot involving 
 the raccoons and coyotes, along with some gopher bucks to spend at the store on gopher hill.  

 
  The environment itself encompasses two farms and the surrounding areas. You can walk around, climb 
 ladders, pick flowers, and ride a bicycle to get around more quickly. A few daredevil tricks can 
 be performed while riding the bike, for no practical purpose except that it's something else to 
 do. Tree stumps in the environment are actually prize machines run by the gophers that spit out 
 gopher bucks in exchange for prize tokens. At the barn, you can participate in parlor games and 
 use the food items you've collected to make treats and mocktails, which can be given to the other 
 animals or sold to the gophers for a huge profit. Numerous bike upgrades and barn decorations are 
 available for purchase at the gopher shop. Although many of these decorations are purely for aesthetic 
 purposes, some of them unlock additional parlor games, such as pool, darts, and whack-a-rac. This 
 is a lighthearted sandbox-style game where you can watch the hours zip away as you do whatever 
 you want, whenever you want.  

          The open-ended structure gives you the freedom to explore and to accomplish tasks at a 
 leisurely pace.     

  The motion-sensitive controls in the Wii version of the game aren't necessarily more functional 
 than the traditional pad and button setup, but they definitely make the Wii game seem livelier 
 and more hands-on than the other versions. Lifting the Nunchuk to jump and shaking the remote to 
 pick up and throw objects works better to immerse you in the action than simply tapping a button 
 does. Likewise, it just feels right to be able to aim the remote at the screen and then pull the 
 trigger to spray raccoons with milk. Minigames implement control schemes similar to those found 
 in Wii Sports or Excite Truck. In the gopher golf minigame, for example, you point the remote downward 
 and move it sideways to swing at the ball. In the pool minigame, you pull back on the remote to 
 pull back on the cue and jerk the remote forward to take a shot. A few chapters into the game, 
 you'll gain access to one of the farmers' trucks, which you steer by holding the Wii remote horizontally 
 and tilting it to turn left or right. For the most part, the controls are accurate and responsive. 
 Ubisoft tried to implement similar control schemes in Open Season, but aiming was impossible and 
 character response was slow to occur. In Barnyard, you can aim your character's milk udders and 
 squirt off a shot in an instant.  

  Fans of the movie will appreciate that the game's 3D world does a nice job of duplicating the layout 
 and artistic style of key locations from the animated film. You can freely explore the main farm 
 and about a dozen other nearby areas, as well as watch or talk to any animals that happen to be 
 hanging around. The cel-shaded graphics and bright primary colors mimic the movie's art style. 
 At first glance, it doesn't appear that there's much happening in the environment, aside from animals 
 walking around, but closer inspection reveals a wealth of subtle details just waiting to be noticed. 
 The animals smile and blink when spoken to, bushes and flowers shake when characters walk through 
 them, and dirt and leaves are kicked up at every turn. A glimpse of the sky reveals that the clouds 
 are actually passing by up there, and that the sun, moon, and stars are making their appointed 
 treks as the clock ticks. Numerous objects in the environment can be picked up or smashed, including 
 fruit, rocks, boxes, hay bales, and flower pots. Trees can be kicked and ladders can be climbed. 
 The world of Barnyard is quite lively. Throughout it all, the frame rate remains smooth even when 
 a bunch of animals and items are visible, and the draw distance is far enough such that only the 
 occasional distant tree suddenly pops into view. As Wii games go, Barnyard isn't pushing out graphics 
 at the same level of visual intensity as other games developed specifically for the Wii are. Nevertheless, 
 it is easy on the eyes.  

  Compared side by side, the Wii version of the game generally looks identical to the GameCube version, 
 except that everything is cleaner. The Wii version runs at a higher resolution than the GameCube 
 game and benefits from an increased polygon count and sharper textures. It also outputs its visuals 
 at 60 frames per second, whereas the GameCube version is locked in at 30. These enhancements aren't 
 substantial enough to justify buying the game again if you already bought it for the Cube, but 
 they're something to keep in mind if you find yourself holding the game box at the store wondering 
 why the Wii version costs $20 more than the other versions.  

          A number of actions in the Wii version are accomplished by tilting or shaking the controller, 
 which makes the experience that much more engaging.     

  Audio, meanwhile, is best described as atmospheric. Just standing still, you can hear the wind 
 blowing through the trees, the birds chirping, and the faint sound of water coming from the direction 
 of the river. Every action, such as shaking fruit out of a tree or walking across a rickety dock, 
 has the appropriate sound effect. The banjo music that's always playing in the background is rather 
 fitting, too. Unfortunately, despite all of this ambient detail, the audio often feels too subdued. 
 Much of the reason for that is the lack of character speech in the game. Characters don't say much 
 while wandering the farm or during minigames. Even during conversation scenes, animals will only 
 speak their first line of dialogue, leaving you to read the rest. It's rare that a movie tie-in 
 has so little recorded dialogue, as that's usually a major selling point.  

  Overall, Barnyard is a solid sandbox-style game that manages to capture the spirit of the movie 
 it's based on without resorting to the typical one-level-after-another structure. The improvements 
 made to the Wii version of the game don't fully justify the $20 price difference between it and 
 the GameCube version, but if you have to make a choice and cost isn't a factor, the Wii version 
 is the one to get. The cleaner visuals on the Wii make it easier to mentally gel with the game's 
 world, while the motion-sensitive controls make most tasks and minigames seem more engaging.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brain332
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I found playing Barnyard a fun experience especially because you can customize your cow, buy things 
 for yourself and the Party Barn and you can cook in all sorts of ways. One thing I didn't like 
 about it was that you had energy saying how long you can run then you have to sleep at night to 
 recharge it. One Warning I have about it is that on the GC it would freeze once in a while while 
 loading so after every mission I would have to save just in case it froze again. Over all I think 
 Barnyard was a very interesting and fun experince. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a simple movie-themed adventure game with some mini-games that are fun to play. I'm not 
 sure that anything included is all that innovative, but it's the first time *I've* done it, so 
 that makes it more fun.
  
  In the adventure game, you start out free-roaming a portion of farm land. You can talk to other 
 animals, collect inventory items and take on missions. While the free-roaming environment gets 
 MUCH larger as you progress, the game seems to introduce new environments before you're bored with 
 your current environment. You play as a cow roaming around the farm (on two legs) while the farmer 
 is away. Some of the missions that you can take on include item collection, shooting, cooking, 
 riding a bicycle, and the many mini-games that are weaved in to the main story.
  
  The mini-games can be accessed separately from the main game which I find extremely convenient. 
 Instead of having to fire up the main story and travel to the Mud Jumpers or Tease the Mailman 
 mini-game, you can just select it from the Antics selection on the main menu. Walking around 
 and exploring are fun enough. This game utilizes the nunhuck and remote in tandem. The basic control 
 isn't completely intuitive, but it's close. It doesn't utilize FPS controls (as seen in 'Call of 
 Duty 3' on the Wii) , but the controls aren't bad and are actually fairly close to what you'd expect.
 
  
  I had fun playing this simple movie-themed adventure game. I would recommend renting this game 
 and not buying it unless you have a child in your household that is enamored with the movie. If 
 so, this definitely isn't a waste of money. This game is fun and will keep small children (and 
 some larger ones) occupied for weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites for the wii. The controls are intuitive and easy to use. Some 
 of the games can get a little repetitive, but the increasing difficulty of each task helps keep 
 it exciting. The humor of the game is fantastic - I find myself laughing at something different 
 every time I play. The milk-squirting sequences with the Bad to the Bone soundtrack are hilarious, 
 as are the comments of the other animals when you squirt them. I've played most of the games for 
 wii, and this is one of my top 5. Very fun, entertaining, and something my kids can play without 
 me worrying about what they might see. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
