-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Baroque
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/baroque/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An incredible number of weapons and items to find and experiment with.
 Very strong and compelling story that tries something different and mostly succeeds.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely inaccessible for anyone but fans devoted to this genre.
 Intentionally vague storytelling method is very difficult to get into.
 The expressionless, doll-like characters seem awkward in cutscenes.
 Atrociously awful camera.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 168 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Sting
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 8, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A fiendishly difficult, randomly generated dungeon crawler that at times can be an incredible work 
 of interactive fiction, and at other times, a muddled mess. 

  Baroque is a hardcore dungeon crawler with a long history of US neglect. Originally released on 
 the Sega Saturn in Japan roughly 10 years ago, it was remade on the PlayStation a year later, but 
 neither version received a stateside release; it wasn't until it was remade yet again for the PlayStation 
 2 and Wii that it was finally brought over. Despite its apparent age, Baroque is a welcome breath 
 of fresh air in a genre that has grown stagnant, and it brings a unique method of storytelling 
 that, though flawed, will likely remain with you long after you have quit playing. That is, if 
 you can find the patience to stick with it long enough.  

  In the not-so-distant future, a cataclysm known as the Blaze has annihilated the world, leaving 
 behind a broken humanity that can exist only by clinging to their delusions, known as baroques. 
 Some time after this, the player-named protagonist awakens without any of his memories and finds 
 himself unable to speak, burdened by a powerful guilt for an unknown sin. He encounters a winged 
 being called the Archangel, who tells him to head to the bottom of a bizarre tower where he can 
 atone for his transgression and heal the world.  

  What follows is a sometimes-brilliant but severely flawed piece of interactive fiction wrapped 
 up inside of a randomly generated dungeon crawler. The tightly wound story, once you begin to unravel 
 it, is deeply personal and emotionally charged, but it takes a lot of patience, multiple play-throughs, 
 and a fair amount of experimenting with the various characters you encounter to even begin to understand. 
 This is because Baroque is intentionally vague and literally starts you off with no introduction 
 to the weird world and its inhabitants, or any other relevant information. Certain story-related 
 terms simply aren't explained through dialogue but must rather be looked up in the manual, and 
 the game doesn't even attempt to convey the critical plot point of the guilt of committing an unknown 
 sin; it is simply stated by the Archangel that your character feels this way, and you're meant 
 to take that at face value. Although starting you off as a stranger in a strange land can be an 
 effective way to pull you into a story, Baroque frequently flirts at the edge of taking it too 
 far and alienating you entirely.  

           This is just one of the creepy monsters that you will encounter.      

  However, if 
 you can stick with the vagaries presented, you will find a constantly shifting world of unending 
 reincarnation. Death is not an end but a beginning, and with each death you are restored, minus 
 any levels gained or items discovered. This may seem to be harsh punishment for failure and might 
 break your desire to continue playing, but you'll discover that it is not without its purpose, 
 and death ultimately proves to be necessary for the story to progress. Whenever you restart, you 
 begin in the ruinous Overworld, a wasteland just outside of the tower. The inhabitants of this 
 shantytown are a colorful lot that have all been twisted and physically warped by their baroques. 
 They have their own wants and needs, which you will invariably learn and satisfy over time. Nevertheless, 
 you will always end up back in the tower, where you must fight your way through hordes of former 
 humans who couldn't handle their baroques and became monsters. Though you cannot exit the tower 
 once you've entered (unless you die or successfully reach the bottom) , you can transfer a handful 
 of items to the Overworld, where they are picked up by one of the townspeople and safely stored 
 for your next incarnation.  

  As you progress through the tower, you will find a wide assortment of items to help you in your 
 journey. Some may be equipped, others will heal you, and still others will inflict damage or status 
 ailments upon you. However, every single item can be thrown as a weapon, and thus the ones that 
 would normally be harmful to you can actually prove to be useful. You can store only up to 20 different 
 types of items on your person at any given time, so it becomes necessary to frequently evaluate 
 your inventory and use or lose the dregs.  

  The ability to toss items is a great boon to the otherwise lackluster combat system, though it 
 is worth mentioning that when using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, the throw button's placement is 
 somewhat awkwardly positioned. Although the handful of weapon types may feature different attack 
 speeds or combo lengths, and you do have the ability to fuse them with items to produce different 
 effects, combat essentially consists of equal parts running away to dodge attacks and mindless 
 button mashing. You have no way to block or evade attacks, and though you technically have three 
 types of attacks, only one of them is really effective. On top of that, Baroque's camera system, 
 which is almost entirely manually controlled, is endlessly frustrating during battle. You have 
 the ability to lock on to an enemy to make attacking it easier, but the camera doesn't rotate to 
 face your target, and without coaxing it in the right direction, you might spend most of the fight 
 staring at a wall or your character's face. To make things worse, on the Wii version, the button 
 that you use to lock on to an enemy also doubles as the button used to reset the camera, but not 
 when you're close enough to something that you can lock on to. Why not let it do both to drastically 
 improve the shoddy camera?  

           Effective inventory management is critical.      

  Though this is a newly remade version of Baroque that features unique design styles for both 
 characters and monsters, the graphics have remained woefully out of date. Textures are of low resolution 
 and muddy, character animations are stiff and unnatural, and the visuals are nearly oversaturated 
 with that scratchy filter popularized by Silent Hill 2 way back in 2001. Inside of the tower, there 
 seem to be only a few types of floors that can be generated, and so everything for the most part 
 looks and feels identical. When engaging with the townspeople, you will have the option of zooming 
 in on their faces as part of a conversation camera, but this feature is entirely pointless because 
 everyone is expressionless and almost doll-like in nature. This is extremely awkward, given that 
 every line of dialogue is voiced, for better or worse, and it's almost laughable when you hear 
 someone screaming in anger or anguish with a blank look on a completely emotionless face. Hit-or-miss 
 voice acting aside, Baroque features a darkly ambient soundtrack that never gets old and always 
 seems to fit every situation in which you might find yourself.  

  Baroque is an intriguing and satisfying game for fans of the hardcore dungeon-crawling genre or 
 anyone looking for a compelling and many-faceted story. Despite some glaring shortcomings, it can 
 become quite addictive to unravel the mysteries of the world and unlock all of the story cutscenes. 
 If you find yourself with plenty of time and patience, then Baroque just may be the fix you're 
 looking for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Baroque is a Dungeon crawler (like Persona) expect it is a hack and slash rather than turn-based. 
 the Dungeon changes which is a good thing because you go through the dungeon over and over again 
 if it did not change there would be no fun in it. The Story is unique while it is unclear and takes 
 many playthroughs to get it. basically you are sent to this world to save god in the Neuro tower, 
 to be forgiving of you sin that you cannot remember what it was. while you progress through the 
 game the characters past will be revealed by dieing. while the game is fun, it does have an number 
 of flaws one it is simply to hard and the It if more luck trying to get through the dungeon in 
 time rather than skill. This is a game that will not apeal to everybody, and it is a game the most 
 people will play and not like or will play and get mad at it but for 20 you really can't beat it 
 the game will take time to beat and also hopefully satisfy your dungeon crawler needs. recommneded 
 to RPG Fans and people who still have a lot of pateints 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Baroque is easily in my top 10 RPG's (It' number ten) . Why is it in my top ten? Because although 
 people do say the story line is so slow that you'll feel strong hate feelings towards this game. 
 But no, I find it (in my opinion) the story line of this game is so much better and faster than 
 anybody says. It really delivers!
  Game play is fantastic as well, once you get some "Me Brands" you can send very valuable items 
 to the first floor.
  So what's the story? Well, you're a kid, who can't talk and with no memory to speak of. He's in 
 the "world today" witch is the world in a long time. Everybody turned into freaks, and a guy with 
 a coffin on his back says "God dammit" way to much -_- *Sigh*.
  But the dungeon is great, and once you get the "Me Brands" Starting over all the time isn't nearly 
 as much as a hassle as you'd think it'd be.
  The reason for my review deck, is because every time you die, you will have to start over from 
 the beginning, level 1, no questions asked. But when you do restart, you'll find more and more 
 of the story out, and it's actually very fulfilling, and for me - dying in a game making you move 
 on... THAT'S AWSOME!
  And there you have it! Not a perfect game, but defiantly worth a couple hours when you have nothing 
 else to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdf_en
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  If you're an old gamer like me, and loved rogue for both it's simplicity of play and didn't care 
 that there goal wasn't all that clear, you'll like Baroque. The GUI is questionable even for mid-90s 
 technology -- but much better than the ASCII art I used to love with rogue.
  
  To play this game, you'll want to get used to what in other games is called "the grind", and like 
 in rogue, learn to love starting over. 
  
  The point of this game is to idle away the hours venting your nerdy rage on weird creatures, every 
 now and again think of clever strategies and figure out how things work. Unfortunately, there are 
 lots more things identified in this game than in rogue, and I haven't come across any cursed items 
 ... yet.
  
  The game makes minimal use of the Wiimote, and would play just as easily with a keyboard (as in 
 the original rogue) . 
  
  In summary, it's a nice, simple, unpretentious "throw-back" game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  you will have some buyers remorse. But the good thing is, is that as you keep progressing (this 
 game has some pacing issues) the remorse fades away. Ok all in all i took a gamble. I seen Baroque 
 in a big city i was visiting. I was going to buy silent hill origins instead. But i thought, Baroque, 
 made by Atlas (w00t) , a game that i kinda had my eye on and i probably wouldn't see this game at 
 my walmart or anywhere near my town. Right off the bat i new that this wasn't going to be my cup 
 of tea. I knew full well it wasn't an turnbased RPG, i knew it was a dugeon crawler (randomly generated 
 DC) . I took a gamble and so far im pretty pleased. I think i woulda enjoyed Silent Hill more but 
 this game gets better as you progress.
  
  Wow.... long intro. Anyways, im just saying this game has some pacing issues.
  I was playing this 
 game and i died and had to start over at lvl 1 again. To me thats no big deal at all but there 
 is this little voice pit in my stomach telling me, you should put the game down do something else. 
 But that happens with most RPGs. So i played Okami for a while, Popped Boroque back in and beat 
 two levels then said this game is definatly getting better. Alls i gotta say is you might wanna 
 rent it b4 you by it. Just remember you should at least progress in the story a little bit before 
 bashing this game to hell.
  
  I give it an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hybrid28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  This is seriously the best rogue-like that i've have ever played in my entire gaming history (nerdy 
 i know but my gamer history goes back 16 years to when i was a little baby) the graphics are some 
 of the best that i have ever seen on the wii, and the story is phenomenal. Basically you are a 
 man who wakes up in a post-apocalyptic/ hellish world where everyone is distorted in some way, 
 shape, or form and you have monstrous amnesia (you don't even remember how to speak) and to figure 
 out who you are and why you feel so guilty you must fight your way to the bottom of the neuro tower 
 and _____________ ( i don't really want to spoil the game for you.) You'll probably read about how 
 horrible the game is because it restarts you after you die, level, inventory and all its all gone 
 if you die. I'll admit that it frustrated me at first too but then i kept playing and found out 
 something that helps you with that problem, there are special spots in the game where you can transfer 
 items to "the collector" and he will hold them for you and you can get them back from him if/when 
 you die.
  
  The people who say its boring because you have to replay it over and over apparently don't understand 
 the game and have to short of attention spans to figure it out, thats how you understand the game 
 and progress in the game. If you pay more attention to it then you'd realize that the farther you 
 go in the game the more things begin to change around you, and if you have an IQ in the triple 
 digits then you will start to piece together what is going on and start to understand it all.
 
  
  Basically i am telling anyone who has a long enough attention span to read this review and can 
 deal with a few almost frustrating camera angle and control problems, and graphics that are up 
 to par with the wiis capabilities, to get your money together and get your butt over to your local 
 game store and buy this great game.
  
  Now im going to go play this incredible game some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Courtawulf4
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Alright. If you're reading this then maybe there's some hope.
  
  I understand that this game is getting less than favorable reviews. BUT THEY ARE LIES!
  
  This 
 game is pretty close to a perfect 10, only missing out because of a few awkward camera problems 
 and a less than natural feeling combat system. other than that is the game that some of us have 
 been waiting for our whole lives. What I mean is, a good representation of a 3D, console, rogue-like.
 
  
  If you are not sure what a rogue-like game is, then google it, find one, play it. There are some 
 of us who have spent hundreds of hours moving around an @ symbol only to lose our character and 
 revert to a state of depression, then start again in a day or two. This game will give you all 
 of that pleasure (and so much more) .
  
  Okay, here goes a review.
  
  Story: This is the games strongest point. The story makes you THINK it treats you like you are 
 an intelligent person and doesn't spoon feed you boring content assuming you are incapable of understanding 
 a complicated storyline. I'll admit it may not be suitable for children (although they probably 
 wouldn't understand how to progress the story anyways) . Speaking of which, progressing the story 
 can be HARD. If you've ever played an old PC RPG (see any DOS RPG) then you know that not all games 
 give hints as to where the next plot line is. This game goes one step further and gives you only 
 the most cryptic messages as hints.
  
  Game play: You crawl through dungeons. Kill monsters. Level. Get Items. Use Items to kill monsters 
 and level and get more items. If this sounds boring to you, then you aren't a fan of rogue-like 
 dungeon crawls (this game may make you a fan) The leveling system is strange though, as you can 
 "beat" the game in a few hours the first time (every time you "beat" the game you go back to town 
 with a few of your items and are level 1 again, although some stat increases due to items and such 
 seem to stick) I put beat in parentheses because you aren't really beating the game, there aren't 
 any credits or glorified "fin" anywhere. you just wake up where you started the game, and go do 
 some more stuff. 
  
  As for the camera issues. What can I say, most 3D game suffer from camera issues. If you've been 
 playing games for any period of time, you accept this and will continue to purchase games regardless 
 of camera problems. This doesn't mean you won't swear at your television every time Mario falls 
 down a hole you didn't see because the camera was behind a rock, but it will all be okay. One tip 
 that I will give you, in the options menu you can switch to first person mode, this makes some 
 very hard battles because much much easier. And don't get discouraged if you die at first. just 
 reset, and try again. In the first few floors I died probably 10 times (and I've been playing video 
 games for a pretty long time) since then I haven't really died much at all. Every once in awhile 
 you'll step on a land mine, or get surrounded, but once you have the controls down, and have some 
 decent weapons and armor, the game really isn't as hard as people are making it out to be.
  
  Setting/Characters: Okay, maybe this should fall into story, but the setting and characters 
 really bring this game together. The main mood is "THIS IS THE CREEPIEST THING THAT HAS EVER BEEN 
 ON MY TELEVISION DEAR GOD IT HURTS MY BRAIN/EYES/SOUL" The game sort of takes place in hell (I 
 say sort of because I haven't finished the game, and thus still have little to no idea of what 
 is going on, and this is after probably 20 hours of playing) But trust me, you will find the characters 
 interesting, assuming you like that sort of thing.
  
  Sound: This game should win some sort of award for its sound track. THE END.
  
  Graphics: it's 
 on PS2/Wii. It's a remake of a Saturn game. It's a rogue-like dungeon crawl. with all of these 
 things in mind. It has better graphics than some PS2 games. It doesn't make your eyes hurt. The 
 enemies look amazing. You aren't an @ sign. All things considered, the game has pretty good graphics.
 
  
  Replay Value: For me this is the most important thing in a game. And as far as I can tell, this 
 game as an infinite amount of replay value. Since I've bought it I've played it until falling asleep 
 in my chair more than once. And as i write this review, I can't wait to start playing again. 
 
  
  Overall: This review is very bias, I grew up playing rogue-likes. I still load up angband and move 
 my little @ sign around for hours on end. I don't care much for graphics, I don't particularly 
 like straight forward story lines, or really easy games that tell you everything to do and assume 
 you have never played a game and that you are of bellow average intelligence. 
  
  I do not, in any way, recommend that everyone go out and buy this game. If you think you're a fan 
 of RPG's then you may want to rent this and see if you like rogue-like's. If you already like rogue-likes. 
 then buy this game, you will in no way regret your decision (although the battle system is live 
 action, so if you're a purist and really like running into enemies to do damage, than you might 
 not like having to dodge and attack and throw things and what-not.
  
  Alright, so, in closing, don't believe everything you read in reviews. Different people like different 
 games. This game is a very large step forward in it's genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mst3k_forever_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  It's called a Roguelike. If you're expecting something Familiar you probably won't like this game. 
 If you can go into it with an open mind then it will be a blast!! The best way to describe this 
 game is Diablo meets Silent hill, meets final fantasy, with something completely knew mixed in 
 for fun. If you take the time to understand how the game works and how to play it you'll find a 
 treasure trove of content. If you try to play it like most games you're in for a disappointment. 
 There's a reason there aren't so many copes in the U. S. Not may people will get this game! True 
 the graphics aren't pushing any lines, but it's for the Wii and PS2 so what do you expect? Just 
 stop bad mouthing it if you don't know what it is. It's not an RPG, it's closer to a Roguelike, 
 but it is mostly an entity unto it's self. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the work that Atlus has made. I love the Shin Megami Tense series so much that I have 
 them like trophies in my home. When I saw Baroque I wasn't amazed at the graphics but hey it's 
 Atlus & I know they can't do wrong. OMG I WAS SO FREAKIN WRONG. OK it's a mindless dungeon crawler 
 but some people like that & thats ok. Question would you like it if you're playing a game & you're 
 little brother or sister hits the reset while you're playing, well thats what you get plus a kick 
 to the nuts. You level up by killing enemies but you have something called a vitality meter or 
 VT that goes down while you walk around & fight. When you get hurt the VT will start fillin you're 
 health. When you're VT is gone so goes you're health then when you die not only do all you're items 
 & wepons dissappear but you're level goes back to 1. So I fought & I'm on level 8 & I die, not 
 only do you take my wepons & anything else I have but you take the levels & I have to start over 
 again. Why don't you take my man hood while you're at it. It doesn't matter if it's the PS2 or 
 Wii buy this game isn't worth $40 or $20. Why has Atlus forsaken me? Now don't get me wrong cause 
 I love the work that Atlus has done in the past but I expect better of them. If you want a great 
 RPG from Atlus then here's what you do, wait another week & pick up Persona 3 FES & see what a 
 true Atlus title is if you haven't played Persona 3 yet. If you want your eyes to bleed & you man 
 hood or woman hood taken from you then Baroque is for you (If your'e sick in the head that is) 
 I'm sure this will be the last time I'm let down by Atlus. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
