-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battle of the Bands
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/bandmashups/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Country, rock, hip-hop, Latin, and marching band versions of popular songs.
 Music player lets you listen to the game's soundtrack and switch genres on the fly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay quickly becomes repetitive.
 Playing more than a few songs in a row can cause physical discomfort.
 Some may be offended by story mode's stereotypes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.0, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 134 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Planet Moon Studio
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Apr 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Battle of the Band's bizarre mashups are fun to listen to but not as much fun to play. 

  If you've ever spent time forwarding goofy things you found on the Internet to your friends, you 
 probably remember the bluegrass version of Snoop Dogg's "Gin and Juice" that was a staple of the 
 file-sharing community in the late '90s. Hearing The Gourds warble about the life of a West Coast 
 gangsta was immensely entertaining -- and the song wasn't half bad, either. Planet Moon Studio, which 
 may have been influenced by that song, took the concept of different styles of bands performing 
 the same song and turned it into the game Battle of the Bands. Unfortunately, the great ideas stopped 
 with the music because the gameplay isn't particularly good. As a result, you'll probably enjoy 
 hearing the game's crazy versions of popular songs more than you will enjoy playing the game itself. 

           Waving and shaking the Wii Remote won't keep you engaged for long.      

  Battle of the Bands places you in the role of one of 11 different bands, each of which plays a 
 certain type of music: rock, hip-hop, marching band, country, or Latin. The soundtrack consists 
 of 30 songs in a variety of genres. Some of the noteworthy songs are: "Blitzkrieg Bop," "Insane 
 in the Brain," "Keep Your Hands to Yourself," "Man of Constant Sorrow," "Photograph," and "Spoonman." 
 Having covers of popular tunes is nothing special in and of itself, but what makes Battle of the 
 Bands different from other music games is that there are five versions of each song. That's right -- you 
 can not only hear a hip-hop cover version of "Whoomp! (There it is) " but also hear it done by a 
 marching band, a rock group, in Spanish by a Latin band, and by a country group. You'll occasionally 
 come across a few duds, but most versions are pretty good, or at least entertaining. Hearing a 
 song like "Insane in the Brain" change from hip-hop to country and back again is the most interesting 
 part of Battle of the Bands. It's also something you can do with the game's music player that allows 
 you to pick any song and switch genres on the fly. This means there's little point in enduring 
 Battle of the Band's gameplay, which isn't very interesting to begin with and quickly gets repetitive. 

  After picking your band, you'll go up against other bands in what the game terms "musical combat." 
 There's a bit of a story that's told via short, static cutscenes. These are pretty pointless, and 
 their humor relies heavily on the use of racial stereotypes, so it's a good thing you can skip 
 right through them to focus on the game. You can also go head-to-head against another person in 
 a one-off battle in the game's offline Versus mode.  

  Battle of the Band's gameplay has a lot in common with Guitar Hero, as well as EA's recent (and 
 not very good) dancing game Boogie. The cartoony bands do battle with instruments that also double 
 as weapons on the top half of the screen. There are some funny animations and creative weapon/instrument 
 combos, but you'll be so busy playing, you'll hardly get a chance to notice them. The bottom half 
 of the screen is devoted to gameplay. Your band's beat scroll is on the left and your opponent's 
 is on the right. Icons scroll across the beat board, and you must make the appropriate movement 
 with the Wii Remote in time with the music. Most of the icons have you snap the controller left, 
 right, or down, but occasionally, you'll need to shake the Wii Remote or perform a stabbing motion. 
 You'll earn points for every correct movement, and the amount of points is based on how close your 
 movement was to the beat.  

  Hitting beats is your main goal, but you'll also have to worry about attacking and defending as 
 well. If you hit enough consecutive notes, you'll be able to perform an attack. Your opponent can 
 also launch attacks so you'll need to be quick with the B button, which -- if properly timed -- will 
 deflect the attack. You can have three attacks equipped, and you can choose from them by pressing 
 the A button. Attacks can have a variety of effects; some will set your opponent's cursor on fire, 
 electrify the sides of his or her beat board, make his or her notes smaller, or even obscure his 
 or her board with smoke. Successfully attacking the other band not only improves your score, but 
 also gets your band's version of the song playing. Although, truth be told, the versions almost 
 seem to switch at random a significant portion of the time. There are also specific sections of 
 every song where one band will be on the attack launching skulls, while the other band will be 
 on defense trying to block the skulls. This probably wouldn't be difficult on its own, but for 
 some reason, the game's frame rate, which is generally smooth, tends to stutter here. This adds 
 an extra degree of difficulty.  

  The biggest problem with Battle of the Band's gameplay is that it just isn't much fun. Hitting 
 or missing notes doesn't have any aural effect on the song, and the repetitive waving of the Wii 
 Remote will almost put you to sleep, so it's difficult keep your focus once you've gotten a big 
 lead -- especially during some of the game's longer songs. Not only does the gameplay get boring, 
 it can also be painful, thanks to the precise snapping motion required to hit the beats and the 
 lack of variety to your movements. At first, you might wonder why the game implores you to take 
 a break after every song, but after 30 or 45 minutes, you'll find yourself heeding the repeated 
 warnings to rest.  

           There's a lot of carnage going on in the background, but you'll probably be too busy playing 
 to notice.      

  Battle of the Bands is a missed opportunity. The idea of pitting bands against each other and recording 
 zany versions of popular tunes is a good one, but it's poorly executed. Waving a Wii Remote back 
 and forth through each of the game's 30 songs simply isn't engaging, especially when compared with 
 other, more immersive music games. If the soundtrack is ever released on its own, it's worth a 
 listen, but don't spend $50 just to hear a marching band play "Mama Said Knock You Out."     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Battle of the Bands is a different take on the music rhythm game genre that is full of guitar hero's 
 and sing stars. With that said the game may be interesting to you at first but after you start 
 the second song the game will become very boring. The formula used in the gameplay is good, but 
 honestly how fun can moving the WII remote left, right, and down be. The answer is that it cannot 
 be much fun at all.
  
  The concept behind Battle of The Bands was what I expressed earlier. The player moves the WII remote 
 in a certain way to the beat of the music. The notes scroll up rather than down like most music 
 games. There are also not a lot of notes even on the hard difficulty, and this game was definitely 
 made with the casual gamer in mind. There are 30 songs in the game, which exceeded my expectations, 
 but the choice of songs is horrible. You start the game by picking one of the handful of bands 
 in the game. Each band has a different style, and there are rock bands, marching bands, rap groups, 
 classical groups, and funk bands. These different playable styles are the highlights of the game. 
 The game progress through the songs from there in a linear fashion and the game will only last 
 about 4 hours. 
  
  Besides bad gameplay the game also has bad graphics. That is expected at this point for wii shovelware 
 so im not going to mark the game down for that.
  
  Im glad I rented this instead of buying it, and I cannot recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan_10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Unlike Guitar Hero and Dance Dance Revolution, this game is a combination of both games due to 
 the inclusion of Hip Hop and Rock.
  
  Gameplay:
  Moving the Wii Remote left, right, down, forward and shaking it is very tiring when playing in 
 hard difficulty. What I like in the game are the weapons like grenades, bullets, lightning, etc.
 
  
  Graphics:
  I can't describe the graphics its kinda hard except for the light out of nowhere and the eyes for 
 Defcon-X.
  
  Music:
  I only know a few songs from the game like Feel Good Inc., Whoomp (There It Is) , Jungle Boogie, 
 That's the Way (I Like It) , Blitzkrieg Bop, One Thing Leads to Another, Miss Murder and Mama Said 
 Knock You Out.
  
  Story:
  The story depends on which band the player choose and they are terrible like due to a death of 
 a member, in need of intelligence, to take over a city, etc. 
  
  If there is a sequel for the game I'd like to make a suggestion, just include disco/funk, metal 
 and R&B and more marching bands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  With the Guitar Hero and Rock Band franchises completely dominating America's rhythm game market, 
 it's tough for a newcomer to stake its own niche in this genre. It has got to be refreshing and 
 different enough to really standout. Planet Moon's effort, Battle of the Bands, fills both requirements, 
 but the execution is ultimately lacking. It's a decent effort, but obvious gameplay flaws tarnish 
 what could've been a great game.
  
  As the title implies, you'll be duking it out against rival bands to rise to the top. The single-player 
 campaign starts with you choosing the band of your preference and then you go from city to city 
 with the intent of being the best band in the known world. It's a very straightforward and linear 
 progression model, and the only freedom you have is the ability to choose which city you want to 
 tackle first. Once you start playing, you're going to notice something different.
  
  Battle of the Band's gimmick is that it isn't focused on the rock genre. All the 30+ songs are 
 recorded in five different genres  rock, hip hop, mariachi, marching band and country. As you 
 might expect, you're also going to duel against or play as bands that specialize in each specific 
 genre. Basically, this means you're fighting for musical dominance in each battle and the songs 
 that you play with will bounce from country to hip hop, mariachi to rock and so on. It's very unique 
 and the remixes are definitely the best part of the game, because hearing "Blitzkrieg Bop" jump 
 from rock to country is definitely a strange and enjoyable experience for the ears. 
  
  Unfortunately, with the remixes being the best part of the game, the gameplay is arguably the worst 
 part. The basic structure of a battle goes like this  start by hitting notes, throw attacks at 
 one another when you hit a certain number of notes in a row to make your rival screw up while attempting 
 to block their attacks by a simple press of the B-trigger. Every once in awhile, the game will 
 go into a short duel mode where all the notes are attacks and each band will take turns in shooting 
 attacks while the receiving end attempts to block them, which if successful, will negate any damage 
 to their point count. Sounds simple and fun, right? 
  
  Basically, instead of hitting notes with a button, the buttons are replaced by waggling or stabbing 
 the remote forward in the direction the game asks you to. This creates problems. Firstly, the remote 
 isn't 100% dependable; it sometimes doesn't detect your motions, adding a small sprinkle of frustration 
 into every song you play on. Combined with the fact that you have to rack up a note streak to use 
 attacks against your rivals, things can get down right infuriating. The attacks can be crucial 
 in determining who wins a battle. They can turn the tides either way, so imagine the frustration 
 of not being able to score a fireball because the Wii just couldn't understand your gesture. Yes, 
 it can get very frustrating. 
  
  A less distressing issue is the lack of any sense that you're using an instrument. Waggling the 
 remote around just causes your wrist to hurt and the developers seemed keenly aware of this, because 
 it suggests you take a break every two songs or so. There is a visceral thrill when the remote 
 does respond to your movements properly and it's during these moments when the game is a genuinely 
 fun and experience. However, said fun is short-lived once the wrist pains start coming in or when 
 the remote flubs and doesn't listen to your movements. Battle of the Band's gameplay is a hit-and-miss 
 package, but it largely misses.
  
  The same can be said for the visuals. Planet Moon's attempt to work around the Wii's graphical 
 limitations is admirable, but it ultimately hits the mark of "it's good enough for the Wii". That 
 means the visuals are competent, but there's just a lot lacking in it. The artistic direction aims 
 for overexaggerated and disproportional character models and in that respect, it succeeds, but 
 a lot technical qualities, like the lack of polygons and washed out textures really hurt the visual 
 presentation. 
  
  As mentioned before, the absolutely best quality of Battle of the Bands is its audio. 5 remixes 
 for over 30 songs is an impressive feat and how all the remixes actually sound good is worthy of 
 much of acclaim. The characters don't talk at all; they just have little text blurbs that contain 
 insults or jokes that are so unfunny that you'll be glad that they don't talk. This issue might 
 even go so far as offend some. If you're very sensitive about race and stereotypes, Battle of the 
 Bands might get under your skin and irritate. Your best bet is to close your eyes and skip the 
 text altogether. 
  
  The single-player mode won't last a very long time. In fact, it's possible to blast through it 
 in half a day if your wrist is up to it. The multi-player mode can be fun if the game works correctly, 
 but it might end up being another frustrating experience, except now you can share the frustration 
 with your friends. Battle of the Bands is a neat concept and as great as competition is, Battle 
 of the Bands fizzles and won't do much to make a nice little spot for itself in the rhythm market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I was anxious to play this game, because the idea sounded really cool to me. When I got it and 
 sat down to play it, I had mixed reactions. The idea is awesome: have a bunch of popular songs 
 redone in a few different genre styles, such as hip hop, rock, country, latin, and then go head 
 to head with a band from a different genre than you. As the song plays, it switches from the style 
 of your band, to that of your opponents, and as you hit notes, you get certain powerups and attacks 
 to use against your opponent. It is really funny the first time you hear the songs remixed to match 
 different music styles, and I started laughing several times. The graphics are pretty standard 
 for a wii game. The only downfalls to the game are that there arent that many songs to play, I 
 think there are 20 something or so, so it doesnt last you for very long. Also, the gameplay gets 
 a little reprtitive after a bit. You move the wii remote either left, right, down, or in a stabbing 
 motion to hit the notes, and after a while, it gets a little mundane and old. Also, it might be 
 just me, but i noticed that a lot of times the notes werent really placed in the appropriate place 
 to match the songs, which made it kinda hard to get in the rythym of it. All in all, the game is 
 worth checking out, the price tag and the limited number of songs and playability might prevent 
 people from buying it, but I would say that if you like music games, definitely rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  For the past 2 years Wii has been bombed with terrible rhythm games that no one likes. From the 
 mediocre Boogie to the flat out terrible Dancing with the Stars it seems Wii can just not get with 
 the music. The only rhythm game that people enjoy on the Wii is the obvious GH 3. So when word 
 pops out that there's going to be a new promosing and creative rhythm game I'm psyched. The game 
 I'm so psyched about is Battle of the Bands. THQ's mixed music mashup. 
  
  The gameplay is this. You pick from a variety of different bands in 5 different genres. You can 
 play Rock, Hip-Hop, Country, Marching Band, or Latin. You pick a band from one of the genres and 
 prepare to battle. You face off against bands from the 4 genres that you didn't pick across 30 
 different songs. As you play one of the 30 different songs it switches between you and your opponents 
 genre every ehh 10-15 seconds. You get various powerups. For each hit you make you earn points 
 (except for the 3rd powerup which just effects the way your opponent plays) . The person with the 
 highest score at the end is the winner.
  
  The soundtrack is exceptional. It nearly lives up to Guitar Hero soundtrack standards just in lesser 
 numbers. Highlights include Feel Good Inc, Photograph, Blitzkrieg Bop, That's the Way, and Miss 
 Murder. Those are just 5 that come to mind. Honestly the whole soundtrack is good. Normally on 
 a rhythm game you only know about half of the song. Here I knew about 80% of each song. You may 
 not know by the name but once you hear it (in the right genre) you should be able to tell) . 30 
 songs in my opinion isn't enough. I know there are 5 different versions but it's not like your 
 playing each song singular. You're playing them mixed up. I think 50 would be a better value but 
 mleh thats just me.
  
  More about the game play. You wave your hand left, right, and down along with stabbing and squiggling. 
 Every certain amount of notes hit your powerup goes off which gives you points or messes up your 
 opponents screen in some way, as I stated earlier. The controls are, for the most part, responsive. 
 Once you get the hang of the game though you'll realise it's a bit too easy. I could play through 
 hard within 6 hours of gameplay. Basically though the gameplay works and is creative.
  
  The real thing I like about the game is the humor. The game is funny! Each stereotype is pretty 
 mean but mean enough to make you laugh. The goths need their meds (and Mr. Ponykins) , the gangsters 
 are obsessed with weapons, etc, etc. 
  
  Now throughout this review I haven't named the big flaw hear. The game's replay value slowy melts 
 away. The lack of online play is the perfect reason. This game was made for Multiplayer and no 
 online is a serious letdown. Also after you beat the game on all difficulties (which can be done 
 in a week) , there's no use going back. 
  
  Overall the game is fun but more of a rental. It doesn't have the type of addiction Guitar Hero 
 has but still is fun. Check it out, it aint half bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan3000
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Battle of the Bands is one of those Wii games that sounds like a Good idea on paper, but when it 
 becomes a real game you can see that the idea of the game play could use a little more work. The 
 game has you play as one of 11 Bands that range from Rap, Rock, Funk, & Country music (sorry, but 
 no Techno) , your band then goes up against one of the other 10 bands playing each sides version 
 of a classic hit song in their own way (like a Rap version of "Feel Good Inc." or a Country version 
 of "Insane in the Brain") . The game play then plays out like in Guitar Hero & Rock Band (but with 
 the Wii remote only) by hitting the right notes at the right time to unleash an attack on the other 
 band, the band with the most points at the end of each round wins. While hearing your favorite 
 music in Rap, Rock, Funk, & Country is cool, the game play can weir out your arm from all the Wii 
 remote sakeing from each round, in fact the game itself even reminds you after every one or two 
 rounds of game play to take a rest from playing it. It's a fare game with cool music, but I just 
 don't see paying $49.99 just to listen to a Country version of "Brick House". 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
