-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battalion Wars 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/battalionwars2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Drastically improved pacing in campaign.
 A decent attempt at online play.
 Excellent production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still strategy &quot;lite&quot;.
 The artificial intelligence is overly simple.
 The story is, too.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 868 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Oct 29, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This sequel to Nintendo's console wargame wages a much more successful campaign on free time.

  The original Battalion Wars seemed like a great idea: an Advance Wars spin-off with as much action 
 as strategy, where you could command an army's entire force while also wrecking house from the 
 cockpit of a chopper, or running around in the body of a grunt. It was a cool game, but it didn't 
 quite live up to its potential. As a sequel, Battalion Wars 2 delivers a superior single-player 
 campaign, as well as decent online play for owners of Nintendo's elusive Wii. With several of the 
 same problems as its predecessor, this second world war will hardly take the world by storm, but 
 it may capture your imagination for awhile.  

  The most immediately gripping feature is the game's context, which sets a global stage of six fictional 
 factions, most of which are based on real-world analogs. For instance, the Solar Empire is pretty 
 obviously supposed to be Japan, with its kimono-clad Empress, high-tech weaponry, and over-the-top 
 commander, A-Qira.  

           This game looks much better than its predecessor.      

  Most compelling, though, is the game's take on the Anglo Isles, which appear meant to represent 
 Britain (home of the game's developer, Kuju Studios) : "This green and pleasant island nation once 
 commanded a mighty empire, but is now relegated to the backwaters of global diplomacy." Ouch! Even 
 more poignant is the fact that in the beginning of the game, the Anglo Isles are duped by the game's 
 evil superpower into invading a nation in search of weapons of mass destruction.  

  Veiled political commentary aside, the game is actually the tale of two wars, an earlier conflict 
 and a current one. Both are cases of the Xylvanians telling one nation that another is building 
 a superweapon, and then using the ensuing chaos to distract the world from their own superweapon 
 research. The first war is ironically ended when the Solar Empire annihilates the Xylvanians with 
 a metaphorical nuke (it's actually a satellite weapon, but it unleashes the power of the sun, which 
 has always been the PR line for nuclear weapons) . This power is harnessed with a staff, which the 
 Empress of the time decides must be disposed of, and so, using airtight logic, she drops it off 
 a cliff. Now, the Xylvanians are back to their old tricks, a new conflict has begun, and the search 
 for the staff is on.  

  Over the course of the game's six campaigns, you'll play through both conflicts as various nations, 
 though the controls and most of the units stay the same. Tanks can kill buildings and infantry, 
 but are vulnerable to rockets and helicopters. Helicopters can kill tanks, infantry, and buildings, 
 but get squashed by antiair units and fighter jets. Fighter jets kill helicopters, but are otherwise 
 mostly useless. Consequently, the balance isn't completely steady, and becomes even less so depending 
 on which units you control.  

  To elaborate, in Battalion Wars an army may be made up of several jets, choppers, boats and infantry, 
 but there's only ever one brain to go around, and that brain is you. You can jump into and out 
 of any unit on the field, but whichever units you don't control are capable of only four notions: 
 follow, wait, kill, and defend. There's no threat evaluation or sense of self-preservation, so 
 your units will happily fire away at harmless foes while lethal ones completely cut through them. 

           Now featuring boats!      

  Fortunately, issuing commands is a simple process of selecting a unit type with the directional 
 pad, and then clicking on something for them to attack or defend. Your own movement is controlled 
 with the Nunchuk's control stick. However, the only movement  command  is "follow," so you can 
 never tell an outmatched platoon to retreat. You have to retreat yourself and tell the other units 
 to follow you. With such weird limitations, figuring out how to play the game is a puzzle in and 
 of itself, in spite of the simple control scheme. Usually, your best plan is simply to keep everyone 
 together in a big group, while leaving any particularly vulnerable or necessary units back a ways. 
 When your giant force has eliminated the unit type that threatens, say, your jets, you can call 
 them in and annihilate everything else together.  

  As you might imagine, there isn't a whole lot of strategy. With the Wii's point-and-click control 
 scheme, you can easily dispatch each unit type to attack whatever it will hurt most, but it's usually 
 better and equally viable to tell everyone to just attack the same target. After all, with gunship 
 choppers and artillery, you pretty much have your bases covered. Everything else is gravy, although 
 only infantry can capture flags.  

  New in Battalion Wars 2 (but not new to the Advance Wars series) are naval units, which for the 
 most part behave like tanks on the water. You have your standard battleship (essentially floating 
 artillery) , frigates (which kill air units and submarines) , and submarines (only visible to frigates 
 and subs) , as well as dreadnoughts (better battleships) and transports (for transporting) . The 
 submarines can dive, which makes them invisible to battleships, but can then be spotted by frigates 
 or other subs. Tactically, the sub's advantage is negated by any fleet with subs or frigates -- in 
 other words, every country's navy.  

  Although the same "Everyone shoots everything" strategy applies to the new naval battles, Battalion 
 Wars 2 is superior to its predecessor in one important regard: The campaign is much more entertaining, 
 due to its pace, structure, and difficulty. Instead of throwing you into one giant, overwhelming 
 battle after another, most missions are broken into more manageable pieces. There are usually several 
 small skirmishes leading up to one larger confrontation, with side missions and the occasional 
 surprise. The overall game is easier, but given that there isn't a whole lot of room for skill, 
 it's also less frustrating. We know "pacing" isn't the most exciting word, but between Battalion 
 Wars 1 and 2, it's the difference between fun and boredom. This is essentially the same game as 
 its predecessor, but because it feeds you action more thoughtfully, you'll happily play all the 
 way through the six campaigns.  

  Once you finish there, you can go online and play either cooperatively or against friends and strangers. 
 In the handful of cooperative missions, you and your comrade each have armies, with the important 
 units divided between each. For instance, if you have antiair infantry, your partner will have 
 antitank. As a result, you must watch one another's backs and work together. If you aren't feeling 
 cooperative, you can take on a human opponent in assault or skirmish matches. Assault mimics a 
 typical level, with one player attempting to complete a series of objectives before attacking a 
 base, while the other defends, and then vice versa. On the other hand, skirmishes are simply deathmatches 
 where you and your opponent kill one another until the time runs out. Whoever does the most damage 
 wins.  

           Online play is fun but shallow.      

  The good news is that all of these games are easy to get into and were lag-free in our testing. 
 The bad news is that you can't customize anything. Each map type has a handful of preset levels 
 with preset unit loadouts, and services only two players at a time. Battalion Wars 2's online content 
 is a good addition, but more options would make it better.  

  On the other hand, the presentation values are excellent. This game looks much, much better than 
 its predecessor. The graphics are crisp and clear, the water looks wet, and the action unfolds 
 without a hitch. Furthermore, the audio themes are so good you'll actually remember them after 
 you stop playing, and the voice work is absolutely top notch.  

  Even though most of the original game's shortcomings are still present in Battalion Wars 2, this 
 is a much better product thanks to improved graphics, good pacing, and a decent attempt at online 
 play. Though it still doesn't match Advance Wars in terms of brains or brawn, this Wii soldier 
 is worth sending into battle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amusing characters, great campaign, good difficulty, good artstyle, good multiplayer, 
 solid framerate even in the most intense moments
  
  The Bad: Only 2 player online, 1 and 2 buttons serve no purpose in singleplayer and aren't entirely 
 useful in online either, some limited command options
  
  Battalion Wars 2 (BWii for short) is a war game that has a sort of rock paper's scissors style 
 combat. It's a series spin-off from the acclaimed Advance Wars series which are known for their 
 deep tactical strategy and challenging difficulty. While Battalion Wars 2 isn't as hard or as deep, 
 it's still a great game that's fairly engaging. 
  
  The games presentation and how it all starts off is very well done. It starts you off in a prologue 
 mission which takes place a few hundred years before the game's main storyline. It also serves 
 as a tutorial mission and it makes it very easy to learn the game's basic controls. The overall 
 game's learning curve is almost non-existent because of helpful tutorials that show up when a new 
 unit with unique controls appears, such as a fighter jet.
  
  Once the first campaign is complete (which takes less than an hour to beat) , you're pretty much 
 into the meat of the game where all the action takes place. The other five campaigns are lengthier, 
 and more difficult than the first one. The campaign overall is noticeably improved from its Gamecube 
 predecessor but it's also a bit easier. The stylistic charm of the game, fortunately, remains intact 
 in this sequel and the storyline continues from the previous game. If you haven't played Battalion 
 Wars 1, it's not a big deal. The story itself isn't very complex and, although you may not pick 
 up on some smaller things, you'll be able to understand what's going on anyway. The story isn't 
 very special but it is engaging enough to keep you playing. The funny characters and dialogue are 
 all well done and memorable enough. 
  
  One difference from BWii and Battalion Wars 1 is that, in the first one, you were restricted to 
 using one empire, apart from a couple unlockable missions. In BWii, you are able to play using 
 several empires that each have their own unique units, but in the end, they all still play pretty 
 much the same.
  
  Control-wise, it's all well done and easy to use. There's nothing overly complicated about the 
 controls so there's nothing you'll have much trouble with. You use the Wii remote to point and 
 aim, the B button to fire, the nunchuk to move, the Z button to lock on, and the A button to change 
 unit commands. 
  
  The only motion sensitive controls there are relate to the nunchuk. For grunts and footsoldiers, 
 you can tilt the control stick to one side and motion with the nunchuk towards the same side to 
 perform a combat roll. You can also flick the remote upward, when you're not tilting the control 
 stick to the side, to jump. It's easy enough to learn and in no time, it'll become pretty much 
 second nature. 
  
  The C button changes the camera to three different zoom settings which can help out when you're 
 controlling a large tank or battleship that takes up most of the camera space. 
  
  As for the 1 and 2 buttons, they are only usable in online mode. They can be used for very simple 
 communications with your online partner. The 1 button generally asks for help or requests and the 
 2 button is just acknowledgment for the request. This feature can sometimes be useful but in the 
 end, it could have been done without. It would have been better if these buttons were used for 
 deeper unit control. 
  
  The ability to command units to "go to" an area and stay there has been taken out from BWii but 
 was present in its predecessor, which is strange since it seems like it would be very easy to implement, 
 especially with pointer controls. 
  
  Combat is done easily by pressing the B button to fire your weapons. The Z-lock on is very helpful 
 and allows you to command your troops to interact with a lot of things. Enemies can be attacked 
 by ordering your troops which is done by locking to the enemy, pressing the A button on whichever 
 troops you choose, and taking part in, or watching, your enemy fall. 
  
  Certain troops are effective against other certain troops so this creates a sort of rock-paper-scissors 
 combat. Anti-air troops are used against aerial units. Bazooka vets are used against tanks and 
 enemy armoured units. Grunts and Flame Vets are best used against footsoldiers like Bazooka Vets 
 and other Grunts. There are several other units you can use that all come into play with this style 
 combat.
  
  Objectives in campaign mode usually require you to capture a flag or destroy something. Capturing 
 a flag can only be done with footsoldiers so make sure they don't get killed. It's simple on how 
 you order your troops to capture a flag and it's the same as ordering them to attack an enemy. 
 You simply lock on to the flag with the Z button and you command your troops you capture the flag 
 with the A button. You can also help to capture the flag by going up to it and flicking the nunchuk 
 (the same way you jump) . The maximum number of troops that can capture one flag is five or so. 
 The more units you have capturing the flag, the faster it will go.
  
  Multiplayer is fairly well done and is among one of the better done jobs of Nintendo's limited 
 online service. Friend codes are used, but they aren't much of a bother since random match-ups 
 work so well anyway. There are three types of modes you are able to play online. Skirmish, Assault, 
 and Co-op. You are able to choose one of these modes to play and you are also able to choose a 
 map you want to play on as well as your empire of choice. Then, Nintendo's service pairs you up 
 with someone wanting to play the same game as you. If you don't care for choosing a map, you can 
 pick the "any" choice. If you also don't feel like choosing between these three modes, you can 
 also use the "any" choice which chooses a random mode with a random map. One thing is also assured 
 with online: there's practically no lag. Everything runs smoothly and reacts fluidly.
  
  Graphics are also a step up from Battalion Wars 1. Lighting and Bloom effects are more noticeable 
 and it's been smoothed out as well. There's rarely a frame rate drop and it all flows together. 
 Textures and environments are a bit drab and some parts look rough and washed out but that's all 
 made up for by the vibrant colours and smooth character models, as well as the fantastic art style. 
 Overall, the game looks quite clean and refined.
  
  Since the game is fairly light-hearted with more of a cartoon-like art style, it sounds as it should. 
 The Wii-mote speaker also works well and provides some nice reloading and shooting sounds that 
 don't sound bad at all unless you turn up the volume. The soldiers chatter is amusing and gunfire 
 and explosions sound great. The dialogue and voice acting in the game fits the games style and, 
 while some might find it a tad annoying, it's done properly.
  
  Overall, Battalion Wars 2 is a great war game with a healthy difficulty, a great campaign, and 
 fun multiplayer. It radiates with charm and is loaded with style. While Battalion Wars 2 may not 
 be incredibly deep, it's still worth looking into if you like strategy games or shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: circile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  Where this game comes in the storyline is that you play from multiple perspectives. Actually, you 
 play from 5. Anyway, the story mode is a lot of fun because the cut scenes are simply well made. The 
 conflict in the story starts out small, there is a rumor about a super weapon being made but later 
 involves all of the factions. The single player mode will take you quite a bit of time to play and 
 when you are at some points, there is no stopping you from getting off this game. Still, one of 
 my favorite parts about the game is the multiplayer experience over the web. (WI-FI) It is so fun 
 because you unlock new levels, you can do an online campaign mode, or go head to head in 2 other 
 modes! The more that you win the matches, the more options will be available to you. But, there 
 is still one major flaw to the multiplayer: If you are in a match and are dominating, your opponent 
 can quit the game (which will result in a win for you) or just turn off the console. This makes 
 it that the game you just played is a waste of time. You don't get anything! no win!
  Anyway, this game is really well made. If you are looking for a somewhat violent game but has no 
 blood this game is right for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blastoise466
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 2:28 am PT
Review:  awesome game super graphics strategy game one of superb wii strategy gamesss atack reload attack 
 :) more good than SSBB i hate SSBB Multiplayer is awesome too Co-op mode Skirmish and Assault superb 
 game 10/10 super weapons sea sky and ground units dreadnought defence buildings why u love SSBB 
 multiplayer has lag too super campaign too movies are too funny like comics super anyway why u 
 love SSBB more whyyyyyyy... its baadd why i dont know??? im confused really confused can some1 explain 
 why u love SSBB more its like warcraft III and DoTA i hate dota why u love dota can some1 explain 
 can some1 i say real i can create a topic in forum for this :) one side a super strategy game is 
 the other side only u fight a bad fighting game maybe some1 like but whyyyy u like why and only 
 5 minutes in 1 game ?????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsdudeman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and worth the buy... if you have wifi. The single player campaign is quite short, 
 although great fun, and you probably wont get your money's worth. The gameplay is very unique and 
 engaging and the controls work great. Then there's online. There are three online modes: skirmish, 
 assault and co-op. Online is a blast to play and i have had no lag whatsoever. 
  
  Graphics: great graphics but not the best on the system. The cartoony art style of soldiers and 
 vehicles is pretty cool and gives it a more widespread age appeal. Gets the job done well.
  
  Sound: The sound is good but the voice acting is a bit weird. The characters all have way over 
 the top accents, its kinda funny.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun and engaging. The strategy element is very cool. It is just fun to play, even 
 on the most boring missions. Controls are great and ive had no problems so far.
  
  Lasting appeal: Replaying missions to get A or S ranks is still fun and doesnt get tiresome. You 
 can come back to the game after a couple months and still have fun. The online is superb and a 
 blast to play. The only complaint that i have is that there is no splitscreen multiplayer and that 
 the single player is short but other than that it is great.
  
  I would reccomend this game to action, strategy and third person shooter type fans. WiFi make the 
 game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi2k3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars 2 is a solid game. It has decent online play and some neat new features that make 
 it flesh out. This game's story is pretty simple. The game is about when someone steals a staff 
 and you have to get it back. I don't think I'm right, I just played it 2 hours ago. Well, anyways, 
 when you get to the gameplay, it stands out from the crowd. You can control people on foot, sky, 
 and now boats. This is a lot better than its predecessor for the GameCube. One complaint people 
 had about the first game was that there wasn't any multiplayer. Now, that problem has been fixed. 
 Now, you can play online. I don't know if you can play offline because I haven't seen a mode for 
 that..... yet. The graphics look like the first game and the sound is very great in terms of rhythym 
 and sound. Overall this game is pretty solid and I recommend this game over the first in terms 
 of multiplayer and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  battalion wars 2 for the wii is a great game 
  
  Single player
  Gameplay: the gameplay in battalion wars 2 is great and really fun and worth playing. there is a 
 wide variety of people and viechles (tanks, ships, subs, planes, helicopters) and many more you 
 can be so it never gets boring. It is anoying that there is only one difficulty.
  Controls: the controls in this game are awesome (something that the wii exceeds at)
  Gaphics: 
 the Gaphics in this game are good are are cartoony which hase a great effect. the cutscenes are 
 really fun to watch and supprisingly look good ??? 
  Time played:7-10 hours.
  
  Multiplayer
  when you are finished with the short single player you can go to the multiplayer 
 which consists of assult, coop and skirmish.
  
  Assult is a defending / attacking mode. you chose out of several maps which can unlock by playing 
 this mode. the attacker aims to do some adjectives (destroy communications towers and other things) 
 then capture the deafenders base by raiseing your flag in there end of the map. the defender trys 
 to stop this from happening by eliminating the other player. there is a time limit in which the 
 attacker must complete all of these objectives and capture the base the defender needs to survive 
 the time.
  
  skirmish is just kill the other player and take over facilities to make more tanks people and helicopters 
 ect you can also unlock more maps
  the more troops you kill the more pionts you get who ever get the most points at the end of the 
 match wins.
  
  coop is doing missions (which are not in single player) with some one else. you can also unlock 
 more missions.
  
  there is of course the dreaded friend code number thing which means you can chose to play with 
 friends online.
  
  overall this is one the best multiplayer and single payer games out on the wii this is a must buy 
 if you have online.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars 2 is the sequel to the popular 1st Battalion Wars for the GC and this sequel has 
 lived up to its predecessor.
  
  1. Graphics
  Graphics were awesome. They detailed the explosions, gun fire, and characters very well. The worlds 
 were also very well detailed.
  
  2. Storyline
  The storyline was good going from flash-back to present. The idea of you being a commander trying 
 to save the world from total destruction is just plain cool.
  
  More on the positive side. The game sucks you in only 5 minutes. My hands got extremely sweaty and 
 that means I'm having extreme fun.
  
  There are only 2 negative parts about this game. The levels were a little bit TOO long and there 
 are no save points. There are only checkpoints and it gets a little annoying when you have to do 
 the same thing over and over again.
  
  To conclude, Battalion Wars 2 is a game that will keep you engrossed for countless hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechwarrier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is very short and the ending will make you very angry because it is terrible. This game 
 is so short it can take you 2-4 days to finish so rent it to beat it. If you are planing to unlock 
 every thing then buy it. The multi player doesn't have enough missions along with the campaign. 
 There is no xlyvanian campaign and all the existing campaigns (beside solar empire) don't have 
 enough missions to have fun. At least 5-9 missions and an xlyvanian campaign would make the game 
 alot more fun. I found some glitchs that can get annoying, the most annoying is that the Wii system 
 says that the CD cannot be read but if you take it out and put the CD back in it works. Iron legion 
 doesnt have a single naval unit and that is annoying for iron legion fans (such as my self) . The 
 camera angle can be annoying especially when trying to take out enemy air units with anti air units. 
 Also you have to make sure that your vehicle units dont touch you when you are charging an infintry 
 attack because then you have to charge it again, which is my smallest complaint. Also for some 
 reason, alot of the units are never used in any of the campaigns. Such as the strato destroyer 
 (only western fronteir and xlyvanians can use this) . When ever you have morter units following 
 navel units, they always swim instead of staying on land, and this is annoying because they will 
 all die very fast! I hate how the COs talk way to much telling you the most obvious things, this 
 can distract you and cause you to lose the mission. Besides all that I enjoyed the game until the 
 tundra campaign. (ending of that campaign was bad and it only had 4 missions) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguingamer13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is one that has great controls but lacks at the main storyline If you don't have internet 
 for your Wii this game will not be as great. The online play is where this shines. I spent about 
 3 hours on the story but online was very fun giving you the task too get all five stars. This is 
 a must buy!! The bad things though are that there is no local multiplayer or the best controls. 
 Also they need destructable enviorments and it needs to be a little bit harder. The computer just 
 leads you through it all and it is all in one straight shot and the only hard mission is the last 
 one but all it is is cartoony graphics and no blood only flamethrowers =P so this is a game even 
 for younger audiences. But there is no lag online and usualy a lot of people there too noobs and 
 veterans alike! But hey you get to be able to be whatever unit you have so you can't always be 
 a rifle solider but a bomber or a tank too all at the hold of a button! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roll450
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars for the wii is no follow-up, but a straight up ok sequel. First off, you start off 
 with the solar empire, which are nearly weird and identical to the Japanese army, but with men 
 dressed up as power ranger's in high tech gear. Also it takes place in the Past in the Present. 
 The game shouldv'e stayed in the present, rather than being in the past most of the times. Another 
 thing is you get to play as all of the armies in the game and see the story unto what's going on 
 with them, the game would be more better if it was just tailored between the Frontier, Tundran, 
 and the Xylvania. Sooooo let's get onto the real review.
  
  Gameplay - First you are greeted to the campaign with the Solar Empire Symbol, then you go there 
 and select the first mission, and ones thing for sure is that the dialogue is so slow, you wish 
 you could just make the dialogue go faster by holding down the button but... No it's still slow. 
 After that you have to sit through a CG trailer, then you actually play as a solar empire grunt, 
 at first you would notice it's like your playing on the computer, and really it's hard to control 
 your person at first, but throughout the first mission or so you'll get the hang of it. What slows 
 down the whole game, is at first every time you go to the golden star a cut scene comes just to 
 show you the enemy approaching you, how useless, you just want to play the game!! Also counting 
 is that in the first mission you are always being stopped by the instruction's just to show you 
 how to do it. But is your playing the first mission over again expect that to always happen.
  
  So when your in battle, you always know what to do, but scrolling through your army is a little 
 bit slow, but it's more of a pain to do it when your in the middle of battle when the enemy call's 
 in more reinforcement's. Also the camera, truly the camera is already bad enough to deal with at 
 time's when your in the middle of battle, and the bomber's fly over head at the camera just makes 
 it hard to move any where, and know who's even on the ground behind you. What would be better is 
 if the camera scrolled even higher than the aircraft instead of rubbing against the ground. But 
 what I like about the camera is that when it's raining you can see some water on the screen. Locking 
 on to your enemies is still in but, what I still hate is that when they are so far away they can't 
 even your enemy like WTH!! Also theres the new base capture thing, which is good if your running 
 out of infantry but so slow to capture the flag.
  
  The online part of the game is where it all happens, if you want to have a good time with your 
 friend's, or somebody else. But with the lack of communication on Co-op your more like WTH are 
 you doing! But I still find co-op more better than skirmish. Most likely your armies are picked 
 for you rather than to have a list to choose from. But with Co-op online is just so dang hard and 
 you really need to cooperate with the person over on the other side. With the other mode's just 
 the opposite you really need to be strategic in order to win the match.
  
  All in all the Gameplay is great, just that the camera is ok but really bad in battle, also the 
 online is great and competitive.
  
  Gameplay - 8.2
  
  Sound - I love the surround sound, because you can't hear your grunt's. But I have gotta say that 
 the voice acting is better this time around, and the voice actor for brigadier Betty is better 
 than the last which is sooo annoying. More likely when a battle start it's just a crowd of sound's. 
 The downside it plays that you could barley hear the planes flying over head, like the put some 
 sort of technology in them so the engine is so quiet. I also want to point out that each time missiles 
 approach you there also silent. The only good part is you can only hear you vehicle shoot it. Last, 
 it's even hard enough to hear your infantry die, so your more likely to look at the bottom of the 
 screen once in a while just to know who died or not. Out of all most of that is not much necessary 
 to the gameplay and your environment.
  
  All in all the Sound is great but something just seems a little too quiet.
  
  Sound - 8.9
 
  
  To sum up as what I just said, it a great game but it's slow at times, and some thing can annoy 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  The original Battlaion Wars was unappreciated solely because it was brought out at the end of the 
 GC's era. Battlaion Wars 2 though, being released in the period that is now, being the biggest 
 gaming generation of all time has given it more and less appreciation. People should realise that 
 this is not like COD however much people may think. Battalion wars is an RTS shooter, that instead 
 of getting you to build an empire, sets you in charge of a battalion of warriors, may they be rifle 
 grunts, to anti air veterans, or a fleet of bombers.
  
  The game uses the pointer of the wii mote as the curser and there for where you shoot, it does 
 this while also utilising the other controls on the wiimote and the nunchuck. The controls, however 
 innovative can be tedious and annoying as you first learn how to use Boats or planes, although 
 if you actually spend time playing it, that hindrance does fade, although it may resurface unexpectedly.
 
  
  The game is set in the period after the first battlaion wars, while at the same time very heavily 
 relying on a war torn past. 
  People should take note that the Anglo Isles were not in the previous game, and that the Dune Seas 
 and Coral Atolls do not play as much of a significant role.
  
  It also allows control in its campaigns of the multiple nations of the world, not just the Western 
 Frontier. Other than the frontier you get to control the Solar Empire, the Anglo Isles, the Iron 
 Legion (old Xylvania) and the Tundran empire. Allowing for a much broader storyline, although a 
 little short and light hearted.
  
  The game however cartoony it may look, is detailed and visually up to date.
  
  The music though 
 is good, can be a bit repitive.
  
  The Wi Fi, is quite well done, but like some other games, is unappreciated and cannot completely 
 be utilised because there arent enough people who have the game online. So it can be counted as 
 a flaw that not enough publicity has resulted in a hurt and lonely wifi system
  
  
  Although the game has a few flaws, they should be overlooked, because it is a good game, although 
 to some it may seem short lived, if you get into it you can be entertained for quite a while. Good 
 game Kuju and Nintendo, and may Battalion Wars 3 build on this and become just as good as the Call 
 of Duty series while still retaining its RTS gameplay and charm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giga-man
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars 2 is a great game, but it's... well... just missing some things.
  
  First off, I'd just like to say that this game has some awesome cutscenes. Great dialogue (expect 
 for the part when Admiral A-Qira is killed and he screams "TREACHERYYYYYYYYYYY!", I thought that 
 part was a little too melodramatic.) The characters are all okay, expect for Marshall Nova's daddy, 
 who comes back from the dead to piss me off.
  
  The plot is kinda of a hybrid between World War I and II. The messed up alliances and the nuke-erm, 
 uh.... I mean "Staff of Qa-Len". Anyway, the Campaign is superb, but it ends too abruptly. I expected 
 some sort of D-day like invasion for the final battle, but all you do it beat up a stupid giant 
 drill-spider. The levels are well made, the controls are perfect, and the stratergy is okay (but 
 somewhat missing) . The only flaws I see with the Campaign is the fact that it seems more like one 
 gigantic tutorial.
  
  The online okay, but too short too, maybe a few extra options would help it make it more interesting.
 
  
  What I would have really enjoyed for this game would be a Battlefield mode. One that doesn't have 
 the "Commanders" screaming in my ear, telling me what to do. Smarter AI would also help, and the 
 fact that everyone in the game seems to be a total moron (expect the player, and the commanders) 
 doesn't make the experience any better.
  
  But what I found very funny in this game is the fact that everyone takes death, misery and war 
 VERY lightly. It's probably on purpose, because it's funny as he//!!!
  
  So in general, I'd say this game is great to play, but then sell it. It won't be the kind of game 
 you'll feel like playing after you're done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game is superb but has some major problems, the main few being that this game looks like you 
 may controll large armys, but no the developer thought it would be much more fun making a spoof 
 of an Army Men game. The main thing which gets on my nerves is that by the first level you know 
 what you're doing, yet you're continuosly interupted by instructions and what not, you fire a gun 
 once two pages of up skipable information pops up... ahhhhhhhhhhh!
  
  The ironic thing is, is that the game is made by a Brittish company yet you're main rival is the 
 brittish, abeit the fact there not called Britian. Second the good team is typical of a Japanesse 
 game for one reason, it is the Japanesse but called the solar empire, Knowing that means sun and 
 the japanesse flag is a sun! Othere teams include the good americans, the evil russians and more.
 
  
  However the multiplayer on this game is extremely fun, especially when you pick on someone who 
 sucks at it... ahh so evil... but you must be warned that over Wi - Fi even turns of there wii 
 or something before they are about to get hammered... god damn nab it!
  
  The gameplay is good when you get to controll ships, planes and quad bike like vehicles... god 
 thats a mouthfull. As whol this game is good but save you're self money and but the first one or 
 army men, maby even worms if you want it to last! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  well its bac but better and twice the fun than the last. the strategic war game that is just plain 
 fun. you control a battalion a of soldiers that you strategically order to fight certain ememies 
 so that they are destroyed easily 
  e. g. bazookas beat artillery . and by doin this crushing enemies that have significantly larger 
 reinforcements become easy as pie to poon. 
  
  the graphics for this game are nofing special but the controls and sounds are fantastic and make 
 the game shine. 
  
  but the generals that give you the commands are extremely annoying and are always popping up too 
 much and never let you get on with the fight. it isnt multiplayer but there is a decent wifi mode 
 that lets you have a quick battle against someone else and you command your forces to defeat the 
 opponents. overall a very decent game that isnt a must have but deffinately worth playin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's first Battalion Wars for the GameCube was an enjoyable but short game that seriously 
 lacked any kind of multi-player. 
  
  Battalion Wars 2 for the Wii plays almost identically to the first installment and suffers equally 
 from its short campaign. The gameplay is still the successful blend of light strategy coupled with 
 fast paced third person shooter action. Strategy consists of matching units against enemy units 
 in a rock, paper, scissors type fashion allowing the player to focus more on blasting enemies into 
 oblivion then worrying about how to approach a situation. 
  
  The campaign this time around is more varied thanks to the addition of naval units and added emphasis 
 on air combat making it a shame that it is over so soon. The addition of naval combat spices things 
 up a bit and controlling some of these new units like the subs is genuinely entertaining. On the 
 other hand, the increased focus of air combat does not play out as well as it could have. The idea 
 of having more air units and having them play a larger role is great, the implementation of the 
 control, not so great. Air units come off as difficult to control making air combat inherently 
 less fun than it should have been. 
  
  Battalion Wars 2 also features online multiplayer in three different modes. There is a co-op mode 
 (not campaign) , a skirmish mode and a defense/assault style mode. Online is entertaining and the 
 few matches I personally played were more or less lag free. Online adds far more re-playability 
 to the game but would have benefited greatly form being able to have a number of friends join in 
 the fray. Couple the limited number of players with the lack of communication options inherent 
 to all online Wii games and online is a fun diversion that feels a little hollow. It is a step 
 in the right direction, which will hopefully be, improved in future installments.
  
  The game keeps the same visual style as the original and generally speaking looks the same, but 
 cleaner. Water looks nicer this time around and character models are a little more detailed.
  
  Combat is still fast paced and entertaining barring control quirks with the air units and the 
 presentation is still the same cartoony style from the original. People that enjoyed the first 
 Battalion Wars should check this out as it is more of the same wartime fun with decent online multi-player.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Battalion Wars overall I would say that it's one of the best games 
 from Nintendo, but it still has a few very annoying points... 
  While the character animations a still friendly and fun they take a lot of seriousness out of the 
 game, thus showing war as a more "comical" thing. But this was expected since the first game was 
 like this too, you still have the same nations, same generals, so a lot of things were adapted 
 from the first version. Whats new? Well the campaign now switches between today and flashbacks. 
 The idea is good but can sometimes cause trouble if you do not watch all the videos. and the voice 
 acting... some of it's good some of it's TERRIBLE... why do they have to get people with the most 
 annoying accents and I'm not talking about the brits.
  
  Many people said that the controls in the first game were broken, now this issue has not been resolved, 
 at least not fully. The controls are definatly better but still not very good... one push of the 
 wrong button can make you have to restart the mission and some of them are miles long. As I said 
 the missions are very long, so why does Nintendo seem to think that there should be no checkpoints. 
 This only becomes noticable in and after the Anglo Ilse campaign when missions become long and 
 hard. 
  
  Completing the game can be tedius work. Overall BW2 is a good sequel but still with a few unresolved 
 issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmdragon97
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  in this game the graffics arent exactly amaing but there is always some sort of explosion going 
 on in the game. if you like long meaty games this might not be ideal for you, however with online 
 availability the fun really does go on even after you manage to complete the story mode. i myself 
 whizzed through the game completing it in 2 days however it may take you ages to get special ranks 
 on all the levels. you can command 5 different armys with 5 seperate campains and you can try to 
 complete objectives online with co-op mission play. sadly these are not levels in the game and 
 are seperate, but you can unlock extra missions by completing them. aswell as this you can battle 
 others online trying to score points by defeating your rival or, by working towards objectives 
 in an online assault. definitely a game worth buying. check it out................ NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars, released in 2005 for the GameCube, was one of the system's biggest sleeper titles. 
 And frankly, it's easy to see why. A spin-off of the Advance Wars games, the title combined intense, 
 real-time shooting action with some surprisingly fun (and tough) strategy. Yes, there were some 
 flaws, but it was overall a surprisingly good game and one that felt it didn't get all the attention 
 it deserved. Well, gamers who missed out on the first now have a chance to redeem themselves, with 
 the release of Battalion Wars II on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  From the beginning, the story of Battalion Wars II takes a decidedly different path from its predecessor. 
 Rather than employing a very Cold-War-gone-wrong-esque plot, Battalion Wars II's story is sci-fi-ish 
 and futuristic. The game starts out with a nice little mini-tutorial level that occurs long before 
 the events of the actual game. You'll play as the Staff-wielding grunt attempting to bring about 
 the end of a ruthless, merciless foe. Afterwards, you're quickly transported to the present day 
 -- in fact, about 30 years after the events of the original Battalion Wars. The Tundrans are up 
 to their old tricks again, and this time their goal seems to be to obtain the legendary staff, 
 capable of much destruction. Naturally, it's up to you to take care of the threat.
  
  However, despite the somewhat guessable plot, the storytelling is surprisingly well-done. How? 
 Well, rather than focusing on just one side of the story, as was done in the first Battalion Wars, 
 the sequel is divided up into five different campaigns -- three modern ones and two flashbacks. 
 Each campaign features a different aspect of the story, be that via different eras (hence, the 
 flashbacks) or just from the point of view of different nations and different armies. While the 
 story isn't going to win any awards for creativity, at least it's better done than the plot arc 
 of the first game.
  
  So, off you go, taking control of different armies and fighting your way through a bunch stages. 
 To begin with, I'd like to comment that the mission variety is excellent -- it's not like your 
 same old strategy game where the objective for each map is essentially the same from level to level. 
 Naturally, the end goal is always the same, for every level -- defeat the enemy by capturing their 
 headquarters -- the way in which you accomplish said goal varies drastically. For example, maybe 
 you'll have to free some POWs, meet up with an allied army, or capture some facilities and reinforce 
 your units before marching on the HQ. Anyway, it's a lot of fun and the stages are all very well 
 imagined.
  
  As mentioned already, Battalion Wars II is an expert mix of intense third-person combat and some 
 tough-as-nails strategy aspects. However, don't take that at all to mean it's divided up into some 
 action portions and some strategy portions; instead, the real fun of this game is to balance taking 
 command of an individual soldier and fighting on the field while simultaneously directing the rest 
 of the army. The shooting aspect of the game is rather straightforward and isn't really any different 
 from other third person-shooters. Lock on with the Nunchuk's Z button, and fire with the B button. 
 Unfortunately, there's some motion control implemented, which isn't as reliable as I'd like. Whip 
 the Wii Remote up to jump, and strafing is achieved by holding a direction on the control stick 
 while simultaneously twisting the Nunchuk in the same direction. It's too bad, but it really can't 
 be avoided -- all the buttons on the remote are pretty much used up.
  
  One slight problem I had with the controls of the shooting aspect of the game is that your cursor 
 is moved entirely with the Wii remote pointer. It's pretty jumpy and often doesn't work well -- 
 plus, it's pretty unnecessary because you're going to be locking on for all of your shots anyway 
 -- anything that can be shot is also be locked on upon. This problem is emphasized even more during 
 certain aspects in which you've got to perform specific actions with the Wii remote. For example, 
 to capture a flag by yourself, just lock on, head toward it, and shake the Remote. All of a sudden, 
 the camera will sometimes start spinning around -- why? Because when you shook the remote, you 
 sent the cursor flying up off the top of the screen. These seem like little problems, but as you 
 play more and more of the game, they become more and more pronounced.
  
  The strategy aspect, however, is what really differentiates Battalion Wars II from the vast majority 
 of other similar games on the market. The A button is the squad action button -- you use it to 
 issue commands to the entire army, or just portions of it. If your army is in sentry mode, hit 
 A to get them to follow you -- conversely, if they're following and you want them to stay behind, 
 hit A and they'll do so. Additionally, the A button is used to direct soldiers at a particular 
 enemy or object. Just lock on and hit the A button, and they'll go off to do your bidding. Additionally, 
 you can micromanage between your many troops based on their type (more on that in just one second) 
 by using the D-pad up at the top of the Wii remote. At the bottom of the screen is a line of icons, 
 each representing a different unit type in your army. Move over with the D-pad to shuffle through 
 the different types -- now, when you hit the A button, the order is issued only to the highlighted 
 group. And for times when you need to micromanage your army down to the last individual soldier, 
 you can hit up or down on the D-pad once a unit types is highlighted to select individual soldiers 
 of that unit type and issue commands to them.
  
  The sheer number of different unit types that you'll accrue throughout the course of the game is 
 impressive. You'll start out small, with only a few basic infantry troops. However, with each mission, 
 you'll obtain new types of units. In addition to infantry, there are also tanks, long-distance 
 weapons, aircraft, and sea units, which were conspicuously absent from the original game. Each 
 of them control uniquely and surprisingly responsively, and each of them have their own uses. Another 
 huge strategy element that Kuju, the game's developer, decided to keep in Battalion Wars II is 
 the idea that certain units would, obviously, have advantages and weaknesses against others. For 
 example, tanks are excellent at taking out most infantry units, but they'll have to watch out for 
 Bazooka Vets, who can easily take out tanks. It may not seem like much at first, but as you get 
 more and more units, you've really got to keep track of strengths and weaknesses if you want to 
 come out on top in a battle.
  
  While fun, this gameplay mechanic is not without flaw. I've already detailed the slight issues 
 with the shooting aspect of the game, but the strategy also suffers from a few problems. Easily 
 the most noticeable one, and the only one that will really affect your experience with this game, 
 is that it can sometimes be very difficult to get your soldiers to do exactly what you want them 
 to do. The game doesn't stop or even slow down as you navigate the unit bar, and it can be tough 
 to select the right unit type when you've got a huge army on your hands -- naturally, the problem 
 gets even worse when you're trying to get a hold on an individual soldier. It would have been great 
 for the game to stop when you're navigating units so that you could select them without worry that 
 your entire army is going to momentarily have the crap bombed out of it by a fleet of enemy aircraft 
 flying overhead.
  
  A significant addition to the game is the inclusion of facilities (factories, ports, and airports) 
 that are a staple of the handheld Advanced Wars games. These are captured just like a HQ would 
 be, and once in your control will spew out reinforcements. It's a neat addition, but nothing that 
 really affects game play for the better. However, one real problem that comes from this is that 
 you're not given enough notice about which units are just reinforcements, and which are actually 
 in your army. Let me explain: When all of a unit type die, their unit icon is taken down from the 
 icon bar at the bottom of the screen. When they're being reinforced, they appear in the bar, just 
 as if they were in your army. However, they could still be back at the reinforcement position, 
 miles off, heading towards your army. It's infuriating when your army is wiped out because you 
 directed some Anti-Air Vets at attacking aircraft -- and the anti-air soldiers are still on their 
 way. It would have been great to just have a little symbol on the unit type if they're on their 
 way to your army, so that problems like this don't happen unless they're genuinely your fault.
 
  
  Also, it's worth it to mention that Battalion Wars II is neither a very tough nor a very long game. 
 That's not to say that you're going to breeze through it without difficulty, but even newcomers 
 to the series won't have much problem getting into the swing of things. The game does a fantastic 
 job of easing you into the game mechanic and slowly presenting you with new units. Still, once 
 the game has taught you about a unit, it assumes you've got it down and expects you to use your 
 newfound knowledge. Each of the game's five campaigns are fairly short, but there's plenty of reason 
 to spend time with the game. There's a ranking system for each level, which assigns you a letter 
 grade based on your speed, technique, and power. If you achieve certain ranks on each of the game's 
 levels, you'll unlock some nice little bonuses, including some awesome concept art and unit dossiers. 
 So while you can play through the game in a weekend, there's plenty of reason to keep coming back.
 
  
  In terms of both graphics and sound, Battalion Wars II does not fail to impress. The game looks 
 significantly better than the GameCube prequel, which is really nice considering all the Wii games 
 out there that sport GameCube graphics. Environments look incredible, lighting is awesome, and 
 the game retains that weird sort of cheery feel that the first game had that is so uncharacteristic 
 of any war game. The music is also quite well-done, and some of the random stuff that your soldiers 
 spurt out is quite amusing. There's also plenty of voice acting in the game, which is pretty good.
 
  
  Another fantastic aspect of the game is the well fleshed-out online multiplayer option. There are 
 three different modes of play -- you can cooperate with somebody online on the same team, face 
 off against an online competitor in an effort to get points by destroying units, or battle in a 
 race to capture the most facilities. The games are pretty quick and the multiplayer is quite fun 
 to just pick up and play, although Battalion Wars II is certainly not a title that you'd purchase 
 solely for the online. Still, it's a great addition to the game and I'm quite happy that the developers 
 took the extra time to really make the online multiplayer a lot of fun.
  
  All in all, Battalion Wars II is a very solid Wii package. The improvements that it makes upon 
 the original are significant, and the best are the addition of online multiplayer and the new units. 
 However, there's still no ignoring the fact that this is a very similar game to the first Battalion 
 Wars, so if you played that game, you've already got a very good idea of what Battalion Wars II 
 has in store for you. Still, if you loved the original or if you let it pass you by, then Battalion 
 Wars II would be a great game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outrageoushadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who played a good (but not great) game expects this day of age that the follow-up will 
 be half as good as the original. I first thought of that when I saw some footage. But I've completed 
 the game and I stand corrected. Battalion wars 2 is a game that's twice as good as the first.
  
  -The graphics and gameplay : if you compare the graphics with both games , you won't find much 
 difference. Ofcourse , since water is a more important field , it obviously looks much better. The 
 real difference in both games is the gameplay. Now ,instead of holding a shoulderbutton and wait 
 for three seconds to respond , aiming is much easier and responsive. Also the buttonsare right picked 
 and some movements are a lot of fun : steering a plane or to submerge. Except jumping , the movements 
 are just right.
  
  -the story : the story is in a way more epic than in the last game : now there are more "plot twists" 
 (wich I think is a good thing) . But the story itself is not THAT great ( not novel great) but the 
 way the story relates to the real world is just asome .First it's the Brittish against the chinese 
 and before you know it You'll play as an army from the underworld. As I said , the story is divided 
 in 5 parts , each part represents an army at your controle. Every army has their strong and weak 
 points , but you'll discover that when you play it. At the end of the game you'll realise that war 
 and sides of a war are relative : everybody is right for their cause and wrong for their actions ( 
 just a pfilosofical note)
  
  -The multiplay : the greatest feature of BWII is it multiplayer component. Their is not much to 
 it , it's the same gameplay , same army. On the other hand it's so much fun playing against or with 
 eachother ( I specially liked that last thing) . It's just a shame you can't directly talk with another 
 , but that can be solved using MSN or a cellphone.
  
  -the extra's : a lot of peoplethink multiplay is the best feature .Actually to me ,I thinks the 
 extra's make the game just right. When you played the first battalion wars , I bet you couldn't 
 wait to see that screen that showed you a new unit. The downside was that you couldn't see it again. Wel 
 in BWII that's gone and even improved a lot. When you clear a campaign with all a-rank missions 
 : you could see all the units in 360degrees of the army in the next campaign. The units are amazingly 
 designed and the notes are witty .The thing I really like is that all the units are related with 
 the real world. example : the spitfire with the anglo sputterflare , the AK-47 with the tundran 
 KA-47, etc.
  With the dossier you also hear a theme that relates to the real world (especially the one from 
 the tundran territories)
  the concept art is also woth unlocking.
  
  -To me BWII is one of the greatest wii games (since I'm a fan) . The graphics are good enough, the 
 gameplay is at least worth a try and anybody who knows a bit of real world weapons and armies will 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingalonso
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  as soon as you pass the prologue you cant stop playing ive got so many games when i find a spare 
 time i play on it, i got it a few days ago 1 or 2
  so im not that far only on the mission repel the enemy in the first campaign
  (solar empire) 
 i think its the last mission in the solar empire campaign.
  
  i like taking control of an anti-air unit blowing up transports and bombers is fun and addictive. 
 grunts are the infantry normally the worst unit but in this game every unit is good. its a balance 
 all units are fun and addictive to play as (apart from flame vets) . i have not had time to play 
 online it looks good with versus and co-op. but i hear people say online is made worse by not being 
 able to speak. so you cant talk to your allies.
  
  i hardly ever change the camera angle from normal view. rts view is rubbish
  i would get this 
 game play once or twice online and then trade it in before you only get pennys for it
  
  
  single player 9.5
  
  multiplayer n/a
  
  overall 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I tried the first game out and i was no fan, but when i tried this game it was a lot better, it 
 had more of a story oh well, the game is a solid and yet good war game, but it has no blood, gore, 
 cussing, or George Bush. The game takes more of the cute route and the soldiers well aren't that 
 tough looking. The gameplay shines in this game where you can take control of battalions of different 
 foot soldiers such as the basic grunts, flamethrowers, assualt, bazooka, and anti air. different 
 armor such as the light tank, heavy tank, scout vehicle, or the artillery. You can use different 
 water vehicles like Submarines, Battleships, and Batle Cruisers. You can also take the air and 
 use Fighters, Bombers, or even attack choppers. The story knocks the points off while the story 
 is not bad in some parts, but its to short! You only get 6 Short Campains which each have 3-4 missions 
 each and another thing when the commanders of your army pop in on the raidio to bug you for the 
 100000th time you start to get really annoyed and you soon might wanna try and jump in the game 
 and murder them. The game has multiplayer and like Skirmish, Objective, or Co-op. The game uses 
 the Wii remote controls in a really fun way to steer the vehicles and use your soldiers. The game 
 did pull some points through in the end and earned a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has a pretty good single player mode and the story is more complex than the previous 
 title. The game tells a pretty good story and has some references to real world political issues 
 from today and the past. The graphics in general look slightly better than the previous title with 
 some noticeable effects that stand out like the water and rain effects. The sound is alright nothing 
 really outstanding or bad in this area. The controls are also alright but they could have been 
 better. Selecting units is not as quick as I wanted it to be and turning is slow. Using the nunchuck 
 to jump and roll was not really necessary. Online is done pretty well although I would have liked 
 more players in a match except 2. Overall, this is a solid game and I recommend this to anyone 
 who even has a vague interest in strategy or war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinduck01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Man... I really had high hopes for this game, but it fell flat on its face, walked home, came back 
 with an ankle brace and tryed to run but fell over again, each time geting slower and slower and 
 slower untile you just cant take it anymore and nearly give up. Thats how dissapointed i was with 
 this game. the bigest disaponintment was the absence of 1 single command that really killed this 
 game, the "Take that hill!" command from the last game really slowed things up as you couldent 
 say to your soldiers to go over there as you shoot at your enimies sort of thing. although some 
 additions to the series were nice like the navle units, the factories/barracks things an a starting 
 point for online play (as the online really didnt have much to offer) another thing that was wrong 
 with this is that you didnt play as the western frontire the whole way through so you never really 
 got to atach to any one side as you fight for what your country thinks is right as at first your 
 fighting against some one then BAM your with them. just dosent make sense. like the story witch 
 has some obviose story cues from the Goldeneye movie (satalight that fiers a big laser from outer 
 space) but on the bright side the actor who played brigadier betty is not the same person so she 
 dosent have a high pitched voice this time. overall if you liked the first one youll somewhat like 
 this one although the original is beter in every aspect over this one and you can find it n the 
 used game bin for $15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I was at target looking for Medal of Honor Heroes 2 for wii because i wanted to see what the online 
 play was like, but they didn't have it. So i settled for BWii. I played the first level of the 
 game and this is wat i noticed:
  Graphics: Though i never played the first BW game for the gamecube, i saw that the graphics were 
 similar to it. The wii does add some impressive water effects and rain effects and the explosions 
 are decent, but even with the wii's tiny graphics processer, it could have put a lot more into 
 this game, considering it is made by nintendo.
  Sound: It's the same sort of sounds u'd expect from a wii game, plus all the annoying controller 
 noices, it has decent sound.
  Online: This is what makes the game good and bad. U have only 3 modes, assult, skirmish, and co-op. 
 You can only play 4 selected levels on each and the opponent chocing is random. If u have a friend 
 who has BWii and has there codes, u can select them for a personal battle, but besides that, its 
 all just random. Overall this game was a disappointment, i'd wait for the price to drop to something 
 around $30 or $35, not $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Man, I really wish this game was as good as I thought it would be, but that's not the case. This 
 game is a washed down version of the first because its missing simple concepts like ordering you 
 units to move to a certain place, and as a result of taking this feature out of the game, your 
 units are always sitting right behind you. This means that you always getting shot at first, and 
 that your units are pretty much unresponsive because they just sit their playing follow the leader.
 
  
  The level design is also not great at all. The levels are very repitive, and the campaign doesn't 
 make much sence at all. One minute your in the Solar Empire fighting off some scottish dude and 
 his army, and then the other minute your somewhere in a desert "20 years ago". WTF?
  
  Over-all this game is like a dog ate the original, digested it, then pooped a down graded battalion 
 wars out for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm just gonna throw this out there, BWII is dissapointing.
  
  There is one, or, actually two reasons why this game is just not as good as the original. I'm not 
 gonna talk about the sound or the graphics because they're the exact same.
  
  The first reason, is that the missions are almost completly linear. BW1 would put you in large 
 more open ended missions where flanking ment going around enemies 100 metres away. Here, flanking 
 means simply going to the side of an enemy one foot away, so its pathetic that in-game help tells 
 you to "flank your enemies".
  
  The second reason is probably the worst. In the first BW, you had the ability to send your troops 
 to any location in your field of vision. Using your micro management system, you could send little 
 squads of mixed soldiers and vehicles where you wanted if you were defending a position. In BWII 
 you cannot tell your troops to move to a location, and there is no excuse at all.
  
  Either they decided to make the game incredibly linear because they took out the ability to move 
 you troops effectively, or they took out the troop movement to allow for linear level design. It 
 doesnt even matter, because these two problems are inexcusable.
  
  So, basically, get BW1 not BWII
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember playing with GI Joes or Green Army Men as a kid? Battalion Wars is kinda like that. 
 It's all out brutal warfare in a kid friendly setting! But it's a whole lotta fun.
  
  Battalion Wars, as a series, is pretty unique. It's a blend of Real-Time Strategy with a squad-based 
 Third-Person shooter. Think Pikmin meets Ghost Recon. Okay, maybe that doesn't help much.
  
  You control squads of soldiers, and your objective in each scenario or match is to conquer 
 a series of objectives like blowing up certain structures, taking over enemy headquarters, or even 
 cleaning up defaced national monuments. To do that, you'll be controlling infantry, tanks, battleships, 
 and airplanes, oh my! Each unit has specific strengths and weaknesses. You'll find yourself using 
 missile vets against enemy aircraft, tanks against infantry, bombers against ground troops, frigates 
 against aircraft, etc, etc. Meanwhile you'll be controlling one of your own little buggers and 
 shooting stuff up yourself. It's good fun.
  
  You'll be conquering scenarios in the single player campaign. The campaign is about 6-8 hours long 
 on the first run through, but you'll be doing a wide variety of scenarios using five different 
 armies. The story is like a half-baked block of cheese, but it's interesting enough to keep you 
 pushing forward.
  
  New to this game are various conquerable buildings. As you go through your objectives, you'll find 
 various areas on the map you can conquer to get reinforcements, such as factories and airstrips. 
 Controlling these bases is key to keeping your small army healthy and conquering scenarios.
  
  Other improvements from the first game include a new Wii-specific control scheme. Controls 
 was one of the complaints from the first game, and BWii fixes all of them. Picking out certain 
 enemy units is easier, selecting your own units is easier, tanks are more effective due to free-aim, 
 and the camera isn't bugger-all difficult anymore. Another improvement is in the AI. In the first 
 game, you would often have to put your troops in wait mode in order for them to be self-sufficient. 
 Well now in BWii, troops aren't such dumb sacks in follow mode. So, overall the need to micromanage 
 your troops is minimized from the first game.
  
  The last complaint from the first game was a lack of multiplayer. An RTS game without a multiplayer 
 mode is surely lacking potential indeed! BWii adds online multiplayer into the mix. There's three 
 different modes, skirmish, assault, and co-op. In skirmish, you'll be going head-to-head against 
 another army trying to control territory, earning points for blowing your opponent into the ground. 
 In assault, you'll be trying to conquer a series of objectives and push towards the enemy HQ to 
 capture it. In co-op, you'll be working together with a buddy in scenarios similar to the single-player 
 campaign. Skirmish is great and is perfect for a quick game. Assault is a bit deeper, but often 
 it feels like it's easier to be on the defending side. Co-op is great when you play with friends 
 who know the ropes, but playing with strangers is a bit of a mistake due to a lack of voice chat. 
 Sadly, local multiplayer is not available.
  
  Battalion Wars II is a fun and unique title that's sure to be sadly overlooked by the masses. Grab 
 your copy now before it's too late! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  - First off, Battalion Wars 2 starts out in the past when you are taking down the medivle enemy 
 with a magical wand ma-bob, they were attacking you because they thought your side was in the plans 
 of making a super weapon to destroy the opposing army.
  
  But dont have that paragraph have you thinking its a"Magical" game with wands and wizards and crap, 
 Its a strategy war game set in present day, and really doesnt rely on that sort of stuff, just 
 normal guns, tanks, helicopters, ect.
  
  -Lets meet the soldiers you can be from semi-automatic to air defense, there are alot of choices, 
 and you can be anyone of them... And command them all, with a simple press of a button, but we 
 will get into gameplay later, You can be Grunts, which are Semi-Automatic holding soldiers, Assault, 
 which are fully-automatic holders, and do much more damage, you go your bazooka grunts, which fire 
 massive blasts to destroy massive things, make them go boom, very exciting :D you can be air defense 
 and know out helicopters and jets with homing missles, which is very fun, and much much more!
 
  
  -But, as a newcomer to the series, it delivers a warm welcome, you can now be vehicles! Tanks, 
 Helicopters, vehicles like warthogs and mongooses from halo, battleships, and many more exciting 
 new additions to the game! They are all fun to control and easy at that.
  
  -GAMEPLAY- 
  This game plays very well, you can control a whole army in a click of a button, using the D-Pad 
 on the Wii-Remote to choose what soldier/vehicle you want to command or you can choose "all" commanding 
 all of your troops, and locking on an object with "Z" then "A" to command your troops to attack, 
 guard, or capture it, depending on what it is.
  - To control a ground troop all you have to do it aim the gun by pointing at the screen, locking 
 on an enemy with "Z" and shooting with "B". Control him with the analog stick on the nunchuck and 
 roll, jump, and monoover by flicking the nunchuck in a certain direction.
  -Vehicles control the same but you move the flying ones by holding the remote like an analop stick.
 
  
  -Graphics-
  The graphics have improved, and the troops and vehicles and backgrounds look great, and the game 
 is very artisic looking with sweet animations, but it still could have been better, framerate is 
 good too, and has a decent camera system, but sometimes it zooms too much in on the player and 
 becomes a FPS basicly, but.... Whats wrong with that ;) .
  
  Sound is great, but the overly axaderated accents are pretty annoying after awhile, but still fun. 
 Gun sounds are great and the troops talk in funny high squeeky voices. :D
  
  ---THE CONCLUSION ---
  All around, this game is great, and if you own a Wii I concider you get 
 it, AND...
  
  Online Play is a great feature added when you can play about 6 different games, co-op and 1 army 
 vs the other, capturing their bases, its all fun and lag free.
  
  ... If your into blowing stuff up, (I know I am :P) Commanding a whole army in one hand, and just 
 having great quality fun, or just wanna play a fast, exciting, game that never lets down the action....
 
  
  ... PICK-THIS-UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: case60
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  The game has more of a cartoony feel to it than other shoot em' up games making it fun for younger 
 groups of people. The game is too short though, I was expecting the game to be longer because it 
 is on the next generation system, but i finnished the game in about 6 hours. The things that bothered 
 me the most about the game was that you switch for the good side to the bad side on different missions. 
 I think that choosing your side at the starting would have made the game a bit better. This is 
 all that i need to say about the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Battalion wars2 is the sequal to gamecubes Battalion wars 1. It starts off with this crazy ass 
 story about a staff that calls in a satallite weapon or something. And all around it just feels 
 really quarky and out of place. the game just feels like the developers couldnt decide if they 
 like fantasy or modern day more.
  
  The good
  ------------
  
  It is one of the only online wii titles
  
  The online can be fun if you can actually get someone 
 to play with.
  
  It has neat gameplay ideas.
  
  One of the few probally somewhat decent wargames on wii.
  
  If you actually can get someone 
 online its pretty fun to play. Offers all 3 ways of war land, sea, air. It has this kind of neat 
 system of capturing factorys and stuff.
  
  The bad
  -----------
  
  The sound of the guns and the graphics of vehicles and weapons all look very very quarky and weird.
 
  
  It just feels so boring in the singleplayer just not very engaging or fun.
  
  Theres like no one online.
  
  For some reason you have to unlock the other online maps or something? 
 It wouldnt let me select them but theres no one to play with to unlock them  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars 2 is the sequel to the Gamecube title Battalion Wars, an interesting title that 
 fused real time strategy and third person shooting together. While the game did not really catch 
 on and sold poorly, fans of the original have been awaiting a sequel ever since they finished the 
 first. Well the sequel is here, and many improvements have been made.
  
  BWii starts the player off in a flashback of when the old Xylvania, known as the Iron Legion, was 
 only a small step away from world domination. The Solar Empire sends a small team of soldiers to 
 the heart of the Iron Legion's capital to a building called the Iron Tower so they may unleash 
 the power of a magical staff of great power, the only weapon capable of stopping the Iron Legion. 
 Well... it did. The staff was able to use the power of the sun to end the Iron Legion's reign for 
 good.
  
  In the present day, The Anglo Isles nation forces an attack on the Solar Empire because it is believed 
 that the Solar Empire has been creating a super weapon of sorts. In reality, there was no super 
 weapon. The Solar Empire counters the Anglo Isles and fores them out of their land. The Admiral 
 of the Solar Empire decides to give chase despise the empress's direct orders to let them flee.
 
  
  For another flashback, the Frontier (the nation the player controlled in the previous Battalion 
 Wars) finds the attack on the Solar Empire eerily similar to an attack on the Frontier years before. 
 General Herman leads the Frontier armies to defend and repel against the Tundran armies, who have 
 allied with the Xylvanians who are pre-occupied with mining on Frontier soil. Tundrans armies were 
 told false rumors of a Frontier super weapon which caused an invasion before the weapon could be 
 functional. Frontier forces repelled and defeated the Tundran forces.
  
  Back in the present, the Anglo Isles are under fire from the allied forces of the Solar Empire 
 and the Tundran forces. The Anglo Isles must recapture captured ports and facilities from the Solar 
 Empire and Tundran forces. The Tundran forces unleash their own super weapon against the Anglo 
 Isles, which is used in an attempt to destroy an important monument. After their super weapon is 
 destroyed, the Tundran forces and the Solar Empire retreat.
  
  In another flashback (seeing a pattern?) , the Iron Legion is creating a super weapon known as a 
 Battlestation, an immensely powerful tank capable of great destruction. The Solar Empire leads 
 an attack to destroy the Battlestation before it mobilizes, but fails. The Iron Legion continues 
 to squash the Solar Empire wherever they can be found, until they unleash the Staff of Qua-Len. 
 After that, there are spoilers aplenty, so I won't go into detail on that.
  
  The gameplay received a major overhaul to fit utilize the Wii's motion sensing, most of the changes 
 help the gameplay and fix the problems created by the Gamecube controller. Using the Wiimote to 
 aim and shoot enemies allows players to avoid using the lock on feature if they want to, but using 
 the lock on is generally better the free aiming. Selecting units is still a pain to do in the midst 
 of battle, especially when you have different types of units. The most effective way to get things 
 done is just to have everyone attack the same enemy, and then they can decide what is best for 
 themselves to do until you give them another order.
  
  Commanding units is simple. Select groups of units or a single unit to either stay put, follow, 
 or attack by using the A button. To attack, lock on to something and hit the A button. The only 
 problem with this system is there is no way to have units do anything to make your units retreat 
 unless you make them follow you as you retreat, which will only increase casualties. You can't 
 even send them to a location anymore like you could in the first Battalion Wars. The nunchuk is 
 used for dodging and jumping, which you probably won't be jumping that much as jumping is useless, 
 and performing a simple upward thrust is, for some reason, incredibly unintuitive and unresponsive. 
 Rolling is simple, and you will probably be using the roll a lot. Simple move the nunchuk sideways 
 and hold the analogue stick in the direction you want to roll in.
  
  Mission variety is basically non-existent. You are told to do different things such as escort units 
 (very rare) , capture a fort, or destroy something, but you're basically just having your infantry 
 capture a flag for all of those. You get a small group of people, you go rescue some captured units, 
 you use those units right away to stop some sort of counter attack, usually requiring the use of 
 the new units, you proceed to rescue other units or to complete the next objective. Sometimes you 
 will get to control naval units, which is surprisingly easy. Controlling ships is the same as controlling 
 a tank, with the exception of a submarine, which you use the nunchuk to submerge into the water. 
 Oh yeah, when you're controlling certain air units, you can do a BARREL ROLL!
  
  Online is fun for some short matches, if you can find one. I ended up playing the same one person 
 in every match I played. Every single one. That's not to say that I didn't have fun, because the 
 three differrent modes to allow for some fun and different ways to play. Lag was no issue at all, 
 and I had no problem connecting. Connecting is also very quick and easy.
  
  BWii's character cast may be small, but each character is a memorable one, except for maybe the 
 Xylvanian cast and the characters from the Iron Legion flashbacks. New characters are few and far 
 between, and the only new characters are the Anglo Isles Commander Pierce and Colonel Windsor. 
 Some of the original cast has been changed or dropped. Brigadier Betty now has a different voice 
 actor, and a skimpier outfit as well as a newer, and admittedly hotter, body. Ubel, the Xylvanian 
 is hardly recognizable as well.
  
  The graphics received a major upgrade. Anything that moves now has the use of bloom lighting and 
 shaders. Vehicles have bump mapping on their wheels. The one thing that really caught my eye was 
 the water, which is absolutely gorgeous. The game stands proudly as one of the Wii's best. Sound 
 affects are great as well. The game has full voice acting for every piece of dialogue, and even 
 the mission briefing. Some of the voice acting is a little bit overdone though. Music is basically 
 unchanged from the original, which is disappointing because the music should have been fully orchestrated.
 
  
  Overall, BWii is a great sequel to Battalion Wars, and improves on most aspects without sacrificing 
 too much. While there are better games on the market, you will not find any other game like this. 
 With a good online, good graphics, and a decent story, the game is great. BWii brings RTS and TPS 
 together in one package, with a fun cast of characters and some 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterEgo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Battalion wars, a nice suttle game with a big fun factor. Online mode is also a great addition 
 to this fun, cartoonish game.
  
  -Overview
  I've never really played the original Battalion Wars and I never plan to. This game though applies 
 to all Wii players though, hardcore can have a blast pwning online and the casual players will 
 enjoy the quirky cuteness of little soldiers being blown to bits by battleships, airplane bombers, 
 tanks, battlestations... and much more.
  
  -The Setting
  This game spands over a single world, inhabbited by several nations all fighting for what they 
 believe to be right. When playing you will be fighting over red deserts, lush countrysides, and 
 even snowy tundras. In the end you find out that there's really only one evil nation, but it takes 
 a while for the story to unfold itself. 
  
  -Difficulty
  The Difficulty of this game is pretty solid, it's very simple in the beginning, but as you progress 
 some missions can be extremely difficult. (Of course I've never played the first battalion wars, 
 this may change if your not new to the series) Coordinate your battalions fire is probably the 
 whole point of this game when your in a "firefight". This campaign will appeal to the casual and 
 hardcore alike, but it's very short... only about 7 hours long and most could finish the game in 
 a single weekend. Online mode was a new feature that the game has added, it will definatly rack 
 up some hours you play on this game...
  
  -Gameplay
  The game is normal lockon, shoot... however this game lets you switch to any one of your men in 
 your battalion. Meaning you get to control boats, planes, tanks, and all your little army guys 
 as well. You tell your AA to attack a plane... and it will shoot it down, you tell a flamethrower 
 vet to go cook some grunts, and he will do so. This games all about dominating the enemy and figuring 
 out how to counter your opponent while still keeping your troops safe at the same time. (e. g. hold 
 back tanks while you let your army take care of the bazooka men that are threatening your vehicles) 
 There's only a few problems with the game I have. Some of the control scheme choices are questionable 
 and sometimes even unresponsive. To jump you must thrust your numchuck upwards, and to roll you 
 must jerk the numchuck to the side while having the joystick pointed in the chosen direction. It 
 can get a little confusing and a couple times it did not work for me. These things can get a little 
 distracting during play. Overall the gameplay is good and the control scheme is pretty easy to 
 grasp though a little fustrating at times, many audiences should have fun with it. (Even if the 
 game can be a little confusing at first)
  
  -Multiplayer
  A new addition to the series is multiplayer online mode. Many people play online mode so if you're 
 connected to the internet properly it shouldn't take you more than 2-5 minutes to get a match started. 
 I've played a few, nothing is more satisfying in BWii then plowing through your oppenents forces 
 in a single bombing run with your planes. There's a problem still consisting with Nintendo though... communication. 
 Wtih the lack of headsets to talk with your other player the Co-op mode that online provides you 
 can get a little annoying. 
  
  -Conclusion
  BWii is a fun game and has the addition of a much needed multiplayer for this generation of gaming. 
 Control scheme is very easy to get a hold of, and this game will appeal to you if you need something 
 new to play. Keep in mind it's not the best shooting game on the market, and with games like Mario 
 Galaxy and Metroid Prime 3 out you might want to reconsider your options, but if you've already 
 tackled the big titles on Wii and still want something new, this game is the one for you.
  
  Thankyou for your reading you dedicated reader,
  
  MisterEgo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Its a great idea, being able to control a whole battalion through a game by easily switching between 
 soldiers. It gives you much needed strategy and allows you to play as many diverse units : riflemen, 
 bazooka men, tanks, planes, and ships. With many diverse units, you can go through levels differently 
 every time. The gameplay is basic, control a battalion through a level, completing various objectives 
 and reaching the end. The Barracks and factories are a great addition, as they allow you countless 
 restocking units. The multiplayer is great, with 15 levels of co-op and other levels of quick skirmishes. 
 Overall, Battalion Wars 2 a pretty solid game that brings out the best of the Battalion Wars series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Just for the record, and to get this off my chest.... I LOVE THIS GAME!... Now where was I.... 
 O yeah, this game has all the real aspects of war, but also has the fun aspects of killing everyone 
 else. I never played battalion wars, the first one but I can't see how this one wouldnt stand up 
 to it. Strategy is an aspect to the game as well though so if you just are thinking about running 
 up with your entire battalion, then you mine as well forgot about winning any games. The game is 
 not only fun for somewhat of a cartoon, but its realistic as well. The only thing that can damage 
 tanks, is other tanks or bazookas. That is a little hint if you think about shooting at the enemies 
 tanks with your grunts and/or flame vets. Another great thing about this game is that you can play 
 online with your friends on co-op. I am still not a huge fan about the friend codes but thats OK 
 as long as you get your friends to tell you them, you can tell instantly if they are online. Once 
 again you can either work together in coop or face them in a skirmish or an assault game. (Amazingly 
 fun) Absolute must for any wii owner!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkman159
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna be honest, i had never heard of battalion wars until bwii was anounced sometime ago. I 
 heard many positive descriptions of this strategy shooter that really qualified with the expectations 
 i had for my next wii game after metroid prime 3. I decided to put my hopes and my $50 on this 
 title and it payed off really well.
  
  When i first played this game i did not know what to expect since i had no past experiences or 
 anything. Well, i was impresed, the opening sequence is filled with top quality videos featuring 
 great voice acting, cool graphics and a pretty cool story that reminded me to the fellowship of 
 the ring's prolouge. Anyways, that moment i knew this game would definetely be something to remember.
 
  
  -Graphic: Cartoonish character and realistic enviroments make this game pleasant to the eye. Videos 
 have very good graphics and character models are very creative. Animations are really good, you 
 may see things exploding and soldiers jumping off bunkers to avoid a tank bullet. Some scenarios 
 are simply bewtiful while others are ok. The only fault i find is that when you shoot a soldier 
 with a tank and they just drop dead, i think im used to seing them flying ten meters before striking 
 ground. hehe.
  -Sound: One word, epic. The soundtrack is simply gorgeous with really cool themes that you will 
 whistle for days remembering. Voice acting is relatively good while some dialogues are not very 
 developed. Explosions and everything else like bombs sound ehm... like explosions and bombs. Short 
 stroy most stuff is in its place.
  
  -Story: mmm... the story is pretty interesting. You have the tipical evil side being fought by 
 a series of other "good" sides. Characters are very stereotipical, for example: the western frontier (usa) 
 commander is a souther short guy with southern accent, the tundran territory (soviet union or russia 
 if you preffer) czar or prince is a tall white european-looking dude and the Anglo (english) commander 
 is a thin old man with a big nose and a mustache. The main nations are world war 2 sides just that 
 with different names like germany is xylvania and japan the solar empire. The story is very straighforward 
 plotwize and consists of two flashback campaigns and three modern conflict scenarios. 
  
  Gameplay: the most important and obvious part. this game is not a first person shooter, its a third 
 person. you control your unit (a tank, infantry, bazooka, flame, anti. air, boat, gunship or airplane) 
 and then you give orders to your hole battalion or individual units. you may swap between characters 
 anytime and there are no waitng time everytime your soldier gets shot down. You control air units 
 aswell as naval units in some missions. controls arent hard, they just take the first two campaigns 
 to get used to. 
  The action may get really intense. you might find yourself walking calmly along a bridge and next 
 second find out you ran into your enemy's guns and tanks and get 80% of your units killed. The 
 one interesting thing is that you do not simply go around killing stuff but have objectives (primary 
 and secondary) and also have to know what units to use and which vulnerables to leave behind. for 
 example, you do not charge all your units at a battalion filled with anti-air vessels and have 
 your bombers and planes shot down. instead you have your planes waitng and then you take your gound 
 units and kill whatever you need to kill.
  
  Variety: Planes, foot-soldiers, tanks, naval vessels and in some missions cars all contribute to 
 a battlefield full of variety. When you finish the campaign you may play online agains or with 
 another player.
  
  Online: its pretty sweet. while you may get your butt kicked by bwii beterans the game is really 
 fun and other players really make you think to try to beat their strategies. You also have the 
 option of playing with anyone anything or with friends (need freind code) . At least you are not 
 obligated to use friend codes.
  
  Length: it actually lasts enough. The campaign may take you 5-7 hours if you are REALLY good, again, 
 it took me like 14. After you finish first time you may go back to try to get A on every mission 
 to unlock x-tra content which also adds several hours. You also have online which takes you howmuch 
 time you want to play.
  
  Lasting apeal: Definetely recomend it to anyone. The gameplay is very simply fun and while the 
 story might be simple to some, it doesnt take away the epic feeling from them. The music also makes 
 this game's soundtrack memorable, of course that its not as cool as zelda or metroid or mario.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Battalion Wars is definitely not your average war game. While most games that put you in the middle 
 of a huge battlefield out there are gory and extremely violent, Battalion Wars stays away from 
 this formula. Instead of presenting a realistic battle that takes place on one of the World Wars, 
 it takes you to a different world where cartoony characters will try to find a way to defeat their 
 enemies.
  
  This series is kind of a console version of Advance Wars, a popular Gameboy Advance game. However, 
 the original series is completely focused on the strategy part of the war, meanwhile Battalion 
 Wars is more of a combat-based game, yet there are some strategy features that add a lot to the 
 whole experience and make this game stand out from the other games that belong to the same genre.
 
  
  If you are not familiar with the series, you must know that in this game you become the commander 
 of a small battalion that needs to overcome the toughest challenges in order to protect its country 
 from enemy soldiers. While commanding your battalion you will be able to control any of the units 
 you have at your disposal. If your battalion is composed of a bunch of grunts, some bazooka vets 
 and two air vehicles, you can simply choose which of those units you feel like controlling, the 
 rest of the battalion will just follow you wherever you go. 
  
  The storyline is very interesting but some may find it complicated to understand since during your 
 campaign you will have lots of flashback mission. The main reason for those missions to take place 
 is that the main story happens on a two-hundred-year spam. One of the coolest factors that this 
 storyline has added to the game is that you will get to play with all available armies. For example, 
 during one of your first missions you will have to recover a base that has been captured by the 
 enemy when you are finished with this campaign you will have to play as the enemy and defend your 
 country from the attacks of the empire you had just invaded.
  
  There are five different armies, the Solar Empire, the Anglo Isles, the Xylvanians, the Tundran 
 Territories and the Western Frontier. Another nice feature is that each one of those armies are 
 allusions to actual countries. The Western Frontier makes some clear references to the Americans 
 and the Anglo Isles, an Empire whose prowess is its navy , clearly represent England. You can figure 
 out the other by yourself. Besides, while their units are basically the same they look completely 
 different, every single army has its own design characteristics which shows how careful the developers 
 were with the graphical part of the game.
  
  The gameplay presented is unique. As I have previously mentioned you can control naval, air and 
 ground units, and during your battles you will have to be really cautious when sending them into 
 battle since each different kind of unit has its weaknesses. When you encounter a battalion composed 
 by many anti-air grunts you will need to keep your bombers and fighters away from that area until 
 you destroy all of them, otherwise you will probably lose those air units. Knowing the unit's good 
 and bad match-ups is extremely necessary in order to finish the game.
  
  During the battles you can quickly switch from one unit to the other by selecting its correspondent 
 icon on the screen and pressing the A-button. To make your army attack you simply have to lock 
 into an enemy unit and press the A-button, you can also assign orders as Wait, Follow and Defend. 
 But all this switching can get a little bit confusing during the hardest missions, because there 
 are some many different options that you will often be confused as to what to do.
  
  Controlling grunts is nice and simple all you have to do is move the control stick to make them 
 run, and point the Wiimote at the screen to aim their weapons, on a gameplay that's similar to 
 the one presented in Metroid Prime 3. However, there are some moves, such as rolling and jumping, 
 that can only be performed using Nunchuck movements, and as we all know by now, they aren't responsible. 
 Controlling ground vehicles such as battlestations, light tanks and anti-air vehicles in not a 
 joy, from time to time you will find yourself struggling to determine to which direction you need 
 to move the control stick in order to make the vehicle advance properly. Sometimes you can also 
 get stuck between two different vehicles and you will be unable to get out of such awful situation. 
 Fortunately the same doesn't apply for naval and air units.
  
  The game presents over twenty different missions. The first ones don't present any kind of challenge 
 whatsoever, because they are more like tutorial missions which is bad because I think they should 
 have added a tutorial mode that's separated from the regular adventure so that the first few missions 
 would be more compelling and hard. But as you advance you will start having some problems. The 
 game is around twenty-hours long, but you can play it for much longer because by the end of each 
 mission you will be awarded points based on your technique, speed and power, those points will 
 lead you to different ranks, the highest being S, and when you get S-ranks on all the missions 
 from a campaign you unlock some cool extras, thereby there is always a good reason to come back 
 and play some more.
  
  Another cool feature is the online mode where you can face opponents from all over the world on 
 three different kinds of matches. Skirmish, where you have to kill as many enemy units as possible 
 within the time limit, Assault, where one player defends the base while the other tries to capture 
 the flag and cooperative - which is my favorite - where you and your partner have to work together 
 in order to beat enemy CPUs. There are also some unlockable online levels, you will gain access 
 to them as you play more online games. The online experience is smooth and there is no lag at all. 
 But overall it feels shallow because there are no leaderboards and the Friend Codes are still present.
 
  
  Another small shortcoming is that there are only four online cooperative missions, I think the 
 Kuju Entertainment team should have added the campaign missions on the online mode, it would be 
 much better and compelling. Speaking of cooperative, I can't understand why there isn't any kind 
 of multiplayer support - Wi-Fi aside. The only reasonable explanation would be that the Wii's hardware 
 would never support two players sharing the same screen especially on this game where there are 
 many characters moving on the screen simultaneously, so I'm not taking points off the game because 
 of that.
  
  The graphics are very nice, there are some cool blur effects especially on naval missions. Everything 
 looks absolutely fantastic, the character models are beautiful and cartoony, the battles have an 
 impressive flow and there are no frame-rate drops despite all the movement and action that takes 
 place. The art work is impressive as each one of the empires has different types of buildings, 
 bases, units and soldiers. The amount of distinct landscapes is also amazing, you will battle on 
 green fields, deserts, canyons, war-torn valleys, glaciers and towns. The cutscenes are breathtaking, 
 they are by far the most astonishing footage on the Wii.
  
  The sound effects are very close to real, explosions, guns fire and many other different sounds 
 have been perfectly brought to the game. The soundtrack is composed of epic songs that match the 
 war mood of the game with perfection and some sad themes that make you think of the bad aspect 
 of so big battles. The voice acting is also remarkable.
  
  Overall, Battalion Wars II is a must-have game for almost every Wii owner especially the ones who 
 played and liked the first version of the game, however if never felt attracted by the series then 
 this game won't change your mind because it plays the same way as its predecessor did. With the 
 addition of the online multiplayer mode - a feature that was blatantly lacking on the first game 
 - the experience has improved a lot, although I must say there is still room for this series to 
 grow. Some gameplay issues aside, Battalion Wars II is the definitive Wii war game.
  
  Actual Score: 8.6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Battalion wars is a great game but with a few setbacks. First off this is a very fun game to play. 
 All of the different units each level gives you keeps you in the action. The AI could be a little 
 smarter though because sometimes you may find yourself shooting some enemies while your units are 
 just standing there. The game is extremely short although it has a lot of levels it takes only 
 about 10 minutes each. The multiplayer is pretty good but the lack of game types keeps you wanting 
 for more. Although a little better than the first you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  In the good old GameCube era, a small-time game called Battalion Wars was released. Being a small-time 
 game, it didn't get too much attention. But now, its Wii sequel is here with better graphics, a 
 better storyline, and the same old combination of Call of Duty and Advance Wars. But the main thing 
 in this new game is its controls. Going crazy as a tiny little rifle grunt or piloting a super-speedy 
 fighter could have never felt so realistic using a GameCube controller. 
  
  One of my favourite things about any game has come back in BWII (Battalion Wars 2) , commanding 
 your troops. I tend to be kind of mean to my troops (particularly my bombers) by sending them into 
 the fray head-on and sending my bombers to bomb the anti-aircraft gun. A lot of strategic elements 
 come in here because, say, rifle grunts are weak to flame vets, or vehicles are weak to bazooka 
 vets. Because of this, you must remember to get that type of troop to stay and wait until you have 
 wiped out the threat ahead. 
  
  In BWII you play as six different armies, each of which have their own vehicles and are a different 
 color, while listening to extremely annoying (and different) commanders yakking in your ear every 
 step of the way. Think crazy tea-loving guys with accents and people who sound like robots from 
 Futurama. 
  
  Now the best part of this whole game for me was the ground-breaking co-op Wi-Fi feature. These 
 are missions in themselves where you unlock more missions as you go along, teaming up with random 
 people around the world. There are also assault, in which you must do missions against another 
 person, and skirmish, where you get points for defeating enemies. 
  Even with the lack of a local multiplayer mode, Battalion Wars 2 breaks new ground for the series 
 and even for gaming in itself. I would definitely recommend this title to other gamers, so war 
 lovers UNITE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithwilli
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The game control and AI intelligence mix make for a very frustrating game . This wants to be a 
 squad based RTS , but the fact you always have to be a character and the lack of any meaningful 
 AI make the game very annoying rather then fun. It is very annoying to direct units when the viewpoint 
 is stuck on the character you are driving and typically has to be a critical unit (like the tank) 
 to get overcome the lack of AI. The 2 player max online is crazy stupid and continues in the same 
 level 'safe networking security' that Ninetendo believes in that prevents any messaging of any 
 level and further removes fun from the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  "Battalion Wars," which debuted on the GameCube in 2005, was an entertaining entry into the oft-overlooked 
 real-time strategy genre.
  Despite its engrossing war games, the title lacked something - online multiplayer. The Wii sequel, 
 "Battalion Wars 2," not only has it, but offers what might be the Wii's best online gaming experience.
 
  As good as the first game is, it pales in comparison to "BWii," as it is cleverly abbreviated 
 on the disc case. "BWii" really is a must-have for its fantastic online play alone. It's a bonus 
 that the graphics, sound and controls are greatly improved while maintaining the style of the original.
 
  Unlike the long battles of the first game, "BWii" has many shorter campaigns in the solo and multiplayer 
 modes - it's perfect for anyone who gets bored easily. The first "Battalion Wars" was dubbed "real-time 
 strategy lite." I guess that makes "BWii" nonfat.
  What sets "BWii" apart from most hardcore RTS games is that it lets you give only four commands: 
 follow, wait, attack and guard. But these are more than enough, especially when you're juggling 
 so many units. "BWii" clearly is meant to be accessible to casual gamers.
  Like the original, "BWii" lets you micromanage battles by taking individual control of a soldier 
 or vehicle, with smooth-handling third-person Wiimote and nunchuk motion controls.
  The game's only real flaws are the dumb artificial intelligence and lack of online chat.
  Even 
 without messaging, the multiplayer will keep you coming back to "BWii." The online interface is 
 well-designed and there's no lag.
  The varied multiplayer options - co-op (team with another online gamer in an allied attack) , assault 
 (carry out or repel an invasion) and skirmish (timed deathmatches) - can be played as any of the 
 warring nations in multiple locales. 
  The end result is an online experience that feels fresh and fun, no matter how many times you play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatorCartoons
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  BWii is the sequel to Battalion Wars on the gamecube, now I wasn't really fond of the first one 
 but BWii is a whole diffrent story.
  
  Story: The whole story is about Xylvania making a comeback after being defeated over 200 years 
 ago. The game jumps back and forth from flashbacks and present day.
  
  Graphics: The Vehicle models are really awesome, probably Xbox 360 material. The infantry and backgrounds 
 are regular Xbox material but aren't near as good as the Vehicle models. In other words the graphics 
 are pretty sweet.
  
  Gameplay: The game works really well, the fact that you can just lock on to enemy targets really 
 helps. Very Responsive. The only problem I have is w/ the jumping, it takes about 3 seconds for 
 the motion to register. Coming from playing Redsteel where you have to constantly battle the controls 
 to make em work, BWii is a treat.
  
  Online: The online mode is great! Considering the main story mode is only about 6-7 hours of gameplay, 
 the online mode really extends the games life. It actually seems like the Campaign mode is a training 
 mode for Online.
  Which is fine with me since online is a blast! I really wish there was a way to communicate to 
 other players though.
  
  The Down-low: If you wanted to buy BWii for a deep, in-depth story mode, then you might want to 
 rent this first. But if your looking for one of the best online experiences for Wii, then BWii 
 is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  well i have to say this game is great in many ways in one way the graphics are pretty good the 
 gameplay is ok and the sound is fun! i enjoyed this game while the campaign lasted, but it ended 
 too soon... after playing the first little bit it said i was 20% done and i was like holy cow! this 
 is short! 
  
  Multiplayer: even though the campaign is WAY too short.... it lives brings it back with the online 
 multiplayer. there are three modes: 
  
  Assault: this multiplayer mode is like a campaign mission except its one side against the other 
 in objective based war! one side is set to attack and one side to defend certain objectives there 
 are 10 minuets on the clock if one side captures/ destroys these objectives in the 10 minuets they 
 win and vice versa
  
  Skirmish: This so far is my favorite one-one battle mode! each side has a number of units and a 
 number of reinforcing stations called Barracks or a Factory or Dock, or even an Airfield. Barracks 
 reinforce Infantry and Factories reinforce Vehicles, Docks Reinforce Ships, and Airfields reinforce 
 Aircraft! 
  you receive points for eliminating enemy units and you have 10 minuets to battle it out! if you 
 have more points at the end... you win!
  
  Co-op: in this mode you play WITH someone against a greater computer relying heavily on each other! 
 you have certain objectives to complete and there are POW camps and Helipads along the way to capture 
 for one shot reinforcements. you win if you complete the objectives with out losing your entire 
 Battalion
  
  All in all i think this is a great game if you have internet access if you dont, this game is pretty 
 much no good! thank you for reading my review!
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMidgetxxJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting to get this since the fact that the first was great. This game is a strategy/fps 
 and luckily I love both. It doesn't matter if your a hard core gamer or a graphics nerd looking 
 for a bloody game like gears of war, as this game goes to war in a childish but kool way.
  
  The graphics have improved from the last and plays like rock, paper, scizzor but you can move 
 your rock, your paper, your scizzor! Hmm but all you could do is tell them to move and attack.... 
 No your in the battlefield in this game, and comanding your squad and doing objectives. 
  
  Whats bad about this game is that theres no Skirmish in which you can split screen or even vs a 
 computer play THATS JUST TERRIBLE. Not even computer play and I was looking forward to wooping 
 my brother. But they have online. As I hear people say online is great and for those SSBB fans 
 this will keep you playing till it comes.
  
  No online? Hmm what should I say, DON'T GET THIS GAME IF YOU DON'T HAVE ONLINE. OR at least rent 
 it to play campaign. So yes rts/shooter online for wii, great sound, good amount of controlling 
 to troops, the controls aren't good but aren't bad, you'll get it in a day or so.
  
  The sound is great and graphics look real nice! Voice acting as people say is very stereo type 
 but still funny and nice to hear.
  Well as I told you this is a really good game online there is only 3 modes, co-op, skirmish, and 
 I forgot what other one is called. I only play those 2 but I"ma play the 3rd one today (JUST GOT 
 THE GAME) .
  
  Got 50$ or don't know what to get for Christmas or Wii just flat out sucks but now this game is 
 here so check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattimeo41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that the first game was great and BWii really stepped it up. Where the first 
 Battalion Wars had problems, Battalion Wars 2 excelled.
  
  Let's start with the basics, the campaign. The campaign mode was longer and had more difficulty 
 than the original, but the story is its downfall. The story is unimaginative and quite clichd: 
 Former enemies team up to destroy the common foe. That aside, the campaign was quite fun. It eased 
 you in quite well, and introduced you to a new unit or game mechanic almost every mission for the 
 first portion of the campaign. The only problem with the campaign aside from the story is the wildly 
 varying difficulty level. You could play one level and have it be a cakewalk, only to be stuck 
 on the next level for hours! Another disappointment is the lack of a "Skirmish" mode where the 
 player can simply battle the AI on any of the multiplayer maps.
  
  Now for the multiplayer. The multiplayer, in a nutshell, was disappointing. At first, they promised 
 split-screen multiplayer. Then they promised a 2v2 Capture the Flag mode. Then, they promised LAN 
 play as an alternative to Nintendo Wi-fi Connection
  None of them made it in at release.
  About 5 days before release, they took out split-screen multiplayer and LAN. "Why?" you may ask. 
 I'm asking the same thing.
  The online multiplayer was quite good, though. The only real problems were the lack of a "Rivals" 
 list ( la Metroid Prime Hunters) and more than 2-player. Some of the Assault mode maps are unfairly 
 stacked in either the defender (more often) or the attacker's favor, but the other modes are quite 
 fun fun, even if they can get somewhat repetitive.. Voice Chat would've been great for Co-op, but 
 you can't win 'em all.
  
  The graphics took a huge step forward from BW. The textures and some of the water effects were 
 amazingly well done and quite realistic (The terrain, that is) . The unit models have a charm all 
 of their own and are quite fun to look at. Even through their cartoonyness, they are amazingly 
 textured and well modeled. Kudos to Kuju for this!
  
  The audio was as amazing as the visual. The music rivals that of the first, and really sets the 
 scene for each mission. The sound effects are incredibly well-done, too, from birds chirping to 
 the whistling of bombs dropping.
  
  Overall, Battalion Wars 2 was a great game, but a letdown. I expected more, but I'm happy with 
 what I got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thordain0011
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the original Battalion Wars on the Gamecube, I was very interested in seeing 
 how it would work on the Wii. The end result is a solid game. In the story of Battalion Wars, there 
 are a lot of references to real nations. The Anglo Isles (Britain) believes that the Solar Empire (Japan) 
 is building a super-weapon and attacks them. This begins a world wide war. One thing about the 
 game that really stands out about the game are the controls. The wii remote responds well and the 
 control scheme works very well also. What has always given this series so much potential is how 
 it plays. A third-person shooter where you control numerous other infantry gives this shooter-strategy 
 hybrid a lot to work with. The biggest problem with the game is the fact that it is really easy. 
 I mean done in 10 hours easy. What brings people back is a great multiplayer. 
  All in all, if you are looking for a good strategy game that's accessible to new players and has 
 strong multiplayer, look no further than BWii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  So I never had a gamecube and i heard about the original batallion wars and how incredible it was...
 
  i found bwii at futureshop and it was the last one so i was stoked, went home and played for a 
 while and realized...
  THIS GAME SUCKS!!!
  the graphics are very sub-par, the gameplay is ridiculously easy, and the voice acting is annoying 
 at best
  
  well i was ready to count my losses and go for a trade in at ebgames but then i played online and 
 thats when it got kinda fun...
  
  and i strongly use the word "kinda" . Skirmish would be really sweet but without a headset its 
 not that great
  
  im still gonna trade this game in so here is my final thoughts
  
  graphics = 5
  gameplay = 5
  replayablilty = 5
  controls = 4 (very poor by the way)
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warcrafted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played the first battlion wars for the Gamecube... Then your going to die for this game.
 
  
  This game takes every aspect of the frist BW and improves upon it 2 fold. The campains are much 
 more engaging and much more complex. The AI of the enemy is rather clever to the point that they 
 will actually use the enviroment against you. The graphics have been greatly impoved. (oooo pretty 
 water.) ) And now they have added online play. This is the one feature that will give BWii a great 
 deal of replayability. With 3 modes Skirimish...
  Co-op and assault. The voice acting is imporved and rather fun to hear. The controls are ingenius... If 
 you played Metroid Prime 3 Corruption it's just like the control scheme of that game... You move 
 with the nunchuck and aim with the remote. This makes targeting multi foes a breeze. They have 
 aslo added navel warfare to this installment of the series. The ships are easy to control and navel 
 combat is simple to grasp and rewarding to master.
  
  All in all this is one game that does not disappoint. If your new to the series or a veteran of 
 past games... make sure you pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckshoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  This war game is now my favorite game on the wii hands-down.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Really, really, good. While aiming and shooting is obviously not the most original concept for 
 the wii, it comes together very well in this game. Despite the fact that you are the only person 
 with a brain in your battalion, the controls are easy to manage, and come very naturally. It is 
 tons of fun to play against anyone online, or against the computer. The control schemes for each 
 mode of fighting (land, sea, air) certainly gives the game an extra push. Overall, easy and gameplay 
 make this a must-have.
  
  Online
  
  Decent. Not up to Halo standards by any means, but the online does its job, and prevents some split-screen 
 issues that were in the previous installment. Fine.
  
  Storyline
  
  Not wonderful, but easy. It isn't that hard to lose storyline of the game in each battle, considering 
 that some missions include washing statue, or a flashback to a random war 30 years ago. Storyline 
 is fun, and has just the amount of difficulty. You won't get through the whole thing fist try, 
 but it shouldn't take help from outside sources to beat a level.
  
  Sound
  
  Voices of commanding officers can get on your nerves within an hour. music is really good, and 
 catchy. Cute voices of soilders are nice, but often come in the heat of battle, which can make 
 me mad. Sounds of tanks and planes are really nice, but sounds of gunshots come out of the crappy 
 speaker in wiimote itself. The gunshot sounds are nice, but often don't work.
  
  Graphics
  
  Really beautiful in their simplicity. Despite the fact that they are simple, the 
 graphics are stunning, and really add to the game
  
  Overall, i wouldn't rather play any other game on the market yesterday. Today is the release of 
 Mario galaxy, so I think that might be better than this, but this is still a wonderful game, a 
 must have for anyone with arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Singpow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  So as i was buying this game i was unsure of what to expect. I didn't care for advance wars on 
 the DS too much, and i wasn't sure of what to expect with this "action strategy" game. So after 
 coming home from Gamestop, i popped this little gem into my Wii, and it turned into one of my favorite 
 games.
  
  The game starts you off in a Prologue/Training mission as a lot of games do. The controls are very 
 simple and easy to use. You use the Wii-mote to aim, the Nunchuck to move, the B button to shoot, 
 and the A button to give orders and select troops. The Z button is used for lock on, while not 
 required to kill things. (What i mean by that is that you can kill enemies without thelock-on , 
 it's not impossible, just more difficult and takes a bit more skill) I love the controls on the 
 game, and i wouldn't have them made any other way. Although i don't like the lock on a lot, because 
 in my opinion it takes away a lot of the skill, it is necessary in order to make the game playable 
 in some situations. So as the story begins, The Iron Legion is trying to control the world, and 
 its up to theXylvania to stop them. So a lone soldier is sent to detonate a bomb and stop The Iron 
 legion from doing all the bad things they do. But during that first mission, you get a couple more 
 grunts under your command that you get to control. Controlling your battalion is really easy and 
 well done. Although in the first mission you are given grunts and bazookas, later in the game, 
 you are given control of heavy weapon experts, flame throwers, tanks, bombers, helicopters, etc. 
 All of the controlling is put together really well and most people shouldn't have a problem with 
 it. After that you are thrown into the command of the solar empire, and the second mission is somewhat 
 a training mission, but more intense then the first one. So after you have the controls down, (which 
 let me tell you are fantastic) you continue the Solar Empire campaign which is four missions long. 
 The way game divides the story is into campaigns of the different factions of the world. Sometimes 
 you'll be playing the good guys, sometimes the bad guys. The campaign is fun, sometimes although 
 not intentionally funny, and represents a good part of the game.
  
  BWii2, as its commonly called, has the campaign and a full fledged online mode using Nintendo's 
 Wi-fi connection. All controls in single player are used in multi-player along with being having 
 use Battalions. You have the choice of three game modes, all two players each. Co-op, Assault, 
 and skirmish. Co-op is selfexplanatory, but unfortunately , you don't play the off line campaign, 
 but instead, four specially designed missions only available for online. The next game mode, Assault, 
 is a game of defend and attack. One player is sent to attack the other player and complete a set 
 number of goals, while the defenders job is to stop them. Its a fun little game mode, with some 
 maps been easier for certain sides more-so then others, what most people will probably be playing 
 is skirmish. Skirmish is a basicdeath match where you kill other soldiers, and take airbases, factories, 
 and such for points. Whoever has the most points and the end of the match, wins. All of the game 
 types work perfectly and i personally change anything. Butunfortunately, Nintendo decided to use 
 friend codes again. I guess it's something we as the gamers will have to live with. One more thing 
 i don't like is the lack of voice chat. It would simplify Co-Op a lot and makecompetitive matches 
 a little more edgy
  
  All in all this is a fun, addictive game, completely worth your 50 dollars. With the campaign, 
 3 online modes, and how well everything was put together, it isdefiantly worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Battalion Wars II is the second game in the series and it nearly perfects the formula and its ingredients. 
 A mix of Third-Person-Shooter, Real Time Strategy and a quirky sense of humor obviously make a 
 good result but Battalion Wars 2 surprises you on how good a game like this could be.
  
  Sound: The sound is a little iffy. The soundtrack and battle sounds are great and they provide 
 a very fitting experience to the games cartoonish feel. But while the game does try at voice acting 
 it fails. Some of the generals and kings or queens just sound down right weird, a result of over 
 exaggeration. Some of the voicings are a little cool but overall Sound is just decent.
  
  Controls: The controls are pulled off quite nicely. A little more give for locking onto your numerous 
 type of enemies or a radio tower or a flag or even trenches would be appreciated, and maybe a little 
 more precision while looking around. However the nunchuck controls which are rolling and jumping 
 work extremely well.
  
  Visuals: This is where the game excels. While the graphics aren't quite up to par with the extremities 
 of Metroid Prime 3: Corruption or Super Mario Galaxy Kuju Entertainment succeds at making the new 
 addition of the sea look great and giving each member of each army its own distinct look. The strange 
 art design is actually refreshing after many realistic takes on war. The layout is extremely organised 
 and the generals and kings/queens looks are actually pulled of quite nicely.
  
  Modes: While a multiplayer mode would of been appreciated the Wi-Fi more than makes up for it. 
 The campaign is also quite lengthy too and has a very interesting story.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Controls: 9.0
  Visuals: 9.5
  Modes: 9.0
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameslayer3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off this game does a great job of getting noobs to the series like i was into the game. 
 The first few missions do a good job of getting noobs up to speed with the series gameplay. Also 
 they do a great job of getting you use to the controls. But the bad part is that the game ramps 
 up and gets VERY HARD fast. I myself hate hard games so i stopped playing the campain and went 
 to online. i will wrap up campain and go to online next.
  
  Ok so campain mode is great, the way they make you use your characters and how important it is 
 to keep your battalion alive with atleast with 1 of every type of character. Its also great how 
 you can use the terrain to help you for cover, battle field strenght advantaged and many others. 
 Next up is the online.
  
  Online is good but sadly only holds 2 people no matter what. Co op is very fun but if you don't 
 want noobs as partners just D/C when they do something VERY wrong and stupid then try again. You 
 don't get a loss and the noob MAY learn. The missions are good and some are very hard and show 
 that you have to be very goo to beat them as so does your partner. If you care so much about your 
 score then you may want to try and find someone good and do the first mission. If you know some 
 tips for them and/or good you should get a lot of S ranks. If you want to do good online make sure 
 your partner is with you at all times and isn't doing anything stupid, if they are then press 1 
 on the Wii Mote and they may come over and help you out if they don't then they are class A noobs. 
 The other 2 ones i have not played much so i can't help you there. Now i will try to rate some 
 other things the way i feel they should get
  
  Gameplay: 8 if you like stragity then get this game if not rent it. Also the gameplay is good, 
 command your troops and have them go were you want to fight who you want, its cool and plus you 
 can split them up into many groups. 
  
  Sound: 7 it can get annoying i wth the horn going all the time but the creatures did a good job 
 of making all the leaders sound like were they come from aka china is solar empire and they do 
 a good job of making the leaders sound like there from china plus the culture in words they say.
 
  
  Graphics: 8 the graphics are good other than the fact if you run into a tank in a corner you run 
 right through it, i don't see why Gamespot said it dosen't use enough frams for every sec, i think 
 its a great amount. 
  
  Difficulty: Hard Because i am a first time player to the series and how the difficulty ramps up 
 on this game i find it to be very hard.
  
  Time: Ok campain isn't the longest but it is longer than last year plus we get online. campain 
 i guess is like 20 hours? i am not sure though. Online should keep you busy intill SSBB comes out 
 maybe even later.
  Will thats it for my review. If you want info feel free to send me a PM and i will try to anwser 
 it: D Goob bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafoofoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Oh man. Where to start? This game is great. There are 2 main modes which you'll end up playing. 
 The first is the main Campaign mode. In this you basically go around through different levels advancing 
 the story with the brute and awesome force of your battalion. Oh and if you think the enemy is 
 going to let you do that, think again. The enemy (especially when you are against $$$$$$$$) will 
 not give up and will be relentless. This time around war is full scale not just the Land and Air 
 like in the GCN version. This time you also have Naval units, and man they rock. As you progress 
 through the story you are rewarded with the viewing pleasure of Amazingly done cut scenes which 
 make the story more alive. One thing I have noticed is that Brigadier Betty has grown up. Substantially. 
 If you get my drift. ;) 
  
  Anyways Betty aside, the voice acting is great, Admiral A-Quira in particular makes me laugh alot. 
 Though, I do feel that some of the voices are a bit forced and they sound pretty stereotypical. 
 But other than that it is excellent. This time around a new nation is revealed: The Anglo Isles. 
 If the part Anglo already didnt hint at it i'll say it explicitly that they are portrayed to represent 
 the British. 
  
  Onto online play. This game has a great WiFi system but of course like all Wii games, you have 
 to use those despicable friend codes to play a friend. The lack of voice chat also disturbs me. 
 Greatly. But other than those few flaws the online is more fun that 3 barrels, not 1, full of monkeys. 
 Co-op mode exists for those people who don't want to play another person, and for those old WW2 
 vets we have assault where one trys to take over and another trys to defend, and of course my favorite 
 mode. Battle. Where the sole purpose is to destroy as much as possible of the other person's battalion. 
 
  
  Overall this game is a sure buy. Buy it today or suffer the wrath of the flying spaghetti monster.
 
  
  Overall Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickeycozart
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Real-Time Strategy games are not first person shooters. The game is great. Online play is cool. 
 But as a hardcore RTS player (still playing Warlord Battlecry III) not having a commanders view 
 kills the RTS feel. Maybe BW3 will include some type of general (hero) character that you build 
 up over time that may make the first person view worth the money. Great game, nice graphics, cool 
 units but not a great RTS. It's like playing Warcaft in a first person shooter view. Online play 
 is what makes the game worth the money (replayable) . You don't need a friends line to play and 
 it just throws you into battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draftrough
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this wonderful game? Its one of the Wii's very best games yet. The graphics 
 are very nice and a step up from the 1st game with the same stylized art style and interesting 
 level design. The single player campaign is very fun even if it is pretty easy. The levels are 
 pretty big and detailed with many different kinds of enamies and traps. You play in the past and 
 future which is cool as various different armies facing different enamie armies. The single player 
 campaign will last a you a little while if you pace youself and do say, a mission every time you 
 play and not just go at it for hours every session. Theres some but not mutch replay value, you 
 get any of 4 different ranks for each mission passed which are (from best to worst) : S, A, B, C. 
 So youll want to go back and make sure youve gotten an S rank on all the missions if you want to 
 really complete the single campain 100%. There is no offline multiplayer though which i dont care 
 about but some people will. So if you want to play co-op your friends will need a working Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi set up Wii and youll have to register your friends friend code and play the online co-op. 
 Online is amazing and my favorite part of the game. There are 3 modes of play online which are: 
 Co-Op, Assault, Skirmish. You can unlock new online missions by playing a certain online mode a 
 set number of times that rises each time you unlock one. Co-Op is 2 people controlling a small 
 piece of 1 armie working together is special co-op only missions its not the campain and teamwork 
 is crucial to winning theres about 3 missions playable and the rest are unlockeable. Assault is 
 like the campain but one person is defending there HQ while the other is attacking and trying to 
 conquer the other teams HQ like co-op there are 3 missions available first time you play the rest 
 you unlock. Skirmish is my personal favorite its all out war you get points for killing the other 
 teams guys on either land, sea or air you also get points for conquering areas and raising your 
 flag or conquering the other teams conquerd areas when time is up the team with most ponts win 
 just like the other 2 there are 3 missions ready at first then you unlock the rest. The only problems 
 with online is its only 1 vs. 1 or 2 player co-op and co-op isnt the single player campain with 
 2 people its a series of co-op only missions. There is no player to player voice communication 
 durring the games so no making friends and getting friend codes or discussing strategic plans on 
 co-op just talkless fighting, Nintendo really needs to release a damn mic headset! Each online 
 mission is 2 preset armies in different locales in a different time could be past, present, or 
 future with different vehicles and arcrafts or tanks n boats. So all that siad this game is amazing 
 has great motion controll, graphics, art style, single player campain, online game play, co-op 
 so do yourself a favor and buy this and make the online community bigger and better you allready 
 find someone to play in seconds and have no lag and ive never ran into a cheater or glitcher or 
 disconecter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The first Battalion wars was released for the gamecube in 2005. Critical reviews were so-so by 
 some, but ultimatley the game got a nice reception from critics and fans. I played and loved the 
 original battalion wars, but the game's campaign was too short, and there was no multiplayer to 
 speak of. Thats when i first thought wow wouldnt it be great for there to be a sequel with multiplayer? Mabey 
 even online multiplayer! It could be great!. The chance for a sequel to battalion wars seemed unlikely, 
 due to the poor sales of the first game. When i heard about the wii being released by Nintendo 
 shortly after, I couldnt wait for a sequel, It HAD to happen. The point and click nature of the 
 wii would make the game perfect. When it was announced a sequel to Battalion wars would indeed 
 be released on the wii, I jumped for joy. There was no information on Battalion wars 2 for a long 
 long time. It quietly pushed back its release date a number of times. But now the game is here.
 
  
  If you have never played Battalion wars, the game is a mix of an RTS and a third person shooter. 
 You control your battalion, but you also can jump into combat at anytime and play as any single 
 unit in your battalion. The strategy in the game all comes from unit management. Only certain untis 
 can take out other untis. Example, Aircrafts can ONLY be destroyed from anti air units, or fighters. 
 Any other unit is basicaly usless against them. This keeps the strategy level in the game high, 
 but can be irritating in certain instances. You may be operating a gunship, and as your flying 
 around you easily destroy a rpg tower, then you see a damaged anti air tower, you decide it is 
 almost down and you have enough health to destroy it, but your shots will basically bounce off 
 because it is an anti air tower. Instances like this are rare but can be irratating how far they 
 go to really make it like rock paper scizzors. All in all though, the strategy in the game is loads 
 of fun and the rock paper scizzors aspect is great. Bwii features a longer and deeper campaign 
 than its predesessor. You take control of 5 different batallions and each has its own story. The 
 story in the campaign is interesting and has a political backround to it. Many of the leaders of 
 certain batalions reflect that of leaders in todays world. Many of them are comical and keep the 
 story interesting and fresh. A major improvement over the original game, are the graphics. The 
 cartoony style is still alive from the first game and it is better than ever. Particle effects 
 lighting ,shading, textures, everything has been in someway improved. The one aspect that really 
 caught my eye were the cut scenes. They are beatiful, and really help better capture the storyline.
 
  
  Although i greatly enjoyed those aspects of Bwii, the game did hardly any of the things I was so 
 excited that it would do. For one thing there is no split screen multiplayer. Perhaps the biggest 
 critique against the first game was that the game had no split screen multiplayer, well they didnt 
 fix the problem. It is something that a game like Bwii really needs. Local Co-op would have been 
 a stellar addition to the game and would have greatly increased the value of the overall game. 
 Bwii also fails to really use the wiimote for anything special. there is no great revolution with 
 the pointing and clicking for Bwii. It is just much easier to lock on to your target and shoot 
 him that way. That was a major dissapointment. Lastly, the online is very very very shallow. No 
 leader boards, no nothing. Just your record and little stars that you magicly earn under your name. 
 Out of the three onlie modes, ( skirmish, assault, and co-op) Co-op is the most fun. There is no 
 voice chat at all so it is difficult to communicate, but the missions are difficult, and fun. Assault 
 is the next best mode. It gives you a strategic battle in wich you are ulitmatley defending an 
 hq or attacking and attempting to steal an hq. Some levels are fun but the game seems unbalanced 
 at times. Skirmish, is the mode if your a dumb caveman looking to blow something up. It is an all 
 out battle to see who can kill the most. Some levels are occassionaly fun, but there is not much 
 skill involved.
  
  I love Bwii, it is an excellent game that any wii owner should at least check out. It is better 
 than Battalion wars 1 but fails to make any drastic improvements. I gave the first game a 9 and 
 this game an 8.7 but due to the .5 rating scale this game is getting an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveXLR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Over all this game is awsome the camara may be punishing at times but the campeicn and soldiers 
 have been improved greatly and online play is very satisfying when you ger that perfect kill. You'll 
 love this game if the enjoyed the 1st one though you might want to rent it if you havent played 
 the 1st one. On the subject of the camara, the reason I saied it can be punishing is because it 
 doesn't go back to the center after turning so you'll have to manualy fix it. So to conclude this 
 review this is a good game if you just want a pick-up and play game with reasoably god controls 
 and game play it is a mut for all you nintendo players! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PENGUINKK
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  I apologize for the inconvience of the paragraphs being blended together, but I cannot figure out 
 how to make the breaks. Back in 2005 when the first Battalion Wars was released for the Gamecube, 
 you could not exactly call it a smash hit. Battalion Wars went mainly unnoticed and is largely 
 and correctly considered a sleeper hit, with little success in the sales department (BW can still 
 be found at local Gamestop retailers for $10 New) . In that case, sales did not define the game, 
 as the original was excellent by seamlessly combining turn based strategy and shooting action into 
 a highly entertaining war-time experience. Two years later, a sequel has hit the shelves, improving 
 on practically every aspect of the first Battalion Wars. The conflict begins as the Anglo Islands 
 launches a strike on the Solar Empire in order to root out the secret all-powerful weapon. Hundreds 
 of years ago, the Solar Empire used the powerful weapon in the form of a staff to save the world 
 from complete Iron Legion domination. The plot is presented by beautifully detailed cut scenes, 
 which have been improved from the original Battalion Wars. The actual battles themselves are broken 
 into five different campaigns, each one headed by a different faction. Although two of those campaigns 
 are actually flashbacks of previous battles, which I think is a cheap excuse to stretch out the 
 single player and allow all factions to be playable. All in all, the game provides around twenty 
 different missions, six short of the original, and disappointingly so. Each mission takes roughly 
 fifteen minutes to complete, so multiply that by twenty, and you're looking somewhere around five 
 hours of play: if you're good. What slightly makes up for the short campaign though, is the gameplay 
 itself, the highlight of BWii. All previous Battalion Wars units appear in the sequel, in addition 
 to the highly anticipated first-ever naval units. These include the battleship, dreadnought, frigate, 
 transport, and submarine. The dreadnought, as suspected, is an over-the-top fully-well-armed battleship 
 to accommodate the other overpowered machines in the other two natural elements. The new units 
 are a great addition to BWii, in terms of strategy and also the ability to recreate the classic 
 Normandy beach-storming battle that no one can ever get bored from. Aside from the similar units, 
 the battle gameplay hasn't changed much either, with the only real addition being unit respawing 
 facilities. Following Advance Wars, BWii now has barracks, airports, factories, and docks, which 
 can spawn more units once captured. This is a greatly welcomed addition, as we all know how infuriating 
 it is to have units practically necessary to complete the mission go down in flames. But this may 
 be part of a problem, as BWii is noticeably easier than its prequel. Only after the third campaign 
 do battles slowly begin to increase in difficulty, but even those are not as tough as the later 
 Battalion Wars missions. Even with lessened difficulty, the gameplay is still as enjoyable as ever. 
 The one thing that makes or breaks the entire game is the controls, and in this case, fans should 
 not be disappointed. The new Wii controls, while not greatly revolutionizing the experience, feels 
 smooth and efficient for the most part. You lock onto units with the Z button, aim with the IR 
 cursor, fire with B, and give out orders with the A button. To fly a plane, tilting the remote 
 left and right steers and the IR controls the altitude. Motion controls are thrown into the mix, 
 used for barrel rolling, dodging, jumping, and submerging submarines. There are a few minor gripes 
 with the new controls, but in time the problems become less and less until you final wonder why 
 you were complaining about it in the first place. Selecting units with the d-pad can feel bizarre 
 and uncomfortable, but after awhile you learn to position your hand closer to the top of the Wiimote 
 and the problem is solved. Flying planes feels awkward and clumsy at first, but eventually is very 
 smooth. Rolling actually feels great, requiring only a simple tilt of the nunchuck. Jumping and 
 submerging are the only motions that force you to shake the nunchuck, and it can feel unresponsive. 
 At times, your character will randomly jump into the air because you moved your hand slightly. 
 Minor annoyances aside, the new controls are a great addition to BWii, and really provide a smooth 
 experience. One area where the original Battalion Wars fails is multiplayer, but not so in BWii. 
 The game supports Nintendo Wi-fi connection, and allows two players to participate in either Skirmish 
 (straight up battle) , Assault (mission based strategy battle) , and Co-op (.) . Online compatibility 
 is probably the biggest aspect of BWii and is sure to sell more copies because of it. There is 
 virtually no lag in the matches, or at least from what I have experienced. The battles are intense 
 and faced pace, and are a lot of fun. Unfortunately, friend codes are required and there is no 
 voice chat, so you will have to share friend codes and then talk over the phone or something. There 
 is a weak chatting system mapped to the 1 and 2 buttons, which basically asks your partner to attack 
 or defend something. Nintendo's online is pretty weak, and it shows in BWii, but if you can get 
 past friend codes and voice chat, a fun and entertaining experience is to be found. Other notable 
 attributes of BWii are the graphics and sound. The graphics have been improved, while not greatly, 
 over the original Battalion Wars. There lighting effects are bumped up, textures are slightly better, 
 and models are much more detailed. And I just cannot get over the amazing water effects. Amazing. 
 I suppose Nintendo is making up for the lack of voice acting in other franchises by cramming as 
 much as possible into BWii. There is voice over in the cuts scenes, mission descriptions, and in 
 the heat of battle itself. While this is appreciated, sometimes it can be over the top and characters 
 will never shut up, such as in the beginning of each mission. Most of voice acting is top notch, 
 but some characters are annoying, such as Betty, whose voice has changed for the worst since Battalion 
 Wars, and that Solar Empire guy, who sounds nearly incomprehensible most of the time. Battalion 
 Wars is an excellent example of a real time strategy game. It has a good campaign, great controls 
 and gameplay, and a decent online mode. There are a few minor control issues, the story mode is 
 rather short and easy, and the online mode could be a lot better. I still recommend this to any 
 Wii owner, strategy fan or not, and it is the best strategy game on the Wii. Presentation- 9.8
 
  + epic cut scenes; easily navigated menus; colorful and stylish appeal
  - weak title animation
  Graphics- 8.9
  + excellent water effects; good lighting and explosions; 
 detailed models
  - some muddy textures; low framerate at points; low-detail landscape at distance
  Sound- 9.5
 
  + all around great sound effects and voice acting
  - annoying character voices; sometimes too much
  Gameplay- 9.0
  + great combination of shooter 
 and strategy; large scale battles; fun wifi modes
  - weak wifi modes
  Lasting Appeal- 9.0
  + good single player and wifi mode should last awhile; decent amount of 
 unlockables
  - short single player; easier than first game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaktiboi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I normally *hate* RTS games for two reasons. First, the AI pace is too fast for my taste and I 
 don't have enough time to consider my tactics well. Second, the graphics and gameplay aren't immersive 
 enough -- just little pulsing blobs on an isometric-view playfield.
  
  Battalion Wars 2, by contrast is a *perfect* RTS for my tastes. The overall mission pacing and 
 the tactical pacing is just great. You get lots of breaks to recover your wits between each stage 
 of the battle, and during each stage if you move up the map slowly enough you have time to evaluate 
 the enemies ahead and plan your best tactics (usually) before the enemy notices you and starts 
 advancing on your position.
  
  And the graphics! This game proves that the Wii *can* look GREAT! There's no excuse for the non 
 anti-aliased graphics so prevalent in Wii games so far. The artwork is brilliant and humorous. 
 The 3 camera viewpoints are *perfect*. Fighting in a battle just feels very immersive and FUN! 
 The cutscenes are gorgeously-rendered. Framerate is smooth and there's never any hitches in the 
 unfolding action.
  
  And as the main review (and player reviews) point out, the control scheme is a nearly perfect implementation 
 of the Remote and Nunchuck. It's the first Wii game (other than perhaps Wii Sports) where the game 
 responds flawlessly to what you do with your controllers, and the entire scheme is incredibly intuitive. 
 Pointing, aiming, strafing, jumping, rolling, etc... It's all perfectly implemented. The one and 
 only *minor* complaint I have is that it can take a little longer than I like to select a particular 
 unit to command with the D-pad, but really it's a minor nit.
  
  It's super easy to jump into any one of your units and personally fight with it. If you get creamed 
 while you're in that unit, you are automatically put into another unit without any break in the 
 action. And the combat action feels *very* satisfying -- not too easy, not too hard. Shooting at 
 things and blowing them up is visceral and interesting, and every unit *feels* different yet they're 
 all fun in their own way. The battle graphics, weapon fire graphics, explosions, and general pyrotechnics 
 are just sheer eye candy and among the best I've seen on any platform, let alone the Wii. And unlike 
 many other games on every console, piloting vehicles while also attacking from them is again very 
 intuitive and perfectly implemented, IMO.
  
  Yes, as the main review indicates, the game is fairly light on the strategy/tactical elements compared 
 to the flagships in the genre (WarCraft, StarCraft, C&amp; C, etc.) . But really, you won't care, 
 because the more immersive action and great graphics and pacing makes up for the lack of depth. 
 IMO this is one of the must-have games on the Wii platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayesler12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  The controls for this game were perfect especially when maneuvering planes and ships. The gameplay 
 was just all-round fun and highly addictive.
  Online play was exciting and fun to play with friends.
  The visuals of the environment were amazing 
 and has a great style of design.
  This game is perfect for anyone especially for people who like a good RTS/shooter game. Bwii is 
 a good buy and worth playing.
  The story however is very simple and easy to follow.
  The difficulty for this game is just right. You might find yourself replaying a few missions that 
 are little difficult and eventually completing it by making the perfect strategies.
  This game has great replay value because you can always play some online with friends or with anyone. 
 You can also replay missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Battilion wars 2 is sooooo fun the story mode lets u be other people like the solar empire and 
 tundran and of coarse the western frontier. the new thing is that u can battle with ships! and 
 the controles are great with the wii. the other good thing is the online multiplayer its so fun 
 and it is cool that u can play campaign mode with people online!!!! this is better than the first 
 one! i would definately buy this if u dont have this yet!!!!! i give this a 9.5 cause maniley the 
 online but the story is still good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Hello.
  
  After playing this game for some time . I found my self really into it . The graphics look very 
 nice . It has very good water efects . The graphics are cartoony but work very well.
  
  The controlls feel a bit stiff when looking around . But the controlls , are pretty easy to lean 
 and work pretty well . you lock on to the enemy by pressing the Z button . You can order your men 
 to attack them or attack your self . You can switch to anther unit but selecting there unit with 
 the d pad and holding A. In this game you need to use the right type of units at the right time 
 . if you are using a guy with a gun and you come across a tank your not going to do much good. 
 so you need to use a bazooka on the tank by ordering a unit to do it or take controll of a bazooka 
 your self to take out the tank .
  
  The story mode is well done . it has nice video clips . it also shows a good back story . the game 
 plan is simple but very fun. It will ask somthing simple of you. For explame take controll of an 
 anti air gun and shoot down a bomber .
  
  The mutiplayer is only 1v1 . there is also no way to talk to your enemy . there is a few game modes 
 . the mulityplayer mode is pretty fun. it counts how many wins and losses you have. 1v1 does not 
 seem to bad cus the battles can become very intense.
  
  to sum this all up . this game looks good , plays good and have good replay vaule . it makes you 
 think in the heat of battle . the controlls are pretty simple but not perfect . there online is 
 not so hot compared to other games. but is a good added bonus . the singel player can be a little 
 to easy at times . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfHyrule910
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Battalion wars 2 is one of the best wii games out the story is fun and hard, and the online is the 
 best!!!! nobody could say this game isnt  
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The first campaign has you thinking, oh my gosh, this game is going to be too easy. Just wait until 
 the second campaign though, you will be surprised. My advice for you is to wait until you have 
 beaten the game to play Assult on Nintendo WFC. It just gets you out of the groove because your 
 stuff (men, tanks, etc.) is replinished regularly. Now to Nintendo WFC. This game hass no lag time 
 what so ever. Well, it hasn't since I got it on launch. So yea, you really need to get this game, 
 especially to keep your Wii busy untill Super Mario Galaxy. The only problem that I have is that 
 there is no versus mode or any type of two player mode. Well except on Co-Op on WFC, which you 
 still have to have friend codes, and yes friend codes make a return too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fedex128
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This games is really great, I never thought that waging war could be this fun. Let's forget about 
 C&amp; C this is how we should wage war (lol) . The graphics are good, unit design is just right 
 to set the mood, the action is great, the controls are good and intuitive (the learning curve is 
 not even an issue) , but the story is really simple so don't expect a FF. Another cool thing is 
 the multiplayer, there`s no lag and that's a great thing for the Wii's starting online gameplay. 
 One more thing, if u guys are worried about friend codes, you do not really need them! You guys 
 can play with anyone that wants to give it a go to the different Mp scenarios.
  
  P. s. Totally recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazay88
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun a packed , it's a real treat , the only thing that bothered me is that 
 there is not a lot of things that you can do when it comes to modes, there is only campaign or 
 wfc (online) it would be nice to have just a mode where you can just fight and capture and no one 
 to tell you what to do all the freaking time , if they had that i would have gave it a 10.
  the controls a good and really fun .
  If you have a wii , this game is a must-have ( but not 
 for all ages) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  BWII2 is a pretty entertaining sequel to the original for the gamecube. The campaign mode is fairly 
 easy but online play can be pretty difficult seeing as you are playing real people. There aren't 
 many flaws in the game. It's pretty easy and it's not 2 players but other than that it's a good 
 buy. The game is fun but after awhile you might be asking yourself do i really want to play BWII2 
 versus all the other games i own. To sum it up, BWII2 is pretty much Battalion wars 1 with slight 
 improvement. So if you like the first you will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baseball5383
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is my review for this game. I have actually played this game too because some of the 
 other reviews already written tell nothing about this game. I always grade a game on: Gameplay, 
 Controlls, Graphics, Sound, and Multi-player. Here it is:
  
  Gameplay: ----------Now i am going to tell this to you right off the bat. If you don't like stratigic 
 games, your not going to find any fun in this game at all. If anyone out there has ever played 
 Advance Wars, then this game is just like it, except 3D. The first one didn't have factories, docks, 
 or airports like Advance Wars. This one does. All the gameplay is, is trying to always attack the 
 enemy at his weak spot. For instance if he has 5 tanks, you want bazooka people to blow it up. 
 Thats all Advance Wars was, and thats what all this game is too.
  
  Controlls ----------At the first mission on the campaign through the fifth mission all they do is 
 teach you the controlls one by one. Yeah, its boring but this way you know for sure what button 
 to push and what not. The first few missions after the tutorial missions you kind of panick, but 
 you eventually get the hang of it. The only problem I had was that i would acadentily send my troops 
 to attack something instead of waiting back so they wouldn't get killed. Big mistake, but you learn.
 
  
  Graphics ----------Ok, I don't really have much to say about graphics. Gamespot may downgrade it 
 again because the wii's are no where close to the PS3 or the X-Box's graphics but they are pretty 
 nice in this game. Once again Battalion Wars made the charactors look a little cartoonish but its 
 not that bad. They are definetly better then the first Battalion Wars' Graphics by a long shot.
 
  
  Sound ----------Well, the sound in this game is pretty good. I mean it sounds like your in a war 
 with all the machine gun and explosions around you, so not that bad. The only part I hated about 
 the sound was the tutorial missions. All they did was talk, to let you know what you have to do, 
 then repeat it in the very next mission. It was very annoying. Oh and sometimes the charactors 
 talk and say pretty dumb stuff like excuse me when they're in a war. Its gets boring and all you 
 think is That guys a wimp or a nerd. Besides that when you get into the game the sound is good.
 
  
  Multi-player ----------Well I can't say much about this since I have never played multi-player yet. 
 I can't find anyone on since it is a new game and not as popular as guitar hero 3 and halo 3. However, 
 I did read the instruction booklet and the very thought of taking on someone else around the world 
 is pretty sweet. You don't need A person's wii number to actually play them. you just sign on and 
 wait for someone to sign on too for the game you want to play. Pretty easy. But if you wanted you 
 can get friends wii numbers and play them fast when ever they are on.
  
  Battalion wars 2 is a great game. You can't really just try it out for 2 days and quit, no you 
 have to actually get into the story, and thats when it becomes fun. If you think my review was 
 helpful to you please recommend it. It would be appreciated, Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orryn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Its fun to play. From the get go, you are actively running, shooting, giving orders, and taking 
 control of various units. Each of the 15ish units you get to play has a definite role and its own 
 uniqueness. Once learned the control scheme works amazingly well. Using 6 different types of troops 
 was a lot easier than I thought it was going to be.
  
  Each of the armies you play has a definite personality, even though the troops are all the same. 
 The style and flair of the game is nice, and the graphics fit the cartoon style very well. The 
 multiplayer is a lot of fun. I have yet to have a problem with the Wi-Fi connection and there are 
 a ton of different levels and style of play to choose from. In additions opponents are easy to 
 come by. The Bad:
  The voice acting in the story is annoying, and you can't skip it if it is the first time you are 
 seeing the cut scene / hint / mission objective. While the controls are good, in big fire fights 
 is can become almost impossible to coordinate your troops properly. Particularly air vehicles are 
 very easily misplaced and get shot down quick.
  
  Game is a bit easy. 10-15 hours of total game play to complete the story.
  
  Overall:
  It 
 is a fun game that I would recommend for most Wii owners. There are some problems, but no game 
 is perfect. It has lots of action, good controls, and the online play is solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars 2 has to be one of the single most addictive engimas I've ever played in video games. 
 It is a sequel to the original Battalion Wars for Gamecube, which in itself is a spin off of the 
 popular turn-based strategy Gameboy games called Advanced Wars. However, as Advanced Wars marries 
 its anime-esque art style and turned based gameplay together well, Battalion Wars 2 suffers so 
 horribly from the attempt that it makes sitting through the campaign nearly unbearable.
  
  Lets focus on the good here for a second. The good here is the overall control scheme for Battalion 
 Wars 2 is surprsingly in depth, albiet unintuitive. Granted, the controls remain SIMPLE, but they 
 fundamentally revolve around the D-Pad to select units, and then pressing A in or not in conjunction 
 with Z or other selected options on the D-Pad to issue various different orders. As you can imagine, 
 in the heat of battle it is incredibly easy to get confused and Press A while you've locked on 
 to an enemy -- with your tanks selected ... for instance, which might send your tanks barreling 
 towards enemy bazooka units when all the while you were actually wanting to simply press A once 
 WITHOUT any enemy unit targeted so you actually tell your tanks to wait back and OUT OF THE BAZOOKA 
 UNITS WAY! I cannot stress enough how incredibly easy it is to actually cause the exact scenario 
 you wanted to prevent, to happen, by simply holding one extra button (because you're shooting) , 
 or having your selection stuck on a different unit without realizing it. Incredibly annoying.
 
  
  That being said, if you told me years earlier that someone was going to make a third person shooter 
 war game that allowed you to give individual commands to dozens of troops while simultaneously 
 fighting in the battle yourself, with the WII REMOTE of all things ... I would have laughed in 
 your face. Ergo, for the absolutely bizarre and ambitious gameplay style the developers were going 
 for, they hit upon quite possibly the best way to go about it -- its simply extremely prone to 
 user-interface-error.
  
  That, however, is not really the bad part about Battalion Wars. The bad part is that this sort 
 of gameplay and control system was simply not meant for children. And this is fine. But when the 
 story IS meant for children, you suddenly feel extremely .... extremely ... extremely annoyed. 
 Imagine Halo with Bugs Bunny and the Loony Toons. Exactly.
  
  The most obvious transgression against your intellect you'll find is how each nation is based off 
 a REAL nation, and quite blatantly ... but NOT for humors sake. The game treats each faction as 
 if its dead serious about the stupidity of ... say ... the Anglo Isles as they're run by bumbling 
 generals who shout cheerio left and right ... or Tundra, who are blatantly Russians ... who are 
 ready and willing to go to war with practically anyone just to prove to the other countries around 
 them that they don't have a small ... you know. Its so rediculous that often times you'll watch 
 a cutscene and are simply waiting for someone to jump out of the shadows and say Can you believe 
 this guy? What an idiot! to simply confirm that the game isn't taking itself seriously. But instead, 
 nothing happens -- these cheesy, horrible, and darn near insulting displays of stupidity simply 
 keep piling on at a steady flow, as if either dead serious about the stupid subject matter ... 
 or either expecting you to think the stupid you see before you is funny. Which it isn't. Not without 
 a punchline. Not when you're actually trying to ENJOY something.
  
  And some of these country knock offs approach racism in a way ... its extremely painful to listen 
 to Admiral A-Quera when his voice actor is clearly American, but seems to think that a nasaly version 
 of Crusty the Clown off the Simpsons is a surefire way to fake an Asian accent. WRONG.
  
  And although its not uncommon to complain about voice acting in a game, I do have to say this is 
 the first time I've ever had to actually complain about having TOO MUCH voice acting in a game. 
 When each level has a narrarator that has to read out EVERY SINGLE WORD ON THE SCREEN before a 
 level, just to tell you what you'll find out anyway once you watch the cheesy and agonizingly long 
 cinematics at the beginning of each level ... you begin to get information overload. Its bad enough 
 that the game's objectives and story are designed to appear as kid friendly as a stranger with 
 candy ... but when they start telling you the same stuff OVER and OVER again, you begin to feel 
 compelled to just turn off all the audio in the game else your brain go numb. Its quite possible 
 I've lost a few brain cells while playing this title -- is it possible that if people talk to your 
 like your stupid, you become stupid in the process? The headache I have is telling me so.
  
  Probably more insulting than this whole story of the game is how much the sheer cruelty of 
 war is played down. Granted, BWii was never meant to be a title with a lot of realism, but not 
 even games like Halo ... which are obviously not real ... take the battles occuring lightly. Its 
 always serious business -- yet in Battalion Wars 2, the commanding officers treat each encounter 
 with all the seriousness of a war with ... nerf guns; shouting selfish things like How dare he 
 take MY base! Repel the honorless invaders! ... and how your defeated enemy commander can call 
 back to you Fine, you may have your little island, but we'll see you on the beach! as if initiating 
 playful banter. What about all the people who died in the battle? What about the lives your trying 
 to save by going after this proposed superweapon ? The game falls flat on its face in a pile of 
 stupid.
  
  Fundamentally where Battalion Wars 2 goes wrong is its remarkable ability to take things that should 
 be funny seriously, and things that should be serious with a grain of salt ... nay ... often times 
 silly and completely out of context.
  
  And for that reason, BWii's saving grace is its unique gameplay and perhaps the most fleshed out 
 online mode of any Wii game to date. That is, if you can sit through it without losing so many 
 brain cells that a soap bar can out smart you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Battalion Wars 2 is one of those games that you might think won't be so good, but ends up being 
 great.
  
  Gameplay: First of all, I have to say that there are so many things to do in this game. There are 
 several different armies at your disposal, which you can use to fight on land, in the air and in 
 the sea. That's right, you can now use ships, submarines, freighters, etc. The levels are more 
 diverse this time round, with a bunch of different missions to accomplish, like commanding an assault 
 on an enemy fortress. In this sequel there is online multiplayer. The online multiplayer modes 
 include assault, skirmish, and co-op. With all these added details and modes, the gameplay never 
 becomes dry. Also, the game is now a bit easier to play, the difficulty range is more varied. The 
 game is no longer frustrating to play, its not as hard as the first game in the series was.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics have vastly improved since the the first Battalion Wars for the 
 GameCube. The graphics have become more gritty, which suits the tone of this game very well. The 
 cut scenes look fantastic as well as the effects, especially the explosions. These cuts scenes 
 and effects show just how much graphic power the Wii has. There are no frame rate issues so the 
 game never gets choppy.
  
  Controls:
  
  The controls take a bit of getting used to especially now that you have to use the Wii-mote, but 
 once you get the hang of things its not a problem.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall with the amazing gameplay, sweet graphics, and ok controls, Battalion Wars 2 is game that 
 you should definitely pick up for the Wii.
  Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcetra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Reminiscent of a better Ikari Warriors with the Advance Wars fun. Great game good gameplay. Definitely 
 worthwhile to pick up. Really like the controls of this game it does have the exaggerated characters 
 that are likened to more of a characterized play like Team Fortress rather than an authentic look. 
 I believe that adds to the value of the game. From the first level on the game is exciting and 
 immersing. The game does not limit you to a third person player only as you control your small 
 army to be at your command. You can command or utilize vehicles and the targeting is very forgiving. 
 All in all one of the best games on the Wii to date not even mentioning the online multiplayer 
 that it adds. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
