-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bee Movie Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/beemoviegame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dogfighting wasps and dodging cars as a bee is neat.
 Two dozen different jobs and minigames to kill time with.
 The bee's-eye slant given to the humor and visuals is interesting.
 Good for younger kids.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions and minigames won't challenge anyone past their teen years.
 Graphics don't push any of the systems the game is on.
 Badly compressed video kills the action scenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Smart Bomb Int.
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Younger players will enjoy the variety and sandbox-style freedom of Bee Movie Game. 

  Anyone too far over the age of 10 probably won't get much out of Bee Movie Game, but the younger 
 children in your household just may delight in its sweet flavor. The gameplay isn't complicated. 
 In fact, it's usually downright simple. However, the various missions and minigames offer plenty 
 of different things to do, while the cheerful presentation and humor go a long way toward making 
 every minute spent with the game enjoyable.  

  In this sandbox-style game, players take control of a honeybee named Barry B. Benson -- voiced by 
 Jerry Seinfeld -- and interact with the people and places of New Hive City while completing missions 
 based on scenes from the movie. In the city, you can take various jobs, goof around with stand-alone 
 arcade games, and collect new outfits and cars to doll Barry up in. Outside the city, you'll embark 
 on missions that involve pollinating flowers, navigating torrential rain showers, terrorizing humans, 
 and trading stinger fire in airborne battles with enemy wasps.  

           Bee Movie Game recaps the movie while also letting players explore the locations and jobs 
 contained in New Hive City.      

  Of course, honeybees don't like to walk around. They like to fly! That's the key difference between 
 the Bee Movie Game and other movie-inspired video games. The 21 different missions that take place 
 outside the hive are set in large 3D environments that you fly around in. In some of them, you 
 fly around freely and use Barry's pollen gun to shoot at wasps and to transfer pollen from healthy 
 flowers to those in need of rejuvenation. A  Matrix -style bullet time effect lets you slow the 
 action down in order to line up precise shots. It also comes in handy when rain is falling, allowing 
 you to see and dodge individual raindrops. In other missions, Barry follows his flight path automatically, 
 but you have to quickly press the indicated directions and buttons when the prompts appear in order 
 to help him avoid hazards along the way. These interactive Dragon's Lair-style missions depict 
 thrilling flights through traffic-heavy New Hive streets and battles against deranged humans armed 
 with such deadly implements as rolled-up newspapers and shoes.  

  The missions have to be played in order, at least at first, but you can partake of everything else 
 at your leisure. And there's quite a bit of everything else to waste time with inside the hive. 
 You can drive cars around and take jobs that involve racing, delivering food, or shuttling other 
 bees to various destinations. Driving recklessly in the Crazy Taxi-inspired taxi driver game is 
 a riot. Other job sites around the hive let you participate in minigames that involve fixing cars, 
 collecting honey, pouring honey, and packaging honey. When you're not killing time working, you 
 can visit the arcade and play six simple  Bee Movie -inspired games that are eerily reminiscent 
 of classics like Space Invaders, Frogger, and Galaga. In all, there are more than two dozen activities 
 to try, and they all offer multiple challenge levels.  

  Basically, Bee Movie Game is an age-appropriate take on the Grand Theft Auto formula. Instead of 
 the mean streets of Vice City, players freely wander a colorful replica of New Hive City. You can 
 explore the hive, talk to people, and take jobs at your leisure. In turn, those jobs give you money 
 that you can use to buy clothes for Barry to wear, cars to fill his garage with, and arcade games 
 to play. When you feel like tackling a mission, all you need to do is visit Barry's house to move 
 the story along.  

  Though clearing the skies of wasps and watching Barry dodge cars is exciting, the missions do start 
 to feel repetitive after a while. They're not terribly challenging, either, since the only major 
 penalty for running out of health or pressing the wrong button during an automatic flight sequence 
 is that you'll have to do a tiny portion of the mission over again. Inside the hive, the jobs and 
 minigames are kind of simplistic. The crane-based honey-gathering game merely entails moving the 
 directional stick to steer the crane and pressing a button to grab the honey capsules. When you're 
 driving a car, the controls let you steer, accelerate, and reverse. The racing challenges add power-ups, 
 such as bee missiles and honey puddles, to the mix. Unfortunately, the CPU opponents are easy to 
 overtake and don't use items very well. On the whole, the game is definitely geared toward younger 
 players who likely won't spend much time with any one single task, and who probably won't mind 
 that the tasks are simple and only occasionally challenging.  

           Story missions involve aerial combat against wasps and interactive scenes where you press 
 buttons to avoid hazards.      

  The game's graphics don't push the visual capabilities of any of the systems it's on, but New Hive 
 City is a colorful, cheerful place. The different wax-sculpted buildings look exotic, and the city 
 is loaded with bees walking on the sidewalks, driving cars, and mingling with one another. Outside 
 the hive, the different locations in New Hive City are expansive and richly detailed. Parks have 
 streams, flower beds, and frogs. City streets have benches, trash bins, and cars that you can use 
 to shield yourself from the rain. If you notice a human walking by with an umbrella, you can take 
 cover under it. One mission takes place inside a three-room apartment, where you have plenty of 
 furniture to navigate and three angry humans to watch out for. The flight sequence missions depict 
 intense scenes in which Barry is ducking under multiple oncoming vehicles and dodging humans and 
 animals alike. These scenes seamlessly mix game-engine graphics and video footage to make it seem 
 as if the game console is pushing way more polygons and objects than it's capable of.  

  All the while, the music varies between whimsical and dramatic, and there's oodles of spoken dialogue. 
 The humor is aimed at kids, so you probably won't find any of it funny if you're beyond grade school. 
 However, the actors' deliveries, particularly that of Jerry Seinfeld, come across as natural and 
 upbeat.  

  The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 2 versions of the game are virtually identical. Sure, the graphics 
 in the 360 version are cleaner and more detailed, but the PlayStation 2 serves up the same environments 
 with only a slight downgrade in draw distance and animation smoothness. The Wii version looks practically 
 identical to the PS2 version, though the cutscene video is poorly compressed and extremely grainy 
 looking. Normally that wouldn't be such a big deal, but Bee Movie Game frequently juxtaposes gameplay 
 and video, and often blends the two together. Those thrilling chase scenes that are packed with 
 oncoming vehicles seem a lot less thrilling when the cars and road are made up of polygons one 
 moment and grainy footage the next.  

  In terms of content, every version of the game lets a second player join in for certain arcade 
 games and races. The 360 version levies the Xbox Live service to let you compare your scores against 
 those of other players, but its two-person multiplayer is limited to offline matches only, so there's 
 no advantage there. The Wii version of the game includes four extra minigames and three additional 
 racetracks that the other two versions don't have. Navigating the hive is much easier in the Wii 
 version of the game, because the developers placed signs that tell you where everything is located, 
 and they implemented kiosks that let you select jobs and then point you exactly where you need 
 to go to do them.  

           At the hive, you can explore, buy items, and play a wide variety of minigames.      

 
  Lastly, the controls in the Wii version were modified to make use of the controller's pointer 
 and motion-sensing capabilities. You'll often have to shake the remote or Nunchuk to interact with 
 objects, and the pointer is used for aiming and activating hot spots during the interactive flight 
 sequences. On the Xbox 360 and PS2, you just press the button displayed on screen. On the Wii, 
 a target appears instead, which you have to aim at and press B to activate. These Wii-specific 
 control enhancements take longer to get used to than simply pushing buttons, but they add a layer 
 of interactivity to the experience that the 360 and PS2 versions don't have.  

  You shouldn't hesitate to check out Bee Movie Game if you have children in the house who you think 
 would enjoy spending time in Barry B. Benson's universe. Indeed, Bee Movie Game is one of those 
 rare video games developed with younger players in mind that doesn't totally suck. You won't feel 
 compelled to play it for hours (or possibly even at all) , but your kids or younger siblings will. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Boat95
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm glad I didn't have high hopes for this game. It was pretty bad. My little brothers got bored 
 with this game. This game doesn't really use the Wii's controls very well. Pointing at the sensor 
 bar is very frustrating for the few times they have it available. This game is extremely easy to 
 beat. Of course you can go back and do random stuff, but the story mode is weak. It may be moderatley 
 interesting for some kids, key word may. The activities are fairly boring and repetitive. This 
 game would have been more challenging if I was sleep though. This is the usual rushed performance 
 you get from movie games. I saw it in the Incredibles and in the Incredible Hulk. Those weren't 
 that bad of games though. Compared to Bee movie, they get 9.0's. If have just forgotten how the 
 human brain works and this game has gone down to 49 cents, by all means, purchase this game. Otherwise, 
 save your pennies. If the game developers had spent a little bit more time on the game, it could 
 have been better. I saw the movie, which was pretty funny. Unfortunately, this game put down my 
 already low hopes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Sometimes i think, why the company of movies can't do a really good game?, well this game answer 
 that in a good way, not too much, just good.
  This game it's really for more younger kids, that's thruth, but it's fun for everyone, and thats 
 a problem, it's too easy, in the missions you don't have another way of the street, and that's 
 annoying. Well for a game it's very important have a great multiplayer, and exactly this game it's 
 not, you have a lot of minigames but everyone its poorxD
  
  Gameplay: it's great, with the fact of shoot to the bugs, try to don't crush to the bikers, the 
 slow camera, it's very complete, with a fun avaliable on every part of the game and a lot of actions 
 to do, like polinize or realive sick flowers. In another part of the game the camera sometimes 
 get crazy and it's basicly some stupid...
  
  Graphics: its great too, with the desing of all the bugs and the places, the cars, the colmena, 
 and all that. Really the graphics are sometimes dissapointing.
  
  Sound: a really really superb sound, with the voice of jerry seinfield and the voice of the bugs, 
 the shoots, the cars, and all that, its really cool...
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
