-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Beach Sports
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/bigbeachsports/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A couple of good beach games.
 Easy-to-pickup control system.
 DS character creation feature.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A couple of poor beach games.
 Poor presentation, graphics, and sound.
 Not enough depth or reward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 96 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: HB Studios
Genre: Sports
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it has low production values and little in the way of longevity, Big Beach Sports offers some 
 fun when played with friends. 

  The success of Wii Sports has clearly had an influence on third-party publishers. Many have released 
 or are set to release similar sports compilations of their own, with Big Beach Sports being the 
 first attempt from THQ. It's a collection of six seaside offerings that includes volleyball, boules, 
 American football, soccer, disc golf, and cricket. Some games work better than others and none 
 of them offer much depth or reward, but as an occasional multiplayer diversion, Big Beach Sports 
 houses at least some appeal.  

           Volleyball might be easy to pick up and play, but it's not challenging or rewarding to 
 play.      

  For the most part, you interact with each game using the Wii Remote's motion-sensing abilities. 
 In volleyball, for example, you flick the controller upwards to mimic a set, then slam it over 
 your head to perform a spike. In cricket, you hold the Wii Remote like a bat and then mimic a swing 
 to hit the ball. It's all fairly simple, and the computer will move your players around automatically 
 to help you concentrate on the hitting and throwing actions.  

  Out of everything on offer in Big Beach Sports, disc golf is the most fun. As the name suggests, 
 it's golf played with a frisbee, with different types of discs depending on the distance to the 
 basket. The first few holes are fairly simple, but as you progress you have to start avoiding trees 
 and water while also throwing much longer distances. The other games also work well -- boules is 
 a French take on classic bowls where you throw balls at a small target, while American football 
 is a two-on-two beach version of the sport. Soccer is the only truly awful game in the package -- it's 
 less suited to motion-sensitive control, and the poor AI and lack of team members mean that it's 
 very dull to play.  

  You can play these sports in short games or tournaments, but that's about it. While it's diverting 
 enough when played in short bursts with friends, the lack of depth and poor reward system offer 
 little in the way of longevity. It takes just a single game to get the hang of most sports, and 
 in the case of boules and volleyball, you've pretty much mastered it by the second. There are tournaments 
 to play through for each sport which gradually increase in difficulty, but aside from trophies 
 and a few unlockable characters, there's little to spur you through the game.  

  Big Beach encourages you to create your own character from the main screen, choosing a name, clothing, 
 and even a custom-designed face if you have a Nintendo DS. The customisation options are not extensive, 
 so don't expect to be able to change the minutiae of your character's nostril size, but it's good 
 to see such a novel feature included in the game.  

  Big Beach Sports is a budget release, and in terms of presentation it looks every bit the part. 
 Characters and environments are simple and boast no stylish flourishes or details, while the music 
 is generic and unmemorable. There are very few options to choose for each game, and the menu system 
 is drab and uninviting. The game also fails to present any top scores or statistical information. 
 If you have a user profile, you can track your points and awards in the options screen, but you 
 can't compare that information against other players' from the same screen.  

           Boules is incredibly simple, but it's one of the better games in the Big Beach compilation. 

  Like most sports games, Big Beach Sports is best played with friends. Up to four people can play 
 each sport, and if it's a game that's played sequentially such as boules, you can share a single 
 Wii Remote amongst everyone. While you'll have more fun playing with friends, the games are still 
 simple and offer no depth to encourage long-term play. There's also little reward for winning, 
 and the game definitely would've benefited from some additional characters and costumes to unlock 
 as you progress.  

  With a decent selection of sports and a budget price tag, Big Beach Sports is worth checking out 
 for the novelty of a round of Frisbee golf. The production values and overall presentation certainly 
 fit this cut-rate title, and you'll soon get bored if you're playing alone. But as an occasional 
 diversion that you can dig out with friends, Big Beach Sports has some fun games that will keep 
 you occupied for short amounts of time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jim_Bob_the_2nd
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Big Beach Sports, I personally had waited a bit for this and saved up my money to buy it, and I 
 was sorely disappointed.
  
  The Good:
  It's great fun with friends and family, and a calm slow game. 6 cool sports and enough fun for 
 everyone and enough types to suit even the pickiest of people. Kids enjoy it lots, it's a brilliant 
 way of distracting my little brother for an hour. Character Creation is really good and a nice 
 touch with the DS.
  
  The Bad:
  Way too easy, even the newest of gamers can master this game in a short space of time. Not that 
 brilliant for the hardcore gamers out there, so this game is best suited for the newer, calmer 
 player. Lack of control, on most games such as football you don't even get to choose where you 
 run, the computer does it for you, which is alright sometimes but I'd prefer it if you could actually 
 choose the movement. 
  
  When to Buy:
  Have a little brother? Its brilliant just to put him on there for a while. If you have a few friends 
 around it's a nice game to play.
  
  Luca Likes: DS Character Creation feature (you download something for the DS and you can hand make 
 the face for your Character)
  Cricket and Volleyball are the best games to play, possible the only games fun to play on your 
 own
  
  Luca Hates: Not being able to move
  Incredibly easy
  
  Quick Version: Mostly a let down, wait for Wii Sports 2 which I hear is coming out, if your dying 
 to play a sports game, entertain yourself with Wii sports. 
  
  By Jimmy :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monk4sport
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  Monk4sport's ( in NSW Australia ) Wii Review. The action of the great beach classics begin with 
 Bocce, Cricket, Soccer, American Football, Vollyball & Disc Golf. Every Game has its one tornament 
 mode, three people to unlock and trophies to win for differance games , what is good but there 
 should have more for all three things. You can make your own people what gives you your own score 
 but they don't look so good. The more points the harder the computer gets. like Wii sports. The 
 multplayer Is great for getting yourself better. Soccer isn't that hard but it's not super easy 
 ever. It hard to lose or get the ball, and as I'm a big fan of soccer games It wasn't a good thing 
 but my friends and I enjoyed playing it together. American Football is good if you know how to 
 play but it you don't it's a waste of time. Vollyball is easy to get the hang of like disc golf 
 and cricket is pretty hard and cricket is my favourite game. It's a good game but not the best ever.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loonyspoony
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I purchased the game cheaply from a pre-order I had long forgotten about, I had no preconceived 
 ideas about the game and with a small price tag was not expecting too much. The latter was probably 
 a good thing as I first tried Disc Golf.
  
  Disc Golf - Realistically this was far too easy, courses are extremely short and first nine holes 
 of the 18 had nearly no hazards, birdie, birdie, birdie, eagle, there really is no challenge and 
 its also a boring multiplayer game.
  
  Boules (Bocce) - To me despite what others have said this was probably the best of the bunch physics 
 are reasonable to the extent you can smash others balls out of the way and attack the jack, although 
 strength of throw is primarily determined by length of aim not strength of swing.
  
  Cricket - What many people were looking forward to but bowling action is limited and I could never 
 work out if my swing was affecting the balls direction.
  
  American Football - Run throw, catch run a bit more, could be good in four-player but I'm not convinced. 
 Appears extremely limited but at least you can control the players, its not like Wii Tennis.
  
  Soccer - Again I was pleased to see you had control of player movement but goal scoring seems 
 to be far too easy.
  
  Volleyball - As others have said before disappointing, repetitive to the point of being dull.
 
  
  Overall Boule is a positive others were really misses for me although there is some multiplayer 
 fun to be had with soccer and American Football.
  
  Result kept for three days and then sold on to some other poor sap who believed the advertising 
 hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavcs
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I liked soccer, disc golf, football, and cricket, but volleyball and bocce ball weren't as fun. For 
 volleyball i had to spike the ball like all the time. For bocce ball, i didn't know how to throw 
 closer to the wall. It's directions weren't very good. Overall I would give this and 8. The tutorials 
 were boring for all the sports. This game needs better tutorials. The good thing about tournaments 
 is that u enter, u win. Soccer is pretty easy but bocce ball is hard. Football is the most fun, 
 bocce ball is the least fun. I only recomend this to people who have time to beat it or unlock 
 all the things it has. Trust me, iv'e played like 10 hours, only unlocked like 7 things. I also 
 only got like 500 of the 6000 skillpoints to beat it. To beat the game, think on spending 100-200 
 hours. Thialso needs better controls. Its hard to control ur character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I found this game more frustrating than anything. The controls for most games are somewhat sloppy 
 and the character selection is annoying. The disc golf was the only portion of this that I found 
 even vaguely entertaining. The badminton was simply the same combination of hit, set, spike about 
 90% of the time, no matter what motions I tried. At $30 a pop I expect better controls, the ability 
 to track my own player with my own name and a few other goodies. In short, don't bother spending 
 the money on this when there are certainly better versions of every game out there. I know the 
 Deca sports version of badminton is better, but I haven't tried soccer on any program at all. If 
 you are looking to experiment with the Wiimote and its possibilities you can skip this game, also, 
 as I don't feel it adds anything to the basic motions of even the simplest games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
