-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/gentlebrainexercises/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent number of different games and difficulties to choose from.
 clean presentation.
 one of the few Wii games to make use of your Miis.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most multiplayer modes require passing the controller.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 832 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Edutainment
Date: Jun 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is a simple collection of brain teasers that are unique enough from 
 other, similar games on the Wii to make it worthwhile. 

  Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree takes the same basic structure as the first Big Brain game, which 
 appeared on the DS just over a year ago. It's essentially a sequel to the original game because 
 it doesn't duplicate the games found on the DS, but instead replaces them with a collection of 
 new brain-teasing minigames. While this brings the number of minigame collections on the Wii to 
 just under 8 billion, Big Brain Academy is different enough from the average WarioWare or Mario 
 Party-style collection to find its own niche on the platform that players of the first game should 
 find enjoyable.  

          Though the formula that determines your brain weight is never expressly revealed, it is 
 determined by your speed and your accuracy.     

  The whole game takes place under the guise of making your brain bigger and heavier, which is, of 
 course, completely ridiculous. Unlike its counterpart, Brain Age, Big Brain makes no wordy claim 
 about actually improving your mind. There's also no sketchy-looking science on the back of the 
 box, attempting to legitimize the whole thing. Big Brain Academy just lets you play minigames in 
 random sequences and gives you a score at the end based on your performance. You can compare these 
 scores with other players locally, and you can also send them over to your online friends so they 
 can compare their scores with your scores.  

  The different games are broken up into groups named after the sort of brain training they're having 
 you do, such as compute or identify. Each game is very simple to understand, as they intuitively 
 use the pointing and clicking features of the Wii Remote. The Wii speaker is used both for encouragement 
 and, in one neat minigame, as a phone. In that minigame, you must listen to customers ordering 
 food and then duplicate their order on the screen. However, most of the minigames are more basic 
 than that, such as one where a series of number-bearing balloons appear, and you have to pop them 
 in order from lowest to highest. Another shows you four pictures and asks you to choose the pictures 
 that fit different criteria. For example, if the game merely says "wings," you might find yourself 
 clicking on a photo of a duck and an airplane, but not a gorilla or a swimmer. Right off the bat, 
 the practice modes in the game let you go to town on 15 different games, but the other modes mix 
 in games that don't appear in the practice menu, giving you a reason to skip around and try everything 
 out.  

  The main mode in the game is the test mode, where you play 10 rounds of each category. Your skills 
 translate into an overall score, a letter grade, and a descriptive phrase that is meant to tell 
 you your brain type. These are usually goofy descriptions, such as "improv actor." There's also 
 a group mode that you can actually play alone, but it can include up to eight players in some cases. 
 There's one direct head-to-head mode, where two players race to finish a set of questions first, 
 though the rest involve passing the controller to get more than two players playing, which is kind 
 of lame. A proper four-player simultaneous mode might have been nice, but ultimately, you're best 
 off playing the game alone and then comparing your scores with other players.  

          Getting online and sharing your scores with other players is a nice idea, though a proper 
 online leaderboard might have been better.     

  Visually, Big Brain Academy has a basic but functional look to it. It's never flashy, but it also 
 has a very clean and direct look, which fits with the school-like tone of the game. The Mii system 
 is integrated into the game, so things like your student record book will have your Mii face on 
 it. The audio is good as well. A fair amount of speech comes out of the Wii speaker, but most of 
 it is just encouragement from a female voice that eggs you on as you play. The music and sound 
 effects are also catchy and pleasant.  

  While fans of the Wii's other minigame compilations might find Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree a 
 little more stripped down than the rest, the game stands apart by simply offering different types 
 of slightly more thought-intensive minigames. It's not rocket science, but if you're after something 
 slightly headier than the Mario Party-style of waving the Wii Remote around like a lunatic while 
 mashing the A button as hard as you possibly can, you'll probably enjoy your time with Big Brain 
 Academy: Wii Degree.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  Another random game for the Wii that has to do with learning. Big Brain Academy has mostly everything 
 from the DS version, this time you can have your Mii enroll into the academy. The Miis look like 
 they were drawn instead of what the Mii menu makes them look. Of couse the Miis are pretty much 
 pointless when it comes to this game as they are just there to make a avatar for your profile. 
 
  The graphics are fine and the gameplay is fast and fun. There are many games to play as you try 
 to grow your brain. There are even 4 difficulty settings for each game. There is multiplayer that 
 makes this game a little more fun. The game is fun for maybe a day or two but it gets repetitive 
 after a while. You can keep coming back everyday just to get smarter but it isn't fun enough to 
 do that. The game is really short as well. You could beat every game within a day. Overall it is 
 fun for a while and for some people it might be fun for a long time, but you might want to just 
 rent this game since you will just get bored with it after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorafan62
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I could copy and paste boring for this whole review but then my rep would go down.
  Don't rate this game the first two hours fun you have this game.
  I mean there's no story line.
 
  Pointless game play.
  And i don't thinks brains are as pointy as they show.
  Also internet would be a great for multi player.
  But the game weirdly get's you to came back 
 and do the brain test.
  Well i would have liked to see some math in that you can't have a "Big Brain" without math.
  
 As you can see i hate this game and i hate to say this but only rent if you buy this game you can 
 get some sleep once you rent it.
  There are some games out there that have a point so buy those games.
  But on the good side if 
 you want to take a break from gory games this is not the game for you. Lastly the wii is for motion 
 this game lacks it so do me a favor and buy a game that has a story line good game play and a point. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy's a lot like most of the mini-game compilations we generally see on the Wii console; 
 easy to pick up, great as party games and fun for the entire family. What's different about it 
 is that it will not only test your gaming reflexes, but also your intellectual noodle as well.
 
  
  The game is adapted from the DS version of the same name. You enroll your Mii in an academy and 
 take part in a series of games that test five areas of your psyche: visualization, identification, 
 memorization, computation and analyzation. But you can't just simply know how to solve the problems; 
 you have to solve them as fast as you can. Only in this way does the game keep track of your personal 
 development through use of a chart and some rankings. Don't take any of it personally. Just because 
 the game ranks you as not-so-smart doesn't necessarily mean you're dumb in real life. The game 
 encourages you to practice thoroughly to improve your brain cognition and all that whatnot, but 
 unlike the Brain Age games, you're not required to play it every single day. It's more or less 
 a casual thing, and it's not like your brain is going to deteriorate the further you're away from 
 playing it. 
  
  But why would you NOT want to play this game? The mini-games are really fun and quite challenging 
 to the mind. My friends and I play it on weekends -- sometimes over Super Smash Bros. Brawl (SOMETIMES!) 
 and Mario Party 8. It's really a neat exercise of human logic, intelligence and quick wit. Few 
 games on this or any other console deliver the kind of experience Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree 
 does. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMan678
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Okay, maybe game-makers have gone over the top with training games. First Brain Training, then 
 Mind Quiz (That got removed from shelves in the UK) now this. Seriously, do we need these? Yet, 
 some self-conscious Wii owners still buy them like hotcakes.
  
  Big Brain Academy for Wii basically, as the name suggests, makes your brain and reaction times 
 better through tests. These tests are made up into five categories: Identify, Memorise, Analyse, 
 Compute and Visualise. Each category has five activities, randomly picked before the test. You 
 can also do these activities individually in Practice Mode.
  
  But before you can do all that, you have to register a student record (Wow, this is just like school) . 
 Assign a Mii, add a picture and off you go, you are ready to make your brain bigger. You can also 
 send your student record via WiiConnect24 to a Wii Friend.
  
  After this the game seemed to fall apart with what ever you throw at it. The activities get boring, 
 the game gets boring. The single player is no longer fun after about three weeks after buying, 
 and for what it is, is actually quite pricey. I mean that Big Brain Academy is 20 pounds on the 
 DS, but 35 pounds on Wii? Expensive.
  
  But the only saving grace of this is the multiplayer. Three modes are included: Mental Marathon, 
 Mind Sprint and Brain Quiz. Up to eight people can play sharing one or two Wii Remotes. Its actually 
 quite fun. But because its multiplayer, you'll need another person to enjoy it.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 5/10
  
  The gameplay gets repetitive after a while, but some activities will last 
 longer than others. After each test or practice session, according to your reaction times and percentage 
 correct, your brain will be 'weighed' in grams. According to that headteacher, his brain is 1990g. 
 Brainy.
  
  ONLINE: 2/10
  
  How a world ranking of the brainiest people? No. Instead, you can ONLY send our student records 
 to your friends. Oh come on.
  
  CONTROLS: 6/10
  
  Basically, just point and press A. Simple and effective.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 10/10
  
  This 
 is where the game really shines. The three modes are fun and playable. In Mental Marathon, you 
 team up with a friend to complete activities. In Mind Sprint, you race your friends to complete 
 activities the fastest. In Brain Quiz, you choose a activity and play it until you get something 
 wrong or run out of time. The saving grace.
  
  VERDICT: 3/10
  
  + Multiplayer is good fun
  + Wii's first brain trainer
  - Not good value for money
  - Lack 
 of content
  - Single player gets boring
  
  Disappointing, considering how the Wii could improve on the DS version. Shame. Lets hope there 
 is a better one in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  this game is fun. it doesn't require any type of skill to play it so anyone can pick it up and 
 play.
  
  you can play upto 4 people with one wii remote, so if you have just brought the wii this is the 
 type of game to buy if you only have one wii remote. you don't need a numchuck to play it.
  
  there is 3 game types witch you can do 1-4 players on the mental marathon and brain quiz with 
 1 wii remote, and only 2 players with 2 wii remotes on the mind sprint.
  
  mind sprint- you can pick the difficulty, how many stages and what you want the questions to be 
 about, its the first person to answer all the question wins.
  
  mental marathon- you can use 1 wii remote with this, and take it in turns to answer as many questions 
 as you can without getting them wrong, and without the time running out.
  
  brain quiz- its like mental marathon but you get points for how many questions you get right in 
 the certain time limit. the person with the most points win.
  
  there also is a 1 player game, in which you have to answer certain about of questions and at the 
 end you get your brain score, like a, b, c, and how much your brain weighs.
  
  you can get a copy of this cheap so pick up one as soon as you can.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Although it doesn't exactly have the "medical proof" notes that the Brain Age games have, the mini-game 
 collection Big Brain Academy is a pretty decent collection of progressively hard (although not 
 exactly HARD hard) that's perfect for the family to play. But if you're looking for blood and gore, 
 this is SOOO not for you.
  
  First, the game tests your brain to see how heavy it weighs: the heavier, the better. I don't think 
 that it's pretty much an accurate representation of your brain's actual weight, but I guess you've 
 figured that out if you had any common sense.
  
  Anyway, after that part, you can "train" yourself to get a heavier brain by playing the minigames 
 included in the package. And if the game thinks that your brain can handle it, it increases the 
 speed and difficulty that the mini-game normally has. For example, the game wants you to guess 
 what the face of a person who just passed has. In Easy, the differences in your choices are obviously, 
 while in a higher difficulty setting, the differences are almost minute. The game determines that 
 only in the speed of which you process the solution to these mini-games, which probably gives it 
 the feeling that it's training your brain unofficially.
  
  Still, if you're the type who likes family fun, you will get a kick out of this. Otherwise, it's 
 pretty advisable for you to skip this minigame collection. If you want a serious mini-game collection 
 that doesn't screw with your brain with hypothetical crap, try WarioWare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Do your parents think that video games can harm your brain? THis is your chance to prove them wrong! 
 Big Brain academy is designed to train and test your brain, and it's damn good at it!
  Like Wii Play and Wii Sports, it is a simple game, with no complex controls, nor state-of-the-art 
 graphics and music. It's pure goal, is to make your brain work! How does it accomplish that? Through 
 a series of IQ tests.
  First thing you see when you play, is your teacher welcoming you at the school. You have to register 
 your Mii, and then you can start a test to see your brain age. There are 5 test categories, and 
 each category consists of 3 different challenges, making a total of 15 challenges. Each category, 
 tests a different area of your brain. For example, Compute tests your computing abilities. During 
 each challenge, you'll face 10 problems which you have to solve. According to your previous answers, 
 the problems' difficulty can rise or fall. You do not only have to answer correct though, but you 
 must also answer fast. When you finish the test, the Wii calculates your score, based on your results. 
 A normal score for first times, is around 800, and after a week of playing should be around 1500. 
 If someone is smart enough, he can achieve a score of more than 2000 after a few weeks of playing.
 
  If you don't wanna take a test, you can practice in each one of the 15 challenges, and try to 
 get some medals.
  The game also offers multiplayer mode, which is tons of fun! You can take a series of problems 
 along with a friend, and play with him simultaneously. Winner is the one that solves these problems 
 faster. You can also play a brain quiz. In Brain Quiz, you and the other players play in turns. 
 When each players turn comes, he can choose one out of about 20 challenges that appear on the screen. 
 Note that each challenge has random difficulty, and noone knows what it will be, until he chooses 
 to play that challenge. When the challenge starts, the player is given a number of seconds, to 
 solve as many problems as he can. Next player in turn has to choose a different challenge, and 
 so on. When all the challenges are complete, each player's total score is calculated, based on 
 the correct answers he/she has given. You can also play Mental Marathon, where you have to solve 
 as many problems as possible, without doing any mistakes. After you have solved a few problems, 
 you are asked to hand the wiimote to your fellow player, and he continues where you stopped.
  With it's easy controls and multiplayer capabilities, it's a very fun game for the whole family. 
 I have it since August, and still sometimes play multiplayer with my friends. So take a break from 
 those action games, cause it's time to test your brain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreek2468
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is better than the ds version and I think that passing is better so you don't have to 
 buy more remotes.... i only have 2 wii remotes but we can all play this game!!!! it is a good game 
 that I just got today......... there is absolutely nothing wrong with it!!!! I think it was worth 
 the pay!!!!! Unlike some other games that they overprice you with and give you it , and when you 
 go to play it, you realize it was not worth the paY!!!!! but this is not 1 of those games... the 
 pay for this game was worth it.... and it is a great fun for the whole family....... good for ages 
 8 and all the way up......... If you just bought a wii and you don't know what game you want to 
 buy....... this game would be good..... especially with guests or friends... it is still fun to play 
 with by yourself... but more fun in groups. This is one of those games if you and your brother (or 
 sister) must decide on one game... pick this one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ottorod
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  When it comes to the multiplayer function I think this game deserves a 10 because of the many posibilities 
 of interacting and competing with other players in the field of knowledge and mental ability.
 
  The 1 player option is also exciting and competitive but the game is best enjoyed when played 
 with family or friends. I highly recommend it to families who would like to spend time together 
 mind-practicing a good non-violent and competitive game.
  I would also recommend this game to parents with school age children. It's a great way to estimulate 
 children's minds, abilities and responsiveness to tests and problem solving situations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  As you know Big Brain is known to be on the Nintendo DS. Nintendo decided to put a debute on it 
 for the Wii. Don't get me wrong but this game is great and highly addictive, but it should normally 
 stay on the DS. Also, I think that the Brain Games are accurate to find out that your Brain Age 
 is. 
  
  Some bad stuff can be also described while playing the game. To other people there are mixed reactions. 
 Some people say that they don't like that game and hate it and some people just want to play is 
 over and over again. Also, there isn't that many types of Brain Games to play so you are limited 
 by a lot.
  
  This game is an Edutainment game, which means its Entertaining and Educational at the same time. 
 I highly agree with that becuase my Brain Age score kept on getting better and better each time 
 I played it. In my opinion, Big Brain Academy Wii Degree is when you have time and at settled at 
 home. For the Big Brain Academy's for the DS, that means you are going for a car ride to about 
 a 30 minute place or have not that much time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I found Brain academy to be interesting and fun for the first two days only. Once I completed the 
 test, I thought you would be able to progress through the game, however that's not the case. You 
 can only practice the individual games to get better and win medals and then retake the test again 
 to better your score. 
  
  MY +++
  
  Fun games (at first) .
  Interesting concept.
  Makes you look smart (if you have the high score, which I did - thankfully) .
  
  MY - - -
 
  
  Games become old fast.
  Multi-player is not good.
  Makes you look dumb (if you score low, which I did not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathdude415
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is a fun game, great for partys and playing with friends. but where 
 does the Wii motion-sensetive controls come in? They are no where to be found, the whole point 
 of the wii is to feel like you're inside the game! Of course thats kind of hard when there's not 
 much of a game in the first place.
  Don't get me wrong, Wii Degree is really fun, its just that it would be the same exact experiance 
 with a gamepad. The whole point of the Wii is that the games will be different than the other games 
 on the other consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree comes with challenges from easy to difficult, to test your family 
 brain. It's really fun when you meet a group of friends and start to play, seeing how they can 
 get confused on which rail to put to get the train to the exit, or where are the bird cages, or 
 even what number to take off to do the exact sum. It's fun to test who has the bigger brain, maybe 
 you have a C++ brain and your friend got a B-, then you have to practice and beat him. Although 
 it gives some fun, it may get boring because of repeating challenges. The decision to buy or not 
 is up to you, I'm not recommending but i'm not disapproving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is very fun with someone to play with. This game has 3 modes in it. It has a test where 
 you see how big your brain is by doing tests in different categories. It has a race where you race 
 to be the first one to complete all of your tests. And there is one more mode where you can pick 
 from a category of tests and you get points for completing them. The person with the most points 
 at the end wins. This game is pretty fun. There are definitely better Wii games out there, but 
 it is a good buy. I must warn you though. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME IF YOU HAVE NO ONE TO PLAY IT WITH. 
 This game is ONLY good if you have someone to play it with. Overall there isn't much to this game, 
 but it is certainly fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  ................... Basically you enroll in the Big Brain Academy as a new student ready to practise 
 and then get tested on these simple, but sometimes challenging activities. The goal is to answer 
 quickly and accurately as that will give you the heaviest brain possible, and the heavier your 
 brain is the better your score is. Your brain is split into 5 different learning categories and 
 the scores from each category goes towards your total brain weight. There three different mini-games 
 in each. To start, the IDENTIFY section is more a multiple choice type section. The game will tell 
 you to look at something and then pick the right choice. One game here has you examining an increasingly 
 blurry or obscure image (depending on the difficulty, ranging from easy to expert) that slowly 
 becomes more clear as time passes. There are 4 choices to choose from and some are similar on the 
 higher difficulties. The images are always those of animals. Another game in this section gives 
 you a sort of flash light to light up the screen. On the screen are different animals and insects 
 and you are asked to guess which there is the most of. In the MEMORIZE category, the harder difficulties 
 basically give you more things to remember at one time. For example in one mini-game, kids with 
 varying facial features will move across the screen. Their eyes, noses, teeth and other features 
 can differ. After they move across the screen you will be asked to pick one correct picture of 
 one of the kids who recently passed by. In another game in the same category there will be a symbol 
 of an instrument, vehicle or animal that makes a noise and they will play in a sequence. You must 
 guess the correct order. The ANALYSE category can be challenging on the hard difficulty if you 
 are not careful. In one game there will be a picture of a pattern of cubes and 4 smaller pictures 
 of similar cubes before. They will be rotating so guessing the one below that matches the one on 
 the top can be difficult if you do not take a second to really look at each one. The COMPUTE category 
 games can be a little tricky, like when you are counting how many red balls and how many blue balls 
 are going into a basket, some balls will seem like they are going in but then they miss. You are 
 then asked to say which colour of ball there is more of, unless they are equal. In another, balloons 
 with different numbers upon them will show up on screen. You must put them in order from lowest 
 to highest, but again taking a second to really look at the numbers is often necessary. And the 
 VISUALIZE has you placing an object on a picture on the same place as it appears in the top half 
 of the screen. But the picture on the top will often turn and flip making it more difficult. A 
 different game here will have four pictures and you must say which one is different, however subtle 
 the differences are. The single player modes only have 3 games per category, so that contributes 
 to it not being completely amusing for very long. But luckily there are a few surprisingly fun 
 multi-player modes. There is one that is sort of a board game and on some tiles there will be a 
 different difficulty, or an entirely new game that is not seen in single player here. The goal 
 here is to obviously get the most points and to do this you are hoping for a game you are good 
 at so you can beat it the number of times the tiles tells you to. Another one between two players 
 is called the Mind Sprint which has you competing against another friend to get to the end the 
 fastest. Games of varying difficulties will stand in your way. The last one, just like the board 
 game, is done with one Wii Remote. You and a friend just alternate trying to complete as many games 
 in a row without getting a wrong answer.
  
  Basically this is a fun little game whose charming art style, balance between speed and accuracy 
 and whose general originality makes it fun for a short while. But if you really want to play this 
 type of game you should go for the ones on the DS because they are a lot cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PantheraMorag
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The DS game was fun for a while, and made you strive for perfection, and the wii game follows suit. 
 The tasks are fun and challenging, and makes you return several times to up your score.
  
  What really drags the game down is the multiplayer part. the wii is a family console and invites 
 more than anything to competition and multiplay. BBA for wii has three multiplayer games, yes, 
 but only one of them allows for more than one controller. The two others are based on teamwork 
 , where you hand the controller over at different intervals.
  
  Mental marathon is okay, you play a mix of mini games until one answers wrong, but are you several 
 player will you spend most of your time sitting and watching the others answer.
  
  Mind sprint allows for two controllers, and will be fun if it's either played by two players (one 
 on each control) or a bigger equal number. But the game fails heavily when you have odd numbers. 
 You can play up to four persons against a player book (pre-recorded effort by one of the players) , 
 but while your team have to change person playing, the player book just keeps playing, so to have 
 any chance winning, you have to fling the controller to the next person as fast as you can, and 
 answer questions at atleast double the speed of the computer.
  
  Brain quiz gives you a board of different challenges, where you chose which specific game, or category 
 you'll play. The game randomly picks the hardness level you have to compete against, from easy 
 to expert. And here the problem lies. You don't get more points doing a hard game than a easy game. 
 Your score is based on how many correct you get, and the only thing thats different with each skill 
 level is how much time you have to complete it. Therefore is easy over much to fast to fetch any 
 real points in, and experts so hard that you'll probably only manage two or three anyway. Medium 
 is the best difficulty to get, and who wins is defined by who gets the most medium, and how good 
 you're in the 2x score game you get.
  
  The game is fun as a one or two-player game, but fails to offer family fun. The randomness of several 
 of the multiplayer games also makes the game experience more frustrating than funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is a great game. There's not much substance within the confines of 
 the game and it will not provide 100's of hours of gameplay, but it makes up for this fact by being 
 incredibly fun. Myself and my wife cannot get enough of trying to race through the brain games 
 trying to one-up each other. The presentation is spot on with good sound and nice menu's that show 
 your Mii's walking around. If you have enjoyed any of the brain games you'll love this one, but 
 it now.
  
  The difficulty is spot on as well. Trying to build up your Mii's brain size never gets old either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Good game. I don't like the teaching character that tell's the story all the time but hey, it's 
 an academy...
  
  Once you get to know the different types of skills you need to have during the game you can start 
 to get better at all the categories. Getting every question right is more important than beating 
 the best time. Funny how everyone has other skills and the minds sprint is great fun to do.
  
  Don't expect to play the game for hours and hours ending up really smart, cause your eyes feel 
 like they're on fire after a while. This game requires to be awake, alert and full concentration.... 
 and boy it hurts when your girlfriend beats you up a few times in a row...
  
  Haven't beaten my own best score of B yet, so still room to improve... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeky2k7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  the best brain game it really helps you get smarter but if u stop for a while you do start to get 
 worse so you have to keep at it and the multiplayer is very good you can even have go head to head 
 in a race but if you have noticed in the race only player 1 gets sound whitch isnt to good but 
 still fun or have a choice of wat do do in a tournement sort of thing where u can even get the 
 dreaded expert difficulty whoever has the most points at the end wins great fun and its a must 
 buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  It may seem a bit different but the Wii version of Big Brain Academy has the same catagories on 
 the DS version but this time you have different new challenges to try out. If you make a mistake 
 on any of the challenges, you can't correct them at the end of the practice test so if you get 
 one wrong you can always try again. And the other thing is that when you are doing a practice test, 
 they don't time you so you have plenty of time to examin which one is correct and thats good so 
 you don't have any time to waste.
  
  The sound on the Wii remote is just Dr Lobe's voice telling you what you have to do, giving you 
 advice and wishing you luck in the test.
  
  It seems just plain fun and there's nothing special about it.
  
  A Brain game like this, which 
 is part of the Touch Generations collection at a price of &pound;19.99 just does it the right way 
 for anybody who wants to exercise their Brain.
  
  If you have the DS version, this one will give you a few more things to try out but it doesn't 
 last much.
  
  If you have a group of friends, both of you will spend plenty of fun with it.
  
  Give it a 
 shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luffy777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I love this brain teasing game, when i first played it i was hooked on it for hours. This game 
 has 6 different rooms, Test, practice, office, mind sprint, mental marathon, and brain quiz. When 
 taking a test at the test room you have to play brain teasing mini games from each of the 5 categories. 
 When your done with your test the master brain dude will grade your results, try for the ultimate 
 A++. In practice mode you can practice the mini games and if you score high enough you might earn 
 a medal. In the office you can register your miis to be in the game, you can also send you test 
 scores to friends. The rest of the rooms are for multi player. This game is a very good game for 
 big brains and for big groups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  In a lot of my review I factor in this unwritten attribute that has a pretty big impact on the 
 game. This attribute being the overly used fun factor category. I'm aware that I frequently abuse 
 this factor and rely on it much to heavily. Though the fun factor wont send games flying of store 
 shelves they do provide an incentive to playing the game. Big Brain Academy suffers from this symptom. 
 Graphics ~ As the two people that read my reviews may have noticed I'm not a graphics person. I 
 don't know how many times I've said this but I must reinstate this attitude to reinforce my coming 
 comments. This game is a joke when it comes to the graphics. The fact that Nintendo has gotten 
 away with selling a 50 dollar game with flash like graphics is ridiculous and pathetic. Nintendo's 
 development side has never been the type to push polygons but this is plain laziness. I can't find 
 one good asset that came out of this game in the visual department. It's sad too, since Nintendo 
 always has a great art applet for there first party games.
  
  Story~ The story surrounding Big Brain is just a shallow and horribly placed together as the graphics 
 are. When you start the game the principle of Big Brain Academy greets you, tells you how to get 
 started and thats basically it for the story department. Presentation / Interface ~ Ok, I had to 
 add another category because the interface is so simple and basic that again it's a crime that 
 this game is being sold at full price. Now I understand that Nintendo is trying to appeal to casual 
 gamers but that shouldn't give them the excuse of creating the most lackluster interface in the 
 world. Sound~ The sound effects are decent at best with nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  Gameplay~ The game is broken down into different categories which provide different types of gameplay. 
 Nothing is complex; every game revolves around pointing the Wii-mote at the screen and pressing 
 the A button. This is the biggest appeal as well as drawback to the game. On the one hand, anyone 
 can play this game; your 80 year old grandma can play.. that is if she can raise her arm high enough 
 to place the pointer on the screen. Like wise, the game is so simple and easy that after a couple 
 of hours you have completely explored the entire game. Now the fact that there is no online greatly 
 limits the lasting value. This game not being online limits your fun to friends or family members 
 which is fine for the first couple of weeks. Once the ultimate winner is crowned there will be 
 no incentive to continue playing this game. This brings me to the end; yes thats it for this review 
 I mean this game is so bare bones there is nothing to review. The game last about 4 hours and the 
 only situation that is fun is the first couple of weeks when everyone is new and the competition 
 is completely crazy. Once you master the games which takes about 2-4 tries the game isn't as fun. 
 Nintendo could have really done something with this game and made the online a window to creating 
 new content or just connecting to other users. Instead this game stands on its own merits and It 
 doesn't have enough to even stand!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetken
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Plug in the game and rate your brain! Sounds like fun, and it is. Well, the first few times anyway. 
 After 7 days of training and improving my score, I began to wonder what more there was. It seems 
 to be the same 15 minigames over and over with varying degrees of difficulty. Oh, you can challenge 
 someone to the over-familliar games. You can compare scores on the same system and over WiFi for 
 all the fun that'll be.
  The final thing there is to do it to collect medals by, you guessed it, playing those same 15 minigames 
 and mastering them.
  Think there's more to unlock? Nope. That's pretty much all there is.
  
  It's not so much a test of your brain as it is a test of your will to keep doing the same repetitive 
 tasks over and over again. If you really wat to see what's up, rent it. It's most assuredly not 
 worth the price of a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  A smash-hit on the Nintendo DS last year, Big Brain Academy is now on the Nintendo Wii and is chock-full 
 of the same brain-teasers and casual gameplay mechanics that made it so successful in the first 
 place, thanks in part to the intuitiveness and ingenuity behind the Wiis controller.
  
  After one look at Nintendos new system, it doesnt take a rocket scientist to see that most of 
 the games on the Nintendo DS can be successful on the Wii. However, as gamers have seen this year 
 with games like Cooking Mama and Pokemon Battle Revolution, a simple dirty port with enhanced graphics 
 alone isnt going to get the job done. In the case of Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree, not only does 
 the game have the same casual feel of its older brother on the DS, it attempts to incorporate 
 the microphone in the Wii-mote in ways never used before, making the game feel fresh and new and 
 not like a shoddy sequel.
  
  While the end result isnt the best in the world, as the Wii-motes mediocre sound quality somewhat 
 hamper the overall gameplay experience, Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is still a blast to play 
 and even better with friends.
  
  Utilizing five different categories to find your degree of intelligence, Big Brain Academy tests 
 your wits by having you do everything from simple arithmetic to complicated puzzles, utilizing 
 the Wii-mote as a light gun to quickly pick the right answers to the questions. Nowhere near a 
 hardcore gaming experience, Big Brain Academy is best served as the game you play before or after 
 you embark on a four-hour venture in your favorite MMORPG or FPS. However, that doesnt mean that 
 it isnt capable of holding your attention for long periods of time.
  
  Despite not having great graphics and sound, the gameplay in Big Brain Academy is so addictive 
 that youll often wonder how it manages to take up so much of your time. The simple object of trying 
 to raise a grade that marks your intelligence may not seem too enthralling an objective to meet 
 at first, but after a few plays, your pride will take over and force you to continue playing until 
 you find a way to raise your score. Add a few friends into that mix as well and youll create a 
 blitzkrieg that lasts into the wee hours of the night, waiting for one gamer to claim the top of 
 the intellectual totem pole.
  
  That alone makes up for the fact that most of the games audio comes out of the minuscule Wii-mote 
 speaker and that the games graphics look like 2-d cel-shaded sprites from the N-64 era. Considering 
 this, perhaps Nintendo has found a way to make a game that doesnt need great graphics or sound, 
 or any story for that matter, in order to be a success. If that is the case, then Big Brain Academy 
 would have to be the first game that fits that mold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy for the Wii is a better version of it's DS bro. Right of the bat you have access 
 to all of the mini-games, not many of them make much use of the Wii-mote though a few uses of the 
 remote speaker is quite good though ( the way the remote coach eggs you on is really annoying though) . 
 What makes this game better is some of the improvements made over the DS version. The main test 
 in the DS version you might get lucky because each category you only had to play one game but now 
 each catergory alternates between all of the games in it. Making it more fun as it gives you a 
 more accuarate representation of how brainy you are. Also better in the Wii version are the new 
 multiplayer modes. Mind Sprint is a classic race to answer the most questions quickly it's like 
 a brain race. The mental marathon mode is when you and a friend can play to try and get as many 
 questions right as you can without getting one wrong. The other mode called Brain Quiz is rather 
 innovative you pick one of tiles of the board you will be able to see what game it is from the 
 top bit but the difficulty is random (as shown on the back of the tile) . Also is the catergory 
 cards it will play a bit like the test alternating between the games in one catergory or all of 
 the them. There is bonus tile that has a devil Dr. Lobe on it and a angel one. If you get the devil 
 you have to play Expert mode. If you get Angel you will double your score. Brain Quiz also has 
 3 games unique to the mode. The best bit about all these modes is that they can be played on your 
 own to diverse the brain biggening. Big Brain Academy is a great brain training game that is good 
 fun while it lasts and also if you have friends to play with the fun goes on even longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  There are currently four games made by Nintendo for their systems that are based on training your 
 brain - three for the DS and one for the Wii (this being Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree) . Although 
 each title is fun to play, the same problem remains throughout all of them; the game just doesn't 
 last long. You'll play it for a month and then you'll get bored of it and leave it to gather dust.
 
  
  This doesn't mean they aren't fun games. In fact, Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree has to be the best 
 title so far. The game is set in a school environment and makes good use of your Miis. The menu 
 screen is a hallway and it has you Miis wandering about, which you can then press to make them 
 jump. Although it isn't ground breaking stuff, neat touches like this make the game a joy to play.
 
  
  The test is broken down into six categories, each for different parts of the brain. In each category 
 is three games, totalling to eighteen games in total, which isn't very many at all. During the 
 test your Wii Remote speaker will be shouting encouragement at you, such as good job! or keep it 
 up! . After the test your brain will be weighed, which is determined on how well you did, and you 
 will be given a score.
  
  There is also a mode which lets you practice each of the games individually at varying difficulties 
 in which you will be awarded a medal afterwards depending on how well you've done. Your scores 
 can be sent via the Nintendo WiFi system to all your friends, so you can compare them in hope of 
 having the biggest brain.
  
  The game also has three multiplayer activates, but two of these involve passing the remote which 
 is never really a good thing. The game that involves two remotes is probably the best, too - the 
 screen is split down the middle and each player will be given games they have to work their way 
 through, and the person who completes all the games first wins. Other modes involve doing one game 
 at a time and trying to get the highest score and going as long as you can. These two modes feature 
 a few games that aren't in the single player modes, which is a shame because they are quite good.
 
  
  The music and sound effects in the game are nice, and fit into the style of the game. Overall, 
 the game is fun while it lasts and is good to have a quick play on with your friends, but you will 
 get bored of the game within time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game is a brain training game, even though there has been many on the nintedo ds this is the 
 1st to be released on the wii.
  
  There is no story to tell of in this game, you just do various minigames and you get the weight 
 of your brain at the end.
  
  There are 5 different modes in this game, which are all basically the same just with a different 
 slant on how you win. There are 5 different diciplines to answer quesns on which are (memory, visual, 
 computing, identify and analyse) . The main mode which actually weighs you brain depending on how 
 quick you answer questions and how many you get right in these diciplines. This weight is then 
 translated into a grade. All the questions are answered using the wiimote by simply clicking on 
 teh corecct answer usually from multiple choice.
  
  The visuals are pretty basic, the whole game is 2d which in my opinion suits the game. The wiimote 
 will every so often give you encouragement wghich can get very annoying, good job you can turn 
 the volume of teh wiimote down.
  
  To conclude this game is a great collection of minigames with an educational slant, there is alot 
 of varienty in these games and it is a great price and only &pound;20. But the wiimote encouragement 
 can get annoying and even though you can turn the volume doen you need ut turned up for some game 
 modes. There is often allot of text discussion before and after every game mode. All in all it 
 is a great game to waste a few minutes on but will not hold your attention for hours ata time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I sat down with my Wii-mote and checked out the new program of studies for this version of Big 
 Brain Academy.
  
  The game is controlled by simply pointing the Wii-mote and clicking a button when necessary, and 
 when you first enroll in the Academy, you pick your Mii to represent you. Then, you will take your 
 test to see where your brain stands, and then you can practice whatever you wish to improve.
  
  Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is very similar to its Nintendo DS cousin. There are plenty of 
 activities to train your brain the five different subjects: Identify, Memorize, Analyze, Compute 
 and Visualize. Each area of study has three exercises that can be played in Practice or Test mode, 
 and also in three difficulty settings with one medal award per difficulty.
  
  The Academy is bursting with mini-games of all kinds, some more complicated than others, but all 
 interesting and fun. For those who have played the DS version, you will find some games reminiscent 
 of it but with a twist (like the sound repetition game) , but other than that, the tasks are brand 
 new.
  
  Art Parts is part of the Visualize series of games, and in it you must complete a painting by placing 
 the pieces that are missing. Seems simple enough, until the paintings start appearing upside-down 
 or rotated.
  
  One that I really enjoy is the Balloon Burst. The task gives you a series of balloons with different 
 numbers (including negatives) that you must pop in order, from lowest to highest.
  
  The toughest Identify task was Fast Focus. This gives you an image that can be either blown up, 
 pixelized or distorted and you have to guess what it is as quickly as possible. It's not as easy 
 as I thought it would be, that's for sure! I've confused a sheep with a rhinoceros many times
 
  
  Other odd tasks include a memory game where you must watch the birds in the cages as they are covered 
 and scrambled, placing train tracks on a board to lead the train to the exit, repeating sounds 
 you've heard in reverse and doing little math operations by hammering away blocks with numbers.
 
  
  As you do your training, you will hear encouraging comments come out of the Wii-mote. The novelty 
 factor on this feature wears off fairly quick, but you can turn the remote sound down or off.
 
  
  The major difference is that this time around, Big Brain Academy lets you exchange data and compete 
 with other brains via WiiConnect24, or play with others in the same room in a pass the remote style.
 
  
  There are three multiplayer features. Mental Marathon, where you go through a series of activities 
 that only last a few seconds, allows up to 8 players to play together as a team with a single Wii-mote. 
 The game ends when someone makes a mistake.
  
  Teams can compete against AI or other players in Mind Sprint, which gives you a set number of problems 
 to solve. The first one to get them all, wins.
  
  Then there's Brain Quiz, a gameshow type of game with 20 activities, where you flip cards to reveal 
 what task is behind. The goal is to solve as many problems as possible in each activity to get 
 more points. If you fail, the activity ends, even if you still have time left. You can play it 
 alone or or with up to 8 players.
  
  While Wii Degree still maintains the original format of the DS game, it compiles a series of brand 
 new brainteasers that keep the franchise fresh, and adds a series of new features to include more 
 of a competitive edge.
  
  If you're into the brain exercising style of gaming, then you should enroll right away for the 
 next semester of Dr. Lobe's exclusive courses. Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and 
 screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=bigbrainacademywii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and is cool testing your brain along with using your Miis but once you finish 
 you test there isn't much to do. Maybe practice and if you have a guest or somone to play with 
 you can versus each other or do teams. But besides al lthat there isn't much to do. Though this 
 is a great game and is cool and sometimes fun. I feel really dissapointed that I had to pay $50 
 for this game when I could have gotten another game with more content. Though the whole trade between 
 brains or student scores with your friends to get higher than them is cool this really wasn't worth 
 the #50 bucks and wasn't as fun as the DS one. So listne to what every one else and I say and egt 
 the DS one if you have a DS. You save money, have more fun, and just better to do. But hey it is 
 worht trying .Rent it. Good game I personally just got bored though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games better left for the Nintendo DS.. with the 50 dollar price tag and limited 
 minigames there is just not a whole lot of content for your buck...
  
  The Nintendo DS came out with a Little game Called Big Brian Academy. Where you do little mini 
 games that will make your brian Bigger it test all parts of the brain like Calulations and memorization 
 for an example.. The game was fun because it was a good game to play while on the go or just plain 
 bored.. and the game was addicting enough to have it for your DS collection. But the Cute Quircky 
 game just does not hold up as much on the Wii then it did for the DS..
  
  The Game's Storyline goes something like this.. Dr. Peanut man (don't know his name) is starting 
 up an academy and you will enlist your Mii's to his school to do the games.. The story is ok but 
 really is not a story at all.. The games Mini games are not as good then the addictive ones for 
 the DS... there are only 3 of them for each group and they get repetive real quick! i mean Real 
 quick.. after the first few times in the Test mode you will be in search of some more Mini games 
 but you have nothing.. just the same old ones..
  
  The game also has practice mode where you train to get better at a certain subject as long as 3 
 multiplayer games.. The practice mode is kinda lame and you get pointless metals that means nothing.. 
 The multiplayer can be fun.. with a bunch of people over it can get fun. But that is it.. There 
 is not a whole lot to this game. it seems like a Demo of a game and not the whole thing.. the DS 
 game was enjoyable cause it was 20 bucks.. thats how much i thought it was worth for the Handheld.. 
 but for the console verison 50 bucks is not to hot.. plus in this game you are no longer timed instead 
 given a number of games you complete till the section is over.
  
  Overall this game is kinda fun at times and the Useage of Miis were very cool. but its not worth 
 50 bucks and the game gets old real quick and shelf life of this game is short plus it would have 
 been nice to have some online multiplayer..
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: i guess a few of the games were fun but most of the time your are just placing down stickers 
 or something
  Graphics: not that good.. it looks Gamcubeish and there is really nothing in this game that looks 
 great or even that good
  Sound: Pretty good and every sound effect you like in the DS verison are here.. Value: 50 bucks 
 for this.. no way!
  Overall: I like the series but the game was much better on the DS and if they made a console verison 
 more thought and Games should have been added to get your moneys worth.. here is the DS game not 
 portable for 30 bucks more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matthew8329
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Big Brain is an alright game, but I got bored with it quickly. I guess I can always challenge myself 
 to do better but I can only push myself so far with no reward. Its a great party title if the 
 other people have an opportunity to get used to the puzzles and determine what they are supposed 
 to do on each. However, I have yet to find any real local challengers that are worthy of my skills. 
 Its interesting that you can send the book of achievements to you friends that have the game so 
 that they can play against your quasi-self, but I find that its just a time/accuracy based drone 
 and its a true reflection of brain power. There are a lot of different types of puzzles, three 
 in each of the six of so categories with even more in the multiplayer sections. I just wish that 
 you could take one particular puzzle and play it over and over again rather then the whole section 
 of the three puzzles. I also wish that the puzzles found in the multiplayer menus could be used 
 as part of the testing, or again play them individually. Overall it was great to see how I ranked 
 against other people and it was pretty exciting in multiplayer till I made them cry and they wouldnt 
 play with me anymore, but all the excitement wore off fast and is sitting on the shelf as I speak. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilootin
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has terrible value, but none the less is pretty fun. I disagree with gamespot, 7.3 is 
 much too high for this game. There is no substance at all to this game. All you do is either practice, 
 tests, 4 multiplayer modes, compare records. THATS ALL YOU DO DEAD SERIOUS! This game is fun though, 
 there are only 15 minitests (see what I mean by terrible value?) and you can zoooom through them 
 in a few hours. Your goal is to get your brain rating as high (or heavey as possible) . To do so 
 you have to complete the tests as fast and as accuratley as possible otherwise the game will come 
 up with some fake non-mean way to call you stupid. Multiplayer modes are pretty fun though, This 
 game definatley is more of a party game. Rent this game but DON'T BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for large groups to sit down and play. That is probably what the game was made 
 for. I on the other hand play this game with just one other person. It was fun the first few times 
 we played it, but after that , to me atleast, seemed to become vey repetitive. I may have over 
 played it due to the excitement of buying the game, but I wasn't as thrilled with it as I had hoped. 
 It is one of those games that you must play and then put away for a while. Or just take the test 
 and practice a little every other day. I'm not saying I wouldn't recommend it. It just isn't my 
 cup of tea. I expected there to be a lot more lessons and games to play. Each section only has 
 3 different games you can play, and they just get harder when you change the difficulty level. 
 It is fun with a bunch of people, but I don't recommend it for just single people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is the sequel to the DS game Big Brain Academy, and if you liked 
 the DS game there is no reason not to get Wii Degree.
  
  Wii Degree is no doubt just another brain training game that Nintendo put out, but it does add 
 some fun twists to the game. The game does take a few things from the original DS game, but still 
 has plenty of new minigames to keep you thinking for time to come. The addition of three multiplayer 
 games adds great fun to the game if you have friends or family who are not very big gamers that 
 might like to play. There is a mental race where you compete against someone else to finish games 
 correctly and quickly. There is also a mental marathon which works like a relay race; you do three 
 little games and if you get them all correct pass the remote to the next person in line, it's a 
 great way to get your family and friends active. The final multiplayer game is a Brain Quiz, each 
 player takes turns picking a card where you will then play the game for the card you picked up 
 and do as many games in a row as you can without losing and also within a time limit. Each card 
 has a varying difficulty that will not be revealed to you until after you have picked the card 
 and these difficulties range from easy to the dreaded expert difficulty which is only used for 
 this game.
  
  Just like with the DS the main purpose of Wii Degree is to test your brain weight. As you do better 
 and better on tests you will most likely get a higher brain weight which is really just a way that 
 you can tell other people that you're smarter than them at these mind challenge games. You can 
 also do practice games to earn medals for your achievements at the games, and the exact requirements 
 for each medal are unknown as to how you can raise your brain weight for that game to get a higher 
 one. Another new feature to Wii Degree is the ability to send your records to your friends. By 
 using WiiConnect24 you can send your game records to anyone on your friends list, and if they do 
 not have the game it will send them an ad telling them what Wii Degree is and how they can get 
 in on it.
  
  The graphics for Wii Degree are very Mii-oriented. You will see Miis throughout the game as they 
 are what are used for each character other than the Head Master of the school. Everything is very 
 colorful and cartoon looking, so it is very hard to judge quality of the graphics because a cartoon 
 can only look so good, overall though, it looks very pleasing to the eye.
  
  Sound is not a major problem because it is possible to disable the main annoyance with sound, the 
 Remote Coach. For every game the Wiimote will tell you how you are doing and encourage you to go 
 further just like a fitness trainer is supposed to do. But there are times where you will just 
 want to tell the remote to be quiet, so it is recommended to turn the volume of the remote down 
 or off all together.
  
  Overall, Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree is fun for those without much else to do. It is not meant 
 to be played for long periods of time like most gamers would want to do with it. Unless doing multiplayer 
 you might only want to pick up the game once a day for maybe 10-20 minutes, which might not warrant 
 a purchase from many gamers. But all in all, Wii Degree is definitely worth checking out even if 
 it is just for a little bit a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tadurham
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a better multiplayer game, in my opinion, because it can get quite repetitive for 1 player. 
 This is still a fun game for anyone, though, and recommend it for the nerd out there (you know 
 who you are) . I love to learn and try to keep my brain fresh, so this is a great tool for achieving 
 that. Gameplay is geared towards a younger audience, but is still fun. Graphics and sound are basic 
 (which appears typical on the Wii) . This game is probably a better value if bought used. Consider 
 renting it first to see if it fits your style of play. Tilt: I own it without any regrets because 
 it's a good workout for your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erica2368
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  it's ok. The DS-Lite version seems better or is it just me? I found the game play was not as long 
 and the puzzles although different sort of boring and way too easy. I know it sounds like bashing 
 but I do like this game and I love the group play and making every one in my house feel like chumps, 
 just kidding. It seems as though the puzzles are on the 4th grade level but at times can be a tad 
 challenging. I like this game because it requires you to think quickly and it incorporates your 
 Mii in the game play. They changed the music and I miss the little meow, meow in between the songs 
 :) Overall it is worth the buy and I admire Nintendo for making us smarter and more physicially 
 all by playing video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Nintendos Big Brain Academy on the DS was a big success in bringing accessibility to handheld 
 games, and the edition for its new console, Wii Degree, continues that trend with the same interesting 
 brain training concepts that fueled the DS releases. Youll find yourself having a good bit of 
 fun with the dozen or so games that focus on memory, visualization, and so on. On the other hand, 
 youll quickly explore all this game has to offer, and with a sixty-dollar price tag, Big Brain 
 Academy is best suited to a rental.
  
  The first thing youll need to do in Big Brain Academy is enroll. This boils down to selecting 
 a Mii and hearing a couple basic explanations about how to use the different facets of the Academy. 
 This includes an Office to check the records of all the players on your Wii, a couple little minigames 
 you can play with friends by passing the remote around, among other things. Although youll have 
 this handful of options available to you, chances are youll stick almost exclusively to the Test 
 room, where youll undergo a brain-training exam.
  
  The exam consists of fifteen activities spread out over five categories; Identify, Memorize, Analyze, 
 Compute, and Visualize. Each category will repeat its three activities a few times before moving 
 on to the next one. Youll be doing actions such as popping balloons with numbers on them in ascending 
 order, remembering certain faces or sequences of sounds and relaying them back to the game, matching 
 up slider or block puzzles, and so on. After going through all five categories, the game will measure 
 the size of your brain in grams based on how often you made mistakes in the activities and how 
 fast you finished the exam. A letter grade also accompanies your score. Amusingly, it will also 
 chart which categories you do best in and assign you career path choices like, Musician, Investor, 
 and Adventurer, among others.
  
  The big problem is that the test repeats the same fifteen activities every single time you take 
 the test, and since youll be able to take the test in just a few minutes, theres not exactly 
 a wealth of content in Wii Degree. Theres an addictive and competitive quality to improving your 
 scores, but it wont take more than a couple days for most people to achieve a grade in the A 
 range. As aforementioned, theres a few multiplayer minigames to take part in, but almost all of 
 these are just prolonged remixes of activities from single player. A few more spirited competitions 
 exist in the form of a team relay to see who can finish a set of problems first and a mode where 
 you must keep a perfect winning streak, but the remote-passing nature of the multiplayer makes 
 things pretty boring in comparison to the single player.
  
  In the end, theres nothing inherently wrong with Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree. Its colorful, 
 simple visuals work very well with the games all-ages mentality, and although the audio design 
 is flat, it gets the job done. The idea of brain training through different types of memorization 
 and logic exercises is an entertaining one, also. However, its biggest crutch is that there is 
 simply not enough to sustain it; in an hour or two, youll witness all there is to see of the game, 
 and unless you dont mind some pretty serious repetition, a rental is all youll need to enjoy 
 the novelty here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  A great game to show the world and your friends, family, ect. how smart you are. The game is about 
 how smart you are using brain teasers which make it a good but ok game like mp8 but hard and expert 
 is the point where they mini games drive you and your brain crazy so this is a down fall and a 
 another thing is there are only 15 games so this takes points from the over all score. The good 
 things about it are how you have a great choice of multi player and the test shows you how smart 
 you are and what job is for you. I think this game is great but needs a little work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  BBA: Wii Degree is a worth buying game. I would like to point out one small problem with this game 
 first, which is that it doesn't support 16:9 widescreen, same as Mario Party 8 Wii. But in this 
 case I don't think it is that big of a problem to not have 16:9 widescreen on this game. Because 
 when you are competing with friends or playing alone, the game is too intense for you to care that 
 little problem. However, it would still be nice to have that option though! So some points deducted 
 on that.
  
  The games are pretty fun I think, but not too many to play. Again, some points deducted there. 
 The games get really hard when they are in EXPERT mode. For example, the ballon burst mini game, 
 I find it very difficult in the expert mode. You have to shoot the ballons numbered lowest to the 
 highest, but in the expert mode the numbers appear in FRACTIONS! So the game can get really challenging 
 and brain twisting! But that's the whole point of this game right?
  
  In Group mode, it supports up to 8 players but with max of 2 wiimotes. So you have to pass the 
 wiimotes to the next player when it's their turn. Also, you can't choose which specific mini game 
 you want to play. You can only choose the category. That's different than the BBA DS where you 
 can choose the specific mini game you want to challenge with your friends. Overall, it's still 
 a pretty decent game. Just with some minor problems. I recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  BIg Brain Academy Wii Degree, is a decent game and to be nice I would say the game isnt a must 
 buy. The Puzzles are decent, and what you see on the back cover is almost half of what there is. 
 Group playing was an emphasized subject of the game but doesnt deliver entirely great on any level.
 
  The Graphics in Big Brain Academy are very basic, Your informative is dull and sticks with you 
 through the game, It just has a pretty dull look, even when your trieng to find out if the faded 
 out picture is a monkey or not. The Background Music is very subtle but if you take your mind off 
 focus you can see how bad it really is. It tries to do something new with the Coach that speaks 
 to you through the Wii Remote, but we already got this weak performance out of The Legend Of Zelda: 
 Twighlight Princess, and it doesnt do much better here. It also adds little effect to the gameplay, 
 and I usually dont notice when it says something.
  The Gameplay is also very simple, you never use the nunchuk in the game, and it would be better 
 if they did, to add more variety too which is already a very very basic game. Big Brain Academy 
 plays more like several crappy minigames than brain busters, in the beggining of the game your 
 informative says the sole purpose of the Academy is to have fun But this is obviosouly not the 
 truest statement. (Rent Only) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logan494
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  My roommate had big brain academy for the DS and i absolutely loved it, so when I heard the wii 
 edition was coming out, i was totally pumped. I work at a video rental store so i was able to get 
 it pre-street and got it immediately. To say the least though, I was a lil disappointed. It judges 
 you on the same 5 categories as the DS version did, but there aren't enough different types of 
 games to keep me interested and worth the 50 bucks. They are fun and challenging but the lack of 
 total number of games keeps this one from being as good as the DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ercarta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying Big Brain Academy is an awesome franchise. Big Brain Academy: Wii Degree 
 is a solid sequel BBA for DS. There are fifteen brand new mini-games and a new section for quizzing 
 yourself and playing with others. The visuals are clean and the sound is (cutesy) appropriate for 
 the game. While it is true that this game is designed to play in small doses, the time spent playing 
 is fun and challenging. The challenge comes from the mini-games themselves. Most of the game you 
 will be pointing and clicking except for a mini-game where you are required to hold the Wii-mote 
 to your ear like a phone and memorize food orders being requested via the Wii-mote speaker. The 
 Wii-mote speaker generally has the voice a personal coach egging you on through out the game. Speed 
 is the name of the game when it comes to scoring high in BBA: Wii Degree. To score high and outrank 
 your Wii friends you'll have to do the mini-games with controlled speed. There is a feature in 
 the mini-games that allows you to press A to speed up the mini-game which is neat. In no time you'll 
 master the mini-games and have the (heaviest) brain in town, at that point you can increase the 
 level of difficulty to normal or hard then it'll be a whole different story. This is a game the 
 whole family can get into. I think that is what makes Big Brain a special franchise. While BBA 
 is on the TV set no one is isolated and anyone can grab the Wii-mote and take 1st Rank, providing 
 one can think. This is definitely a cool way to play Nintendo . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trip1eX
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  It's a collection on mini-game brain teasers. It's fairly addicting because you always want to 
 better your score and it only takes a few minutes to do a few quick runs through one of the games 
 at one of the difficulties. And it's challenging at the harder difficulties. Great fun playing 
 against or even with others. Also has a mode where you trade Students online and then you compete 
 against an AI based upon your buddy's performance. Very slick interface with a very clean presentation. 
 A joy to play. Uses Miis.
  
  Really the only con here is Nintendo charging us $50 compared to $20 for the DS version. It should 
 probably be a $40 if not $30 game. Still the game itself is great fun. HIghly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  BBA: Wii Degree is a mini-games collection in the style of Big Brain Academy, somewhat a hit on 
 the DS, you'll play thru lots of kiddy; yet challenging puzzles, which can be fun if taken in small 
 doses.
  
  Gameplay:
  After Dr. Lobe introduces you to BBA, you'll get thru on the Hallway, which is basicly a selection 
 screen of what gamemodes you want to play with, like Mental Marathon and Brain Quiz, their is a 
 multiplayer, but it doesn't offer online play, tho the multiplayer is incredibly fun.
  
  In the end of a test, Dr. Lobe will weight your brain, and then lets you see a stastistic diagram 
 which lets you see where you need to improve yourself in, this is ranging from easy memors to quickness.
 
  
  If you own some Wii friend numbers, you can compare brain weight and then laugh eachother because 
 the one has a smaller brain then the other.
  
  The tests you'll play are either memors or click, drag and see and identifice stuff, it'll get 
 addicting for a good few hours, but later on gets repetive, thats why I reccomend people to play 
 the game in Doses of 30 minutes or something.
  
  There are some mini-games using somekind of recorder in a Wii, that means you'll have to use the 
 Wii as a phone to hear what the Wii is saying, its part of a scheme in the story telling your Wii 
 is your personal coach.
  
  Graphics:
  The style is just again those silly bloated-Wii heads combined with the kiddy BBA offered us in 
 the DS, some stuff is cellshated and the rest is simply flat, its something you'd expect from a 
 overly chibi-JRPG.
  
  Theres not really depth from the graphics tho, as I would love to talk more about it, they are 
 just pretty kiddy and nothing unreal, you can basicly make the whole background and puzzles in 
 MS Paint if you wanted just using block and line tools, with some effects of fireworks spreading 
 in the classroom.
  
  Is it a good mini-games collection:
  Decent, in the style of BBA, its one of the better games for the Wii and it took a risk using a 
 Wii-mode speaker option, which works well. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
