-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bionicle Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/bionicleheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally humorous cutscenes.
 some attractive visual elements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Wii controls are busted.
 boring, repetitive gameplay.
 not much beyond the single-player mode.
 the same music track looped for the vast majority of the game.
 when did invincibility stop being a cheat code?.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Apr 24, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The only thing the Wii version of Bionicle Heroes brings to the table is another reason not to play 
 this game. 

  Released last year on most major consoles, Bionicle Heroes was about as bad as it comes without 
 actually being broken. The action was blatantly derivative of Traveller's Tales' Lego Star Wars 
 games. The game also featured mind-numbingly simplistic and repetitive gameplay, as well as a dearth 
 of worthwhile added content. Luckily, the Wii version has come along to deliver the coup de grace, 
 effectively retaining all of the games vices while delivering a control scheme that would be obnoxious 
 even if the camera controls weren't completely busted.  

          The rigid auto-aim system is made all the worse by the Wii's broken controls.     

 
  Playing out over the course of several books, comics, and movies, the Bionicle Lego story enjoys 
 an ever-growing library of source material. And if you're familiar with the lore, you'll know that 
 Bionicle Heroes mostly follows the Bionicle Legends story arc. However, if the Bionicle name is 
 new to you, you'll have the stage set by a brief narration at the beginning of the game. And that's 
 about it. Because the only other "voice talent" you'll hear throughout the rest of the game is 
 a few grunts from the menacing yet simple-minded enemy Piraka in cutscenes, you'll be left to infer 
 what exactly is going on. So here's the gist. You arrive on the island of Voya Nui in an elongated 
 tube, where some weird little robot kid hooks you up with these masks that give you elemental powers. 
 From there, you'll need to enter six element-themed zonesforest, ice, fire, and so ondefeat 
 the six evil Piraka, and recover the Mask of Light. There's also some kind of parasitic golden 
 banana peel thrown into the mix, most likely for good measure.  

  How you interact with Bionicle Heroes is nearly identical to Traveller's Tales' other Lego series, 
 Lego Star Wars. You'll run around a linear environment, exploding Lego pieces and enemies into 
 a burst of smaller Lego pieces of varying point totals. These totals range from 10 to 250, which 
 you'll then be able to spend on upgrades and unlockables in the cantina, err, Matoran Enclave. 
 You'll find even more of these Lego pieces with the help of each character's individual elemental 
 power, which looks exactly like the Force and behaves similarly to constructing in LSW. Along the 
 way, you'll also collect gold and silver Toa canisters, with some being inaccessible until you 
 go back through the level after you've upgraded your robot. By finding enough of these canisters, 
 as well as passing zones and bashing bosses, you'll be able to visit a trophy room, where you can 
 read up on gaps in the story. But by the time you've aggregated enough tidbits of information for 
 the story to become semicoherent, you'll probably be past caring and will wish that you'd just 
 read the books.  

  Plot holes aside, one of the major problems with Bionicle Heroes is its dull, repetitive gameplay. 
 Heroes is so dull precisely because of the game's core feature. Hero mode activates once you've 
 picked up a certain number of Lego pieces. When in hero mode, you are completely invincible to 
 all damage, and this invulnerability lasts until you activate a giant golden statue to access the 
 next area of any given level. By being even remotely selective with how you pick up Lego pieces, 
 you'll be invincible a good two-thirds to three-fourths of the game, which means that nearly every 
 situation before a boss battle is utterly trivialized. And on the off chance that you do die, you'll 
 simply lose your currently equipped mask and receive a full bar of health. Replacement masks can 
 be found around every corner, but because they're rarely needed and picking one up switches you 
 to that character, they're more of an escalating annoyance than a life-saving necessity.  

  Even if the camera control wasn't brokenalmost to the point of being unplayablethe 
 control translation from a gamepad to the Wii Remote and Nunchuk would be frustrating and cumbersome. 
 Bionicle Heroes uses a rigid auto-aiming system, where your target is selected from the many enemies 
 and Lego constructions littering the screen. Because you're nearly always invincible, the lethal 
 and nonlethal targets are functionally the same, so the auto-aim isn't much of an issue. However, 
 if you are vulnerable, it can be a chore trying to target the enemy that's shooting at you. You're 
 able to strafe right or left and move forward or backward with the Nunchuk's analog stick, and 
 using this in combination with the Wii Remote to shift around the camera, you're able to finagle 
 out a bead on the target and kill it. A more unwieldy system there never was devised, made worse 
 by the fact that the game lends itself quite obviously and naturally to just using the Wii Remote 
 as a sighting reticle.  

  Surprisingly enough, the obnoxious controls aren't even the most severe problem here. To pan or 
 tilt the camera, you point an onscreen reticle in the direction you want the camera to move. However, 
 if you try to move the reticle across the screen too fast or with too many graphical effects firing 
 off, it will stutter and skip (on both standard and high-definition setups) , unable to keep up 
 with the motion. This produces an effect similar to having the frame rate dip into single-digit 
 territory, which is as irritating as it is infuriating. Making matters worse, the reticle slightly 
 sticks to the sides of the screen, doubly so for the corners. This compounds the jerky camera motion 
 as you try to brute force the unresponsive camera off the side of the screen, invariably causing 
 it to skip and then latch on to the other side of the screen. And this is to say nothing of the 
 tension or strain that will quickly build up in your arm from having to babysit the reticle in 
 the center of the screen, fearful that it will creep to the side and wreck you for the next 30 
 seconds as you try to get it back under control.  

  Much like Lego Star Wars, Bionicle Heroes has a quirky sense of humor that occasionally shines 
 through the drudgery. You'll get a glimpse of this in the cutscenes, but most of it will come by 
 way of the unlockable content found in the Piraka Playground. Here you'll find all of the Piraka 
 that have been defeated in the stages, and now that they're no longer harassing the fine folk off 
 Voya Nui island, they're free to build sand castles and engage in other tomfoolery. These scenes 
 are pretty funny the first time or so, but they're rather short and don't hold any lasting appeal. 
 You'll also find three bonus stages, which are two-minute missions to see how many of a certain 
 underling robot you can kill. Aside from that, there is no multiplayer co-op or battle mode. A 
 battle mode would have gone a long way in extending the value here, especially because slugging 
 it out against another player with the six different elemental powers could have potentially been 
 pretty neat.  

          Robots. Guns for arms. How, oh how, did things go so wrong?     

  The Wii version's graphics look midway between the PlayStation 2 and PC versions of the game. 
 Like the PS2 version, the Wii version doesn't support depth of field, blurring effects, or bloom 
 lighting, which in this case is good considering they were poorly implemented in the Xbox 360 version. 
 Otherwise, the graphics are as clean and crisp as they were in the PC version. The Bionicles animate 
 well and have a shiny robotic luster, and the game plays heavy on having a lot of explosions and 
 other effects onscreen at once. A bit surprisingly, the game looks better in standard definition 
 because there are some lighting issues when you switch to HD. Unfortunately, the musical score 
 here will have you searching for your own self-destruct button. Because you'll be in hero mode 
 for the vast majority of the game, and hero mode has a track that trumps the music of any stage, 
 you'll be listening to the same Indiana Jones-inspired tune looped ad nauseam. However, many of 
 the other arrangements that you'll occasionally hear aren't exactly a pleasant alternative, such 
 as the cacophony produced by a French horn and electric guitar mash-up. Thankfully, you'll be able 
 to turn these, as well as the sound effects, down or off.  

  Bionicle Heroes is without a doubt aimed at kids and is as E10+ as a shooter can get, but even 
 the simplest of gamers will quickly grow bored by the lack of challenge, innovation, and story 
 development. Although the game does have bursts of inspiration in the form of its charming cutscenes, 
 these are spread entirely too thin and don't come close to carrying the package or making up for 
 the disappointing gameplay. With other viable versions available, even diehard Bionicle fans should 
 steer clear of the Wii version because the busted control conversion pretty much breaks the game. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
