-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blast Works: Build, Trade, Destroy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/blastworksbuildfusedestroy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Robust editing tools.
 Easy to download others' creations.
 Tight controls.
 Tons of options and unlockables.
 Satisfying gameplay mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Action can be a little too simple.
 Learning curve for editor is a little high.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 301 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: BudCat
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Jun 11, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blast Works lets you design the shooter of your dreams. The gameplay may be simple, but the editor 
 more than makes up for it. 

  It's hard not to get sucked into a video game when everything you see on screen is designed by 
 your own hands. Blast Works lets you build a palm-sweating, curse-spouting shooter with the unseemly 
 challenge you've always dreamed of but could never satisfy through more conventional means. Or 
 you can let your imagination take over and produce an utterly baffling opus that will sicken people 
 who don't understand your twisted take on reality. The action doesn't quite live up to the promise 
 of the flexible editor, but Blast Works can be an incredible experience if you have the determination. 

  Before you dip into the versatile editing tool, you're going to have to understand how the basic 
 gameplay functions. Though you won't find any weapon upgrades, screen clearing superbombs, or even 
 scoring chains here, there is one clever mechanic that makes this stand out. Any enemy you destroy 
 can be snatched up by your ship, turning its ammunition against its former allies and providing 
 you with a handy shield. It's a strange maneuver, allowing you to coral a giant ball of foes that 
 can fill up the entire screen, but while it is fun, it's not very deep. A single shot or kamikaze 
 run can whittle your ball of destruction down to just little 'ol naked you, so you'll have to fly 
 deftly between the bullets and sometimes turn your massive fleet invisible to stay alive. There 
 isn't a lot of strategy, though, so you'll get bogged down in repetitive actions after awhile. 

           The action can get really chaotic.      

  The hour long, 15-level campaign serves as more of a template than a full-fledged shooter experience. 
 The entire thing was built using the editor, so anything you encounter can be tweaked to your liking. 
 There is the expected array of ships and tanks, but there are also a few flashes of goofy brilliance, 
 giving you a hint of what you can design if you master the art of the editor. Because you can unlock 
 various cheats, more editing options, and previous shooters by the same designer, it's well worth 
 playing through the campaign a few times, but its certainly not necessary if just want to starting 
 building right away. It isn't the most imaginatively designed tour through Blast Works, but it 
 does showcase a number of play styles and visual diversity.  

  The main draw is clearly the in-depth editing tool, which is powerful enough to bring even the 
 wackiest ideas to life. The majority of your editing duties will be taken up designing a heroic 
 ship, vile enemies, and unobtrusive scenery. You're limited to just three common shapes -- triangle, 
 square, and circle -- but because you can stretch and color them to your liking, the only real limitation 
 is your own talent. Until you figure out exactly how to turn some squares and a few isosceles triangles 
 into the bug-eyed teddy bear riding an ice-cream-cone school bus that haunts your nightmares, there 
 is a slight learning curve. But once you get over that initial hump, creating crazy drawings is 
 fast and seamless.  

  The look of your creations is just one step in the process, though. Once you design your protagonist, 
 you'll have to equip it with a custom-made attack and decide which port or orifice from which it 
 will fire. Enemies not only require their own bullets, but you can also implement their flight 
 pattern. You can order them to swoop in from above, drop a scatter bomb on your noggin, and then 
 fly off like nothing happened, for example. For the more advanced ideas, there is the ability to 
 design multipart bosses that break into pieces as you continually pepper them with venom. Invulnerable 
 objects that can be used to create specific paths through levels can also be designed in the editor. 
 For instance, you could line a volcanic level with molten rocks that cannot be destroyed; and if 
 you venture too close, you'll burst into a fiery mess.  

  Once you design an enemy fleet and enough background objects to add some variety to your grand 
 stage, it's time to tinker with the level editor. Because of the sheer number of options you have 
 at your disposal, this isn't quite as easy as designing characters. You can slow down the camera 
 for dramatic encounters, zoom out to display a massive wave of enemies at one time, or even make 
 the level scroll vertically for a change of pace. As one user has already demonstrated, it's even 
 possible to halt the scrolling entirely and do a spin-off of Space Invaders. It will take some 
 trial and error to figure out exactly how to pull off some of these tricks, but the editor is deep 
 enough to allow for just about any idea.  

           The versatile editing tool lets you design the first Animal Farm shooter.      

  The 
 visuals are fairly simplistic because everything you see onscreen was created using the editor. 
 Even though this isn't a technically impressive game, it's still possible to design a level that 
 looks vibrant and inviting. The controls are extremely limited (one button to shoot, another to 
 turn your captured enemies invisible) , but they function well in the heat of battle. There is nothing 
 worse in a shooter than having to suffer through sloppy controls, but Blast Works makes sure if 
 you die, it's because of your own mistakes. There's a wide assortment of musical tracks and sound 
 effects packed in (some need to be unlocked) , but they are all fairly generic. It's still satisfying 
 cueing up an epic score just before you fight a final boss, though.  

  Blast Works does a great job letting you scratch that creative itch. In fact, it can sometimes 
 be more fun to create your own levels than to actually play them. And if you find that your talents 
 dont lie in game design, you can always download user-created levels and items from the Blast 
 Works Web site. Blast Works should satisfy any shoot 'em up fan hankering for something unique, 
 but the appeal goes beyond that. The sheer depth of the editor will make any creatively inclined 
 players feel overjoyed. There is a lot to love in this deceptively simple package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Coronithofcork
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok i Have to give it to the makers the ability to make ur own shooter is pretty cool but this game 
 isint worth no more than 15 bucks to me. Oh and because i only paid 18.99 and i waz thinking it 
 waz good noooooooooooot. Oh and wat really makes me mad is that EB Games (or Gamespot) wen u go 
 and trade it in u get CRAP money for the game u bought ok like in EB it costs 49.99 bucks and then 
 i go to trade it in and they said they will give me 7.99 for it and im like: i hate u. This game 
 is not worth 49.99 not even 15.99 if ur gonna buy it from gamspot or eb for that much ur r a compleate 
 idiot no offence but u r. i am thinking of selling it to a friend 4 th same price that i bought 
 it 4. Its not that the game that makes me really mad its more just EB and gamespot sorry for getting 
 mad but read revews before u buy stuff seriosly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrecenk
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Conceptually this game interested me. I expected something along the lines of a short single player 
 shooter, and after a little while plenty of online levels to play around with. At 20$, it didn't 
 seem like much of a risk, but after a few hours of play I have to say it wasn't money well spent. 
 
  Anyone who, like me, played old arcade style shooters knows that the main focus of play is dodging 
 the bullets, and learning the crazy waves of bullets for the boss at the end of each level so you 
 can destroy a ship much bigger and more powerful than you without a scratch. You won't be doing 
 that in this game. You'll spend most of your time flying around at the front of the screen invulnerable 
 picking up even more debris for your ridiculous sky fortress.
  Don't get me wrong, the idea is novel and it would actually be pretty cool as an option, but as 
 far as I can tell it isn't optional. I don't know why the designers of this game thought a side 
 scrolling shooter with a ship and level editor wasn't enough, but they did. And thanks to the lack 
 of foresight for a "regular shooter" option what could have been a great game will remain untouched 
 at the back of my cabinet for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djello456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  if you have wi-fi and if you like shooting games and you've always wanted to build your own ship 
 then this game is perfect for you... yeah it may not have breath taking graphics but thats alright. You 
 dont really need wi-fi but you are able to take other peoples creation and put it on your wii and 
 others can do the same with yours, it just takes a lot of memory space. If you are good at building 
 things on games then my goodness this game lets you pretty much whatever. Gameplay... the gameplay 
 is alright too i meanyour able to take your enemy and stick it on you after you kill it. Thats 
 pretty freakin awesome. you can also even build your own enemies which is pretty cool. when you first 
 get it though this game is so hard its not even funny but after about 30minutes of gameplay or 
 less youll get the hang of it and one thing is they dont even show you how to play it... they make 
 you read the booklet unless you just guess the buttons, i mean MOST games do show you but nothing 
 big i guess its just one of those games but overall this game is for surely a buy. So go get it 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  If you can dream it, you can build it. How often have you heard that? Well, how about making your 
 very own shooter? Blast Works allows you to do just that and so much more.
  
  Apart from Tumiki Fighters, a popular web-based shooter included in this package, Blast Works gives 
 you the opportunity to create your own full-length shooter. Using geometric shapes, you get to 
 design your own ship, levels, bullet patterns, enemies, even full-scale bosses. The editor might 
 take some getting used to, but like most things in life, if you mess with it a number of times 
 and fully devote yourself in learning the ropes, you'll be creating shooters like Keebler elves 
 baking cookies and crackers. 
  
  Whether you're playing the included games or your own creations, the Wii controls work pretty well. 
 But if you don't want to use the Nunchuck, you can always opt for the Classic Controller if you've 
 got it. Either way, the controls are tight and precise.
  
  But there's one thing you'll probably want to keep in mind when you play these games. They only 
 look like ordinary shooters, but they certainly don't play like 'em. Tumiki Fighters was a weird 
 but brilliant concept -- as you destroy enemies, you gather their pieces and attach them to your 
 ship to act like a collapsible shield against hails of stray bullets. And there's no limit to how 
 many you can attach to your ship. This almost takes a page from the Katamari games where you hoard 
 stuff on your object to make it bigger and bigger. 
  
  To further sweeten the pot, you can share your ships, levels and full games over the Internet thanks 
 to Majesco's Blast Depot website. This also works well for those who aren't into the creation thing -- they 
 can simply download shooters made by the community and play those for endless replay value. (You 
 can even access the website through your Wii's Internet Browser.)
  
  Overall, this is a great game for shooting enthusiasts, budding game designers and those in the 
 inbetween. There aren't that many games like it, so let's hope there are more. Until then, give 
 this game a chance; you won't be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V8Arwing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  When you first see this game, you may say "Meh, it looks like another knock off game that thinks 
 it's Gradius...". Well, think again. When you start up this game, you have a menu that has five 
 included games to choose from, and there are other features, which I'll touch on later. Even though 
 they may all have different themes, all of the games follow the same gameplay: using the tried 
 and true shoot-'em-up formula, you fly around, shooting down enemy ships,... yeah, you know the 
 drill. The controls are standard fare, since it uses the wiimote's NES control scheme, with the 
 d-pad used to control, and the 1 button to shoot. There is a twist, however. Instead of powerups, 
 you absorb enemy ships along with their firepower. You can also use the B button to hide all of 
 the enemy ships you have pied up around you. In a level full of enemies, this can get very frantic. 
 Not to mention, the later levels in each game can get frustrating. But overall, this game is a 
 decent Sh'mup (s) . But if you think this is all there is to this game, you are sorely mistaken.
 
  
  You might think that the enemy and ships look horrible and polygonal, and that you could do better. 
 Well, with this game, you can! Just be prepared to use lots of patience... First off, if you think 
 you can just boot up the editor and just create a complete level, you are so very wrong. This game's 
 editor is very deep, but also very complex in design. It can be hard to use at first, but once 
 you are used to it, you can let your inspiration take you from there. As you may have noticed from 
 the blue symbol on the box, this game uses WiFi, which is used to trade over you creations from 
 the editor. To access this feature, though, you need to go to the official website. This website, 
 blastworks depot. com, is basically a extremely large catalog of thousands of user-created objects, 
 stages, ships, etc. To download this content, you first have to create an account on the site, and 
 when you have done this, click on the "download to Wii" button above the chosen content. Then, 
 it will add this to a "queue list", which holds the content until you get back on Blast Works, 
 and choose "download content" on the Editor menu. It's a ingenious way of getting around the Wii's 
 memory limit. 
  
  Overall, this game has enough good stuff to outweigh the bad. Seeing as this game is now twenty 
 bucks, I would definatly say BUY THIS GAME!! It's got enough content for the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecookie29
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Blast Works, created by MAJESCO Entertainment and BudCat Creations, LLC, and licensed by Nintedo 
 this great shooter has endless possibilities from many user created levels to ships and even enemies! 
 With Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and WiiConnect 24, you'll be able to send and receive content made 
 by friends, including downloading official content and other things from the Blast Works Depot 
 at blastworksdepot. com. There's also Campaign Mode with five Campains each with three missions, 
 Arcade Mode which gives you five continues to share with up too three friends, and profiles which 
 keep track of hits, deaths, shots fired, and more. But you can also unlock 4 games, including the 
 original Tumiki Fighters. So no madder what, there will always be something to do with Blast Works: 
 Build, Trade, Destroy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMartinLee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about Blast Works from the moment I heard about it, and picked it up at the first 
 opportunity. I grew up on arcade shooters like Gradius, R-Type, Raiden, and the like. While I was 
 quickly frustrated and disappointed by my first few attempts at Blast Works, it has become one 
 of my favorite games.
  
  Blast Works puts a unique twist on shmups with its "sticky" mechanic that lets you pick up any 
 enemies you defeat and add them to your own ship, making for chaotic and random levels. But you 
 already knew that... 
  
  There are 15 levels included with the game, and they showcase the gameplay possibilities of this 
 new mechanic really well. (they showcase something else, too, but more on that later) There are 
 some cool unlockable classic games by a designer named Kenta Cho, as well. Blast Works is inspired 
 by Tumiki Fighters, which is the first unlockable game included in the package.
  
  The OTHER part of Blast Works is the level editor, a surprisingly flexible and open-ended tool 
 in which you can create your own shapes, ships, enemies, and complete levels however you like. 
 Partnered with www. blastworksdepot. com, the editor lets you share your own creations and download 
 others' creations from the Wii Browser or your home computer. There are some people out there putting 
 a lot of thought and effort into designing shapes and levels, and they add to this game's value 
 in a big way!
  
  The fifteen levels that comprise the Campaign mode were created using the editor, and once you 
 see some of the bosses and backgrounds later on, you will be both impressed and humbled. It's not 
 a cakewalk to create great levels, though. The editor comes with a learning curve that requires 
 a lot of experimenting and trial-and-error, and is occasionally glitchy to boot. Still, it's pretty 
 satisfying to make your own game, blow up everything you've put on the screen, and then send it 
 out into the world for other people to blow up, too.
  
  When I realized how many hours I'd spent playing the main game and then designing my own level, 
 I could not deny that I'm hooked. If you're interested in the game and have the time & patience 
 to invest in it, you'll get way more than your money's worth out of Blast Works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychoscream007
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  For the people who don't actually like reading reviews, all of mine have an extremely condensed 
 version at the end.
  
  It's funny, you know, people are always badmouthing Nintendo's third-party support, so you'd think 
 when a third-party title worthy of recognization comes along, they'd jump on it in a snap. Unfortunately 
 for Majesco's Blast Works: Build, Trade, Destroy, this is not the case. Too bad.
  This is truly an excellent showcase for what happens when developers actually put some thought 
 (read: A LOT of thought) into their games' level editing systems. You can control everything from 
 the background to where enemies appear in a level. You can create your own ship, your own enemies, 
 your own final boss. If you've always wanted to create your own simplistic side-scrolling shooter, 
 this is a major purchase on your list. However, the only real problem was just mentioned: simplicity.
 
  This game has all the difficulty of a flash game designed for five-year-olds. The only thing that 
 might throw anyone off is the Katamari-like ability to gather fallen enemies and increase the size/shooting 
 power/defense of your self-created ship.
  The only other notable features is the ability to upload your designs to WiiConnect24 so other 
 people can try your demented designs, and vice versa.
  
  
  Here's the super-short rundown:
  Concept: Basically, create your own side-scrolling shooter game.
 
  
  Graphics: Katamari style animation, kinda blocky graphics. 7/10
  
  Sound: The music is okay for awhile, but the level editor music gets old REALLY quickly. 5/10
 
  
  Playability: Controls work excellently, no major flaws. Editor is simple to use, but difficult 
 to master. 9/10
  
  Entertainment: If you use the level editor, you will get completely absorbed into this game. If 
 not, eh... 8/10
  
  Repaly Value: Nearly endless. 10/10
  
  Overall: 8/10 (not an average)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TgunXD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Attacks- Make your own attacks for both enemies and your own ship.
  Items- Your foes are your items? Once they die, they stick on you like a katamari. The ship fires 
 automatically unless you hide them.
  Strategies- You need skills and speed to defeat just the first level. Mainly is luck or experience 
 instead of skill. However, you can make your own level and ships, turning the odds... sort of... 
 
  Characters- Make the character. Large and fearsome or explosive and deadly.
  Music- All music is either techno or rock but has no lyrics.
  Graphics- Looks like legos or Boom 
 Blox due to a 'make it your own' style of gameplay.
  Gamemodes- Make your ships, attacks, backgrounds, enemies, bosses (enemies with large hp) and levels.
 
  Wifi- A lot of things to do. Trade to make your stuff famous and try to finish fanmade levels.
 
  Story/story mode- You can't use one of your own ships in story mode, making it really hard to 
 dodge or outmatch the armies of enemies.
  Bosses- Most are large and powerful. Some can fall apart. You can make your own.
  
  If the 
 story mode was easier and your ship had adjustable hp, it would have been a 9.7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Blast Works, like many games coming out this year, seems to represent a new niche of games that 
 seems to be growing with the times: the community based game. 
  
  Blast Works is a game that lets you create your 2D rail shooters out of properties from the actual 
 game included, properties and items you've created or maps and items downloaded from the Blastworksdepot 
 site. 
  
  The game gives you a custom creator to make your own ships, items, guns, bullets and stages to 
 make your own campaign. The shapes used can make it simple enough to create whatever it is you 
 want, while allowing you to add to those shapes for more detail.
  
  The actual game is a challenging R-Type mixed with Katamari Damacy mash-up. The game has you shooting 
 enemies, like any other shooter. However, you then collect your defeated ships to attach to your 
 current ship so you can shoot more bullets. A new strategy involves on whether you want to retract 
 your monstrosity or keep it out for damage control.
  
  All in all, the single player mode will last about 5 hours. Depending on what you use Blast Works 
 for, this could be a non-issue or a reason just to rent the game.
  
  And although the single player is fun and the custom creation is very good, there are some glaring 
 problems.
  
  First off, the presentation is, at best a 2nd generation Nintendo 64. The ships and backgrounds 
 are painfully simple and drab. Because of the simplistic looks, the bullets are quite easy to miss 
 when things get hectic, resulting in some unfair deaths.
  
  Next, the controls are particularly stiff. This game is in dire need of using the Nunchuk for movement 
 because the d-pad on the Remote is just not responsive enough. And holding 2 while pressing 1 to 
 retract and shoot proves to be problematic as well.
  
  Finally, which becomes a big blow to the game, is the creator itself. Yes, the game looks simplistic 
 which should help for creating levels. However, beginners will have a tough time with the game 
 itself because the game makes no effort to teach you how to properly create ships and guns.
  
  To add further insult to injury, the game is nowhere near as deep in the creative process for 
 people who enjoy to mod or create levels in certain types of games. 
  
  This leaves a wide disconnect with who exactly the creator is for: It's not for the people who 
 enjoy just to cut and paste because it's too hard, however it's not anywhere near as detailed for 
 the people who enjoy to program or mod games for a living. The middle ground, which is just a gamer 
 who loves to game, seems to have to fill in the blanks.
  
  Thus far, Blastworksdepot is the one thing that can keep this game going. If the depot can maintain 
 a good amount of stuff, then it definitely deserves a 7. However, if it can't, it's a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patch5129
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is just an awesome game! Don't let the odd cover art with simplistic graphics scare you off, 
 if you see this game on the shelf, pick it up!!!
  
  At a glance it seems to be just a side-scrolling shooter, but seconds late you see that it is more 
 than just that.
  
  All the enemies you 'kill' actually can become part of your airship, thier guns become yours, and 
 they become clumped together with your ship to create something that looks like something Hayao 
 Miyazaki (Howl's Moving Castle) would think up of.
  
  And when you are not doing that, you can create your own ships to play in the game, as well as 
 the weapons and stages. 
  
  Trust me when I say, this is not just some tacked on editor, where you can only work arround a 
 basic design. No no no, I was able to create Boba Fett's Slave1 from scratch.
  
  And the weapons are just wonderful, you can have your custom ship firing rapid fire, lasers that 
 zig-zag, rings, clusters... I really can do this game justice with my decriptions, you really just 
 need to see it for yourself. And another thing, whatever you make, you can send to a fiend.
  
  Really, stop reading this, and go pick the game up, at only 40 bucks, its a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  I picked this up yesterday, finally, and it is absolutly great. One of the best 2-D shooters i've 
 played. I have yet to try to download anything yet, but I will by tonight. There were tons of things 
 on blastworks depot that other users have uploaded. 
  But when it comes to this game, it is fun. You blow up a ship, attach it to yours, you get bigger, 
 more guns etc... And this continues until you can make your ship bigger then the bosses you fight. 
 You can shrink it down when needed. 
  The level creator is amazing. If you wanted to recreat the death star run, you can. Have enemy 
 tie's, star destroyers, etc... Anything you can imagine can be done (as far as i can tell so far) . 
 
  This game is lackin a little in the graphics department. That is pretty much the only reason why 
 this game isnt getting a 10, but that isnt why i'm playing it, it is pretty addicting for anyone 
 who enjoys this type of game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
