-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sim/worldwariisquadron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Campaign has a good length to it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics are kind of a mess.
 motion controls are never quite right.
 multiplayer options are anemic at best.
 phoned-in voice acting drains all tension out of the campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 407 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Blazing Angels is shot out of the sky by its shaky graphical performance and overly floaty control 
 options. 

  Blazing Angels has been appearing on consoles for a year now, starting with the March 2006 release 
 of the Xbox 360 version. After a full year, Ubisoft has finally gotten around to releasing what 
 appears to be the final version of Blazing Angels, the Wii version. It uses the Wii's motion-sensing 
 control capabilities in a few different ways, though none of them ever feel quite right. When you 
 combine that with the game's lackluster graphical performance, you get a WWII flight combat game 
 that comes up short across the board.  

          Blazing Angels offers a very standard mission-based campaign.     

  You play the role 
 of a squadron leader in Blazing Angels, but you don't start out with a squadron to command. Instead, 
 you're one of the few American pilots helping out the British flyboys. You'll jump right into training, 
 but that doesn't last long because you're quickly whisked away to protect Dunkirk. You'll meet 
 your squadmates early on, and you'll always fly with the same crew, though there are a few spots 
 when you go out on your own. Even then, your group will keep in touch via the radio. The voice 
 acting isn't very good, and few of the lines are delivered with any feeling. Your pilot frames 
 each new mission with a pre-mission cutscene that shows the flow of the battle you're about to 
 enter and a speech that comes at the end of a mission. He's long-winded, and you're still flying 
 your plane, so you'll just have to fly in circles while you wait for the guy to shut the heck up 
 to get on with it.  

  When flying alongside your wingmen, you'll be able to give them basic orders; you can order them 
 to break off and attack or to come back to defend you. Each of your three comrades has a unique 
 ability. Frank runs his mouth a lot, but he's good at getting out there and knocking out targets 
 when you turn him loose. Tom can taunt enemies to pull them off of you if you're under too much 
 fire. And Joe can occasionally allow you to repair your plane via a series of button presses.  
 

  Once you meet your team, the game skips around and puts you in many of the major air battles of 
 the war. Throughout the course of the game, you'll fly over Pearl Harbor and try to prevent as 
 much damage as possible. You'll fly over the desert of North Africa in search of Nazis in hiding. 
 You'll fly at Midway and take out a sizable chunk of the Japanese fleet. Despite the frequent changes 
 of scenery, these are very cut-and-dried missions. You're presented with objective after objective, 
 and very few of them are difficult. Between the relative weakness of the forces you'll be facing 
 and your ability to make repairs to your plane, you rarely get shot down unless you're doing something 
 dumb, like flying too high when attempting to creep up on some radar towers that are surrounded 
 by antiaircraft guns. Overall, the game does a good job of making you feel very powerful, but ultimately, 
 the victories seem hollow because you rarely feel like you can fail. At least the game mixes dogfighting 
 with bombing reasonably well. Torpedoing enemy cruisers and carriers can also be fun.  

  The flying controls in Blazing Angels are kept light. With the standard controls selected, you 
 do most of the work with the Nunchuk. Tilting the Nunchuk steers your plane, and the analog stick 
 on the Nunchuk is used for throttle control. You fire guns and drop bombs using the buttons on 
 the front of the Nunchuk. This leaves your Wii Remote hand free for targeting and issuing commands 
 to your wingmen. There are other options that move the controls around a bit, including a couple 
 of options that have you using the Wii Remote by holding it sideways. The different options are 
 a nice touch, but in all modes, the motion sensing is never responsive enough. Instead, everything 
 feels a little too floaty.  

  Blazing Angels suffers from some serious frame rate problems and some ugly-looking ground targets. 
 The game feels unstable in spots, and the jerky nature of the frame rate can be, at times, a little 
 vomit-inducing. The whole game has a grainy look to it, so objects in the distance are hard to 
 make out. If you squint, the game looks OK, but overall, it can get kind of ugly.  

          There are plenty of different control options to choose from, but none of them feel quite 
 right.     

  In addition to its campaign missions and a pair of minicampaigns that open up after you beat the 
 game, Blazing Angels has a few quick-start alternatives. Arcade mode gives you a timer and puts 
 you up against waves of planes. Ace duel puts you up against a single ace pilot, and you're both 
 in the same type of plane. Beating the ace pilot unlocks a new paint job for that plane. If the 
 dogfighting were challenging, that might mean something, but instead, you can get by just by easing 
 off the throttle for a better turning radius and getting in behind your target. You can also play 
 a two-player split-screen mode, which lets you play a few different multiplayer games, but this 
 isn't much of a substitute for the online mode found in other versions of the game.  

  While this is the best flight game currently available on the Wii, that doesn't mean it's automatically 
 worth purchasing. The sketchy graphical performance really gets in the way, and the shaky control 
 can also be a hassle. If you're absolutely desperate for flight combat, you're better off renting 
 Blazing Angels.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 2sasuke18
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Blazing angels puts you into the cockpit of a four man squad leader's plane. But not just his plane 
 but german british and japanese aircraft. Putting you in historic ww2 battles in europe africa and 
 the pacific with amazing graphics, blazing angels is a must have seriously. Also being on the wii 
 the game uses the nunchuke as a flight stick. tilting it to the side gives you a slight turn while 
 the angle of tilt increases the sharper the turn. This makes it seem so real. With the 3rd person 
 view and cockpit view makes the game even more realistic. One mission though is very hard. You have 
 to fly through a canyon of ice to get to a secret german factory. Its so hard because the canyon 
 is so small and has so many sharp turns. But every other mission I play over and over again. The 
 game also comes with a co-op mode where you partner up and shoot down enemy planes one after the 
 other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  I've always loved flight games and am interested in WW 2. The both come together in blazing angels.
 
  The best thing about this game are the controls. Using the Nunchuk to pull your plane up, make 
 corners and unleash your cannons on other planes is just great.
  The game doesn't support online multiplayer. In the main campaign you start of training by shooting 
 balloons. quickly you are flying over Dunkirk, London, the Pacific. between levels the pilot tells 
 you what you're in for and it really has a great WW2-vibe to it, though quite a lot is not historically 
 correct. 
  The game features 33 of the war's most famous planes, including German and Japanese planes. When 
 firing on an enemy-plane you here the pilot shouting over the radio. You also here fellow squadron 
 members warning you and giving advice. You can also shift to cockpit view, which is just great. 
 The sound of the planes is also done nicely and the graphics, though a bit fuzzy, do the job.
 
  After the Pacific levels there's a level where you have to destroy a German heavy water plant 
 (?) . To get there you have to fly your plane at high speed through some sort of ice-cave, with 
 some really sharp corners. Here the nunchuk controls let you down. The Nunchuk is great for dogfighting, 
 but it's not precise enough for this. 
  Eventually i gave up, very disappointed. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma_predator
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is definitely worth buying. the controls at first are hard but i changed them so they 
 were easy. this game is a definite "you got to get to the store and buy this game because it's so 
 fun" kind of game. it is also cool because you can almost experience being in the cockpit flying 
 in an airplane as you play. Me and my friend played multiplayer and had a great time. again you 
 gotta' buy this game if you see it. the difficulty is just right for me. the planes are awesome 
 and i like to compete with friends to get a good bird! campaign is fun but i could not really find 
 some controls but it does not matter. one thing i still do not know about is the paint job thing. 
 i don't know how to do that at all. Over all i would give this game 10 of 10. it's perfect! i still 
 look forward to more campaign levels and a second blazing angels. i hope its still for worl war 
 two! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattj93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  im a pilot and i think that this is a pretty flying game but you know its not microsoft flight 
 sim but the controls and how you move them is awsome and pretty realistic for a wii. Alos i like 
 the planes that you fly because they are really cool and wwii planes are some of my favorites like 
 the p51 mustand and also the flying fortress. and i cant submit unless there is a hundred words 
 so im just going to keep typing this sentecnce until it says i can submit. and i still cant submit 
 so im going to keep typing this sentence untul is says that i can submit.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  sweeee eee eeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeee eeee eeee eeee eeee eeee eeeee eeeee eeeee eeeee 
 eeeee eeeee eeeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee 
 eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee 
 eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeee 
 eeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeet 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdeluc
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  We like it because the whole family can enjoy it right away. It really doesn't take much time to 
 get the hang of it. We use the wheel and no nunchuck. The kids love it and I admit, I'm a little 
 addicted myself!
  My kids are six and eight and we have a great time when we play it. They begged me for a "shoot 
 'em up" game like their friends have. But they're far too young. This game is great because there's 
 really no violence. Even though you're shooting down planes, you don't see anything bad and there's 
 plenty of action to keep you busy!
  I highly recommend it. And if you like history, you'll like the cut scenes, too. When I explained 
 to my kids that these were all "real" battles, that made the game even cooler! ha ha
  This might not be the best game for you real GAMERS... but my kids love it and now that school 
 is out, we'll need something to occupy them on rainy days! ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemanngamer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Blazing angels is a flight combat game set in WWII. You play as "captain" flying with Frank Joe 
 and Tom and they can each help you with their own unique skills: Frank gets a few quick kills, 
 Tom taunts enemies and makes them follow him, and Joe gives u a short button combo to repair your 
 plane. Joes ability makes it very close to impossible to get killed in a mission unless you crash 
 right into the ground (which you would pretty much have to be asleep to do) .
  
  This game defines repetitive. The campaign consists of a lot of long boreing missions that all 
 feel the same. Fly here, shoot enemy planes, fly there, shoot enemy tanks. Because of Joe the only 
 reason youll ever fail a mission is because your ground ally gets killed.
  
  The multyplayer is the best part of this game. There are a lot of different modes and maps. And 
 you can play with all of the planes from the campaign (i dont no the exact number but its alot) . 
 The frame rate does drop but it doesnt effct gameply too much. 
  
  If youre really into flying games or if you have someone who can always play, its worth the $20. 
 If not, one of 4 things willl happen 1. youll dislike it 2. youll strongly dislike it 3. youll 
 hate it 4. the total badness of this game will make your wii explode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Both Gamespot and IGN seem to hate this game. I know it is a bit repetitive and the graphics are 
 not amazing, but I don't care as long as its fun. Your squadron is unrealisticly small, but you 
 start to like their characters, even though they barely kill any enemies and repeat themselves 
 a lot. The game has a good long campaign with a large variety of planes ranging from Spitfires 
 to jets, each plane has its own individual strengths and weaknesses. The campaign is long, but 
 the misions are too similar. The speeches he makes at the beginning and at the end of missions 
 are annoyingly long and it takes a long time for each mission to load. All the allies you seem 
 to have never do anything and when you have to save groundtroops from tanks and you don't kill 
 one of the tanks, the groundtroops are incapable of kiling it. Some of the missions in ther game 
 later on are too hard, particuarly the Paris mission.
  
  Despite all this, Blazing Angels is a fun game and probably one of the better flight simulations 
 on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imask8r9999
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  In Blazing Angels, you take the roll of a pilot in WWII. You are in a squadron called "First Eagle" 
 squadron. In the squad there are three CPU characters Joe, Frank, and Tom each have their own charachteristics, 
 Joe: If your airplane is damaged, hit left on the D-pad and he'll give a combination that fixes 
 your plane. Tom: If you hit down on the D-pad and you have enemy fighters on your tail he will 
 shoot them down for you. :Frank: HIt right on the D-pad and he'll try to shoot down all the enemy 
 planes in sight. All the characteristics work nicely and help you a lot during the game. The graphics 
 are well above average, the audio is superior and so is the control scheme. 
  The main story is you, Tom, Joe, and Frankflaying with the RAF for the first few missions and then 
 are stationed at Perl Harbor, just days before the Jappenesse attack it. Then the game takes you 
 to Guadalcannal, D-Day Normandy, the libberation of Parris, New Georgia, Midway Berlin and everything 
 in between. You get a variety of airplanes that you can unlock like the Focke Wulf 190A and the 
 D9, the JU87 Stuka, ME-109, P-51 mustang, a few Spitfires including the MK. 9, the A6M Zero and 
 many more (46 planes in all) . And towards the end of the game you start unlocking and dogfighting 
 with jets, like the ME-262 Swallow, Kikka, and Meeteor. There are a few missions that seem impossible 
 but believe me after a long while you'll get it. The cool thing is after you beat the game you 
 can go back and get "Ace" ranking on all the missions to get Ace you have to shoot down the requiremnt 
 ammount of planes and gorund targets and finnish the level before or around a certain time. There 
 is also a multi-player in the game, you cna do a one-on-one dogfight, Kamikaze, bombing run, Onslaght 
 and a few more. No matter haow you play the game, all around it is an awesome game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaysw1sh
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Blazing angels is a WW2 fighter sim that has you taking to the air fighting for the allies in a 
 campaign across europe which allows you take part in historic battles like the battle of Briton. 
 
  Like all classic kind of dog fighting sim seen in the past which envolves you to engage enemy fighters, bombing 
 targets and protecting allied convoys etc etc, But like most dog fighting sims this can start to 
 feel rather repetative after a while but the action is fairly faced paced so in playing in short 
 bursts this is'nt really a problem.
  Its nothing new in terms of game play but does give some feeling that you are flying ww2 fighter 
 craft compared to modern day jets as your fighter is'nt that quick and you can even stall it if 
 you pull up to much and dont have enough speed. 
  One major pain in this game that i found is the follow cam when you lock onto enemy targets as 
 the camera pans round to keep the enemy in view even if the enemy is behind you, The problem with 
 it is it can make flying your craft a frustrating as you cant see whats a head of you and what 
 height you are from the ground and in built up areas or mountain areas this will make you hit the 
 restart mission more than couple times.
  The graphics are another sore spot with this one is the graphics are grainy and some the cityscapes 
 are feel bland with a couple landmarks thrown in so you know where you are.
  i'm not saying the lighting effects are'nt nice but it does give you a feeling like your playing 
 an older game.
  Blazing Angels does make use of the wii motion detection as the nunchuck becomes your flight stick 
 which does feel responsive and the Z and C buttons funtioning as your fire buttons and all other 
 buttons being on the wiimote ( note: there are different controller configurations this is just 
 the best that works for me ) .
  There is a multiplayer option to this game but like so many no online play which would have been 
 a great addition but instead theres only a disapointing 2 player dogfight which has you and a friend 
 choosing a fighter ( new fighters become unlockable in the main single player campaign) choosing 
 a location and if you want bots on/off and then it's standard deatmatch whoever left standing.
 
  I know im sounding a bit hard on the multiplayer aspect but because of the speed of your fighters 
 when your down to only to planes left in a match you just really end up both flying circles trying 
 to get behind the other so the whole thing gets old quick.
  In closing Blazing angels is difinitely worth a look as it's dispite it's flaws it is still a solid 
 faced paced flight shooter great in short bursts so maybe a weekend rental as you'll be able to 
 see everything it has to offer, fans of the genre will like it but if your looking for a flight 
 sim you'd probably be better off buying heatseeker.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Why this game got below a 7.5 is beyond me. This game is very fun. It is just that simple. The 
 controls are nice. At times though the controls get kind of hard to use, but nothing serious. I 
 recommend this game as a time killer. If their is nothing else to do this will kill time without 
 boring you. The critics and Gamespot are wrong. This game is pure fun. One thing that may get to 
 you is the time it takes to beat a mission. It takes me forever to shoot down an enemy because 
 they get away from me. So if you want a challenge then this game is for you.
  
  God bless.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daemonz96
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  air to air combat-GREAT
  air to land- not so great but really fun swooping down and shooting em
  air to boat-really bad 
 not so fair because so many Anti-air guns
  ace dual (single battle) - REALLY CHEAP u gotta have like max stats to beat
  ace dual (after level) -really 
 enjoyable good fun
  planes japan, American, and British really good once you beat the first few levels
  planes German-alright 
 power and stuff annoying to fight
  overall i recommend as an extra ordinary game 
  just to use up my 100 words (DO NOT PAY ATTENTION TO THESE WORDS)
  blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerflunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  GOOD:
  It's an amazing feeling being able to control the plane just like you would if you actually in 
 one, having the trigger in the right place and all! The tutorial is quick, simple and gets you 
 into the game quickly. The storyline is reasonably interesting and the missions are quite realistic. 
 The graphics on the plane are also quite detailed
  
  BAD:
  The ability to control the plane realistically only takes you so far. Undecent landscape graphics, 
 an unemotional acting voice and near impossible bombing objectives bring it's fun factor down. 
 OVERALL:
  A game with with LOADS of potential, but wasted because of lack of effort and time. Otherwise it 
 is a quite a fun game to play and in my opinion a defenite buy. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joaoguarda
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  i just have to say that i liked the game. BUT... here comes the bad:
  1&ordm;-some levels are EXTREMELY difficult. we have to repeat checkpoints over and over again, 
 until we can pass some parts (i can remenber the battle of new georgia , top secret ...)
  2&ordm;-in the air i like it, the gameplay is good, shoot enemy planes is fun and addictive, and 
 the grafichs too, but in the ground. oh my god! those grafichs are too bad and shoot ground enemys 
 such as tanks and buildings is boring and stupid.
  
  So i think that after this review, i could say: If the game had better grafichs in the ground, 
 and less ground targets, i think we were in presence of a truly good game. but we are not. this is 
 just a normal game, with some good and some bad (really bad) levels, good grafichs in the air and 
 bad in the ground and a bit addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timisdaman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  One of the most underrated games on the Wii. One of the perks of working at Nintendo World is that 
 I can try every game. I have time to mess around with games as well as get feedback from real people 
 - not big reviewers who can barely operate the wiimote.
  
  While the game's controls are difficult to master, there are many settings for players to choose 
 from. In addition, all it takes is an hour or so of messing around to become familiar with the 
 Wiimote/Nunchuck sensitive, Simulator style setup.
  
  The missions are a blast to play. They start off slow, naturally, but later on in the game/war, 
 you can unlock faster, more powerful planes.
  
  Multiplayer is a lot of fun as well. You can choose from game-types including Duels, Dogfights, 
 Onslaught and Bombing Runs. My friend and I found ourselves piloting bombers over Midway and defending 
 Paris with fighters. When it is 2 vs. 30 battleships or 6+ enemy aircraft, strategy and teamwork 
 become essential for survival.
  
  This game would only be decent on the PC or XBox, but with the Wii, it is an amazing experience. 
 If you are still not convinced, just rent the game - you will be surpised.
  
  (If you need to choose between this and Heatseeker, choose this) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow4eva13
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  The basic plot of the game is that you are part of a Squadron of WWII Fighter pilots who appear 
 at some major battles. You use the Wiimote and Nunchuck to steer, and shoot.
  It's always fun to blow people out of the sky, but there's nothing else to do that's worthwhile 
 in the game. You do reconnaissance missions, but there are nothing spectacular. Overall each Mission 
 is the same as the last, except with new things to destroy.
  The other game types aren't really worth doing either.
  Overall it's reasonably fun to play, 
 but it's nothing to really get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishzone
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was definitely on a list of games that I wanted to try once I got my Wii. After renting 
 it just a few days ago, I am very impressed with it. The controls are very unique and innovative. 
 Using the nunchuck as the stick to control your plane was very easy to get used to, and I dont 
 understand why people are giving this game such a bad review just based on the controls. The missions 
 are varied, some are short reconnaissance missions, and some require you to do much more, and I 
 think that is what makes this game much better. Sure, some would like a constant shoot-em-up, but 
 flying to an enemy location unarmed is very fun and challenging as well. Overall, I was very impressed 
 with this game, and after renting it, I may consider buying it for replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B055
Rating: 6
Date: May 4, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  I first played this game on mutiplayer and it seemed like a very fun game. After finally getting 
 a chance to play the campaign mode it was terrible. The new motion sensing controls for this game 
 were horribly programmed. When attempting to guide the plane with the wiimote or numchuck it goes 
 all over the screen. Its no wonder there more than one control sceme to choose from as none of 
 them actually work properly. This game in my opinion could have been a great Wii game if only the 
 developer took some time to program the controls properly.
  Somethings that save this game from getting a lower score is the graphics, multiplayer and sound. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotbr17
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Blazing angles might not be a spectacular title, but it is for sure a good and amusing title. 
 I'm a big fan of WWII games, from FPS, strategy, simulators. And Blazing Angels is an cool addition 
 to my library.
  Graphics are ok, sometime I'm really fed up with gamespot editors and their high pattern for graphics. 
 We all know wii is no about graphics, this is a first line game, give the guys from Ubi a break, 
 the graphics are good, and they do they're work.
  Controls are the coolest part, although they are not very responsive sometimes they are a cool 
 approach for the type of game, I'm pretty sure they'll enhance it on the next versions.
  Sound is fine, and replay is the only thing the let me down on this one.
  Might not be a must 
 have, but a 6 on this? C'mon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Just like everyone else I was worried that this game would be no good. The reviews are mostly bad, 
 but I really don't see why. They complain about the controls, but there are enough different control 
 scemes that anyone can find one that they like. Once you've found your favorite, it takes about 
 10 minutes to familiarize yourself with it all. They're not never quite right, whatever Gamespot 
 says. The campaign tutorial does a good job of helping this along. They complain about the voice-acting, 
 but I simply don't understand. So what, they sound like real people. Guess what, that's what pilots 
 in WWII were. The multyplayer can be challenging and fun if you're playing with the right person. 
 The ones meant for teamwork require teamwork; the ones meant for competition give you good competition. 
 There are enough settings to make it a different experience each time. Overall this is a thoroughly 
 enjoyable game, unless you're Gamespot who is biased against Wii games. Just look at the scores 
 they give. If they were really all that low then the Wii wouldn't be sold out everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waddlingpeng92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Lots of people on gamespot and ign said that thsi game was really bad. How it kept on freezing 
 when turning. I was also woried about the multiplayer because people kept on saying it was bad. 
 But i got it and i was really suprized how good it was. After everyone said the turnings froze 
 it was woried to play but it does nto lag once. I find the multiplayer fun. The grafics were really 
 good espesly the grafics and explotions and shots. The sound was good and the charitures all had 
 personalities. The controles are really effected and brings it to life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  So its world war two and the yanks are here to save the day.... (again) ! Working your way through 
 famous WW2 battlescenes players use the nunchuk and the wii remote to control the many available 
 aircraft. So you go around bombing/shooting various things to complete your mission. (sounds like 
 every other aircraft fighter game) and that is correct. If you are looking for inventive new gameplay 
 theres more chance of finding maddona underneath your couch with another addopted baby.... Hmmm 
 actualy that could happen.
  Here's the bottom line. If it wasnt for the unique (yet flawed) control system this game would 
 be in my mircowave by now. The aircraft themselves handle ok but the nunchuk can be a little unresponsive. 
 Its again another case of the wii contol system improving a game (as per red steel) . But heres 
 the sticky toffee pudding.... This game is fun to play and actually there is somthing about it 
 that keeps you playing. Whether it is so hopefully see your air comerade Joe die (quite possibly 
 the most annoying air comrade since slippy toad!) . OHHH that bloody toad... there on to me fox 
 .... help me fox ..... im the most annoying bastard in the world fox help me ..... sorry train of 
 thought and all.
  Onny hoo this game is as the legendary Roy Walker said Good but not quite right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashkon91
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels for the Wii is a ww2 plane combat game. With some intresting controls but the game 
 play is just horible. In order to keep your altitufde u must always keep boost on. The game feels 
 very dull while playing it. I would rather be playing Barbie Horse Adventure. I do not recomend 
 this game. Because how it seems cooll it's really horible in the inside. The games cotrolls feature 
 many diffrent ways to play the game the easiest way to play is without any motion sensitivity so 
 ud rather play it on a diffrent console. This game gets a 2 of 5 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkory
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels is a decent arcade flight sim, almost in similar lines of ace combat, but more of 
 a focus on up close and personal machine gun kills than fast pace speed and long range missiles. 
 The the similarities quickly end there. The frame rate sometimes can go from a smooth 30-40 frames 
 and then plummet to 20 fps as soon as you turn your plane around.
  
  The voice acting is a huge problem as well. You can tell that they hired the cheapest actors, handed 
 them a script, and told them to talk into the mic for the first and only pass. And like the main 
 review said, waiting for your character to finish talking while you fly around aimlessly is also 
 very annoying.
  
  The controls are the one thing I didn't really have a problem with. Since the game is a direct 
 port from the higher end version, I was expecting just some hack scheme that wasn't enjoyable. 
 I was pleasantly surprised though with the feel of the Wii remote held sideways, and how intuitive 
 it was from there to start flying right away.
  
  In the end, the game is a decent port to the Wii, and fills in the flight sim need until another 
 Ace combat comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeak123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Awesome! I loved it, it lacked graphics during game play though but over all it had good graphics. 
 The game play was pretty good I would give it a 7 out of 10 but I loved how ubisoft made it seem 
 like you were actually flying a plane but it probably would have been better to just use the wii 
 remote but the game play was good. I loved the role playing part of it because the game made you 
 feel like you were really in world war 2. The story mode is just right and it isn't to long or 
 to short.
  
  good - the game made you feel like you were really in world war 2 and the game play was fun and 
 inventive bad- the graphics while you are actually playing aren't very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is real good but its missing the online multi player action found on the X Box 360............ what 
 a shame.
  
  The game is very good despite not being able to experience online battles, the physics engine used 
 to create the flight simulation is quite impressive! There are a healthy amount of levels to complete, 
 but if u enjoy the game like i did then you will def complete the game in about a week! This game 
 could be the beginning of some really good aerial combat sims!!
  All that aside the game is fun to play with friends and will entertain you for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game had potential to be good, with an engaging story, and funny characters and, good graphics 
 this game could had been Blazing as the title suggests however, with its controls poor nomatter 
 which control scheme you use this game fails to leave first base.
  
  The only upside to this game is the characters personalities. Example Joe one your co-pilots says 
 on the first story mission I'm not sure what you told me with that deep accent you should speak 
 proper english he's saying that to a british officer. Its that witty humor from the characters 
 that could had made this game fun. However the controls are buggy at best. This game is definately 
 a rental for anyone that likes WWII games but don't waste your money buying it this one. It's not 
 worth the headaches you'll get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hebes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII is a great game, no doubt about it. However, most game sites 
 have given it a bad review. Gamespot's review complained about three main things: the controls, 
 the graphics, and the difficulty of the game.
  
  The Controls
  
  in all modes, the motion sensing is never responsive enough. Instead, everything feels a little 
 too floaty. 
  
  Apparently the Gamespot reviewers do not know how to play the Wii! They complain about the controls 
 on SSX Blur, and now Blazing Angels gets the shaft. Personally, I have had no problems with the 
 responsiveness of the controls, except when the Plane is at an odd angle. However, even in those 
 situations, I have found that if you tilt the Nunchuck (using the default controls) in the direction 
 that you want the plane to go, it will go in that direction. As for the floatyness, well, planes 
 are floaty. That's just how planes work. Think of the work that's involved to do some of those 
 maneuvers. If you have Flight Simulator (or fly actual airplanes) you know how hard it is to do 
 a 180 degree turn at full throttle.
  
  The Graphics
  
  Blazing Angels suffers from some serious frame rate problems and some ugly-looking ground targets. 
 The game feels unstable in spots, and the jerky nature of the frame rate can be, at times, a little 
 vomit-inducing. The whole game has a grainy look to it, so objects in the distance are hard to 
 make out. If you squint, the game looks OK, but overall, it can get kind of ugly. 
  
  I have to admit, the frame rate can be bad in some spots, but no worse than any Medium-strength 
 PC would with all of those smoke and particle effects. But, it is not unplayable. As for the graininess, 
 I don't know. It seems to me that the whole thing is meant to be sort of old war movie looking, 
 and old war movies are grainy.
  
  The Difficulty of the Game
  
  Between the relative weakness of the forces you'll be facing and your ability to make repairs to 
 your plane, you rarely get shot down unless you're doing something dumb, like flying too high when 
 attempting to creep up on some radar towers that are surrounded by antiaircraft guns. Overall, 
 the game does a good job of making you feel very powerful, but ultimately, the victories seem hollow 
 because you rarely feel like you can fail. 
  
  I do admit, I have only been shot down twice in the whole campaign, but the missions are challenging. 
 For example, in the Top Secret level, part of the level is flying through canyons of ice that has 
 barriers across it in different shapes. I must have crashed hundreds of times. And there is nothing 
 harder than protecting a wing of 20 bombers from squadrons of Japanese Zeroes. (for me, only one 
 bomber made it through!)
  
  My Overall Opinion of the Game
  
  This is a great game for the Wii. The combat is excellent, and dogfighting is a lot of fun. The 
 only problem I have is that there is an over-usage of Rockets. Rocketing ground targets is one 
 of the most annoying things to do in the game. But it is balanced by the excellence of the dogfighting.
 
  
  Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII is definitely a game that deserves more appreciation. Personally, 
 I think that between this game and Heatseeker, its going to be tough to tell which is the better 
 Air-combat game for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcas400e
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! Immersive and just plain fun!
  
  Once you find a control scheme you can work with, it's a blast. I am glad they provided so many 
 control options. Graphics are really good, the sound track, effects, all good.
  
  Took a few minutes to get the hang of the controls, but once I did, it was a blast. The nunchuck 
 and wiimote combo in classic mode inverted is sweet!
  
  The visuals are really good, and the atmosphere is great. I was skeptical, but after reading some 
 of the users reviews across the web, I decided to pick it up, and I am glad I did!
  
  Way better than some sites have rated. Trust the user reviews on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I am impressed with the games that Ubisoft has made for the Wii. Red Steel is 
 fun and makes full use of the Wii's abilities, and the Ubisoft comes out with Blazing Angels, a 
 completely different type of game, but just as fun and original as Red Steel. So here we go....
 
  
  Blazing Angels taps into an aspect of WWII that most companies haven't hit yet. The air born campain. 
 Blazing Angels starts you right at the begining of the War with England and you work your way up 
 to the final hours. The story is kind of lame and the cut scenes aren't really the greatest in 
 the world, but you can (luckly) skip them and head right into action. This title is meant more 
 for shooting down the Nazis then bringing a tear to your eye like Saving Private Ryan. Your a captain 
 of a squad and you add men to your line up and take down the bad guys, is the basic just of the 
 game. As you progress through the game you'll unlock more planes from all the different powers 
 involved in the War, and you'll earn medals to up your rank. Each plane has it's own ups and downs 
 (no pun intended) in it's functionality. The graphics aren't the best when your attempting to take 
 off from where you maybe taking off from. They are jaggy and textured, but they are that way for 
 a reason, because once you start flying you feel like you are going really fast. While in the air 
 the graphics look sharp and the animation and camera angles really add depth to the dog fighting 
 style of the game. Particularly when you lock onto an enemy and start doing barrel rolls and loops 
 around them. The sounds are good and make you feel like your right in the cock pit. The music is 
 grand enough that you feel like it's WWII enough. So your ears aren't going to scream in annoyance 
 at you when you turn this game on. The voice acting leaves a bit to be desired, like the cut scenes 
 this game doesn't really focus on story, so it could very well be the game designers reading off 
 of dummy cards for all we know. Heres the fun part. The play control.... You can play with the Wiimote 
 and the nunchuck, or the Wiimote held horizontally by it's self. I suggest the later, when it's 
 just the Wiimote, you really feel like you are flying a plane, from take off to landing. Plus this 
 way allows you easier access to all the functions you can do in flight. The controls may take a 
 bit of getting used to at first, but once you get the hang of the you can really fly!
  
  The AI has it's ups and downs. Some of the enemies are darn right stupid, and other can be ridiculous 
 trying to catch. But as the game progresses you'll appricate it because you'll be more attuned 
 to the controls. I really enjoyed this game, and it came to a great surprise to me how much fun 
 I had with it. I reminded me of the Rogue Squadron series by Factor 5 on the GCN. I can only imagine 
 what they could do with the Wii. Needless to say if you're looking for a new fly expierence pick 
 this game up. It's a good un!
  
  Finally if your looking for something that has a lot of replay value you'll get lots of levels, 
 but it's pretty much the same olde idea for each one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orca11
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Aerial combat in this game is pretty good, but flight sim fans will be disappointed by the lack 
 of yaw control and lack of aerodynamic forces even in simulation mode. At any speed, you can put 
 your plane in any pitch attitude, and it will continue to fly straight... it will not turn in the 
 direction of your bank, and even at 90 degrees of bank, the nose will not drop. These combined 
 flaws make it impossible to perform many combat maneuvers such as slides and yo-yo's, and can sometimes 
 make lining up targets at range difficult.
  
  Attacking ground targets quickly becomes an exercise in lining up once and looping or doing immelmanns 
 until the target is destroyed... again the lack of aerodynamic forces makes lining up the target 
 in level flight difficult.
  
  This game was obviously built as an arcade type shooter, and defaults to that control model. In 
 arcade mode you cannot control your aircraft's bank, left or right control input just makes you 
 turn and the game controls the bank. Aside from loosing the fun of rolls and inverted flight, combat 
 quickly becomes two dimensional with you making right or left turns to follow an enemy that passes 
 over or under you.
  
  The sound in the game is ok. Ambient effects are good, but the voice acting is a little off, especially 
 in the briefing movies where it sounds like the voices were recorded on a cheap tape recorder and 
 the volume boosted to try to cover it up. Firing your plane's guns also doesn't sound as deep as 
 it should, but it's enough you know when you're shooting.
  
  Despite the problems, the game is pretty fun. I use nunchuk sensitive control layout in simulation 
 mode and hold the nunchuck in my right hand. Dogfights against multiple enemies are entertaining, 
 although ground attack objectives are an annoyance. The Wii version does not appear to support 
 the online multiplayer, and I have not tried the split-screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Blazing Angels follows the story of a squadron, battling through the hell hole that was World War 
 II. As a member of the squad, you are expected to lead your wingmen through the perilous skies, 
 making sure that you will come out alive. If you have ever dreamed of flying, Blazing Angels will 
 definitely fulfill your wishes.
  
  Surprisingly, Blazing Angels utilizes a great control scheme. There are ten different control styles, 
 each using the motion sensitivity very well. Some styles use both the nunchuck and the wiimote, 
 while others use just the wiimote. For the default control scheme, players simply tilt the nunchuck 
 to maneuver the plane. Tilting it back makes the plane climb, while angling it downward makes the 
 nose drop. The Z button is used for primary fire, while C is used for secondary fire. Out of all 
 the Wii games currently available, Blazing Angels has one of the least complicated control schemes, 
 making it easier to pick up and play.
  
  There are several other controls as well, such as the camera lock, command menu, and the thumbstick 
 controls. The camera lock feature allows you to lock onto the nearest available target, making 
 it easier to locate enemy fighters. The thumbstick comes into play when using this feature as well. 
 In order to maintain a steady view of your target, you must press the thumbstick back in order 
 to slow down and make tighter turns. If you are going to fast, you will not be able to out-maneuver 
 the other planes. The command menu allows you to give your squadron various orders, such as attack, 
 defend, and regroup. There is also a repair command, which gives you a button combination to repair 
 your plane. The control scheme works very well in the game, so don't let IGN fool you. I picked 
 it up within a few minutes.
  
  One aspect that really surprised me is the graphical detail of this game. Not only do the planes 
 look great, but the environments as well. Flying low, you can see some really great detail in the 
 buildings, as well as other objects such as navy warships and enemy encampments. The fighting animations 
 are also very well done; the sky is often littered with explosions and artillery shells wizzing 
 by. Blazing Angels is one of the best looking games on the Wii so far, and I was not at all disappointed 
 with the graphics. Sure, you might not get the same quality as you would with the 360, but for 
 the Wii, the graphics are very good.
  
  The gameplay is another great aspect of Blazing Angels. Though some people might appreciate flying 
 games more than others, this game could be entertaining for anyone. The campaign missions are a 
 lot of fun, and you will find yourself defending aircraft carriers, bombing bridges, and even replaying 
 some of the most famous battles of World War II. The storyline along the way isn't bad either, 
 because it mainly tells about how your squad met, and their growing trust for each other. Completing 
 campaign missions will enable you to unlock new planes, which can be American, British, Japanese, 
 or German. There are also several multiplayer modes to choose from as well. Some of my favorite 
 modes are onslaught, dogfight, and kamakazie. In onslaught, you and a friend fly your way through 
 a battlefield full of enemies. Your mission is to destroy as many enemies as possible in the alloted 
 time, using machine guns and rockets. Dogfight is basically a co-op version of onslaught, and it 
 provides some great practice for the campaign missions. In kamakazie mode, you must defend several 
 targets from suicide bombers. If too many targets are destroyed, then you lose the mission. The 
 multiplayer modes are much more entertaining than I expected.
  
  There are only a few problems with Blazing Angles: the sound, the fact that there is no multiplayer 
 campaign, and the often repetitive levels. The sound isn't a major problem, but as you play through 
 the missions, you will begin to notice a lot of repetitive phrases, such as He's on you like a 
 hound dog on a pork chop. I would have also liked to have had some better explosion sound effects, 
 especially when blowing up enemies with rockets from close range. Nevertheless, the sound isn't 
 that bad overall. I was really hoping for a multiplayer campaign, and it was sad to see that they 
 didn't include one. The campaign is fun to complete alone, but I think it would be more interesting 
 if they had multiplayer campaign missions, where teamwork would play a large role in each mission. 
 At times, the missions feel repetitive, and some even seem drawn out. It would have been nice to 
 see a bit more variety.
  
  Overall, Blazing Angels is one of the better games on the Wii so far. Despite some rather average 
 scores from other sources, I think that the game is entertaining, exciting, and worthwhile. You 
 don't have to spend time thinking about what you are going to do with the motion sensitive controls, 
 and therefore, you can easily get immersed in the action-packed gameplay. If you didn't like Ace 
 Combat or Battlestations Midway, then you probably will not like Blazing Angels, but this is definitely 
 a game that flight sim enthusiasts will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegaman007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I've been starting to think that if the Wii is going to be a success, then game companies need 
 to find a way to utilize the Wii's unique controls and deliver immersive experiences in gaming. 
 Blazing Angels: Squadrons of WWII does just that.
  
  The controls take getting used to, but there are several different control options available and 
 you can find one for you very easily, from arcade blasting action to fairly realistic there's a 
 control scheme for everyone. My only complaint about the controls is that sometimes when I'm not 
 careful I switch targets in the middle of a dogfight because I move the nunchuck's analog wrong. 
 That's more of a user error though.
  
  The graphics are good, and I suppose its the details to the little things (like plane variety) 
 that make the game a pleasure to watch. There is a Follow Camera that keeps the camera between 
 you and your selected target, and it really enhances the feeling that you're in the middle of a 
 fierce dogfight, maneuvering for altitude and a firing lane.
  
  The sound is authentic to the time period, from the directional radio beeping to the various types 
 of machineguns on planes, its all there.
  
  I haven't tried multiplayer yet but I get the feeling it wouldn't be too interesting unless both 
 players were familiar with the controls. Then you'd probably have a crazy dogfight on your hands.
 
  
  Lots of replayability. You can unlock several different planes types and there's a few modes past 
 the campaign mode to keep it fun.
  
  It may have gotten poor reviews on the X-Box 360, but I think the great use of the Wii-Mote and 
 Nunchuck breathe new life into this game and make it a worthwhile purchase for your Wii if you're 
 looking for an air combat game.
  
  I daresay between this and Heetseeker it will be difficult to make a better flight game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good! I am getting a handle on slowing down and speeding up, turning around... all 
 your baisc flying techniques. I still have hard time judging how close I can come when skiming 
 buildings and such.... but the Wii Controls are perfect! I think its a lot more fun than a traditional 
 Game pad!
  So far I would give it a 7.5.... but I will leave some room in that rating, since I need to finish 
 a mission yet.
  Graphics so far are a 7.0
  Sounds 7.0
  Controls 8.0
  Play 7.0 (This could go up or down ... I am still in the begining fo the game.)
  
  
  Good 
 Game so far... I'd suggest it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
