-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bleach: Shattered Blade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/bleach/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The characters and special attacks look alright.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The rest of the game looks shabby.
 The combat is either broken or rochambeau.
 The plot doesn't do the series justice.
 It loads, and then it loads some more.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Polygon Magic
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This Wii fighter will make you want to dye. 

  Bleach whitens, so it's a good title for a manga about ethereal ninjas who cleanse evil spirits. 
 It's also toxic, making it an apt name for a game you should avoid at all costs, which, in this 
 case, is Bleach: Shattered Blade. Based on the anime adaptation of the aforementioned manga, Shattered 
 Blade is a dim-witted 3D fighting game that squanders its source with idiot controls, chintzy production 
 values, long loading times, and a lame plot. This is not even a good game for rabid fans, as they 
 are the ones most likely to be offended by Polygon Magic's horrible whitewashing of their favorite 
 fantasy.  

  If you aren't familiar with the series, Bleach tells the story of a young man who can see dead 
 people and one day inadvertently absorbs all the powers of a young-looking spirit ninja dispatched 
 by heaven to hunt hollows. The hollows are corrupted souls that live in a stark desert and prey 
 on lost spirits they find on Earth. If you can't already tell, Bleach's three worlds are insanely 
 intricate and detailed. They have all sorts of rules, symbols, and random exceptions, but you wouldn't 
 know any of that from Shattered Blade. There are many stories at work in this game, but most follow 
 this formula: Hero X is told by character Y that they need to collect shards to meet pressing objective 
 Z. Upon collecting the shards by beating up a handful of opponents, character Y turns out to be 
 Arturo Plateado, an evil hollow you then defeat. After that, everyone makes fun of your character 
 for being fooled so easily and the credits roll.  

           Rochambeau no!      

  Pardon the algebra above, but when you first begin Shattered Blade, you can play through what's 
 called the episode mode with one of three different characters, and the story for each follows 
 the formula above. There is an exception, but for the most part, it's the rule. As you complete 
 episodes with each character, new ones are unlocked for play in episode mode. This might be cool 
 if it weren't for four major factors: the cutscenes, the dialogue, the gameplay, and the loading. 
 Some cutscenes are actually just single, unanimated frames with voice-over. They're cut-pictures. 
 Others have the in-game character models posing while dialogue is read. Here is a pretty good example 
 of the kinds of things people say in Shattered Blade: "I can feel power coming from my body. It's 
 not a bad feeling." And I think every character at some point says "You're after the Sokyoku shards 
 too?!" even though it quickly becomes clear that everyone in the Bleach universe is after the shards. 

  Despite this minimalist approach to storytelling, every cutscene is preceded and followed by a 
 loading screen. These are cute the first couple of times you see them, drawn as they are in Rukia's 
 erratic style. But they're soul crushing to see the 500th time, especially when you consider the 
 fact that the loading screens take longer than most of the matches. This is especially true in 
 episode mode, where matches are one round long. Wherever you play, the controls are simple: You 
 move with the Nunchuk and execute three types of basic attacks by waving or poking with the Wii 
 Remote. If you hold the B button and wave, you execute your character's special attacks (Orihime, 
 for instance, heals herself) . By holding A and waving, you execute the dreaded critical attack. 

  The critical attack is amazing. It cannot be blocked, it's as fast as a regular attack, and it 
 actually blocks incoming strikes. All you have to do is hold A, swing the Wii Remote, and constantly 
 push the analog stick toward your opponent (to keep him or her in range) ; then, you are effectively 
 a master of Shattered Blade. This tactic has only two counters: another critical strike and bankai 
 mode. If you and your opponent perform a critical strike at the same time, you'll enter a best 
 of five game of rochambeau, where a vertical slice beats a horizontal one, which in turn beats 
 a poke, which in turn beats a vertical slice. In this mode, a white bar travels down a line, and 
 when it enters a certain window, you must enter your choice. If you end up winning the most rounds 
 out of five, you can hit your opponent for a decent amount of health. As you climb into higher 
 difficulty levels or face human opponents, this becomes the whole game. At least, it is until one 
 of you fills up your power gauge, at which point bankai mode becomes an option. In bankai mode, 
 your character becomes much more powerful and can execute devastating attacks that sometimes fill 
 the entire screen. Nothing in the world is more frustrating than losing three rounds of rochambeau 
 to the computer, only to have it bankai and obliterate you in three cut-sequenced superattacks. 

           Bleach is not as fun as it looks.      

  As you critical strike and bankai your way through episodes, you'll gain points that can be spent 
 on various unlockables, such as the single frames associated with a character's episode mode campaign. 
 If you thought they were lame the first time you saw them, wait until the game tries to sell them 
 to you. You can also play through arcade mode (a sequence of eight matches) or versus mode with 
 a friend. Then again, you could just skip the video game and jump right into an old-fashioned game 
 of rock-paper-scissors for the same effect.  

  Perhaps one of the worst things about Shattered Blade is its graphical quality. This is not because 
 it's bad, but rather, because it's pretty good. The characters are reasonable approximations of 
 their counterparts, and some of the bankai stuff looks pretty intense. If you saw this game at 
 a Wal-Mart and were a fan of the series, you might think it looked pretty cool. You'd be horribly 
 wrong, but it wouldn't be your fault. The voice acting isn't that bad either, although Arturo sounds 
 a lot like Antonio Banderas' Puss in Boots from the  Shrek  movies, making him even harder to take 
 seriously.  

  The last issue with Bleach: Shattered Blade is the fact that it costs $50 but isn't worth $1. Its 
 fighting model is rochambeau at best, broken at worst. The story is irrelevant, the cutscenes aren't 
 even scenes, and the dialogue is garbage. There is no reason to play this game, other than to marvel 
 with your friends at how bad it is, until one of you bankais and slaughters the other. This might 
 be fun for small children, but everyone else -- especially fans of the anime -- should leave Bleach 
 in its bottle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (85 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I adore manga/anime. I spend a good chunk of my free time looking up spoiler chapters for Naruto 
 and watching the latest episode of One Piece. Bleach is one of my all time favorite series. When 
 I saw the game on the shelves for $29.99 (Used) , I didn't hesitate to add it to my collection. 
 Big mistake.
  
  Bleach: Shattered Blade is what you would expect from a fighter on the Wii. You shake and possibly 
 dislocate your wrist to pull off combat moves. The buttons are pressed to add some variation and 
 the nunchuk is for moving. Simple, right? Yes. However, the packaging doesn't mention how repetitive 
 this can get! Shaking the Wii-Mote is pretty much everything the combat system consists of. Sure, 
 a few buttons get presses here and there, but pretty soon, you won't be able to feel your wrist! 
 The nunchuk as I said before, is for moving and pulling of Bankai (Power-Up form) . The Bankai boosts 
 your character's stats for a short time and gives them a new look and moves (Depending on the character 
 in the manga/anime) . Bankai spices up the combat a bit, but it can't cover up the repetitiveness. 
 
  
  As with most fighting games, Bleach has a Story mode, Arcade mode, Options mode, and Training mode. 
 The story does not relate to the manga/anime at all, instead introducing a new story and villain. 
 You can play as a few fighters, each with their own confusing storyline. However, every character 
 is trying to get a special stone or something (I wasn't paying attention) . The character roster 
 for Bleach is huge, and features almost every character up to the Soul Society Arc (Look it up 
 on Wikipedia) . 
  
  I'm sorry, I haven't made the game sound like the piece of crap it really is. The combat is lousy, 
 the Story mode is confusing, and the content is low. There's nothing that makes it different from 
 Street Fighter IV (But that's actually a good game) . You can watch movies, listen to the soundtrack 
 (Which is surprisingly enjoyable) , and just do whatever the hell you want to do. But you won't 
 want to. It's very boring after you complete the Story mode. Sure, you can play Arcade mode, but 
 the combat system will remind you that's not a good idea.
  
  Bleach: Shattered Blade is overall a below mediocre fighter. Not that that I'm saying it's as bad 
 a FaceBreaker (God, No!) . Bleach has a few ok moments, but I think I'm gonna stick to reading the 
 manga.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suffering-evil
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Okay i'm a bleach so of course seeing gamespots and other user ratings made me cautious, but being 
 a fan of the anime i got it used. and i see why.
  The Good: Characters look good, lots of unlockables, easy to learn controls pulling off 5 too 9 
 hit combo's are cool. Bankai's are cool. Using the wii stick at least get's you into it a little.
 
  
  The Bad: I hit Byakuya and he said "oowwwww"!!!! 
  Story lines are senseless, after awhile, some bankai's presentations get boring and dull. Listening 
 to characters voices during the fights are funny at first and then your like what the hell is this. 
 It's basically what i didn't expect it to be. rating it a 3.5 is kind of harsh, but there is no 
 way i see people putting 10 9 8 even a seven for this game. to me 6 is being generous, it's 6 for 
 cause there is so much to improve if they pull out a sequel!!!! Plus i'm a fan so oh well. if i 
 wasn't a fan 5.5 or a 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan1992
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  the story mode is sometimes difficult, like i said to be the first game on Wii its very good so 
 its worth giving it a try if you buy it ... ENJOY!!!
  
  the character list is very large that is another if the good qualities of the game, too pass the 
 game completely by obtaining every thing in the game is very difficult, as a matter of fact is 
 good because it get a little sidetracked on the real history so we meet a new character called 
 Arturo Plateado, which is one of my favorites. then they put some characters that we have never 
 seen their special on the series and we see it on the game so its very good! the bad thing of the 
 game is... THAT THEY DIDN'T PUT HOLLOW ICHIGO ON THERE SO THATS A DISGRACE!!! But that doesnt matter, 
 but they did put some characters that on the episodes of Bleach are very powerful so thats a very 
 good substitute of hollow ichigo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakahu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all, seeing as I as well tend to keep up to date with Bleach anime/manga releases, then 
 I'd like to point out that the first thing that pushes away from the game, at least in my case, 
 are the dreadful English voices. You've used to watching anime where there are the original voices 
 and only subs, English of a coughing monkey! Yes, of course you can order the JP version and so 
 on, but it's more trouble then anything.
  
  Now to the game itself. This game doesn't really make you play through the tutorial stage of it, 
 so, unless you yourself decide to play through it and not get right away to the real playing, you'll 
 see it a bit troubling at first to get a hold of what attacks to use and when to use. But as soon 
 as you get a hold of the way how and what to do, this game becomes fairly easy, of course seeing 
 that you play with half decent character (aka not Hanatarou) you should be able to take on about 
 anything controlled by comp on hard difficulty.
  
  As for controls, easy to get down and be able to use. Thought I personally at first had a bit of 
 trouble with getting chop and stab ones down, because of the place i have sensor placed, but aside 
 from that easy... And the part about which motion does which special - no need to memorize, because 
 when the round starts (and you're not playing on easy) you should have enough time to make mental 
 note of it by trying them out, and figuring which ones should not be used against the set opponent.
 
  
  As for pluses~
  Quite interesting story mode, but at times bit repeating itself over and over, but the end dialogues 
 before the last fight with Arturo and after fight dialogues are quite nice, some even a bit silly. 
 I'd say the game will give you some good fun till the point where you beat story mode and unlock 
 all the characters and get down till Urahara Shop items. It's well fun when you unlock 2nd Voices 
 and can give a shot at listening to them, but it's troubling okay to do it and after third or fourth 
 voice unlocked you'll hit the point where it really had got you a bit bored.
  
  So all in all, seeing as I had my good share of fun playing it and it's better then some of the 
 other bleach games I've played over time... a nice 6.5 from me (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game when I went to my friends house. He bought it used and said that it sucked. 
 We played it, and I was wondering....... what's so bad about it? After I played story mode for a 
 little while, I realized why it sucked. The combat system is really dull and I couldn't go more 
 than 2 matches without wanting to quit. The dialogue is repetitive and rather corny sounding. The 
 ways you have to shake the Wii remote to attack made me feel like a retard dancing in front of 
 a crowd. That is barely over exaggerated either. The character that the creaters made up for the 
 game: Arturo bla bla bla was as I could tell supposed to be a Vizard. Although this bonus character 
 had a fakey and ridiculous accent to him, which ruined him. I can't actually think of anything 
 good about this game. Overall 4/10, wasn't expecting much, but was still disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I love Bleach, but this game is pretty broken in a few areas. The controls are stupid because of 
 you having to swing the controls back and forth, The graphics are basically Gamecube generation, and 
 the voice acting well to tell you the truth i didn't really notice how bad it was. I could sometimes 
 hardly hear some character because it sounds like there mumbling. The lack of unlockables (and any 
 actually worthy) made the game less appealing. Game was very easy to beat i just held the a button 
 down and swung cuz it broke through those crazy swinging attacks from characters. The attack meter 
 or limiter was just a dumb idea. Why couldn't do a good job like Treasure did with Blade of Fate? The 
 only thing i liked was the special attacks are pretty cool and the bankai was my most favorite 
 part of the game. Hopefully the next time they make a Bleach game that's going on the wii, make sure 
 to actually work on it or let treasure make the games for now on. I gave it 5.5 cuz im a bleach 
 fan so i didn't want to be critical about it like most did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Bleach is out for the Wii. It is BAD!!!! I'm going to list complaints here, instead of reviewing 
 the parts that I review.
  I watched the GT Review, and they said that this was a Gamecube game, but ported it over to the 
 Wii because the GC is dead. I rented it. I don't know how people would think this was fun on the 
 Gamecube. And on Wii.
  To attack, you wave the Wii-mote in an upward, sideways, and forward motion. You don't have to 
 do that. You can just wave the remote in random directions, and you'll get, like, a 50 hit-combo. 
 CHEAP!!! Another gameplay tatic is your Bankai Meter, which when you fill up, you can use Bankai 
 attacks. You have to watch the same intro again and again. Boring!
  If you have the chance to rent it, don't. If you
  have the chance to buy it, don't. Don't even 
 play
  this piece of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emblem_2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I think it was fun and i really liked playing it and i like that they put ulquiorra and grimmjow 
 in it and the arrancar but they should have had aizen with his glasses off and his hair slit back 
 but good gallery and fighting and also there should have been more storys to it and that there 
 wasnt that much moves to there fighting but it is still a good game and it whould be nice if there 
 was more characters that whould make the game more better but the game is still good to me and 
 good graphics also i liked the bankai moves the story to it wasnt really that good to me but then 
 again thats my opinion on the game but my favorite character on it is ulquiorra this is one of 
 my favorite wii games but i dont play it to much and pass it in one day because then it just gets 
 boring if you play it to much so thats my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  POINT OF GAME: Select your favorite Bleach character and duke it out with another Bleach character. 
 Also, complete really bad story missions and try to unlock all the characters so you can try to 
 have a good time with your friends at a video game based party.
  
  GRAPHICS (4.5/10) : Like many games based off of an anime, the graphics are pretty cheesy, mostly 
 cel-shading while trying to make it look as real and as 3-D as possible. However, they real failed 
 at it. The attack animations are decent, although apparently lacking in several places. The surrounding 
 environments are mediocre, but also greatly lacking in good quality and detail.
  
  SOUND (6/10) : Music and sound effects are pretty good. That's the good part. Here's the bad part: 
 I love the voice-acting in the anime, but in this game, it's okay at some points, but can get kind 
 of annoying after a while. Some dialogue people just can't take seriously and is really bad.
  
  CONTROLS AND PLAYABILITY (5/10) : The controls are pretty immersive... like swinging your Wii 
 Remote to swing your sword, swing the Nunchuck attachment to charge Bankai meter, control stick 
 to move... that sort of thing. The game's playability, however, rates pretty low. All the stories 
 of characters in Story Mode seem like something out of a bad fan fiction and thrown together at 
 the last minute. Plus, many AI opponents are either too easy or too hard, and very few are in between.
 
  
  ENTERTAINMENT ( 5.75/10) : Like I said before, the story won't be that much of entertainment. One 
 of the entertainments you can get out of this game is trying to unlock all the characters by finding 
 some way to ignore the awful story. Another is playing this game with your friend and watching 
 him get mad when you kick his tail by just blindly swinging the Wii Remote.
  
  REPLAYABILITY (4.5/10)
  Fit to be something you should just rent. Biggest waste of $50 I've ever 
 made (of course I got this game as I Christmas gift for my sister... who is also a big fan of the 
 show) .
  
  THE GOOD: 
  - Battles are a bit fun to play with others.
  - Many of the attacks look good.
  - Music is good.
  - Decent controls
  
  THE BAD: 
  - 
 Bad voice-acting (which is weird because in the anime, it sounds fine.)
  - Cheesy graphics
  - Horrible story.
  - Gameplay is just bad
  - AI is never just right, either too easy or too 
 hard, but rarely in between)
  - Environments severly lack detail.
  
  THE BOTTOM-LINE: People love the Wii and people love Bleach. Both individually are fantastic. However, 
 putting them together is a bad combination, kind of like Ice Cream with Pizza or Pop Rocks with 
 Diet Coke. The graphics are pretty cheesy, and the playability is a bit on the weak side. The dialogue 
 leaves a lot to be desired and the story is just terrible. However, you can't deny that this game 
 has some redeeming qualities, like the music, sound effects and the two player matches, but unfortunately, 
 that's not enough to lift this game out of the mediocre range. It hasn't killed my liking of the 
 anime, but it has stopped me once and for all from buying anymore games based off of an anime.
 
  
  SUB-SCORE*: 5.15/10
  
  FINAL SCORE: 5/10
  
  *Not rounded to nearest quarter point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666rain999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  One of my friends bought this game, and we had a blast playing it all night. But waking up with 
 sore arms is prolly the worst part about this game. Well that and the ending of the game. The graphics 
 is ps2 graphics, but you can tell its much more when you do a bankai special move. I love how the 
 controls are set up, easy to understand. There is a training mode which teaches you how to play 
 before you come on gamespot and put it down. As I said, the ending sucks. You fight the boss, blah 
 blah blah and its over. But if you're looking for a fun game for 2, then Bleach should at least 
 be given a try. Good excersize, and memories that you'll have with friends and family. No reason 
 this game should be rated poor, because me and my friends had a blast. After you unlock all the 
 characters, backgrounds, music, ect.. then its even more fun. I wasn't a big fan of bleach until 
 I played it on DS, but the WII version is fun tooo. Give it a chance!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelEdge23
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  The game was a let-down. It looked it was something that the company through together at the last 
 minute and decided "Hey, this is good enough to satisfy those anime-fans."
  
  They were wrong; they had made a mockery of the anime by releasing this game before it was improved. 
 It could have been improved in many areas like story mode for all the characters, not so many loading 
 screens. 
  
  That was the most annoying part of the game, was the constant loading screen one after another. 
 That wastes time and processing power to use that. The story mode only is allowed to use certain 
 characters and frankly, it was lacking in the structure of the game and frankly, that's why it 
 was sad.
  
  The game would have been so much better if the company had taken the time to expand on the basis 
 of this game. If they make a part 2 to this game, they better do a better job at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctamonta
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  bleach shattered blade wasnt even worth buying on ebay. this game would be good if a 8 year old 
 would of made it but it is horrible and gives a bad name to the anime. the graphics is pretty good 
 but the gameplay and storyline sucks. the storyline is that you play a characters episode as if 
 it was really the show. the characters storyline is all the same and ends the same. you collect shards 
 that gives unbalievable power to you. but you go against other people that also want to have the 
 power. at the end once you have all of the shards a mysterious warrio named arturo plateou comes 
 out from the shards and he is plainnin to be the best in the world and thats every characters storyline. this 
 game is cheap and unbalanced cause i can just swing my wii mote side to side and i will have a 
 77 hit combo. the game is garbage and makes the wii look bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setesch404
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Bleach: Shattered Blade for the Wii was a real let down for me as a fan of the anime I feel the 
 game was done half assed
  
  Story
  The storyline of the game wasn't that good, its something i would have expected for filler quality 
 maybe and the length of story mode was too short with not much change with the different characters 
 you use
  
  Game Play
  i found the game play for Bleach to be quite repetitive, episode mode is too short and when your 
 finished with that you will spend more time in arcade mode to unlock the other characters. Also 
 it got annoying having to wait through every bankai scene. Some of the characters are abit over 
 powered and becomes apparent in the bankai state like with Byakuya in his bankai stake he can take 
 about 3/4 of your health with an attack and its unblockable
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Bleach i liked, they make you feel like it's another episode of the anime
  
 
  Sound
  i had a serious problem with the voices, i couldn't stand them just like with the English dub of 
 the anime and some of the terms they used like "soul reaper" instead of "shinigami" or "death god". 
 The flow of the voices just for my opinion didn't feel natural
  
  Controls
  The controls were very simple with little variety with about 6 different attacks and then there 
 is the bankai attacks which is a couple on top of that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Great DS counterpart, and some gameplay videos that looked cool made me buy this piece of wacked-out 
 anime poop. And obviously, I regretted it.
  
  Shallow fighting mechanics, static stills and gimmicky controls make this game a big, fat dud. 
 Yeah, it's pretty simple to get used to, but you'll get tired of it anyway.
  
  The only thing you'll ever do in this game is waggle, waggle, waggle, waggle and waggle either 
 left to right, up to down, or dead center stabbing motions. Plus, you can also put variation into 
 your combos and even penetrate defense when you do a special or critical attack by pressing B or 
 A respectively, while waggling. 
  
  These are also the mechanics that power its sort-of-duel-sequence which also plays like a game 
 of rock, paper, scissors. One motion beats the other, and so on and so on.
  
  And then, there's single player. I mean, everyone seems to want a piece of the friggin' Sokuyaku 
 shards, whatever they are, and it's simply the same storyline every single time!
  
  For fan service, there's a decent amount that can be bought in its store, but you'll just be able 
 to complete it in a day or two unlike that of its DS counterpart. Seriously, how come they can 
 put more content in a DS game than in a Wii game?! That's pretty ass-backwards.
  
  To excite the fans even further in its marketing at least, there's a new "exclusive" character. 
 I don't watch the series, but I'll guess it's Alturo Plateado, basically an Antonio Banderas rip-off 
 or something with a silly external appearance to NOT match. Judging by that description, however, 
 the guy's really hard to take seriously. He's the boss character for God's sake!
  
  Multiplayer is nothing much. Just more rock, paper, scissors and waggling.
  
  The worst thing 
 to ever happen to an anime franchise is this abomination- even if I did buy a bootleg. It's 60 
 dollars too much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W4RCR4ZED
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  I think this game is very underappreciated. While the computer Ai is terrible and they are super 
 easy to beat even on hard setting this game is awesome to play with friends. The bankais are amazing 
 and regular gameplay is pretty good. The game is simple but also just seems to be fun that way 
 theres no counter system like you might get in other fighters or grabs but for some reason it doesnt 
 feel like this game needs those. While the clashes seem to be a bit messed up (maybe its just me) 
 but when I tend to slash sideways it seems to pick me up as up and down or as stabbing? Do NOT 
 get the game for the story its terrible. As far as this game goes if you're someone intending to 
 play this game for the multiplayer I would buy it. Otherwise I wouldn't. But multiplayer as in 
 anything is very fun and competitive. I've never read the manga but I think Im going to have to 
 start now :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Bleach: Shattered Blade
  Nintendo Wii
  
  As an anime fan I wanted this game to be good. A fighting game with swords and the Wii-mote is 
 a great mix, and add in the cel shading this game should be great....... Well should've been great.
 
  
  Graphics --- This game had the best cel shaded graphics at the time, which makes the game seem 
 like an episode of the anime. I for one love the whole cel shaded anime games.
  
  Sound --- The voice acting from the anime makes a return for this fighting game. The only problem 
 with this is the lack of voice tracks. The repeating voice tracks makes this game aggravating, 
 and is enjoyed with the sound off. 
  
  Controls --- You most shake the Wii-Mote to do slash attacks. Shattered Blade has a hard time telling 
 the difference between vertical and horizontal attacks, and this hinders combos. This continuous 
 shaking makes this another Wii-shaker game. 
  
  Game Play --- Shattered Blade has the WORST episode mode for any game that I've played. It was 
 called episode mode and thats what it was, just one single episode that has a character that doesn't 
 appear in the anime. This same episode is replayed with every character, which makes this a daunting 
 task to play through. 
  
  In All --- This happens to be another great anime that turned into a bad game. With frustrating 
 controls, boring episode mode, and annoying voice tracks I couldn't recommend this game to anyone 
 who is looking for a good fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS5Goten
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This bleach game is NOT THAT BAD!!! I dont know what problem all these critics have with this. 
 This a pretty decent game. Bleach is without a doubt NOT the best fighter out there. But its one 
 of those games that you should have in your wii collection because its mostly motion using and 
 its a health based anime fighter. You can finish it quick, but when you when u want a different 
 experience from what your currently playing, Bleach will definitely be there for you. Its debatable 
 about whether Naruto Revolution or Bleach Shatter is better. They're both about the same to me, 
 but naruto has those 3 minigames: That shadow clone trick game, where naruto makes shadow clones 
 of himself and tries to hide and you try to find which is the real naruto (its not as fun as it 
 sounds) ; and theres the game where u throw shuriken at the targets for points; and theres Rasengan 
 Training where you move the wii mote and nunchuk in a circular motion as fast as you can to charge 
 up the Rasengan, then you thrust forward with the wiimote at the right time. But Bleach has better 
 graphics. Personally, I think bleach has a better fighting system. I would say bleach is better. 
 But they are about same. Even if you like Naruto better than bleach, i still think bleach would 
 be a better choice, unless ur a really big hardcore naruto fan and youve only seen like 15 episodes 
 of bleach. But Overall Bleach is your standard fighting game for wii, well actually its a little 
 shorter than your standard fighting game but naruto is a bit shorter. The lengths of the games 
 are so close that it really doesnt make a difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom_75
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  
  The Nintendo Wii's Bleach Shatered Blade is the best Bleach video game to hit the shelfs.
  
 
  As all Bleach games you start of with your regular team made of Ichigo, ruki, chad and much more 
 wich I may have forgotten to menchen.
  On this partical game you will have to over come demon Hollows on the story sage wich as you know 
 unlocks new playable charactars for players to use in exciting battle zone wistle opening the story 
 of the game.
  
  This games 3-D graphics help make the game look more realistic to veiwers but not only is it 3-D 
 the games it allows you to copy all your favourite move from the show using the Wii remote. By wibling 
 the remote also lets you tap into your Sanpatos other form most player have 3 like Ichigo but this 
 can only acure when your energy bar is full.
  
  Well I hope I hope to have told you all the basics of the game
  and remeber to buy Bleach Shatered 
 Blade at a store nere you
  
  good night everyone
  
  
  posted by Phantom_75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4saken4liFe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  as a not big fan of the series i consider this game to be one of the best 3D fighting games out 
 there and definitely underrated.
  
  the game is pretty simple to learn, instead of using directions to choose ur direction to attack 
 u use the motion of the remote. up and down is a attack, right and left is an attack and the third 
 attack is stabbing by thrusting ur remote froward. you use the A or B buttons to do more power 
 attacks, Combining both motion and buttons to do attacks, for example if you move the remote upward 
 and press the "A" button will result in a powerful unblockable attack, and if you use the "B" button 
 and move the remote upward it will result in a ranged attack . (or special moves like traps and 
 something to power down ur opponent or power up you)
  
  The graphics are kinda unique, each character has those lines on him that makes them like as if 
 they were drawn, its kinda hard to describe, the only problem i have with the graphics is the colors 
 of the game are bad. Its not colorfull and the effects are nothing special.
  
  Over all : i give this game a solid 7.5 hoping for a better sequel, it definitely has potential, 
 but the lack of online (which bleach ds has it ) and the boring single player modes would put the 
 lonely gamers away. Iif u have friends to play with you.. then its time to turn ur tinnies racket/boxing 
 glove/bowling ball into a sword ! this title is a must have for multiplayer ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  When gaming is mixed with highly popular license products, be it movies, programs or in this case 
 anime, they usually don't turn out to be the best games they can be. Most are usually quickly thrown 
 together and released to be able to maximise the income from the license product. A lot of people 
 won't even read about the game and will purely buy it because it's based on their favourite product. 
 Sega bring us the first Bleach game to hit European stores and hope that it will be a big hit, 
 but is it really all that good? That is what really matters at the end of the day as fans don't 
 want to be ripped off with half-arsed cash-ins.
  
  If you aren't into anime then there's a likelihood that you've probably not heard of Bleach. It's 
 a really successful manga and anime that's slowly becoming as popular as DragonBall Z and Naruto. 
 Written by Tite Kubo, Bleach follows the adventures of Ichigo Kurosaki. Ichigo isn't just your 
 standard school boy; he's got the ability to see ghosts of the deceased. He gets mixed up with 
 a girl who goes by the name of Rukia Kuchiki, a Soul Reaper (Shinigami/Death God for the Japanese 
 version.) After some events which cause severe injury to Rukia, Ichigo manages to inherit most 
 of her powers and becomes a Soul Reaper himself. This kick starts a long journey for Ichigo and 
 his fellow friends, hunting down evil spirits called hollows.
  
  Shattered Blade's story mode, dubbed Episode Mode, isn't actually based on anything that has been 
 featured in either the manga or anime. It's a brand new story made up just for the game. In reality 
 though, to call it a story would be generous because it's actually pretty darn poor, hell it's 
 beyond poor. In story mode there's a limited selection of the game's cast of characters. Each one 
 has a short story featuring them. In total they are eight stories to fight (literally and mentally!) 
 through. I know fighters don't usually have to contain a good story, but when the license product 
 in general has a deep and complex tale, you'd expect the game to contain something similar. If 
 not then just don't include a story mode. This is how simple the story is and this also pretty 
 much sums it all up for each character. The gist is that your character needs to collect these 
 shards to use its power. A character tells you to collect it and you go about your way meeting 
 other Bleach characters and fighting them to get their shards. After doing a certain amount of 
 fights you finally realise that it's all a set up, so you then go kick the evil guy's arse. Yep, 
 that's the story, multiplied over.
  
  Other modes include Arcade Mode, which is a fight against random opponents, standard stuff that's 
 featured in all fighters. Versus Mode is the multiplayer section of the game. Training Mode is 
 well training. These are the basic modes that you can play through. The game does have other features 
 like the Urahara shop, a place where you spend your hard earned pennies on fancy unlockables. The 
 Gallery section goes hand in hand with the Urahara shop as it allows you to view all the stuff 
 you've unlocked from the shop, or from playing certain parts of the game. There's a fair amount 
 to unlock, so fans will have a field trip with that.
  
  Fighting controls for Bleach do make good use of the Wii-mote, but as a fighting game the controls 
 fall short. They really don't give you that preciseness that a pad would do, which would allow 
 you to get the moves out fast. Because of this it makes the game have a very random feel to it. 
 Sega have opted only to allow you to use the Wii-mote and Nunchuk controller. That means no GameCube 
 or Classic Controller here I'm afraid. The controls are simple enough to learn. To attack you can 
 either swing the Wii remote horizontally or vertically to slash, or poke it forward to do a stab 
 attack. Holding down the A button while swinging will do more powerful but slower critical attacks. 
 If the B button is held down you'll set off a special move, yet again there is one for each type 
 of slash movement you do.
  
  The Nunchuk side of things controls movement with the analogue stick, blocking with the Z button 
 and quick stepping with the C button. The Nunchuk is also used to charge up your Bankai Meter; 
 just simply shaking the Nunchuk will charge up the bar. The Bankai Meter is very important as a 
 lot of the fights will fall down to who gets to use their Bankai form first. Bankai is releasing 
 the power of your weapon into its final form, giving the user incredible strength. This makes your 
 player do a lot more damage and usually ends up moving faster as well.
  
  Bleach just doesn't cut it as a fighting game, even in the anime side of things. Naruto and DragonBall 
 Z have both had much deeper fighting experiences than this. The controls are just too wild and 
 shallow. Most people will just shake frantically and be able to kill someone with ease with no 
 thought what so ever. The game can be fun sometimes, but that just eventually wears thin after 
 a few battles and this is all mostly down to the simplistic controls. The depth is kind of there 
 as there are other small titbits like weapon countering and clever dodging skills that add to the 
 game, if only it wasn't using the wild and crazy Wii-mote control setting.
  
  Cel-shading is used for the game's graphical effect, mixing in a pencil shadowing technique that 
 you've seen in games like the Naruto: Ultimate Ninja series. The game doesn't look great; it's 
 really more like a GameCube game than anything else. What's even worse is that there isn't any 
 widescreen support; this game is 4:3 only, that's just so wrong in this day and age. At least there 
 is the relief that the game has 480p support.
  
  The full English anime cast is here doing their representation of each character. The voiceover 
 work is acceptable, but there's no Japanese option here for the hardcore Bleach fans, disappointing 
 when a lot of other anime games are starting to add that feature in. There's a fair amount of voice 
 throughout the game, even down to some individual sayings when certain characters square off at 
 each other, shame this detail wasn't put into the controller system.
  
  There really isn't much else to say about Bleach: Shattered Blade. Just like the game itself, there 
 isn't much to it. It's a simple easy to pick-up-and-play fighter that doesn't have enough depth 
 to warrant it to be played time and time again. There is fun there, but it's the type of fun that 
 vanishes after a few turns, it just doesn't keep you entertained for long. If you are a really 
 big Bleach fan then you might get some kicks out of it but really everyone who is interested in 
 Bleach should go check out the other game that was released on the same day as this, I am of course 
 I'm speaking about the DS game, Bleach: The Blade of Fate. That is a much better license product 
 and an awesome fighter to boot. So Bleach fans should ignore this and go buy the DS game instead, 
 you'll be better off that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game is fun, unlocking characters is hard and the controls are easy to master, 
 all you do is swing the wii remote back and forth. You have to press the right buttons in order 
 to do special moves, and the Bankai (unless its a Bankai special attack) does regular damage, it 
 should be that he Bankai sword style moves should cause ore damage than the regular sword. However, 
 after a while of playing the game, your arm is gonna feel like its gonna fall off. Also, the amount 
 of matches played is two, so if you play arcade mode or episode mode, your in for a big arm throb. 
 The good part is that it at least gives you some exercise. Basically, its probably a swordsman's 
 favorite game to play on Wii. I do not recommend it a lot, but it is still a pretty good favorite 
 of mine. Even so, the creators did a good job making the Wii remmote turn into a sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neko_and_bunny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok so first of all I love bleach and I loved seeing the characters and bankai in the game they 
 did a great job with that. But the fighting gets to old to fast and very predictable. The game 
 is so easy is dosn't even keep me interested, I don't want a game that is going to kick my ass 
 all the time, but a challenge would be nice. The story line is pritty much the same for every character 
 and by the third time playing it you will wish you could skip this mode all together. I still own 
 the game only because its fun sometimes and I love being able to play as some of my favorite bleach 
 characters. But I cant stand playing for more than 5 rounds. So I say if you really love bleach 
 get it but don't be surprised if you get tired of it fast. I was so excited it was part of the 
 only reason I got a wii and it let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  this is a 3d fighter based on the anime bleach
  
  i love the anime, but this game is well not very good. At first the controls seem cool. but the 
 consciences of the lack of buttons on the wii mean no jumping and no grabing standards for fighter 
 games. Also its pointless the story is pathetic to say the least and there is no videos from the 
 anime. 
  
  Basicly you Shake the controler up down, side to side, foward and back whilst holding B for a special 
 attack or A for a power attack. IT seems good but sadly because of this control scheme winning 
 is too easy there will never be a close or intense battle. Also the AI doesnt get better as you 
 go though the Story mode or arcade mode
  
  PROS: It is fun to swing the controler around, Its the only Bleach game, Almost all the characters 
 are here
  
  CONS: No progressive victory, no jumping, overly simplistic controls, Static (same) Game progression, 
 Not balanced, too easy, Non existent story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperYEpower
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  I will admit this, I pre-ordered this game and purchased it on day one. Why? I'm a Bleach fan, 
 that's all there is to it. Well plus I heard rumors it was pretty good for a Wii fighting game. 
 After playing it solo and with multiple people, it really isn't all that bad. Let's start off with 
 the bad parts.
  
  There are NO Japanese voices. So I'm stuck with the English voices. The English voices (same as 
 the dubbed cast from the series) isn't that bad, but since I've been watching the series in Japanese, 
 I am used to their language. As for graphics, they look pretty good for a Wii game but it seems 
 unfinished. Though I will admit the physics of Orihime and Matsumoto crack me up with therir boob 
 bouncing (reminds me of DOA series) . Controller, it seems all I do playing is waving my hands everywhere 
 to cause some damage to my opponent.
  
  The good part is that there are quite a number of characters to choose from, even some of the Espada 
 are in this game which surprised me (I wish the Vizards were in the game) . The transformation for 
 some of the characters are pretty nifty for Bleach fans (Ichigo transforms into his Bankai form) . 
 When playing with multiple people who all like Bleach, it can be fun, even if everyone is waving 
 their hands around like swatting an annoying fly.
  
  Overall, it feels incomplete, unpolished, but still some fun. I would rent first if you happen 
 to see it or find a very good price (under $30) would be the worth for Bleach fans. For normal 
 fighting game fans, I stay away unless you are making a collection of fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKugenheim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  I think from the standpoint of a non-bleach fan this game is quite terrible. There are better looking 
 fighters out there and the controls seem a little bit loldrama at times, with the crazy special 
 attacks and Bankai techniques that everyone gets killed by in the last few minutes. But if you're 
 a bleach fan and can appreciate the characters in relation to the show then this game is probably 
 the best game on the Wii at the minute.
  
  I don't agree with Gamespot's review at all on this. The controls feel natural and well ballanced 
 for each character's abilities and even though you can crit with one press of the A key, it takes 
 time to do leaving you open for a counterattack. The Bankai skills and special attacks look awesome 
 and for me never gets boring as i'm a fan of the cinematic endings of these kind of games. 
  
  The only drawbacks to this game are the voice actors (I watched the Jap subbed version of Bleach) 
 and the storyline that lacks depth and isn't executed too well. but If you can get over this and 
 you know what tree the game is barking up then its deffinately worth the purchase and losing a 
 couple of days of your life to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3dbz2
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the worst fighting games of all time! The attacks are extremely redundant 
 and every character has the same exact basic moves. The only difference between each character 
 is a slight difference when using critical hits (which have 3 different strokes) and when using 
 bankai (or for those characters who don't have it, a power-up) . The bankai really only has a few 
 special moves that are used over and over again and it only looks cool the first few times. Going 
 through Episode mode, you use the same character again and again for about 10 fights. Imagine using 
 the same exact moves over and over for 10 fights! This lacks variety between characters and i could 
 not even force myself to unlock all the characters. I knew what was going to occur each time i 
 unlocked a character. They all go through a path and fight a variety of different characters that 
 all have nearly the same abilities. 
  
  I have never not finished a game before and this is evidence that it is truly dismal. I tried so 
 hard to complete it but there are so many characters and its extremely repetitive. You would think 
 that "So many characters are great! Whats he talking about?" but imagine the game street fighters. 
 The characters Ryu, Ken, and Akuma are all extremely similar. Now imagine 30 Ryu, Ken, and Akumas. 
 Now, is a lot better? No. Its the exact same thing over and over again and i cant bare to play 
 it any longer and for those who gave this a high rating, all i can say is that they are really 
 into Bleach and nothing more. The only reason i attempted this game is because users gave it a 
 high rating and i really liked the Bleach anime. However, as you can see, im not biased at all. 
 
  
  This game lacks specialization between characters. They all have the same movement and very few 
 separate skills that make the characters slightly more unique. Dismal guys, sorry. Although its 
 not surprising seeing that Anime games don't do very well at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  OK Im tomoto5 and these is my review for the game Bleach the shattered blade.
  OK for the begining i need to say i dont underteand why these game is so criticate.
  the combate 
 for a wii battle game is really awsom the bankais are really cools like the anime (i love bleach) 
 .
  then the load is thw most unimportal thing really, the personaje are the ebst of bleach and the 
 new one is cool ,the specials are great and powerfull the mods are interesting the new history 
 is cool .The controls are really good i like are games of wii habe these controls of you move the 
 wii mand and the sword move . The combos are cool. These is an good recomention of my part and i 
 dont know why is so criticate. the only thing for my brong is the video when you active the bankai 
 and these strange contratak and the voice actors (the best are the japanese dubs) . the grafic are 
 really cool is like the real bleach grafic ,the music is not so cool but is a video game music. the 
 mont of characters playable in these game are cool and there where and grat mont of characters 
 .ok these sas my review of the game bleach the shattered blade and a review dedicate for all persons 
 ho dont like these game. BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_fangx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Bleach series and while I was disapointed at two or three character selections, 
 the game play itself was very fun. I've played both the Naruto and Dragon BallZ games and this 
 tops what I've played from them. 
  
  If they had done a bit better with character selection, I might have found this better then even 
 Soul Caliber. I hated the character Hanataro as he causes fights to drag out longer then they need 
 be. I also did not like them puting characters like Momo in while leaving out other characters 
 who could have been great fun like Shinji and Ishine. On the other hand, my favorites made it in 
 and thats what really matters.
  
  It has been my first Wii game and for that, I might find the fighting system good only cause I 
 haven't experienced many others but I'm pleased with how it felt in game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleach_King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  I wonder if they'll make a sequel to it and the content would include: Walking around whereever, talk 
 2 whoever, fight whoever, all stories in bleach: The  etc. also needs 
 wifi to fight yur friends and have mmo features in it. It should also let you make yur own character 
 and zanpakuto 2 express yurself and share with friends on wifi you should also be able 2 fight 
 it on story or anyother mode. This is how i want bsb 2 2 b. It may let you use SUM of yur fav characters 
 but still they were missing alot so in the second they need to put in the rest. When you make yur 
 own character you should also be able to train for your shikai and bankai and be able to shift 
 forms whenever you like same with the worlds. If you like any villians on story you should be able 
 to choose whoevers side you want Soul  I also want a feature where 
 if you want to be a captain or luitenant you must take the tests. If you have a friend and play 
 story you should be able to multiplay on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Bleach. What a name. Upon hearing it, one might assume that this incredibly popular anime is about 
 doing laundry. There have been stranger concepts, after all. There are no washing machines or fabric 
 softener here. Bleach is all about three things: swords, souls, and kicking ass. It follows the 
 saga of Ichigo, a student who accidentally acquired the abilities of the Grim Reaper. The rest 
 of the series basically involves him traveling between his world and the Soul Society (aka the 
 afterlife) and his mission to defeat whatever evil demonic forces that show up. While Ichigo is 
 the main character, the large ensemble cast of warriors (living or otherwise) creates intricately 
 developed themes of love, betrayal, revenge, greed, etc. But in case you don't feel like learning 
 everything about the series, here's the bottom line: demonic sword fighting aplenty.
  
  Get all that? Hope so. Bleach: Shattered Blade assumes that you know the plot and drops you right 
 into the middle of the story. Some guy named Aizen decided to start a rebellion in Soul Society 
 a few days ago, and now everyone's dealing with the aftermath. But more importantly, the Sokyoku 
 has been destroyed. This mystical weapon is supposed to hold more spiritual power than anything 
 ever crafted, and its remaining shards can still give a person a Hell of a boost. Since collecting 
 more pieces means attaining more power, all of the key players in town are scrambling to get in 
 on the action. Some want its power to save lives, while others are just looking for personal benefit. 
 However, everyone is desperate enough to kill for it. Yes, the plot really is that cliched.
  
  It's not like you're going to be spending much time focusing on it, though. While Shattered 
 Blade features over 30 playable characters, only a fraction of them have fully developed storylines 
 in the game's Episode Mode. Disappointing indeed, considering how many current console fighters 
 thrive on character-driven storylines. The majority of the game's roster is only accessible via 
 the Arcade Mode, which pits your character against a gauntlet of eight characters in three-round 
 matches. Fans of the manga/anime will be glad to see that each fighter comes with his or her own 
 stash of signature attacks and spiritual summons. You'll get to see a wide array of Bankai supermoves, 
 ranging from simple attack/defensive boosts, screen-filling energy waves, giant snake monstrosities, 
 fiery tornados, and even some Hot Pink Cherry Blossoms of Doom. While these attacks look pretty 
 awesome, only those familiar with the series will understand their significance.
  
  Actually performing such moves, however, is a little unusual. You've got to build up your spirit 
 energy (conveniently shown in a gauge at the bottom of the screen) before you can let loose. Dishing 
 out regular attacks or taking damage nets you plenty of energy, but you can save yourself the trouble 
 by simply shaking the Nunchuck Controller attachment for a few seconds. But if you want to end 
 your matches quickly (at the expense of missing out on all the badass theatrics) , you'll need to 
 rely more on your character's standard attacks. The WiiMote acts as the hilt of your virtual sword, 
 allowing you to chop vertically, slash horizontally, and stab with a quick thrust. If you wave 
 the controller around wildly, you'll be able to pull off a 30-hit combo with little effort. However, 
 such random attacks do you little good; they're so weak that they inflict almost no damage. Instead, 
 you'll likely use a few quick moves as a setup for Critical Attacks, which allow you inflict a 
 greater amount of damage and pierce your opponent's guard. This, along with other Special Attacks, 
 leaves you wide open for countering and evasion maneuvers.
  
  Sounds pretty cool, doesn't it? Hacking and slashing with the WiiMote is incredibly fun (and potentially 
 tiring) , but the gameplay could have used a bit more fine-tuning and balancing. Each movement costs 
 you (hence being able to perform 30-hit quick combos) a bit of power from a second energy gauge 
 at the top of the screen. Critical and Special Attacks use up even more of your energy. Bearing 
 that in mind, you can easily abuse the system by performing some quick attacks to knock your opponent 
 off guard, then follow it up with a more powerful move. While your enemy is knocked down, your 
 gauge will recharge long enough to perform the same tactic over and over again. If you feel like 
 using blunt force, you can rely on Critical Attacks; you'll usually be able to overpower your opponent's 
 onslaught after a few slow-motion impacts. Should both characters use the same attack at the same 
 time, you'll be forced to endure a glorified Rock-Paper-Scissors mini-game involving you guessing 
 how your opponent will move. You'll get to choose between swinging vertically, horizontally, or 
 stabbing; since one is weak against the other, you'll need to get the best of five exchanges to 
 win the mini-duel. It'd be a lot less irritating if the game recognized your movements more accurately.
 
  
  At least the rest of the fighting is both fun and challenging, assuming you don't feel like exploiting 
 the combat mechanics. Besides, there's tons of stuff to unlock. You'll have spent quite a while 
 in Arcade Mode by the time you've unlocked every character, alternate costume, and extra fighting 
 stages. By playing through that and the Episode Mode, you'll amass thousands of bonus points that 
 can be used to purchase graphics and in-game cutscenes for the massive Art Gallery. It's a shame 
 that the game designers didn't provide such incentive for playing in the Versus Mode. There is 
 no online multiplayer either, which would have added so much more replay value and competitive 
 gameplay. The game tries to make it up to you by including unlockable 3D character model displays 
 and voice/music sound tests, but they probably won't keep you entertained for long.
  
  That goes double for the hardcore fans that despise the English voice acting for the series. It's 
 not like they're terrible; you can hear all of the fury and intensity behind each character's attacks. 
 Hearing Ichigo scream, "This ismy BANKAI!" and his other impassioned battle cries can be memorable. 
 But since these characters spout so many lines when they do their supermoves (all of which feature 
 cutscenes that can't be skipped) in every battle, you're going to tire of them quickly. At least 
 the Bankai summons are awesome; chances are, you've never seen a fighting game that involves someone 
 conjuring up a giant red-headed snake and commanding it to ravage the battlefield. Or watching 
 some kid spout a pair of solid ice wings and start flying around, for that matter. Veterans of 
 the series will appreciate the attention given to the little details, like how the characters' 
 cel-shaded costumes transform or react to movement. They'll likely understand the significance 
 of the barren wastelands, darkened alleyways, and the handful of other battleground backgrounds 
 as well. But for the rest, the fast-paced sword action will be enough to look at.
  
  It's not that Bleach: Shattered Blade is a bad game. There's just far too much wasted potential. 
 It's fun slicing and dicing your way through so many unique characters with the WiiMote. With plenty 
 of unlockables, fans and newcomers alike will have plenty with which to contend. If you follow 
 the anime or manga, you'll feel right at home with all the awesome attacks, flashy summons, and 
 heated character interaction. Fighting game fanatics, however, might want to give this a rental 
 before diving headlong into something they might not like. This game isn't so much about technical 
 gameplay as it is about letting loose and beating the Hell out of your opponent. The combat mechanics 
 are easy to exploit, effectively leaving the gameplay unbalanced and somewhat shallow. The utterly 
 lacking multiplayer and somewhat inaccurate motion sensing don't help, either. But hey, at least 
 your arms will get a workout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonRider1000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is good if you love the anime bleach, but sometimes the controls don't read as well. 
 There is a lot of characters to choose from. The thing that sucks a lot is that when I try to play 
 versus mode with my friend the 2 player control wont work : (. And if you think this game sucks 
 because those game spot critics say so don't actually believe them, the game is all right. The 
 story is all right but really short. You have to do arcade mode to unlock characters and the arcade 
 is freaking long. And this game is still fun. If you love bleach I would recommend this but if 
 you don't I think you shouldn't play this. When you play against a computer Renji he is a freaking 
 cheap-butt, he always uses the same freaking move and when he uses his bankai, I can't even hurt 
 him a lot in his bankai state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  We all know if your not a fan of anime shows then your pretty much wasting your time with the game. 
 But then there is so mush anime video games from shows like Naruto that give others a bad name, 
 believe it. Bleach is just a little different. Controls are almost perfect. Combos and such are 
 easy to perform but at times don't read correctly. Theres an annoying slash, slash, slash game that 
 shows up SOOO many times that it slows down the game play. Then who doesn't like the idea of wielding 
 the wiimote like a sword? The story they gave this bleach game is absoultly dreadful. Has absoultly 
 nothing to do with the story line and makes no sense. No real cut scenes which is a letdown. A 
 decent amount of characters to chose from and all have a special mode they can go to (bankai for 
 some) Overall it's an o. k game and has almost no replay value. Gamespot was just way to critical 
 with this game.
  
  Loading screens were annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinggoken
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am a huge Bleach fan and when I found out that a Bleach fighting game was coming to the Wii 
 I got all excited about it. First day it comes out I go to the store and buy it. I then pop the 
 disc into my Wii and see a opening FMV that took probably on five minutes to make. I then begin 
 the game and jump right into story mode. I noticed the voice acting wasn't bad and that got me 
 excited for a little bit. I then actually start playing the game and that is when I realized that 
 I was ripped off.
  
  The game has you use both the nunchunk and the Wiimote. You move your character with the nunchunk 
 and you swing the Wiimote to swing the sword of your character. You can change the way your character 
 swings his/her weapon by swinging the Wiimote to the side, up, or down. You can also do crticial 
 attacks by holding down A before you swing. You can also do special attacks by holding down B and 
 swing the Wiimote in different directions. Each direction does a different special move. When your 
 character you can also shadow step by holding down C and moving the analog stick in any direction. 
 And finally, each character in the game has a special transformation that is only activated once 
 your energy bar becomes full. Most characters just do their Banki while others just get a quick 
 power boost. Now let me explain the combat, in this game each character has a stamina bar and when 
 that bar is empty you can't swing your sword anymore so you have to watch is carefully. 
  
  The game looks good especially for a Wii game but I can't help but feel that the developer didn't 
 even try to use the full power of the Wii. Most of the stages look bland and are extremely boring 
 to play on. Characters Banki/special transformations breaks the aciton to the point that I wished 
 the option to turn off the animations were included. Other then that the character models look 
 great.
  
  If your a fan of Bleach only rent this game. Do not buy it in under any circumstance. The game 
 is that bad. Worst fighting game on the Wii hands down. In fact, it might be the worst fighting 
 game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteguard91
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was not that bad, it should not have gotten such a bad score. The game is not only good 
 but it's amazing with what the developers did with the characters, they look amazing. Yes the game 
 is unbelievably short and EASY and there's that whole voice thing which to tell you the truth was 
 the only thing that bothered me but it grew on me. In my honest opinion I think this game was made 
 for fans only. Most if not all, of the people that bought this game were FANS! And they loved it, 
 that's who the game was directed to. At least it made a crossover, most anime based games stay 
 in their Region they made a great attempt to bring this game over. Did it work yes was the game 
 perfect, no not exactly but fan of both the manga and series will absolutely love this after all 
 they did include two Espadas so that's good. Overall the game is incredibly good I enjoyed it and 
 still do it rocks my socks off, just give it time the game will win you over trust me!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm not ashamed to admit that I am a fan of the Japanese manga Bleach, and its widely watched anime 
 adaption. I watch the subbed releases weekly, and I thoroughly enjoy its supernatural story with 
 all of its symbolism, and its combination of mythologies. Regardless I'll get to the point for 
 those of you are are considering picking this game up since it's a fighting game for the Wii.
 
  
  Bleach: Shattered Blade doesn't have a good story since it's a fighting game, so I'm going to get 
 right down to the gameplay. In BSB you can control one of thirty two Bleach characters (most have 
 to be unlocked) in one on one matches. Essentially what it comes down to is beating the snot out 
 of your opponent by using a combination of Wii remote movements, and buttons... so yes it's a typical 
 fighting game with all of its combo glory. One feature that is a little more unique to Shattered 
 Blade is its "Bankai mode" (even though only a few of the characters actually have a Bankai in 
 the game) . You have a Bankai meter that goes up as you attack, and take damage, and you can charge 
 it up yourself by shaking the Wii's nunchuk... but this leaves you vulnerable. Once it's charged 
 up you can enter Bankai mode and your character will gain heightened stats, and be able to trigger 
 some powerful special moves. Bankai mode is very brief, though, so against a skilled opponent it 
 can be quite easy to waste. I found the gameplay in Shattered Blade to be quite fun, sure it's 
 a typical fighting game with Bleach characters and the unique Wii style but that's what makes it 
 so fun.
  
  Shattered Blade isn't without its problems. For one thing, movement is clunky. Often times when 
 I was trying to run away from my opponent I ran in circles around them instead which was not very 
 helpful. Another issue is that it tempts you to rely on Bankai. The Bankai mode is all well and 
 good, but most of the match shouldn't be fought on that screen. The developers should have limited 
 it to one use per battle.
  
  Visually, SB isn't too impressive for people who want realistic graphics. The game is cell shaded 
 so that it looks very similar to the anime adaption, but a lot of the environments that are darker 
 in atmosphere can clash with some of the more... colorful, characters. Still, the cell shaded graphics 
 really make you feel like you're fighting a battle in the anime even though they won't be winning 
 any awards.
  
  Sound wise the game unfortunately falls flat. The sound effects are taken from the show, so they're 
 good... but the music is bland and sounds nothing like the style used in the anime, and the English 
 voice acting is atrocious. All of the English voice actors have a disturbing lack of talent, because 
 they not only sound nothing like their Japanese counterparts in tone or style (meaning they didn't 
 do their research very well) , but they clearly aren't putting any effort into it since they're 
 providing voice work for a video game. Sega should have left the Japanese audio track in.
  
  Bleach: Shattered Blade is a fun game, it's far from perfect though and will likely only appeal 
 to fans of the manga and\or anime. If you're a Bleach fan and were considering getting this Wii 
 game, go for it, you have nothing to lose. If you're not a Bleach fan, I can't imagine why you'd 
 even bother considering purchasing this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diquan14
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Bleach is an good game. The episode mode could have been twice as long and it could have had a 
 better plot, but it wasnt a waste of money to me although. Hopefully the second bleach will be 
 a lot better. It also could have been wi-fi compatible, that would have made it a lot better. It 
 was also short it should have been longer. The techniques for some characters could have also been 
 better. They should have also reveled aizen, gin, juushiro, and uraharas bankai. They also should 
 have put ichigos dad in the game. It should have been a little less expensive also. That would 
 have brought in more customers. So there also could have been like a tournament or something similar 
 other than arcade mode. here also could have been more stages, and they should have kon on there 
 too, hes cool. So all in all i give it a 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  The last time an anime like Bleach pulled me into the series so deep that I must watch it every 
 week was Gundam Wing. Bleach is a fantastic anime that is well suited for just about any age.
 
  
  Though, like *most* anime video game ports - they end up in utter disappointment. Bleach: Shattered 
 Blade is no exception.
  
  The game has very nice model visuals. The characters look human and no so much of the "cell-shaded" 
 cartoony style guys that we see in the Naruto and DBZ video games. They are well detailed and surprisingly 
 are great to see 3D.
  
  The game brings all the english voice actors to the table which I wasnt very fond of. The only 
 real character they got right with the voice acting is Ichigo in the eng dub. The game itself though 
 is really really poor in voice overs. The lip synch of characters are extremely off, the script 
 can suddenly go from surprised to calm in a single word, and the feeling of the moment is lost 
 as soon as a character says something.
  
  The story is horrid. I expected alot more from something with a Bleach name. This is worse then 
 any DBZ game out there on the market, and there has been some bad ones so this is saying alot. 
 Simply put ,"Character A meets Character C who tells A to go get the shards. A fights every character 
 in the Bleach universe and then gives the shards to C who ends up being the arrancar." As somewhat 
 quoted by GS. Simply put - it's so pointless I think I could write something better blindfolded, 
 upside down, and with little to no food in months.
  
  The actuall combat is another extremely horrid element to the game. Matches last, I'd say, about 
 1 minute tops. Basically swing the Wiimote as fast as possible, hold A and do their special, then 
 go Bankai and finish the job. Simple.
  
  The game is so shallow and not even worth buying, that I was about to throw the game out the window 
 Christmas morning because I was so pissed on such a letdown of a game.
  
  Yet you have to stop and wonder...... how is the DS Bleach game so much better? O. o
  
  In the 
 end, dont waste your money on this game. Hell - don't even waste a rental! It's not worth the time. 
 Go play something like Barbie's Pony Adventures, you may actually have more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalitty11
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Critics are really wrong about this game! you would like this game if you tryed it! If you like 
 Naruto Clash Of Ninja games then you will love this game! Its got 32 cool characters to choose 
 from ( Thats more than Clash Of Ninja!!!! ) . It has faster attacks too, all you have to do is 
 swing the Wii remote to unleash a fast attack! Also you can use a special power-up called, Bankai 
wich allows you to transform into a stronger form of tyhe character you are using. The graphics 
 are similar to Clash Of Ninja's, but some of the characters look taller. It may be sorta glitchy 
 but not ALL the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilightx101
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 17, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Ok so being a total Bleach junkie and partial expert on the series I was so excited to buy this 
 game. And at first when you play episode mode it's like okay collect the shards should be interesting. 
 However it's fight after fight after fight. Which is hey a good thing. I mean fighting characters 
 like Renji and Izuru and Byakuya how is that not fun. But you fight around 6 characters before 
 coming up to the 'boss' of the characters story. And it the same ending guy for every characters 
 story. Same guy, same powers, same background story and of course the same bad espada-spanish accent. 
 But of course depending how far you are into the series you will believe this blue haired zanpaktou 
 carrying oddball is a hollow. Wrong. Ok the idea is great but they needed to add more substance 
 have the objective for all of the available characters from the episode mode be different I mean 
 they all need the shards of the sokyoku to either get stronger, return home, or restore the peace. 
 Even if you enjoy each individual's journey you will most likely be disappointed at how each story 
 ends with the character you selected being tricked. The odd hollow man can change shape. He wants 
 your character to collect the shards and give them to him by impersonating an important figure 
 and then having them tell your character to get the shards for some fake reason. The voice overs 
 are pretty good you know for dubbing, the apperence is also fairly good for 3-D models but just 
 the overall game isnt good. I recommend renting it then buying it. Because I along with many others 
 ran out and bought it and now am regretting it. They could've done better to represent our beloved 
 Bleach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexLJ
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be rather enjoyable. The only real complaint I would have is that the story 
 mode seemed kind of rushed an last minute, and the fact that it did not incorporate more characters 
 into it. But as far as the game play is concerned, this game is pretty easy to pick up for anyone. 
 Unlike most fighting games, all this requires is you make different slashing or thrusting motions 
 in addition to button presses to pull of some pretty spectacular special moves. I think as far 
 as the fighting genre goes, this game is a nice addition since it isn't designed for a very small 
 picky crowd. This game actually invites people of all walks of life to take a turn and have some 
 fun; which last time I looked, that is supposed to be the point of video games, right? If you are 
 looking for a game that is fun to play with friends, pick this game up. If you are the type that 
 wants complex controls, parry system and zoning among other things, go play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: converse08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  hey i loved this game because it gave a chance to interact and actually be a part of the game. 
 with great responses during battles and easy controls it can become a very addicting game that 
 can actually relieve you of boredom. in simple terms if you have a wii you want a really interactive 
 game and like to battle then this is surely a game to get with great graphics and awesome stories 
 and battles that will literally have you on your feet. i give this game both thumbs up for being 
 a great 2 player game for all the fans out there and everyone wanting to try something different 
 from shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  I didn't even play through the whole game, but you really don't need to do so in this case to make 
 a decent review, if you ask me.
  
  Gameplay: 18/30 Let's start off with one thing that really pissed me off. I saw the loading screen 
 longer than I fought my opponent for. Though that's probably an exaggeration, it's not far from 
 it. I was hoping this would take a similar approach to a game like Naruto: Ultimate Ninja and make 
 the fights last more than 10 seconds. It's really hilarious because the fights in the show probably 
 last a few episodes, and yet these fights are taken care of in 10 seconds. This is happening because........... Why 
 is this happening? Now, the bankai transformation power-up somethings took way too long. Yes, the 
 first time watching a sword turn into a dragon is pretty cool, but after the 20th time it GETS 
 KINDA OLD!!! Also, I have to say, the hardest difficulty level is still ridiculously easy. I started 
 on normal and thought I was playing on the lowest difficulty level. I then switched it to hard 
 and STILL thought I was playing on the lowest difficulty level. The tutorials, though you may not 
 need them, are very helpful. With them, I learned how to play this game in about a minute. Almost 
 every time I picked up the controller, I put the AI to shame. It was laughable how easy it was 
 most of the time. Once in awhile, I'd make a mistake and pay for it, but most of the time, the 
 AI seemed to have artificial down syndrome. One thing that is great that results from that, however, 
 is the fact that by shaking the Wiimote in any direction, I could sometimes land a 30 hit combo 
 really quickly and just listen to my opponent scream in agony as he took every single hit. Those 
 moments were priceless and made up for some of the flaws because it made the game more fun to play 
 (when you were actually fighting and not waiting for the game to stop loading) .
  
  Graphics: 7.5/15 I have to take off a few points not only because of the fact that the graphics 
 really aren't up to standard, but it's just the fact that it doesn't seem like the makers really 
 tried to make them up to standard. They were probably all like "Hey! Everybody loves Bleach! Who 
 cares how mistakes there are in this game! No one's gonna know!" I love how there's no effort into 
 making any of the cutscenes in episode mode more enjoyable to watch visually. For God's sake, the 
 mouth animations aren't even done correctly. Today, that is a basic in any game with voice acting.
 
  
  Sound: 5/10 The music is alright. But it doesn't make up for the laughably bad dialogue that makes 
 the voice actors sound just as bad as the ones from Pokemon: Diamond & Pearl. What is especially 
 laughable is some of the stuff that is said when any of the people die. It's not what they say, 
 it's just how they say it. It's so over-acted that it's hysterical to watch someone die.
  
  Value: 10.5/15 This game does have a slight level of addiction to it. It'll make you keep wanting 
 to come back for more. Adding to the replay value is, of course, the ability to play with a friend. 
 Though you can't play online, chances are that if you have this game, you like the show and have 
 friends that also like it and will want to play this game with you. This might find itself in the 
 console for MAYBE 2 weeks (except if you rented it, which you probably should, because it is pretty 
 short) , but you'll eventually tire of it.
  
  Tilt: 18/30 Despite all the shortcomings, there is a certain level of overall awesomeness to the 
 game. There's the ability to pummel artificial retards and the ability to laugh at someone dying. 
 Not the greatest things ever in a game, but they make you keep coming back for more, among other 
 things, especially if you like the show. This was made for the fanboys, if you ask me. Not that 
 I don't like the show but.......
  
  Overall: 59/100 = 5.9/10 = 6.0/10
  
  GS is (once again) wayyyyyy off. Yes, this isn't one of the greatest games out there, but it's 
 better than a 3.5. Well, at least this isn't as bad as the time they gave Shadow the Hedgehog a 
 4.7/4.8? I don't even remember, but it was really low, and I enjoyed the game for awhile. GS's 
 review was a travesty. Their review for this was almost a travesty, but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amuro43
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Pro: Its fun, Variety of characters from the show.
  
  Con: The price isn't worth it
  
  
  Sega did a mediocre job at making a Bleach game for the Wii. There isn't much to the game it 
 self. The story is rather boring and there isn't much going on for the game there. Multiplayer 
 is where the game somewhat shines. You and a friend swinging wildly with the Wii Remote bring in 
 a fun experience that any one can enjoy.
  
  For those that love fighting games, I might want to stay away from this game. Bleach fans will 
 enjoy this game but the current price isn't worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TITROTU
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Day by day I'm slowly losing every ounce of faith I have left in your game reviews. I know you 
 guys hate anime, but jeez, a 3.5? That crap.
  
  Bleach fans, you'll love this game. It's simple to play, yet fun at the same time. There's a boatload 
 of characters to choose from, and the game tells an exclusive story not seen in the anime or manga. 
 It should be noted that this game is a direct port of the Japanese version, meaning there are some 
 spoilers for the dub watchers. Sub watchers on the other hand are in for a treat.
  
  As far as game play goes, there's nothing to it. You use the Wiimote to unleash three basic attacks: 
 Stab, Chop, and Slash. Each move can have a different effect depending on which button you hold 
 while attacking.
  
  The graphics for the game are clean and crisp. You'll definitely get the same feel of the anime 
 when playing the game. The Bankai animations, by the way, look awesome. Also, the game uses the 
 same voice actors from the show, so you'll feel right at home. Don't like the dub voices? The original 
 Japanese voices are included as well.
  
  All in all, it's a fun game. Bleach fans will definitely enjoy it. Don't listen to these fools 
 at Gamespot. Listen to us real fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  BLEACH Shattered Blade is much like any of the previous Naruto games, in that you have an attack 
 move, a special move and bankai-type moves. Normal flailing of your arm produces a weak but fast 
 attack that can cancel the same type of attack and sometimes specials. Holding the A button on 
 the remote and flailing produces a critical attack, knocking the opponent down. The same is true 
 for the B button and special attacks. Attacking and taking damage fill up your spiritual pressure 
 gauge at the bottom of the screen. When it's full, you shake the nunchuk to unleash your bankai. 
 The characters that don't have a bankai just get faster and stronger. Another aspect of the game 
 are clashes, which occur when two critical attacks are thrown out at the same time. During a clash, 
 a rock-paper-scissors style of gameplay occurs and players must try to slash, chop, or stab to 
 beat the other person 5 times. The person with the majority of the wins gets a special attack that 
 does damage depending on the number of wins. If you manage to win all 5 times, the resulting attack 
 can change the tide of a battle.
  
  Well, the story takes place right after Rukia is saved and their fancy guillotine is broken into 
 pieces. In Episode mode, you can play as 8 different characters, including newbie Arturo Plateado, 
 to find the shards and beat up BLEACH characters for them, in an original story by Tite Kubo. There 
 are some memorable battles, such as Ichigo and Byakuya, Uroichi and Soi Fon. It isn't a very deep 
 story and it only mildly interesting.
  
  The real fun is Arcade and Vs modes, where you choose a character that you have unlocked, over 
 30 total, and go against 8 foes. Each of the characters is voiced by their English actors. The 
 bankai sequences that play when entering bankai are reproductions of the anime versions, complete 
 with Ichigo's bolt of lightning and Byakuya's calm and collected release of his zanpakuto. Many 
 of the characters that have a bankai have different attacks, such as Renji and Zabimaru, who attack 
 with multi-hit chains per one attack. Every character has a super powerful move while in their 
 powered up state, which is released by doing a certain gesture.
  
  One of the strengths of Shattered Blade, is the amount of unlockable content, ranging from characters, 
 to original art from Episode mode, and a special voice pack, that includes funny lines referring 
 to the game. In one, Urahara says thanks for buying the game and asks how it feels to swing a zanpakuto.
 
  
  This game is one for BLEACH and fighting game fans only (kind of like Naruto) . With the work that 
 they put into this game with voices and complete detail to coincide with the anime, it is a must 
 play. Besides, it is a way to prove that one character is better than another.
  
  BLEACH Shattered Blade: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfighter000
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: B
  Overall the game play itself is fun only when you are facing your friends or whatever. The use 
 of Flash Step is very appealing (although I think that there should have been something more with 
 Yoruichi's Flash Step) and great to use when your opponent is using Bankai (Run away!) . It's pretty 
 simple, swing here and there, cancel out with your opponent, have clashes and surprise each other 
 when you're using your character's Bankai. 
  
  Storyline [Episodes] : B-
  It's components were alright for a side story, however the most disappointing feature is how the 
 game does not have the option to use the original Japanese voices. Reason to this is because I 
 believe that almost all of the characters from the US version of Bleach sound the same and lack 
 character with a few exceptions. 
  
  Graphics: B
  The graphics are pretty good here for having so much free movement. Although I think they could 
 have done something better with their presentation.
  
  Music: A
  I like the background music from this game, they are all fitting and usually set the mood for heated 
 battles. 
  
  Features: B
  As you play thoughout the game, you can unlock many things. Buying stuff from Kisuke's shop isn't 
 hard at all. Just unlocking them so it will be sold in his shop is what you have to play for.
 
  
  Overall: B 
  Bleach: Shattered Blades is a fun game, I like being able to move around to fight but what gives 
 it a B are the movement flaws from the Wii's sensor and how it can get boring time to time.
  
  My Opinion: 
  Bleach: Shattered Blades is fun to play against other people. You can use you 
 favorite character and have the joy of preforming their moves. Not many games do that right now 
 so this is why I give it a rating of an 8.0. 
  
  So you wanna find out why Bleach got a low score? 
  I think Game Spot has something against fighting 
 games for some reason. Giving Bleach: Shattered Blades a 3.5 is way too harsh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Nice art style  The combat is interesting at first...
  
  
  The Bad: ... but that interest fades 
 away after a few minutes  Repetitive gameplay will make you want to kill kittens  Looooong loading 
 times The music is repetitive  Lame story mode
  
  
  Bleach: Shattered Blade is the first 
 game of the series on the wii and while many had hopes for this to become one of -if not- the best 
 wii fighter of the year, SEGA didn't put any effort in this game making it the worst fighting game 
 this year. 
  
  In the game you'll have control of over 20 fighters from the Beach anime universe and use both 
 the wiimote and nunchuck for the gameplay. You wave the wiimote to slash your opponent, if you 
 press B and wave you'll do a special attack, and if you hold A and wave you'll do a counter attack. 
 Movement is done with the nunchuck and you can run by holding the C button; Waving the nunchuck 
 when the energy bar is full will take you to this "super-saiyan" like mode called "bankai" where 
 you'll have different (and more powerful) attacks and such- And that's all you do in the game, 
 wave the wiimote until you kill your opponent, there's certainly a lack of depth into it and if 
 by reading this you think it's repetitive, well... it is.
  
  There are the basic modes you'll find in a fighting game: Vs, Arcade and a story mode called "Episode 
 Mode" where you'll take control of one of three heroes fighting their way trough Bleach's story. 
 There are some cutscenes during this mode but they're no more than the two characters challenging 
 each other, and then you fight and fight and fight and then you fight some more, it could be good 
 if the fighting wasn't so boring, repetitive and broken. Another thing that completely destroys 
 the story mode are the looooong loading times, which are present in the entire game, just more 
 often in this mode, they are horrible, you cant even do anything without it being loaded, it's 
 cute at first but then it becomes absolutely annoying and painful. 
  
  The graphics are artistically nice, the characters look just like their anime counterparts and 
 the speciall attacks look good, but other than that everything else looks horrible, t all looks 
 like an early PS2 game. The sound isn't very good either, the music is repetitive just like the 
 gameplay and the voice acting is realy bad. 
  
  This game is not worth 50 $, it's not even worth 20 and for those looking for a good fighting game 
 just look elsewhere, buy Mortal Kombat: Armaggedon or Dragon Ball Z. Budokai Tenkaichi 2, or better 
 yet... wait for Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Budokai Tenkaichi 3. This game ends up as a big disappointment 
 and as a whole is on par with Legend of the Dragon (and if you know that game, you'll also know 
 it's not a very good thing to say about Bleach) . For Bleach fans it's only a rental, for everyone 
 else just don't buy it, that simple. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petri87
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Looks like ****, plays like **** and the story is ****. Im sorry to say that even though its Bleach 
 its not good and not even for huge fans of the anime and manga.
  The combat can in spots look good but otherwise its just bad looking. The 3d models are blocky 
 and have weird animations. 
  The sound is nothing special.
  And the story if it can even be called one is pure garbage.
  
  So if you really do have any 
 self respect left in your body then plz stay away from this game. It could even kill your interrest 
 in the anime and nobody wants that to happen so wait for a better bleach gane bevause this aint 
 it. Sorry guys 2.5 is the highest score this gane deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  My review is in 2 points :
  
  
  -Fighting
  
  and
  
  -Story Mode
  
  
  Let's start with the good points:
  -In the Multiplayer-
  -The gameplay is really fun
  -The 
 characters have alot of different techniques
  -3 special attacks     and 3 new ones while using Bankai
  -When playing with friends it's great.
 
  
  ------------------For the Fighting I'd give a 
  
  (I take .5 off because the normal attacks are repetitive for every sword style character and because 
 we swing our swords way to fast wich isn't really realistic...)
  
  
  For the story mode, I can't give it a score, because there's no story at all... You just collect 
 sokyokou shards    Ichigo gets them to get out of Soul Society    Hitsugaya to perform a seal to 
 heal Momo      Renji to heal Zabimaru     Kenpachi to get more powerfull and so on wich is really 
 disappointing... But I still give points because it's bleach    the first one and for the new bad 
 guy (remake of Grimmjow)
  
  
  For the overall not it makes a 7.5/10, for the ones who like the show...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miskal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game, it was a new take on fighting games that I have never tried before and 
 I normally do not like fighting games but this game was fun. The story was eh thats why it did 
 not get a ten. The Characters moves and level design where spot on with the series. I would really 
 like for Jump to create a RP game for bleach similar to the new Naruto game path of the Ninja for 
 release in America. Fans of the series would love this game. Fans of fighting games would also 
 love this series. This is apparently a older game in Japan so if we continue to support the series 
 we might see some of the newer ones make it to our shores soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fast paced game with a lot of characters. Although it has its problems like sensitive 
 controls and some repetition in controls between characters I would still say that this is a solid 
 game. The only real annoying part about this game is the lack of animation in story mode and the 
 methods you have to use to unlock characters. There is an upside to going through some of these 
 annoying methods to unlocking new characters though. By unlocking every character it is likely 
 that you have then used every character in at east eight battles, giving you a well rounded skill 
 level for playing in vs mode. I would have liked to have seen online capabilities for this game 
 but since it's the first one for the Wii I'm not surprised that we didn't. This is a solid game, 
 highly addictive, great fighter, and amazing sword action, a must have for Bleach fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Bleach: Shattered Blade is a good game, I like the way you play it, the playability is amazing, 
 what about running around your opponent, confusing it and then smashing it with a thousand of attacks. 
 It's pretty nice to do it and until there, the game is amazing. Then your bar fills and you're 
 able to use the special attack, at first it's nice, a new way to attack and beat your enemy, at 
 first time ok, at second time you tolerate, at third you start wondering, why only one type of 
 special? It starts to get boring, seeing the same animation 1, 2 times on each round. If you don't 
 like to play with many characters, you'll be bored of seeing the same animation for the character 
 that you like most, then you'll stop using special to let the game better, and then you're losing 
 a game feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frogert
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game has its up and downs, but first of all let me start with the ups.
  
  -Good-
  nice fast attacks
  pretty cool abilities
  32 characters
  graphics
  
  -Bad-
  way to 
 easy...
  no real fighting game combos just 2 buttons...
  voices in English really suck...
  story is a bit lame, if you can call it a story...
  most 
 characters abilities do the same type of attack...
  just not an addictive game, unless you are a bleach maniac i guess
  
  Thats my opinion on it. 
 Though it is the best anime fighting game out right now (as in naruto / bleach games) other then 
 naruto rise of a ninja (great game) .
  Anyway... you will like this game a lot if you don't usually play good games.
  This game would 
 be very nice if it had some kind of online play, like naruto rise of a ninja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryodude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Bleach: Shattered Blade is a Wii fighter that came out relatively early in Wii's life in Japan 
 and was only recently localized (in text and voice acting only) for US fans. That being said, it's 
 less impressive now then when it first released and developers were still figuring out the remote 
 capabilities. Bleach sets itself apart by featuring an original story that isn't part of the canon 
 anime or manga. The Episode mode (story) has you pick one character and follow there side of the 
 plot, fighting your way to the end (obviously) . There are only a select number of characters for 
 the mode, so you don't have to play with each and every character included in this game (32 is 
 a pretty big number for a fighting roster) . Then a classic arcade mode is included where you pick 
 any of the characters you have unlocked and fight 8 increasing skilled opponents. Pretty standard. 
 You can earn currency by completing Arcade and Episode modes to spend at a shop in the game to 
 unlock most of the extra unimportant content. Battle controls boil down to waving the remote in 
 a vertical, horizontal, or thrusting motions to execute 3 basic strikes. Holding the A button and 
 swinging Up or Down (vertical is in split into two different strikes) left+right, or thrust to 
 execute guard-breaking, combo stopping critical strikes. Holding the B button and swinging in the 
 3 basic directions activate special attacks. You guard with Z and dash with C. Ultimately, this 
 settles into you flailing for a few seconds and using a critical strike to knock down your opponent. 
 Two elements create what is strategy for every fight and those are the Stamina meter and Bankai 
 meter (special meter) . The Stamina meter decreases with every attack action and quickly regenerates 
 when not attacking. This keeps people from abusing the insanely fast basic strikes and flinch-inflicting 
 criticals, or spamming any one special move. The Bankai meter in filled up by either dealing or 
 receiving hits, and by shaking the nunchuck. Once full, shake the nunchuck again, watch an animation, 
 and the character unleashes a new weapon, form, or just gets more powerful. Bankai form lasts as 
 long as the meter is filled and it continuously drains. The character's speed and strength hike 
 up, they get access to a super special that usually drains the rest of the Bankai meter, and their 
 other specials either deal more damage or change completely (the former most often) . Visuals are 
 acceptable. The character look great (their faces anyway) , special effects are just shiny enough. 
 The backgrounds in stages don't have much flair, but are familiar for the fans. The game supports 
 480p, but only 4:3 perspective. Regardless, I played on widescreen and I didn't notice much distortion. 
 I did notice occasional pixel loss, and mismatched mouth-to-voice animation. Also, every character 
 has a Bankai animation and you'll have to sit through it every time a character uses it (yep, more 
 than once per battle) . Sound is kind of weird. The music isn't from the anime, but it suits the 
 game well. Expect a lot of fast-rock. The voices are all excellent, but they are just too quiet 
 in all the wrong places. Even with settings adjusting, the characters intro taunts and victory 
 phrases are all whisper quiet, and they say some of the best lines there. The mid-battle voice 
 work is at a good volume and shouldn't get annoying unless spamming certain attacks. For those 
 who are not fans of english voice work, you probably will be able to get through the game by muting 
 or setting changes, but you don't get the satisfaction of a Jap voice setting. The game is not 
 horrible, but it doesn't do much to stand out. The remote-for-sword controls is a great idea, it 
 just hasn't been fully flushed out here. What is here is a solid foundation. If your a fan of Bleach, 
 you might as well buy this because it is fun. If your not a fan of the anime or manga, you should 
 try it out to experience the gameplay, but it's certainly not a good long-term investment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leon-fenrir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  The Bleach anime just came to the US about a year ago, but after watching it, It became one of 
 high favorites. I played the Japanese version of this game at A-kon (Anime Convention in Dallas, 
 Texas. Not some 2-bit rapper) , and I urned for more. Now that the game has finally hit State-side, 
 I'm now able to write a full review. For those who aren't aware, the game got it's subtitle, Shattered 
 Blade because of it's story line that revolves around the characters rounding up the shards of 
 the Sokyoku Blade which was totaled during the execution of Rukia Kuchiki, while beating the tar 
 out of each other in the process. Doing so however, also sets free an ancient Arrancar by the name 
 of Arturo Plateado. Game play wise, is pretty much Soul Calibur meets DBZ Budokai. Controls while 
 innovated to mimic actual sword-fighting, can and will leave your arms sore. I'm not kidding this 
 game is a work-out for the arms. Visual wise, the game is cel-shaded. While it doesn't bother it 
 might bother others, so that's just a matter of opinion. Music is ok, Voice-Acting they keep the 
 English cast from the Adult Swim version. Which to me is one of the few that are good in both English 
 and Japanese. However if you're among those who prefer the Japanese dub, you're S. O. L there's no 
 language options. You get to play as 32 characters, including the two Arrancar from their respected 
 arc which is good because, to me it looks like the Bleach Co in Japan (Unlike the Naruto Co) was 
 already aware that the US viewers have seen Bleach up to the Arrancar arc (maybe even more) . The 
 only big complaint I have with this game is Hanataro Yamada. His zanpakuto heals his opponent making 
 matches as him extremely difficult, almost impossible at that (especially fighting Kenpachi and 
 Arturo) regardless of difficulty. Aside of Hanataro's weakness being part of the problem, it doesn't 
 help that you must play as him in both Story mode and Arcade mode to help unlock everything. Minor 
 complaints include lack of game play abilities (Story, Arcade, VS and Training) , lack of original 
 stages and value of unlockables (once you unlock all the characters, you're just unlock Alt. Costumes 
 (consisting mostly of school uniforms) and Gallery stuff) Aside of that, Shattered Blade is a party/fighting 
 game that really responds to fan service, which makes games based off of anime good. If you're 
 a fan of Bleach and these kind of fighting games, then it's worth a buy, and is highly enjoyable. 
 Otherwise, it's without doubt a highly reasonable rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  You have probably watched the subbed anime and now you get to play it! The gameplay isn't deep. 
 You will just most of the time shaking the remote with the B button held down. It is responsive 
 and when you want to do a specific attack you won't have to throw the remote because it isn't doing 
 the correct action. The graphics are pretty good. The bankai attacks look very well done. The actual 
 story is pretty short. However for some it might be a little chalenging for some charecters. The 
 story (episode) mode has about 8 charecters you play as. You will go through one on one fights 
 until you fight the end boss at the end. There is an arcade mode where you face 8 random opponents 
 head on and for some charecters you unlock new ones.
  Overall you might want to rent this one because of the short replay value and short story mode. 
 However it is still a very good game. I reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyco2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real treasure to Bleach fans. It has a lot of characters to choose from and a decent 
 selection of stages. It is very adicting by my opinion and you can play it for hours. It also has 
 a ton of unlockables including characters, sound test, models, and graphics. Sadly the story mode 
 is a little dull. But multiplayer is where the real fun is, it is much funnier and tougher then 
 facing the AI. Overall this game is a really good game but if your still not shure to buy it, rent 
 it first. I hope this review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  This game blew me away for the first game of Bleach to be released out here in the states I must 
 say it does NOT dissapoint the games controls are easy and fluent so that players will not be held 
 up trying to learn the moves of their favorite Bleach character and trust me with an arsenal of 
 32 characters you are bound to find your favorite there are some that have not even been released 
 in the english anime and thats saying alot so kids if you follow the dubbed version where Ichigo 
 is played by Johnny Young Bausch then I HIGHLY suggest you wait till AFTER this season of Bleach 
 cause there are ALOT of spoilers in the game this all and all leads to a great time that you and 
 your freinds can enjoy for hours and hours trust me I can vouch my brother's friend and my friend 
 play it all the time it never gets old to them and all so this is what I think and I am DV and 
 I am out!!!!!!!
  
  Adios Kid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurosakiIchig0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of bleach, and i mean the real bleach, not the crap on adult swim, then you should 
 find this game pretty awesome. The fighting is fast, the action is great, the characters are awesome, 
 and basically its just a fun overall game.
  
  Pros:
  Characters - pretty much any character you can say hey, i bet that guy is amazing about, you can 
 play. Although a couple of the characters are only known by those of us who watch it straight from 
 japan, you will still know most of them.
  
  Length - a lot of stuff to unlock. You start out with 16 characters and there are 32 overall. To 
 unlock characters you play through the episode mode as 6 of the characters then play through arcade 
 mode to unlock the rest. All the characters you can unlock have some relation the character you 
 used to unlock them, its actually pretty well done. And of course what would a fighting game be 
 without alternate costumes, that means you get to see Matsumoto in her full beauty in her school 
 costume, pretty sweet. You also get to see Urahara in his shinigami costume, thats also pretty 
 sweet. Moves - The moves are amazing. Every character that has a bankai, has one, and they are 
 amazing. If the character doesn't have a bankai, they just get buffed up for a bit. Every character 
 has there own finishing move, and they are pretty cool, but some are underpowered where others 
 are overpowered. Orihime's finishing move is more powerful then Ichigo's and Byakuya's and Arturo's 
 pretty much kill you in one hit. Lame against you but fun when you use it.
  
  Controls - Controls are really easy which make the game play fun and easy. Swing the wiimote for 
 slashes, hold A button for critical attacks, hold Z to block, hold C to Run, and hold B for special 
 moves. Up and down, side to side, and pushing forward all result in different moves. Overall very 
 good use of the wiimotes abilities.
  
  Cons:
  Story - It is a game based on an anime so you know its going to have bad voice acting and stupid, 
 stupid story mode game play. If it would have actually followed the anime it probably would have 
 been cool but they added this stupid thing about the shattered blade and the final boss was an 
 arrancar not a hollow and it annoyed me. The only reason i played it was to unlock the characters.
 
  
  Characters - Some characters *cough Hanatarou cough* just plain suck. Ukitake is so tight but hes 
 awful. And then others are way too overpowered. Then there are moves that you can abuse. Almost 
 every character has a move that you can whore for an entire battle to make the game kind of easy 
 and lame but necessary in order to win. I did it of course but only as a last resort...
  
  Difficulty - Kind of disappointing, even on hard this game is really easy. Depending on the character 
 of course but its still kind of easy. Like i said before, you can just use one move over and over 
 again to win or you can actually try to use skill against the either ridiculously stupid AI or 
 the ridiculously difficult AI. Overall:
  Fun game, tons of unlock-ables, great controls, satisfying combat and characters, fun with friends 
 and decent by yourself, disappointingly easy, and very unbalanced characters.
  In my opinion, if you want another game for your wii that you can play over and over again with 
 friends, buy it, if your a fan, buy it, if your interested but really don't know what it is, rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleachxxxnaruto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  ok, this game if so freakin fun, so many charecters to chosses from i mean really, great start 
 out bleach game, only problem is the story modes are pretty short and most of the game weighs on 
 arcade mode where u fight some enemys kick there ass then u might get a charecter... or not. How 
 ever the controls are easy but great althought it messes up every now and then, so if ur a bleach 
 fan get this game!!, even if your not u should still get it, at the beggining its prefect but after 
 a while it gets pretty repititive so u might as well get it just saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSiderOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I've read many discussion before purchasing this game in English version. At first I was worried 
 that the dub (English voices) would be bad since I'm used to the Japanese anime with English sub.
 
  
  However to my surpise the dub isn't bad at all... except for that boss whatever his name is the 
 one on the cover of the game. Especially when he says I'm vanlishingggg... it just sounded weird.
 
  
  Haven't unlocked everything yet but so far the gameplay is fun. Two of my favorite characters would 
 be Yoruichi (fast counter moves &amp; you can chain combo her ultimate bankai) &amp; Icakku (powerful 
 speical moves &amp; nice way to release the ultimate bankai) they are very responsive when compared 
 to that little kid captain. He's my least favorite so far cos he seem to do everything very slow.
 
  
  Graphics is just like the anime so no complain here.
  
  Sound is alrite but whish they would have the same music from the anime, so far I haven't heard 
 any of those music from the anime, perhaps it's not in the game.
  
  Overall it's not perfect but still a fun game to pick up and play! Now go tell your friends to 
 come over to your place and tell them that you'll bankai them! Cause I did! LoL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm gonna have to just give this game a 9. I'll just skip straight to breaking it down.
 
  
  Graphics: Uhhhhhhh, well its ok I guess. They could have done so much better with the graphics, 
 but the game does have a nice feeling to is. It is sort of playing like you are in a manga, rather 
 than the anime, which is actually feeling like second nature after a few minutes of playing. So 
 I can really get pased this. Sound: Well, it sort of gets annoying hearing UH!!! HA!!! UHUHUHUHUHHUU! 
 every single time you hit somebody, but... well you sorta drown it out after a while. Other than 
 that I hate the English Dubed voices, but thats ok i guess.
  
  Gameplay: Well here is where it gets marked down a little. The story is weak, and it just doesn't 
 seem to fit with the atmosphere of bleach now in the series. So the big thing used to exicute people 
 (I dunno how to spell it, so I hope you know what I'm talking about) is shattered and everyone 
 is fighting for the shards. Basically the last fight for everyone is with some made up Arancar 
 (if you don't know what that is, watch japanese bleach) Arutro Platao, who apears from the shards. 
 Theres something with that, but It sort of sucks with the story. The gameplay is all in the multiplayer. 
 If you have a brother, sister, parent who loves video games, or some friend who always comes over 
 to your house and plays your wii, then get this game. If not, ummmmm, you might wanna think about 
 getting this. All of the characters have their own moves, which is where it is way better than 
 the naruto games and everything like that. Well, to sum it up, if your a fan of bleach, get the 
 game. If you want a fun multiplayer game, get this game. But if you hate the wii, dont have a bro, 
 sis, or friend, then just forget about this game. Its just plain fun, so pick it up if you have 
 the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_spartan92
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  this game isn't to short and its not going to take you forever to beat it a game to just have fun 
 wit friends and family. Its got a great selection of charters but there could of been some more 
 levels to fight in. the controls are a little off but that about the only thing that i notice wrong 
 with it. Its got a gallery for a view of the charters you play wit and little movies that you can 
 unlock as you play throw the game. you can play on episode mode arcade mode or verses mode with 
 your friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nithl
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  i would have rated this game about a 7.8 but sadly i cant so i put it at an 8. this game is good 
 the battling is great as well but the voice acting makes me cringe........ i have English voice 
 overs.. the controls could use a little work but i guess you cant expect perfectness considering 
 the wii just came out not to longago. but anyways also what i dont quite like about this game is 
 when im playing a game like this i expect tere to be lots of attacks and they are hard to preform 
 (soulcaliber) , or few attacks but lots of manueverability and combos to preform (super smashbros) , 
 but bleach puts all of this together and it didnt turn out quite the way i wanted it to. all of 
 the super moves are just holding a or b and then swinging the remote vertical horizotal or stabbing. 
 its that easy. and to enter bankai its just simply shaking the nunchuck but then you get all new 
 a and b attacks which is nice. oh and also most characters dont have bankai its just a powered 
 up form that makes them do more dmg and they are faster... no change in appearance
  but now onto the good, this game takes a while to beat and have ls of variety in characters. and 
 each character has its own attacks that when used properly all ae extremely powerful. to some this 
 might not be a good enough reason for it to be an 8... but to me variety is what you need in games 
 like this.
  this game is great but its just a wifi battle system away from an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Bleach Shattered Blade for the Wii
  
  The Good- Solid graphics, nice wii controls, nice cast of 32 useable characters
  
  The Bad- Every 
 character mostly plays the same, game gets repetetive after 15 hours or so, storyline is dull and 
 boring.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10 This game is a fighter game and uses the wii mote which is quiet interesting overall. 
 In this game you use the wii mote to jab, slash and cut your enemies with 3 different waves of the 
 wii mote, also holding A with do a stronger but slower attack and holding B will do your selected 
 characters special attacks. Sadly thats all it overs, with no combo's and such to do leaving the 
 gameplay kinda stail and boring after the new game feel wears off.
  
  Graphics - 10/10 The graphics are probly the best part of this game, as most characters look exactly 
 like they do from the anime.
  
  Sound- 9/10 The music in this game is awesome, but lacks in well how to say it battle music. All 
 areas but two play the same music and when you go into Bankai mode you hear the same music and 
 it drives you nuts and you wish you could just turn it off. The english cast did an ok job at it, 
 some voices feel horribly out of place or they do a high pitch yell that hurts your ears.
  
  Storyline- 3/10 Dull and boring. It offers 5 modes in storymode but they all suck. They offer 
 a small storyline at the beginning trying to collect shards and there reasons why and everyones 
 going for them you beat everyone up some super bad guy comes you kick his ass and its over. Besides 
 the pictures this is just like arcade mode but with a 1 minute text for each one. Bleach fans will 
 be dissappointed it didn't follow the normal storyline considering most of the cast is in this 
 game.
  
  Extra material and Replay Value- 5/10 Gameplay gets dull after a while and once you unlock all 
 the characters and the bleach crazyness leaves you, well this game will be boring and you may pick 
 it up again for fun. Gameplay Score x 3
  Graphics x2
  Sound x2
  Storyline x2
  Extra's and Reply x1
  For a grand total of 100 marks.
  73/100 Overall averaged to 7.5/10- I 
 played 15 hours of it in 3 days and barly touch it now, so if you want a game that last long and 
 combo's and such its not for you. Fans only I say and only if you wanna spend the cash, it is $10 
 cheaper then a normal wii game so at least thats a bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluedragoneer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  A week ago I bought this thinking, WOW a Bleach fighting game, it has to be great! I had to quit 
 playing a little early, because My parents wanted me to watch a movie with them, after the movie 
 was over instead of playing I came here and rated the game as a total letdown. I started playing 
 it again throughout the week and found that after you learn all of there moves and special transformations 
 you start to like it a lot better. I came back and edited my review today to not mislead anyone, 
 this game is great and I believe it is a great first fighting game for the Wii. For all of you 
 Bleach fans this game adds to the story some, its about the time between saving Rukia and returning 
 to the human world. Its actually a pretty good story, except nearly everyones is the exact same. 
 Theres more than enough characters for the people who have been watching the English episodes, 
 and its got a decent amount for the ones like me who have seen all the 144 Japanese episodes to 
 date. I would recommend this to anyone looking for a good Wii fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koao
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 32 characters with different variants of BANKAI, Easy to pick up and play
  
  The Bad: Story mode requires more depth; there isnt much of a variance on characters; they all 
 have the same style.
  
  Bleach : Shattered Blade is a great video game that has the likes of the anime Bleach. It features 
 Ichigo Kurosaki, a soul reaper subsitute who gained the powers from a soul reaper, Rukia Kuchiki.
 
  
  The game just delivers what it does: Sword-fighting. Basically you either have a story-mode or 
 VS mode/Arcade mode. The game is pretty simple to play, stabbing, slashing or dicing is pretty 
 much all you'd have to do~! Pretty simple, ne?
  
  The story is basically shard-collecting 101 which has no true substance to the anime, but it does 
 feature famous battles, but in the game it seems so ironic and doesn't feel as great as the anime 
 as is.
  
  The music is basically music, nothing flashy about it, but it is great to the game, and it fits 
 perfect as is.
  
  Featured with 32 characters, the game just has the substance into it; but where is the style of 
 the story mode? It requires more work on the story, I believe. Bleach Shattered Blade is a great 
 game overall just for sword-fighting one on one, but in terms of story, it needs a lot more work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locked-On
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Combining a good mix of everything a fighting game needs, Bleach: Shattered Blade is a great game 
 for those who liked the Soul Caliber and Naruto series. The controls are easy to learn, and lets 
 you pull combos and powerful bankai attacks that you can unleash on your opponent.
  The game takes place right after Aisen, Gin and Tosen betrayed the Soul Society and went to the 
 hollow world. The games makes up a unique story line that is based on the sokyoku, which is the 
 weapon that was used to execute rukia. However, the game allows you to unlock characters from the 
 Arancarr such as Grimmjow.
  The graphic are very impressive and some of the character's moves have very eye catching effects. 
 The backgrounds are very good and the battles are quite detailed. You don't see a bunch of pixels 
 moving around, you see actual Bleach characters fighting together.
  Overall, this game is worth every single cent and second you spend and I fully recommend it :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  .Now I am going to show you guys my next and newest review on Bleach Shattered Blade for the Wii. I 
 thought this game was cool but right now i'm pretty shocked by the today's rating score. When you 
 play this game at first, it's pretty fun, but a few weeks later, the fun factor just gets old too 
 fast. All though this game has some good graphics, character designs and voice actors from the original 
 anime. But the gameplay is really low and unrealistic. I have been waiting for this game for at least 
 a month or two for this game to come out. I got it and played it for weeks and just got bored of 
 it. Although this was one of the first Bleach games to be released to the U. S. along with the DS 
 game. But the Bankai and the special zan-pakutou attack are just not worth cheering over for. Right 
 now all I'm hearing is just crickets chirping towards the audience of how terrible and ambitous 
 the game is. Although this game has more than 32 characters to play from but that still does not 
 give you all the fun you really want. Buying goods and models from the Urahara shop is just still 
 not that fun at all. Hey kids they're models and voices! Snap out of it there just trying to bore 
 the heck out of you. The attacks are really fast but it just wastes too much fatigue. The worst is 
 the story mode, it is just too small and so not fun to most players. Please people, never ever buy 
 there Sega games right now ,they're terrible. Well I'm done guys see you later people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apardi1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Here is my rant on the bleach wii game. If you have not bought it yet and wanted a review on it, 
 here is what I thought about the game, some good and some bad.
  
  Well upon first impressions, it's a definite follow-up to the gamecube. The graphics are slightly 
 better than the GC version but I prefer the art-work and 3d modeling on the GC better. The controls 
 are innovative for Wii standards, but there are alot of drawbacks which I will explain later. Now 
 dont get me started on the voice work and the soundtrack (this only applies to the ENGLISH VERSION) , 
 it sucks!!!!! But overall play and the abundance of characters will satisfy most fighting fans 
 and especically us Bleach fans despite the horrible sound and much needed control update.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  For an anime fighing game its pretty good. I would have given it a full 10 
 if it weren't for some minor things that bugged me. I actually prefered the some of the graphics 
 on GC better. The backgrounds are your typical bleach surroundings. The model work was ok but I 
 just could not stand how the put the dorkiest looking smile on Kenpachi when he does his intros 
 in the game (hint sega if you are reading this... check out Bleach Heat the Soul 4 and see how 
 they render good 3d modeling) . One other thing that bugged me was the area goes different when 
 a character hits bankai or super mode, I just want a normal in-game transformation. Gameplay and 
 story: 8.5/10
  Because the controls still need an overhaul, I rate this bleach Wii game an 8.5/10. Mind you there 
 are some innovative hack and slash moves with cancelling other opponents moves to in-game transformations 
 will make this game quite appealing. The story can be used as a filler for the anime if Viz ever 
 decides to make into anime or an OVA. There are over 30+ characters to play and keep you happy 
 for awhile (but no kon or kaien or nanao) . Most of the story modes for each character have tie-ins 
 to the other characters stories. The main bad guy, Arturo Plateado, is a decent main boss if you 
 set the difficulty for normal or hard. But if you play this game in easy mode you will get bored 
 quickly! I repeat quickly!
  
  One little gripe that I wish Sega can make is the ability to turn off bankai intros and just make 
 it a in-game transformation just like how the folks at atari did with DBZ. Some are OK (for certain 
 captains) but the for rest, the bankai background is just useless!
  
  Controls: 7/10 (needs to be updated and overhauled)
  Now since its on a Wii, you think you would 
 get some true hacking and slashing controls, you do but its somewhat buggy. If you just shake or 
 jerk the controller by accident you go into an frenzy attack mode. The rock-paper-scissor cancelling 
 mode is actually fun if it werent for the controller to be un-responsive at times. Plus the use 
 of the nunchuck is somewhat useless. Besides movement and just shaking it for the bankai mode. 
 Please use more innovatve ways for the nunchuck besides just shaking it for bankai. ALSO WE NEED 
 A JUMP BUTTON!!!!
  
  Another gripe that i found was that Sega in their infinte wisdom put the pause button on 1. Please 
 Sega, use either the + or - next time you make Bleach Wii 2 because people will accidentally hit 
 pause the game because they are hitting 1 by accident.
  
  Voice/Soundtrack/Dubbing (2/10)
  Thats right, the worst dubbing i have seen in a game. First 
 there is no option to hear the original japanese voices. I would have given this 9/10 if they did. 
 (Sega if you read this and follow Atari's example in their DBZ games) Personally I just can't stand 
 the english voices. (another reason i gave a low scrore) And the lip-synching is awful. (main reason 
 I gave a 2) I wish this game came with a cool intro like the original bleach heat the soul did, 
 but the folks at sega didnt put any good soundtrack in this game. Its just your typical fighting 
 soundtrack. I hope they fix their mistake and add cool anime intros or soundtracks from the tv 
 show and the ability to hear JAPANESE VOICES.
  
  Funfactor: 8
  Despite the horrible soundtrack and voices and somewhat buggy controlls, I found this game to be 
 fun and a good fighting game on the Wii. In my opinion Bleach Heat the Soul is still the GOLD STANDARD 
 for bleach fighting games.
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 7 -7.5 (if the voices were fixed and controls tweaked my score would have been higher)
 
  
  Its a decent bleach game that needs to be overhauled inorder for a sequel to come out. (Bleach 
 Heat the Soul is still the GOLD STANDARD and the folks at sega need to see bandai's and atari's 
 work on dbz to make this series a staple for the Wii) But all in all, this game is still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clue22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good but the story mode goes by pretty fast but any bleach fan should get it. 
 The only bad thing is the wii version has no wi-fi but the multi-player is good. There is like 
 32 characters and I don't have all of them yet but they made a special character just for it and 
 all you do is basically end up fighting him whenever yoo get to the end of a character story mode. 
 That is the only really bad part. But I give it a 9.0 because it could be a little better in the 
 fighting area of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erie_enigma
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Finally, we have a Bleach game in the US. Two actually, but I'll only be reviewing the Wii game 
 this time around. Bleach-Shattered Blade is a fun game to play for a Bleach fan -- and for a non-fan, 
 it's an interesting fighter worth at least a rent.
  
  Set in the realms of an anime by Tite Kubo, Bleach is about amazing people (human and non-humans) 
 with amazing 'spiritual' powers, societies in other dimensions, and a whole bunch of other anime-inspired 
 themes. This game does not follow a series arc (ala the DBZ games) but instead creates a unique 
 story-line for each character to follow (all around a central theme) . The story is set in the time 
 period just after a quelled rebellion in the 'soul society' (the realms where the Soul Reapers 
 , the protectors of humans and human spirits against evil spirits -called Hollows- live) . If your 
 an import fan you know that story already -- if not, Cartoon network hasn't gotten this far in the 
 series progression. In any case, a large blade has been shattered into many pieces at the end of 
 that arc. The storylines in this game follow each character trying to obtain these shards (for 
 their own reasons each) which leads to many fights with the other characters. Without going any 
 further into specifics of each story, let's just say it's not incredibly involved and gets repetitive, 
 but the overall effect works for trying out each character (but a very stripped down story overall 
 for each) . this is very different from other anime (as stated, DBZ, also Naruto) where you play 
 through the show's story arcs (or manga, for that matter) . It would have been nice if this game 
 followed the series to play through some of those great moments.
  
  Other modes are typical for this style of fighter (arcade pits you against 8 CPU rivals with a 
 reward of the game's form of currency) , VS is just that, one on one battles, and a 'shop' for buying 
 in-game extras such as graphics, sound bytes, and storyboards from the episode mode.
  
  The character selection is pretty good, with great representations of the main characters from 
 the show (and a few that haven't been introduced yet in the US dubbing versions) . The graphics 
 are well done with each character represented well and the voices spot on for the series. There 
 is no Japanese track -- but then again I have only seen one episode in Japanese so that's not a huge 
 loss for me.
  
  Okay, so, the controls and the fighting, the meat of the game. The controls work great for this 
 unique style of fighting. You perform basic overhand, side slashes, stabs, and up swings with the 
 same motions of the wiimote. The basic attacks are very fast and you can slash forever -- if it weren't 
 for an attack gauge the drops as you slash your way -- it recovers when you let up (so you just can't 
 slash forever -- you 'tire out', kind of a nice feature really) . Stronger attacks are performed by 
 doing the same motions while holding in the A button (for stronger) and B trigger (for special) 
 attacks. Each person has uniqe strong and special attacks, different attack ranges (some don't 
 even have swords) , and speeds. Dashing or 'flash step' is performed by holding the c-button in 
 while moving, and basic movement uses the analog on the nunchuk. Then there's the Bankai Gauge/mode. 
 Power-up of your Bankai gauge is done by shaking the nunchuk and attacking/being attacked. When 
 filled, you simply flick the nunchuk to power up your character temporarily (Bankai mode -- your 
 character, now in a super mode/higher level) . This speeds you up and changes your special attacks 
 with devastating punishment made possible for many characters. This is fleeting and you aren't 
 invincible at this time, but you are pretty strong. The characters are fairly balanced if used 
 properly -- there are a few stronger/weaker ones however, but that just follows how those people 
 are in the show (one character from a 'healing squad' actually heals people when he attacks with 
 his sword -- he can only harm by attacking with special moves not using his sword! That ramps up 
 the difficulty of that story arc!) .
  
  The flaws with the game run along the lines of not enough true episode content, repeitive 'episode 
 mode', and a bit 'hack and slash-ee'. Deffinately a longer/more in depth story mode would help 
 out here -- maybe for the next release (although I don't think we need 150 playable characters as 
 in the new DBZ!) . The controls work pretty good but occasionally don't register exactly (then again, 
 that may be my own lack of finesse there) . Some hard-core fighting game gurus I'm sure have problems 
 with the simplistic controls/lack of long combos that they're used to. That can be a plus too for 
 some.
  
  The pros run from the great character models, the bonus content for the character models and unlockable 
 characters, and the great source material the game comes from (yes, I'm biased a bit) . Also, the 
 controls do work well -- not overly complex by any means but not completely simple (again, some will 
 want long combos and more buttons to hit in sequence I'm sure) . Kind of smash-brothers in a way 
 with the attacks.
  
  Overall I think this is agreat first Wii game from the Bleach series. I look forward to what more 
 can be done for the Wii and more along the Bleach lines. The DS game appears to be very good and 
 the anime gains in popularity in the US all the time; I figure we'll be seeing more Bleach titles 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto636
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  its one of the best games ive ever played if u have a wii i urge u 2 get dis game now and since 
 its hard 2 write 100 words get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get 
 dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis 
 gameget dis game get dis game man dis is a lot of words get dis game get dis game get dis game 
 get dis game get dis game get dis game get dis game u wont regret it haaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_jonathan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  -Many players to choose from ( +1 )
  
  -Swinging the Wii remote to control your Zanpaktou makes you feel like your actually battling your 
 opponent ( + 5 )
  
  -Good use of exercise for the arms ( +3 )
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Graphics needs a bit improvement ( -0.5 )
  
  -Game gets repetitive (- 0.5 )
  
  Battle 
 System:
  I'm impressed with the battle system because instead of button smashing, you actually get to use 
 your Wii remote to battle like your favorite bleach character. There's a variety of ways to attack 
 your opponent with the Wii remote, like holding the A button or B button while swinging, or holding 
 none of the buttons. Shaking the Nun-Chuck is a creative way to charge your spiritual pressure 
 and Flicking it is a cool way to release your bankai! The only concern for the battle system is 
 that it gets a bit repetitive.
  
  I would give the battle system a 4.5/5
  
  
  Storyline:
  Well, the story line is very repetitive and they could have done much better.
  
 The storyline, episode mode, allows you to choose different characters of their own storyline. 
 You start off with Renji Abarai's, Ichigo Kurosaki's, and Hitsugaya Toshirou's Story line. So basically 
 you get to choose from any of the three and once you beat their storyline, you unlock a new character 
 and a new character for you to use in their storyline. There is always a boss that you have to 
 battle in every storyline for all the characters in episode mode. Despite the fact that the storyline 
 gets really repetitive, its a great way to start your fun!
  
  I would give the Storyline a 3.5/5
  
  Conclusion:
  When i first bought this game, it was 
 actually what i had already expected. Although this game seems repetitive, and pretty easy to beat, 
 here are tips for you to keep playing this awesome game:
  
  -Invite some friends over and go play with them, be sure to have a lot of experience in playing 
 this so you can show them how great you are in this game
  
  -Capture some of your cool battles on video and go upload them on Youtube - Capture an epic battle 
 on Vid, make it out of and AMV and again upload it on Youtube 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PK-er1111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Bleach: Shattered Blade marks the debut of the popular Anime/Manga series on the Nintendo Wii, 
 and is a great game over all for hardcore fans and casual fighter players.
  
  First off, the game deals great justice to the series. There is full voice acting by all of the 
 characters and the game makes reference to the original story on many occasions. Thirty-two characters 
 are selectable, from the basics (like Ichigo and Chad) to characters not yet seen in America (Grimmjow 
 and Ulqoirra) . Most of the characters fit in well with the fighting mechanics of the game; all 
 except Uryu Ishida. While his inclusion makes sense, as he is a pivotal story character, his fighting 
 style doesn't really work here.
  
  The game is played by swinging the Wii remote as a sword. Whichever way you swing, the Wii will 
 pick it up and your character will follow. You you swing from the bottom up; So will your character. 
 The fighting feels really nice and works for the battles in Bleach. The only major problem is that 
 sometimes, during the Clash minigame, the Sensor Bar doesn't read the moves correctly, and you'll 
 often find yourself preforming a move that you didn't want.
  
  The graphics are really good, and Cel Shading definatley looks good in the Wii system. Everything 
 flows real nice and the backgrounds are pretty. There is only one issue, which is poor collision 
 detection on the character models. You'll often find clothes and weapons overlapping. it's not 
 a big deal, but is somewhat bothersome.
  
  All around, Bleach: Shattered Blade is a great game for anybody looking for a fighting game on 
 the Wii, and I wholeheartedly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Bleach. What a name. Upon hearing it, one might assume that this incredibly popular anime is about 
 doing laundry. There have been stranger concepts, after all. There are no washing machines or fabric 
 softener here. Bleach is all about three things: swords, souls, and kicking ass. It follows the 
 saga of Ichigo, a student who accidentally acquired the abilities of the Grim Reaper. The rest 
 of the series basically involves him traveling between his world and the Soul Society (aka the 
 afterlife) and his mission to defeat whatever evil demonic forces that show up. While Ichigo is 
 the main character, the large ensemble cast of warriors (living or otherwise) creates intricately 
 developed themes of love, betrayal, revenge, greed, etc. But in case you dont feel like learning 
 everything about the series, heres the bottom line: demonic sword fighting aplenty. Get all that? 
 Hope so. Bleach: Shattered Blade assumes that you know the plot and drops you right into the middle 
 of the story. Some guy named Aizen decided to start a rebellion in Soul Society a few days ago, 
 and now everyones dealing with the aftermath. But more importantly, the Sokyoku has been destroyed. 
 This mystical weapon is supposed to hold more spiritual power than anything ever crafted, and its 
 remaining shards can still give a person a Hell of a boost. Since collecting more pieces means 
 attaining more power, all of the key players in town are scrambling to get in on the action. Some 
 want its power to save lives, while others are just looking for personal benefit. However, everyone 
 is desperate enough to kill for it. Yes, the plot really is that cliched.
  
  Its not like youre going to be spending much time focusing on it, though. While Shattered Blade 
 features over 30 playable characters, only a fraction of them have fully developed storylines in 
 the games Episode Mode. Disappointing indeed, considering how many current console fighters thrive 
 on character-driven storylines. The majority of the games roster is only accessible via the Arcade 
 Mode, which pits your character against a gauntlet of eight characters in three-round matches. 
 Fans of the manga/anime will be glad to see that each fighter comes with his or her own stash of 
 signature attacks and spiritual summons. Youll get to see a wide array of Bankai supermoves, ranging 
 from simple attack/defensive boosts, screen-filling energy waves, giant snake monstrosities, fiery 
 tornados, and even some Hot Pink Cherry Blossoms of Doom. While these attacks look pretty awesome, 
 only those familiar with the series will understand their significance. Actually performing such 
 moves, however, is a little unusual. Youve got to build up your spirit energy (conveniently shown 
 in a gauge at the bottom of the screen) before you can let loose. Dishing out regular attacks or 
 taking damage nets you plenty of energy, but you can save yourself the trouble by simply shaking 
 the Nunchuck Controller attachment for a few seconds. But if you want to end your matches quickly 
 (at the expense of missing out on all the badass theatrics) , youll need to rely more on your characters 
 standard attacks. The WiiMote acts as the hilt of your virtual sword, allowing you to chop vertically, 
 slash horizontally, and stab with a quick thrust. If you wave the controller around wildly, youll 
 be able to pull off a 30-hit combo with little effort. However, such random attacks do you little 
 good; theyre so weak that they inflict almost no damage. Instead, youll likely use a few quick 
 moves as a setup for Critical Attacks, which allow you inflict a greater amount of damage and pierce 
 your opponents guard. This, along with other Special Attacks, leaves you wide open for countering 
 and evasion maneuvers. Sounds pretty cool, doesnt it? Hacking and slashing with the WiiMote is 
 incredibly fun (and potentially tiring) , but the gameplay could have used a bit more fine-tuning 
 and balancing. Each movement costs you (hence being able to perform 30-hit quick combos) a bit 
 of power from a second energy gauge at the top of the screen. Critical and Special Attacks use 
 up even more of your energy. Bearing that in mind, you can easily abuse the system by performing 
 some quick attacks to knock your opponent off guard, then follow it up with a more powerful move. 
 While your enemy is knocked down, your gauge will recharge long enough to perform the same tactic 
 over and over again. If you feel like using blunt force, you can rely on Critical Attacks; youll 
 usually be able to overpower your opponents onslaught after a few slow-motion impacts. Should 
 both characters use the same attack at the same time, youll be forced to endure a glorified Rock-Paper-Scissors 
 mini-game involving you guessing how your opponent will move. Youll get to choose between swinging 
 vertically, horizontally, or stabbing; since one is weak against the other, youll need to get 
 the best of five exchanges to win the mini-duel. Itd be a lot less irritating if the game recognized 
 your movements more accurately.
  
  At least the rest of the fighting is both fun and challenging, assuming you dont feel like exploiting 
 the combat mechanics. Besides, theres tons of stuff to unlock. Youll have spent quite a while 
 in Arcade Mode by the time youve unlocked every character, alternate costume, and extra fighting 
 stages. By playing through that and the Episode Mode, youll amass thousands of bonus points that 
 can be used to purchase graphics and in-game cutscenes for the massive Art Gallery. Its a shame 
 that the game designers didnt provide such incentive for playing in the Versus Mode. There is 
 no online multiplayer either, which would have added so much more replay value and competitive 
 gameplay. The game tries to make it up to you by including unlockable 3D character model displays 
 and voice/music sound tests, but they probably wont keep you entertained for long. That goes double 
 for the hardcore fans that despise the English voice acting for the series. Its not like theyre 
 terrible; you can hear all of the fury and intensity behind each characters attacks. Hearing Ichigo 
 scream, This ismy BANKAI! and his other impassioned battle cries can be memorable. But since 
 these characters spout so many lines when they do their supermoves (all of which feature cutscenes 
 that cant be skipped) in every battle, youre going to tire of them quickly. At least the Bankai 
 summons are awesome; chances are, youve never seen a fighting game that involves someone conjuring 
 up a giant red-headed snake and commanding it to ravage the battlefield. Or watching some kid spout 
 a pair of solid ice wings and start flying around, for that matter. Veterans of the series will 
 appreciate the attention given to the little details, like how the characters cel-shaded costumes 
 transform or react to movement. Theyll likely understand the significance of the barren wastelands, 
 darkened alleyways, and the handful of other battleground backgrounds as well. But for the rest, 
 the fast-paced sword action will be enough to look at.
  
  Its not that Bleach: Shattered Blade is a bad game. Theres just far too much wasted potential. 
 Its fun slicing and dicing your way through so many unique characters with the WiiMote. With plenty 
 of unlockables, fans and newcomers alike will have plenty with which to contend. If you follow 
 the anime or manga, youll feel right at home with all the awesome attacks, flashy summons, and 
 heated character interaction. Fighting game fanatics, however, might want to give this a rental 
 before diving headlong into something they might not like. This game isnt so much about technical 
 gameplay as it is about letting loose and beating the Hell out of your opponent. The combat mechanics 
 are easy to exploit, effectively leaving the gameplay unbalanced and somewhat shallow. The utterly 
 lacking multiplayer and somewhat inaccurate motion sensing dont help, either. But hey, at least 
 your arms will get a workout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrimmsonHell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The opening title to the game is pretty flashy nothing to complain about it's alright getting into 
 the title screen of it of course it any game it say press Start with the letter A and then you 
 are on the index screen with many options to select such as story mode which is not very long and 
 some others such as versus mode arcade mode and gallery mode all with few surprises of non-stop 
 action from the hit TV show in America and Japan yes! also there are up to 32 characters to choose 
 from such as  and other such formal characters from the 
 show , the story mode begins after Aizen and the other soul reaper Captain leaves with him into 
 Hueco Mundo and it tells of you must find the shattered pieces of Senbonzakura to return to the 
 human world yes! i know i am revealing to you the entire story just deal with it then when all 
 the Senbonzakura pieces are retrived you must battle one more foe who for some reason is a Arrancar 
 &gt; and yea so i know it may be an okay story but whatever also i dont like about it is the voices 
 because there in english me dont like it at all so plz check it out i have it (of course and its 
 rocking my socks so go get it if you are a bleach fan you wont regret it well maybe you will but 
 thats why we gotta stay together as BLEACH FANS WOOT so yeah  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightGrave
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow im actually amazed that bleach the game for wii is updated like this it's pretty caught up 
 to the anime and manga now this is a game worth playing. To those that aren't up to date with bleach 
 and are just watching it on dvd and adult swim start getting updated with the games that have anime 
 genre in them it would help you understand more. I like this there's no doubt in my mind im gonna 
 be picking this game up when it comes out, Using the wii controller to fight against the opponent 
 will be amazing the only thing that im gonna be having questions about is if this will be online 
 where you get to fight one another anywhere in the world. If so the game raiting will no doubt 
 be popular to all bleach fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  NOTE: THE U. S. VERSION OF THIS GAME STINKS - the voices are terribly annoying and repetative. This 
 review is of the import. The gameplay is still there in the U. S. version, but marred by incessant 
 voice acting.
  
  Unlike most fighting games, this is one your family and friends can get in to. Hacking at somebody 
 is as simple as swiping your Wiimote (vertical and horizontal attacks) - striking them harder requires 
 pressing the A button whilst doing the same. Large attacks? Hold B.
  
  The fun of the game comes not from its difficulty of mastering combos (there is no real difficulty 
 that we found) , but from mastering how and when to use the moves you have.
  
  It is gratifying to pull off the super moves of each character by using familiar movements that 
 all characters employ. With practice you get a handle on what each character does and how best 
 to play them.
  
  Unlocking content (new characters, stages & costumes) is easy enough.
  
  Sadly, you can't copy your save onto the SD card (at least in the Japanese Import version) 
 so you can't transfer this game if you Wii dies nor download saves off of teh interwebs.
  
  The graphics are good, but the stages are empty. There are no obstacles, no environment, just old 
 PSX/PS1 Tekken style stages that you never seem to find the edge to. This was a bit jarring after 
 getting used to the excellent Dragonball Z Budukai Tenkaichi 2 on the Wii.
  
  Still, because this game uses the Wii's controls (DBZ2 was impossible to play without a Classic 
 or GameCube controller) , and it's combo system is easy, it ends up being more fun.
  
  There's just something more exciting about gesticulating about with your Wiimote while fighting 
 your friends in a game that's so simple to learn the moves they feel they can pick up and play 
 it - yet so difficult to master they won't beat you unless you let them.
  
  Another bonus is the fact that there are quite a few female characters; DBZ2 had about 4 out of 
 129! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  So far I have only beaten the game with Ichigo (in 25 minutes) but in that time i can draw up some 
 conclusions.
  
  the controls kind of suck, all you really have to do is wave the wiimote like mad and time the 
 strikes up with crits and specials.
  
  the voice acting is good, the lip syncing to that acting is kinf of off (not quite as bad as the 
 godzilla movies though LMAO) .
  
  The story line of Ichigo's story mode is a little cut and dry, kill off everyone, kill the last 
 boss end of game, hopefully its not the same for each char.
  
  but overall, it gets a 8/10 from me, great game, no bleach fan should go with out it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Vader
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm a Bleach fan and picked up this as soon as it came out.
  
  Pros: Motion sensing controls are pretty good, moves are easily unleashed (which is a plus for 
 a fighting game noob like me) . Great selections of characters and stages, awesome Bankai effects
 
  
  Con: Loading time is pretty long compares to the gameplay. During the story mode I constantly finding 
 myself waiting for the loading screen to finish. I watched the series with subs, so the English 
 voice over sucks, I wish they kept it in Japanese and just sub it. Characters are not very well 
 balanced, but hey, who cares, pick the guy you like and use it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KuchikiByakuya6
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, I don't know where to start...... (I'm probably like this because I'm a Bleach Lover) . 
 Many (pro) characters and great Wii Remote Fuctioning.
  I won 1 match against my bro but he beated me once too (so im not owning much) . With all the Awesome 
 Bankais in this game. ITS PRO (My personallity got killed by the game) . Right now just practicing 
 Kira and his cheap Wabisuke. I have way.... more reasons to add more sentences but if i add them 
 all, i would have at least 200 more sentences to type, so lets put it in small words.
  
  PRO BANKAI, Character design, Awesome wii remote play, sounds, pro moves, nice guitar sounds, some 
 of the dub voices are actually okay (not as good as japenese) , multiplayer action, story modes, move 
 set up, The only thing that is bad is Bad English Dubs (some of them are okay) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  An anime Fighting game that is different from others, because of the attack speed (Insane, The characters 
 attack very fast) , you can always run around the stage, some unique habilities and some characters 
 use bankai, and of course, you cant always attack because have an stamina bar, and if you stop attack 
 it will recharge. The game is like the anime, exagered and high-speed combats. Some characters in 
 bankai mode will run faster, others will run too fast that appears he is teleporting .In this game, have 
 the main characters, some captains and sub-captains, and arrancars. they doesn't put some bountou 
 characters. If one day you will play this game, don't worry, it is in japanese and english too (below 
 the japanese words in menu) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentagulia
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Bleach Hakujin Kira is a groundbreaking game in a lot of good ways. First and foremost, it's the 
 first (and to date only) fighting game on the Wii. (excluding the random flailing of wii sports 
 boxing) It's the first fighting game to feature motion-sensing controls, and to furthermore feature 
 them not just as a gimmick but as the main input method. It's one of very few well done cel-shaded 
 fighting games, looking much the same as any of the Naruto fighting games cropping up on the PS2. 
 It's also the first game to use the Bleach liscensce on any home console to my knowledge. This 
 novelty means that Bleach will, at least at first, look and feel like nothing you have ever played 
 before. Unfortunately, this novelty is also Bleach's downfall: Because so many aspects of Bleach 
 are all new, Sega chose to go with simple, proven design for whatever features they could. The 
 result is a game that will blow you away when you first try it, but quickly begin to give you the 
 feeling that you've done it all before.
  
  For those not up to speed on the wildly popular Bleach manga and anime, it goes something like 
 this: a violent but good hearted high schooler named Ichigo (written as First Guardian in Japanese 
 but sounding like Strawberry ) has always had the ability to see ghosts. One day he happens to 
 something more: a soul reaper or shinigami -- a spirit who guides the dead from this world to their 
 eternal rest, and also hunts demons and evil spirits who seek to feed on ghosts and the living 
 alike. Ichigo ends up interfering in a fight between the shinigami and a demon and in the ensuing 
 chaos, ends up being recruited as a temporary soul reaper to help with the demon problem. From 
 there he goes on to meet a wide variety of interesting living, dead, undead and immortal characters 
 who stand on various sides of the conflict between the realms of heaven, earth and hell. In terms 
 of gameplay, what does all of this translate into? Lots and lots of very flashy swordplay, of course.
 
  
  The game has quite a few playable characters, and allthough I have not spent the time with it to 
 unlock everyone yet, I would say the number is probably about 30 or so. Each character has their 
 own weapon, fighting style, special moves and Bankai powers, all of which look great and unique, 
 but which unfortunately boil down to end up being very similar. Each fighter is equipped with three 
 basic attacks: A vertical slash, a horizantal swipe and a forward thrust. Each of these can also 
 be performed as a more powerful slower version. Each character also has 3 special moves, unique 
 to them which may be melee attacks, charging moves, aerial strikes or projectiles depending on 
 the character. Finally each character has a Bankai meter that charges (very quickly) as you land 
 attacks. Once it full, the player can temporarily enter a charged-up state wherein all of their 
 attacks become flashier and more powerful, and one of their specials becomes ridiculously devastating 
 super move that is often unblockable, undodgable, a near one-hit kill or some combination thereof. 
 These 3 normals, 3 heavy attacks, 3 specials and 1 super move are all that you will have at your 
 disposal in Bleach. There are no ducking or jumping moves, no alternate speed special attacks, 
 no guard cancels, alpha counters, fakeouts or any of the other strategic advancements that have 
 been slowly accumulating in fighting games since Super Street Fighter 2 on the SNES. This means 
 that the fighting is fast, flashy, and easy to learn, but not very technical. The overwhelming 
 strength of the super moves also means that a fight usually boils down to who can succesfully land 
 theirs first, with everything else being irrelevant.
  
  The controls in Bleach are simple and clean. Movement is controlled with the analog thumbstick 
 and attacks are executed with the remote. A horizontal sweep gets you a horizontal attack, moving 
 the pointer from about a 30 degree upward angle to down in a quick motion gives you a vertical 
 strike and thrust of the remote translates to a stabbing attack. Holding the A button while performing 
 these motions gives you a slower, guard shattering version of the attack and holding B will activate 
 a special. The C button on the nunchuck shifts your movement to running and the Z button blocks. 
 The controls are easy to learn but can be overly picky. The horizontal slash for example, requires 
 that you not tilt the controller at all and that you be fairly precise about not moving up or down 
 while you swing. This can be difficult to do during a frenzied match. It is also worth noting that 
 the wide arm movements the game responds best to will require you to be standing and have a fair 
 amount of space around you so you wont smack other players in the face or bang a wall. It also 
 means that you will be standing in front of your TV swinging the remote around and generally looking 
 like a doofus, but that's half the fun of the wii. Super moves are released by shaking the nunchuk 
 vigourously when the bankai bar is full, but this motion will not be sensed if the wii remote moves 
 at all while you are shaking the nunchuck. This can be very frustrating given the power of the 
 bankai moves and the importance of releasing yours as soon as possible.
  
  The visuals in the game are not terribly advanced but do contain alot of flash and make excellent 
 use of shading and motion captured animation to bring much of the visual style of the anime to 
 the screen. Some of the animations that play when a character releases their Bankai charge can 
 be a bit tiresome and lengthy but all are visually impressive. All in all, Bleach is sure to appeal 
 to fans of the series, and fans of the wii who have wondered about the possibilities for fighting 
 games using the wiimote. How long it continues to appeal to you after the inital novelty depends 
 on how deep you like your fighting games. If you'd rather play Super Smash Brothers Melee than 
 Tekken, this game is probably for you. If you wish that SNK would add some more complexity to KoF 
 however, you will quickly grow bored here. Overall 7.8 and definately worth a try if you know someone 
 who has a Japanese Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Bleach on the Wii is an excellent game; VERY FUN, GUD REPLAY VALUE, SOLID GRAFIX, AND FUN MOVES. 
 i like this game alot, yet the controls are a bit to easy . You'll usually find urself flinging 
 the Wiimote up and down alot to get off quick attakcs. The main moves requires a fling of the nunchuk, 
 but u regain specials very quickley. The only characters I found myself not just flingin around 
 the control is Uryu Ishida and Ganju Shiba, as they are long-range characters and are the hardest 
 to learn. This game is still very gud and I will buy my own copy as soon as they get a Wii Freeloader. (My 
 friend has the game, Japanese Wii) . I am still looking vey forward to Naruto on the Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
