-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Boogie
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/boogie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 If you really try to get into the singing and dancing, it can be fun.
 Attractive visual style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Karaoke doesn't really work.
 &quot;Dancing&quot; is nothing more than moving the remote in four directions.
 Tracklist has limited appeal.
 Story mode is flat-out lame.
 Game is short, easy, and gets old after an hour.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 497 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Montreal
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Aug 7, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Boogie's gameplay mix of singing and dancing is an interesting idea, but it's poorly executed.

  The Wii has already seen its share of unique games, and this trend is certain to continue as developers 
 start creating more games specifically designed to take advantage of the system's motion controls. 
 One such game is Boogie, EA's first game built from the ground up for the Wii. The game's premise, 
 which has you sing, dance, and even create your own music videos is an interesting one. However, 
 an interesting premise does not necessarily make for a great game. Such is the case with Boogie. 
 Using the Wii Remote to "dance" isn't that interesting, the karaoke doesn't work very well, and 
 the tracklist isn't likely to appeal to the younger audience the game is geared toward.  

           Don't try to understand what's going on; it will just make your head hurt.      

  
 There are five playable characters in Boogie, each with five playable chapters and a nonsensical 
 storyline. While the characters may look interesting, their stories certainly aren't, thanks in 
 no small part to the cutscenes, which aren't animated and have no voice acting. Some chapters will 
 have you sing, but most of them are dance only. If for whatever reason you don't want to sing, 
 you can play without a microphone and the karaoke chapters will have you dancing instead. Other 
 than earning credits to unlock a few songs and some new clothing accessories, there's no point 
 in playing the story mode. Once you've unlocked the songs, you can choose to either sing or dance 
 to them from the main menu. With the game's music video feature, you can record a singing or dancing 
 performance, as well as spice it up with camera cuts and a limited number of effects. The editing 
 tools are simple and easy to use, but you can still get some nice results with minimal effort. 

  Boogie starts off with a tutorial that gives you the basics on getting down. You move your character 
 around the level with the Nunchuk's analog stick or the remote's D pad. All you have to do to dance 
 is move the Wii Remote left, right, up, or down in time to the music. What happens onscreen loosely 
 correlates to the movement of the remote, so if you move it down, your character will usually do 
 a move that involves crouching or spinning on the floor. If you shake the remote to the right, 
 your character will move to the right of the screen. You'll want to avoid repeating the same moves 
 too many times in a row because if you do, your score will go down. But this isn't much of a problem 
 because you can string together combos with ease by performing consecutive moves on the beat. The 
 speaker on the Wii Remote acts as a metronome, and there's also a visual indicator on the screen 
 to help you stay in time to the music. The more moves you time properly in a row, the higher your 
 score. As your score increases, so does your boost meter. Once you've obtained a bit of boost, 
 you can hold down the B button to trigger a series of arrows at the bottom of the screen. If you 
 follow the pattern correctly, your character will perform a special dance move that will net you 
 big points. You can play the game with only the Wii Remote if you like, but if you're using the 
 Nunchuk, the boost meter will also let you perform poses. All you've got to do to strike a pose 
 is hold down the C button and move the Nunchuk to line up the onscreen cursor with the target. 

  That long explanation can be boiled down to this: Wave the remote around and you'll win. You'll 
 have much more fun if you get out of your chair and really dance while you move the controller, 
 but it's not necessary in the least. Even on the hardest difficulty setting, the game is absurdly 
 easy and requires minimal skill or rhythm. There's a party mode where you can have a dance-off 
 with a friend, but the addition of freezing and reversing icons doesn't do much to make it any 
 better than the single-player game.  

  Dancing is only half of Boogie's gameplay because you'll also get to show off your pipes in karaoke 
 mode. It's quite similar to the Karaoke Revolution and Singstar games. The lyrics run across the 
 bottom of the screen and the pitch is represented by horizontal bars. A cursor shows the pitch 
 of your voice relative to the actual song, and all you have to do is hit the right notes to earn 
 points. Actually, that's not true at all because the karaoke part of the game is essentially broken. 
 Like other karaoke games, you don't have to sing the proper words -- that's nothing new. What is 
 new, however, is that you don't even have to sing. You can whistle bird calls, tap the microphone, 
 blow into it, rub it on your shirt -- anything you can think of -- and still pass. Basically, if you're 
 alive and breathing, the game thinks you're the next Frank Sinatra.  

  Nearly every song in Boogie could be considered a karaoke staple. But it's an odd, mostly older 
 mix of songs for a game that's seemingly geared toward the younger crowd. Only a handful of songs, 
 such as "Fergalicious," "SOS (Rescue Me) ," "Let's Get it Started," "Don't Cha," a few Britney Spears 
 songs, and a couple of other tunes are from the past 10 years. The rest of the songs are much older, 
 and there's an emphasis on '70s hits, such as "ABC," "Brick House," Celebration," "Le Freak," or 
 "Love Rollercoaster." All of the songs sound like they're covers and slightly remixed (and censored) 
 versions of the original, so if you're looking for the real songs, you'll want to look elsewhere. 
 Many of the songs sound like they've been shortened a bit, which is understandable if parts with 
 no singing are cut out. But some songs, such as "Dancing Machine," still have extended sections 
 with nothing to do. You can use the controller to dance while you sing, but you're not awarded 
 any points for it, so there's little point.  

           If you're breathing, you're a karaoke star -- at least from Boogie's point of view.     

  At least Boogie is a nice-looking game. The character designs are well done and fit the personality 
 of each character. Individual dance moves are animated nicely, but they don't always flow well 
 from one move to the next, and it would be nice if there were more variety. The levels aren't particularly 
 original, but their settings go along with the story, while their bright colors and cartoonlike 
 style fit right in with the rest of the game.  

  Even with all of its missed opportunities, there's fun to be had with Boogie. The character designs 
 are nice, while the singing and dancing can be fun if you really get into it. But most people will 
 likely see Boogie as a missed opportunity. It's far too easy, the tracklist isn't very good, karaoke 
 is straight-up busted, and the dancing just isn't much fun. That's not what people are looking 
 for when they spend $60 on a game, no matter how desperate they are for something new on the Wii. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Coronithofcork
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  I like caroke to an extent but this waz way different. Its fun like the first half-hour but then 
 i just goes bad. dancing is not fun beacause u do all the same moves and its annoying trying to 
 get rhythm to some songs if youre not familiar with them. The soundtrack waz ok nothing special 
 i think the best kareoke game to date is Lips for the XBOX360 because you can put any song you 
 want on there its fun i played it at a friends house. i wouldent recomend buying this game it not 
 what its all craked up to be. But now that i own it im not going to sell it because u dont get neer 
 of what u payed for so plz dont buy this  nothing, peice of crap, game. And 
 i am not buying the second! ok thanks for reading i hope you will make the right desicion because 
 ur wasting youre money ok bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  While games such as Sony's Singstar and Konami's Dance Dance Revolution have taken other consoles 
 by storm, Nintendo loyalists, on home consoles at least, have missed out on the rhythm genre over 
 the past few years. There was a rather odd appearance in the form of Konami's DDR: Mario Mix on 
 the GameCube but, that decidedly average venture aside, our dancing feet are severely out of practice 
 and our dulcet tones haven't even had a warm up. Until now, that is.
  
  With the Wii attracting such wide-ranging audiences, and more specifically a vast 'lightweight' 
 crowd, it makes sense that singing and dancing should be at the top of most publishers' Wii development 
 schedules. And so we have EA taking to the stage with its Wii-exclusive dance-and-sing 'em up, 
 Boogie. 
  
  That's Entertainment
  Over the past few months, anticipation 
  for the game has built and built, and last month's brief hands-on set the stage for something really 
 rather special. But can this rather ambitious little entertainer provide anything more than a bit 
 of throwaway fun? Well, read on...
  
  Boogie sets out its stall from the word go. It wants to give you the ultimate entertainment package 
 and, initially at least, it does just that. In the first five minutes you'll be taken through the 
 various methods in which the Wii Remote and Nunchuk let you dance and move around a stage. You'll 
 also learn that the game's packaged USB microphone lets you sing along to a whole bunch of
  classic '70s, '80s, '90s and modern tracks. After that, you can even edit your performance and 
 create your own music video. That, in a nutshell, is Boogie. But does it actually work?
  
  Despite the rather intricate controls that various promo videos may have implied, dancing in Boogie 
 is actually a decidedly simple affair. While the song is playing you'll be given a beat aid in 
 the form of an on-screen graphic that rises and falls to the beat. To help you even further, the 
 Wii Remote speaker plays a metronome click. 
  
  Born To Boogie
  All you need to do is wave the remote left, right, up or down in time to the beat. Every different 
 direction results in a different move, different sequences of moves will string together different 
 moves and if you keep up with the beat for more than a few bars you'll become 'On Fire' and pull 
 off a different set of moves. You can also tap the A button to change your dancing style and mix 
 things up a bit. You soon learn that mixing it up while keeping to the beat will result in massive 
 scores, which is ultimately the aim of the game.
  
  
  All the while you can use the Nunchuk's analogue stick (or D-pad if you prefer) to move your character 
 around on the stage. The reasons for moving around are three-fold. Firstly, it'll help you to pick 
 up the various upgrades that drop from the sky (more on those in a bit) . Secondly, you can pull 
 off slightly different moves if you're at the edge of the stage and thirdly, moving around will 
 make your music video much more interesting.
  
  Ripping It Up!
  With the standard dancing explained we really should tell you about the 'super moves'. Every time 
 you pull off a move to the beat your Boogie gauge will fill up a little. Holding the B button will 
 enable you to pull off your character's signature move. A sequence of directions (left, right, 
 up, down, for example) will pop up on screen and you have to gesture with the remote to pull off 
 that particular move. All the while your Boogie gauge will be slowly emptying. What the game fails 
 to tell you is that every successive gesture needs to be done to the beat and a certain number 
 of bars apart. If you do it too quickly it simply won't work. In our opinion it's a flaw but you'll 
 pull it off every time once you learn what you need to do. Prepare for a string of obscenities 
 until that eureka moment though.
  
  The second, and far superior special move, is Strike A Pose. Once your Boogie meter is full you 
 can hold Z to jump into Strike A Pose mode. You need to make your character strike poses and you 
 do this by aiming a cursor at on-screen targets. You twist and turn the Nunchuk to move the cursor, 
 and ultimately, your character. Each successive target gets smaller and more difficult to hit.
 
  
  
  Once you master the targets, you might also want to try using the analogue stick to move your character's 
 eyes and tap the C button to move your character's mouth in time to the melody. All of this will 
 earn you more points and make your final video look even better.
  
  Last of all is the Solo mode. This drops in involuntarily at certain points during each song and 
 requires you to tap the Z button in time with the icons that pop up on screen from time to time.
 
  
  Voice Of An Angel
  Of course, Boogie isn't just a dancing game. It's also a karaoke game and you can sing along to 
 all 39 of the game's songs thanks to the microphone that comes packed in. The mic plugs into the 
 USB port on your Wii but thankfully the lead is more than long enough. You can choose to have your 
 voice playing through the speakers, or, if you're a little shy, you can choose to have your input 
 triggering the game's vocal. 
  
  It all works really well and our only criticism would be that if you can sing at a semi-decent 
 standard you're going to find it all very easy. Even on Hard mode you only have to score 400,000 
 points and we were hitting well over a million points every time we played.
  
  Step It Up
  Scoring Boogie is quite a tough call. On 
  the one hand, it successfully ticks 
 all the boxes in its quest to become the ultimate multiplayer entertainment package. It is genuinely 
 good fun in multiplayer but there are several annoying factors that pull Boogie up short and prevent 
 it from fulfilling its full potential.
  
  For starters, it just isn't as in-depth or rewarding as it should be. It's genuinely annoying that 
 you can't pull off moves to the half-beat. Moves are only registered 
  on the beat. However, this probably has something to do with how accurate the 
  Wii Remote is. 
 
  
  
  It's also really annoying that decent combos just don't exist. Changing dance styles is so slow 
 and moving your character about so lethargic that you can't possibly string together moves. Granted, 
 this would turn off the lightweight users but why not have the option for more complex moves in 
 there so that people can master them if they want to?
  
  We're also dumbfounded by the fact that EA hasn't chosen to support song downloads via WiiConnect24. 
 With WiiWare going live early next year it really is a missed opportunity. The songs included are 
 mostly well selected, but you're going to get bored of them sooner or later.
  
  Hang The DJ? HERE
  Our last gripe stems from how you can waste an entire Boogie meter if you happen 
 to go for a Strike A Pose or attempt a character special just as a Solo kicks in and negates it. 
 Some kind of warning or Solo countdown would've been a simple way to get over this.
  
  That said, Boogie is still an extremely entertaining game. The main Story mode won't last you very 
 long but, like Wii Sports and Rayman Raving Rabbids, you'll be booting it up time and time again 
 for a 30-minute blast with your mates. And in that respect, it provides great value for money. 
 
  
  Ultimately though, we really have to take our hats off to EA for having the balls to go all out 
 in developing not only an exclusive title for the console but also investing in an entirely new 
 Wii peripheral. As a package, it's a breath of fresh air that will put a smile on anyone's face.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Although the Wii has many wierd and mostly wonderful games, but it has yet to see a decent game 
 like sing star, although whether or not Rockband proves to be worthy is what we in Aus are waiting 
 for. 
  So many will be strolling through shops to be enlightened by Boogie, a game that promises things 
 like, good dancing, singing and a straight forward bad music video maker. The buyer will quickly 
 go home and pop in the wii, only to find a boring and sickening experience completely different 
 to what they THOUGHT they were buying. 
  The songs are original therefore someone got wierd people to sing them. 
  The cell shaded graphics 
 while ok looking dont make up for the bad sound of things around it. The mic while works the game 
 doesnt register change in tone until you've changed note for around 5 seconds, and you are supposed 
 to keep rhythm while dancing when it doesnt even get the time right when you do get it right. I 
 mean this is electronic arts, EA arent we supposed to like this game, and enjoy it, rather than 
 screaming and wanting to throw it out the window.
  It isnt horrible, but it isnt far from it. I strongly recommend you RENT this game first, if you 
 fall in love with it unlike me grab it at the closest gaming retailer, or bring it back 2 hours 
 later demanding a refund. 
  In the end its a very mediocre experience that lasts halfway through an awkward song. you have 
 been semi warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Review_King
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Boogie is a 1-2 player game which consists of singing and dancing. You start picking your character. 
 You can now make a character, customize a character, or delete a character. If you make a new character, 
 first you select the "boog" you want your character to be based on. There names are  
 and Angela. Now you can customize your character the way you like it. You can change skin colors 
 and put on different clothing. You can make a very satisfying character, which is another plus. 
 Now you can use your character, and then you can choose what mode you want to do. There's party 
 mode in which you see who gets the most points. It can be very fun, but sadly you cannot pose in 
 this mode, which is a minor problem. There's dancing mode in which you select a stage, select a 
 song, and dance to it and earn and collect tokens, in which you can use in the shop. Now here's 
 where the major problem comes in. The dancing is just somewhat lame. The character in no way does 
 what you do. You can try to memorize the character's moves, and do what there doing, but it's in 
 no way neccasary to do so. You don't even have to dance. You can simply just move the wii remote 
 to the beat and earn a gold metal. You can also do combos in which when you earn enought boogie 
 power, you move your wii remote in the directions instructed to the beat, and you instantly get 
 more than ten thousand points. When you start doing it, it may be hard to keep doing the instructions 
 on the beat, do execute it properly, but soon it should be very easy to execute a combo, and earn 
 a gold medal with little effort. You can also strike a post if you have a wii nunchuck attached, 
 except in party mode. You press the Z button on the wii nunchuck and then you turn the nunchuck 
 the way you want your cursor to move to go on a target. You can also move the nunchuck control 
 stick to move the eyes, or press the C button on the wii nunchuck to move your mouth but as you 
 don't get points for doing that, unless you enjoy watching your character move it's eyes and mouth, 
 there's little point to doing that. But at least executing a pose, does feel good which is a plus. 
 There's also karaoke mode, but there's no two-player karaoke, which could of been included, and 
 it's just lame, as well. Although you can actually sing if you want to, here's another big problem. 
 You don't have to even sing. You can simply say random words at the right time, which isn't new, 
 but the thing which is new is that you can tap, blow, rub your shirt against the microphone or anything 
 to thing of to sing and pass. So basically in Boogie's point of view, if your breathing and living, 
 you pass. There's also a video making mode, in which you can make videos of you dancing, singing, 
 or first dancing and then singing. This is a cool feature as you can make satisfying results with 
 very little effort, and you can even record other noises than singing, if you choose to sing, or 
 dance then sing, which is awesome to do as well. There's also a story mode in which you find out 
 how all the "boogs" met up with each other and earn clothing, songs, tokens, combos, and even stages. 
 While this is a good feature, the story is kind of lame. The text in the speech bubbles is so small 
 that you have to go up to your television to actually read it, and after going through 3 levels, 
 at most, of reading all the text in the speech bubbles, you will just decide to press A and skip 
 it all and get to the dancing or karaoke. At least they attempt to give the character's a story, 
 but they poorly attempt this. And there's an options mode, where you can tweak some stuff about 
 the game, and there's practice mode, in which you practice dancing and combos, and take a tutorial 
 of how to dance, sing, and make a music video in boogie. And last but not least, there's a shop 
 in which you buy songs, clothing, and stages for some tokens, in which you earn by playing the game, 
 except in practicing combos, practicing dancing, changing the options, and making, deleting, and customizing 
 characters. This was a good idea which is a plus, as well. And at least this game has literally 
 hundreds of clothing, songs, stages, and even combos to unlock, but you probally will get bored with 
 this game far too quick, to actually unlock all these items. To wrap this all up, this game was 
 a great idea, but wasn't executed well, and is not worth anymore than 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdiamnz69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Boogie is a great fun filled game. Your probably wondering why its called Boogie. Its because you 
 have to Boogie! You can either dance, or sing. Dancing is really fun, but you have to keep the 
 beat to get a high score, followed by a medal. You can also play two players. But one player is 
 better then 2 players. Why? you get singing solos that you can use with the z button, and other 
 features. You have to get used to the controls. If you havent played the game i wont spoil them 
 for you. Oh and you can play as different characters, some of them look like aliens. The karaoke 
 is hard. Its not a simple karaoke game. Their is a bunch of words at the bottom and theirs is "line 
 bubbles" on lots of lines. The top is the high pitch and the bottom is the low pitch. You have 
 to have a really good singing voice to get every note. But that doesnt mean you cant have fun and 
 sing. You still score high points just for singing the words with any pitch. If your with your 
 friends youll have to take turns, its only one player. There are also extra features in the main 
 menu. One of them is the shop, which allows you to buy new clothes, new stages and new songs. How 
 do you buy them? Tokens. Where do you get tokens? performing. When you perform you get tokens after 
 your performance. Their is also these weird alien things that show up and give you tokens or boogie 
 boost. In two player you can get freezer burn and lots of other things. Their are some flaws but 
 its a great game. I dont really own it yet so i cant tell you everything that this game has to 
 offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I just got Boogie for christmas and ok I never thought that I was going to get this game. Boogie 
 is pretty bad as it features cover tracks and not the normal tracks. First of all when you start 
 the game you get this annoying guy talking about how to play the game and you cannot skip it. Wait 
 a moment I have already read the book I got with the game now I have to wait over 15 minutes to 
 here some silly guy telling me how to play.
  
  If you hate pop music then this game is not really for you because all most every track is pop 
 music. For the price this game is its pretty much beyond a joke its about 49.99 - 39.99 come 
 on they could at least put the price down. You can also dance with this game but what were EA thinking 
 bringing this game out they must of been mad. There are far better games you can get for your Wii 
 just dodge this game. Well I give this game 4.0 I don't know why because I hate it but I suppose 
 they tried and failed. Even singstar on the ps2 is way better because it features the real track 
 with music video.
  
  But every time I try to play it I just get bored and the game it's self is just not fun I find 
 this game appeals more to the girls. But overall this is what I think also I need to add it is 
 really hard to keep up with the game with the text been so small.
  
  Microphone works great in your computer though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot_Managy
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Boogie is just another one of those games that at first it's one of the best games you've ever 
 played, but than after an hour passes, you want to ship it back where it came from. Sure singing 
 and dancing are a good idea but it was BAD singing and dancing that didn't look like singing and 
 dancing. It just looked like some sloppy geek that doesn't know how to dance! Boogie was just a 
 big mistake. I don't have a wii but I have played one and to my least expection, it was Boogie. 
 I wish I never had played that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible... Incredibly horrible... When I saw a video about it, it kind of attracted 
 me with those wierd looking aliens and good graphics... But when I picked my remote and turned 
 it on... I survived for 8 minutes... Then, I took the game back to the rental's... I mean, this 
 game is TOTALY NOTHING!!!! It makes no sense, and it's just not fun!! Whats the point of mashing 
 buttons for hours like crazy?! I don't get the point of this game... Well anyway... MAYBE, JUST 
 MAYBE, if you FIND the point of this game you can even have a little fun, but for 10 minutes, because 
 after that, you will surely get the keys of you're car to give it back... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I saw this on commercials, played it at my friends, and thought, is it good? 
  
  I can see it is.
  
  The graphics are great, as well as many different kinds of music. The sound, 
 audio and camera were awesome! The control is just clunky, though, and there is no point in using 
 it. You just need to make a song.
  
  Overall; this game is solid, but not enough for fame. I love this game, and it is my favorite music 
 game right now! If you buy it, you'll see that it is pretty good, but no control will make it better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow I have never even seen or tried such a horrible game. I can't believe they all agreed to even 
 make this game even my younger cousins thought this game was a total let down. The gameplay is 
 horrible and its to dang easy you can just do random hand movements with the Wii remote and pass 
 the song with a really good score. The graphics are just plain horrible and the music just makes 
 me feel sick. I have played so many better games better than this and this one is a total failure. 
 The Wii is a good system so please make games that are worth playing and don't create horrible 
 games like this again. I think my eyes are burning looking at this piece of junk. I sent it back 
 to Blockbuster the next day it gets a 1/10 (If there were negatives it would get -10/10 because 
 it down right horrible) Even X-play gave it a 1/5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyre
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have a 2 year old son who likes to go la-la-la in the karaoke portion of this game. I've also 
 seen a collection of 5-10 year olds have a blast in the karaoke mode. In my experience, not even 
 the young people could glean any fun out of the dancing portion. I can't imagine an adult finding 
 this game in any way entertaining for more than about 3 hours. If it had been marketed toward the 
 toddler/elementary school set and sold for about $20, it would be worthy of a much higher review. 
 Since it was marketed for adults and sells for around $65.00, rent it if you feel you must play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonBrawl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game, I dont care what you say about this game. But it is just so fun, everyone can play it. 
 The kareoke was the best part, I kept playing it and playing it over and over again, great selection 
 for songs and just so fun for lafs. The rythem of the other part for dancing, is a little hard 
 to get use to, but otherwise its not a bad game. Great selection for items, new levls, and more. 
 I would say to buy this game, and play it everytime you have a party. Maybe More interaction with 
 the wii mote, few more characters and not as much usless text and the game could almost be perfect. 
 The combo's are another thing I enjoyed, each having there own cool and creative moves.
  All in all this game is great I hope you buy it, and have fun and great times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poidad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Walking randomly through shops, I came past this at K-Mart. Having been playing Sing Star on the 
 PS2 lately, I thought, A wii type of game with a mic must be good. So I didn't hesitate at all 
 and bought it.
  
  Eagerly waiting to get the game home I read through the instruction booklet, until I pull up at 
 the drive way. I through the game in my wii and begun to play...
  
  I believe this game with unique control style and graphics to be one of the best karaoke and dancing 
 games, with dancing to rival rayman and karaoke to match sing star.
  
  The dancing takes quite a bit to get used to, and even more time to master. Whist if you have no 
 rhythm it would make this game hard to play yet still enjoyable, much like Rayman: Raving Rabbibs, 
 where you can miss beats but still look good and work up a sweat.
  
  The Karaoke is the bonus feature and the reason I bought this game... I mean what karaoke isn't 
 good??? I have been playing Sing Star a lot lately and absolutely love it, however I thought that 
 Sing Star needed a few more interesting songs and songs that everyone knew and enjoyed. Boogie 
 has delivered on being a fun song selection and an all round great karaoke game.
  
  Overall I think Boogie is so much fun to play, from battling in dances to making your own dance 
 movies with the movie editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  if you love dancing and karoke this is the game for you. the controls might suck but game keeps 
 you going songs like milkshake and fergilicous are in the game. dance all night with boogie it is 
 great for partys and keeps you going and going and going intill bang go boogie go go go remember 
 rent before buy this crazy bankai 9 singing out remember karaoke totally rocks boogies controls 
 dont work very good though and the game is very very easyonce again crazy bankai 9 signing out 
 booooooooooooo yeahhhh go boooooogggiieeee danceall night dudes so go and play some boogie yeah 
 man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dude701
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to some people but for the rest of them who want to dance their guts out, 
 this is not the right game.
  The game features a blob like creature and he has to dance and sing with other people. The features 
 of the dancing is waving the remote in a direction to dance that way. If you dance in beat for 
 a while, your boogie meter will fill up allowing you to do combos. To do this you wave your remote 
 in the arrows shown at the bottom of the screen while holding 'B'. The dancing is plain with no 
 exiting movement. But we still have the karaoke.
  The karaoke is just like singstar or any other game like it. You sing in pitch to bubbles across 
 the screen giving duration and timing. But there is one more thing which is the music videos. To 
 make a music video you have two choices, dance and sing, sing, dance or dance then sing. The effects 
 you add to your finished video are lame apart from the 3D effect which has some use if you have 
 the glasses.
  Overall the game is a bit disappointing but none-the-less, still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Boogie is a horrible game that embarrasses the great console known as the nintendo wii. it is so 
 cheesy and boring it is a waste of money, and if you want to play it, you should rent it first. 
 it tries to live up to DDR but it is not even the slightest bit close. nintendo should be ashamed 
 of even thinking about this game. the only entertainment you will get from this game is from laughing 
 at how poorly made it is. your money is more well spent buying some old barney dvds then buying 
 boogie, one of the worst games you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CantTakeU1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay the people who bash on this game have never heard of a party game! This game is a little tricky 
 to get a hang of at first! The karaoke is a little hard, but people don't realize how to do it, 
 just singing high won't cut it, you have to make your pitch right, that's what the game scores 
 on! I'm just saying, don't throw this game away because some stupid people who can't enjoy a good 
 time! Just give this game a chance and I know you'll love it! I almost didn't get this because 
 of these people's bad reviews! I'm so glad I never listen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mypcpros
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ok, I admit it - I'm stupid. After reading reviews on this game I went out and bought it anyway. 
 I had a good reason - I have kids that I thought might like it (was I wrong) .
  This piece of work I equate to when Coca-cola introduced New Coke - I big misstep by an otherwise 
 good company. The dancing part of the game is played by moving your controller left-right-up-down. 
 To move you just move the thumb stick on the nunchuck controller. It's really easy to pick up; 
 my 4 year old got the hang of it in less than a minute. The terrible thing about this is that these 
 dancers only have about 12 moves (or less) in their skillset. Every song you play these dudes dance 
 the same way. It gets old after 2 or 3 songs. The point system was included i'm sure to give the 
 game some kind of goal but it just plain sucks. The microphone is the only cool thing about this 
 purchase but not because of what it does with the game - it just works well and hopefully other 
 games can take advantage of this mic so we don't have to purchase another one. I'm sure a brand 
 new software programmer could make this type of game as a class project - it's that basic, and 
 the programmer would probably have been given an F - it's that bad.
  DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY - LEARN FROM ME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Alright, I have to admit this game is fun. I was not excited about this game. I thought it was 
 going to be some Sing Star crap. But I was wrong. I was at my friends house and he let me play 
 this game. WARNING: this game will leave you with a serious case of Wii elbow. (If you don't know 
 what that is, it's when you play the wii for so long it hurts your arm or elbow) . Even though I 
 have a bad Wii elbow, I still play this game because it is fun. You can choose a character called 
 a Boog to play as. The graphics are not that good but they get the job done. The Boogs are crazy. 
 You can choose from any like a kung-fu master or a sushi shop owner just to give you an example. 
 You can then characterize them. I'll tell you now that this game is not easy. The dancing will 
 have you waving your arms in all directions. You have a lot of songs to sing or dance to. This 
 is the funnest singing/dancing game out there.
  
  THE GOOD: Have loads of fun singing and dancing to tons of songs if you are all alone or with your 
 friends. Choose a Boog and customize it however you want.
  
  THE BAD: Graphics could be better ( they are okay though) . This game will give you Wii elbow.
 
  
  Overall: Fun game that's fun to play. Just don't overdue it or your elbow will hurt for days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 1.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically a game that tries to attract your attention with flashy pictures, fun karaoke 
 and dancing gameplay. Don't be fooled. This game is wierd, badly coordinated, and cheap. 60 dollars 
 down the drain. If you really want wait a couple of months or years. trust me... it will be worth 
 the wait... The controlls don't even work well. Instead of dancing, just do a couple quick waves 
 with the remote and you'll be dancing and the best part is, you actually do better this way. Karaoke??? 
 you probably think that AT LEAST this came out good... hahaha.... laffs.... blow into the microphone 
 at the right time and you'll have a high score in NO time. trust me. lay this one off and yay..... you 
 have 60 bucks that can go toward a game 10 times more well coordinated and maybe you can speand 
 those ten bucks on some wii points and you can have 10 n64 games or like 20 old games. Trust me... even 
 a video game 10 years old will be better than this. (you will have a lot more fun! There's a LOT 
 you can use 60 dollars on if you just use it the RIGHT way) The songs must be good because they're 
 stylish and funky! sigh... don't even joke about that. songs aren't even sung by the original singers 
 and sound so bad it just might match your 2 year old sister's babble talk. PPLEASEEEE! DONT BUY 
 THIS AND SAVE GOOD MONEY! YOU WON'T REGRET THIS AND YOU'LL THANK ME FOR YEARS TO COME!!!
  (oh yeah... graphics suck... they are like origami figures) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddword
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Get it out and make the box art good. Well, screen shots in this case. The new mantra of Electronic 
 Arts.
  
  EA has dropped the ball on pretty much every game I've played in the last two years. This game 
 is no different. Boogie combines overly simplistic controls, with chunked up dance clips, grooved 
 together with poorly recorded covers of, too few dance tracks.
  
  I'm happy there are only a few tracks, only because I don't want EA to bastardize any more music 
 with their third rate vocals, and production. This game is awful.
  
  I hope some company steps up to the plate soon, and starts releasing quality game for the wii. 
 Or I'll shot put this system in the trash, along with my bell bottoms.
  
  Boogie???... More like Boogers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Boogie is perhaps one of those games that you expect to be a total letdown. Sure games in this 
 genre do tend to range from a level of great joy to one of total embarrassment, but for EA's first 
 attempt on the Wii, I have to say this is quite impressive. Sure there are a few flaws in the style, 
 but that doesnt stop this game from being extremely fun. Boogie opens up with a fairly decent opening 
 introduction in which you see two of the characters dancing. It is quite nice and really showcases 
 the purpose of the game (to dance) . After getting past this for the first, the player is immersed 
 with their chance to choose a character to make as their profile and customize. Customization options 
 range from headgear to footwear. There is a nice amount of items to choose but it could have included 
 much much more. Regardless, it is good in what it attempts to accomplish in that you are able to 
 dress up your character (you will be able to see what they wear in any non-story event) . After 
 doing this the player is then taken to stage in which they are able to practice dancing and singing 
 if they desire.
  
  Dancing and Singing is the main focus of the game. Entirely! The dancing is accomplished by simply 
 moving the Wii mote in four main directions, using the nunchuk, if one desires to slide around 
 on the stage. The nunchuk is also used when the player goes into the mode of Solo. In this mode 
 you use the Z button to match the little blue bars flying across the screen. Each time you match 
 correctly the model on the stage will move their lips to sing as well. The nunchuk also presents 
 another case in which you are able to strike a pose by pressing the B button and then using the 
 C and nunchuk control pad to move a cursor to the target. It is quite difficult to control at times 
 for this but the payout in points is definitely good.
  
  The controls are quite simple by themselves but once the music starts things can get quite hectic. 
 There are two ways in which a player can really score points. They can either time their movements 
 to the bar on the screen that goes green whenever it is time to move or they can listen to the 
 chime in the Wiimote and then move in relation to that. Every correct move in accordance to the 
 beat rewards points. The only problem is that if you continue to do the same move they give you 
 less and less points so you are forced to not only keep moving in one direction but to alternate 
 your movements. Another nice thing about controls is that you are also able to switch styles by 
 pressing the A button to continue to score mega points.
  
  After finishing dancing to a song you are able to make video edits and save these videos to the 
 Wii and show them to friends. It would be best if there were a way to export videos. Video editing 
 mode takes a while to get used to but with practice mode you are able to explore. It is quite nice 
 because you can make up to 100 edits and show off those bangin moves!
  
  There are several characters each with their own story modes. You get to unlock songs in this mode, 
 listen to hilarious sounds and read hilarious text. I started with the world famous Jet character 
 and it was funny. He kept calling himself the world famous Jet and he was able to serve the audience 
 members. The story mode features a mix of karoke songs to sing with the included Logitech microphone 
 (connected via the USB port) but you are able to skip this mode entirely and just do dance mode. 
 You still are able to unlock everything so it really isnt that necessary if you have a desire to 
 not sing. Singing is quite easy and is just accomplished by following the bars on the screen.
 
  
  The song selection is fairly good. Most songs are classic favorites and are all family friendly. 
 Some of the good ones are Karma Chameleon, SOS, and Dont Cha. They all have different beats and 
 take practice to master but with the multiplayer mode if there are some friends around, you are 
 able to score points well into the millions and then attempt the story mode for the songs that 
 you missed. Multiplayer is one of the best parts because you have the dance off between two people. 
 There are powerups that can freeze and reverse their controls, as well as the normal powerups in 
 the story such as multiplier and boogie boost (which in boogie boost if you press the B button 
 you are able to do special moves by staying in beat and following the directions on screen) . It 
 is quite fun and you do get to pick songs that you have bought and unlocked.
  
  Boogie is basically a great game to have fun and play. It is quite amazing for what it is worth 
 and is sure to please you if you like the music selection and can learn the controls to a fair 
 degree. Sure it isnt suited for everyone, the hardcore guitar and rock fan probably wouldnt dig 
 this game but probably others would. It is a great first entry for EA into this genre on the Wii. 
 Hopefully they continue to do more with this system and expand their presence in this realm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teepagorn
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  What I expected from seeing trailers and game play videos of this game is rather high but once 
 I played it for real, it was just the way too simple. The Wii-mote tracking system is poor and 
 unprecise, not even bother ranting about the karaoke system, which is not good at all. Graphical 
 elements and characters are fine-tuned and are the best part of the game. The selection of songs 
 played in the game is various, some of them are great, some are surprisingly bad. I would not recommend 
 this to anyone, but for ones who have brought it already, it stills has some fun for your children, 
 though not worth its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsavina
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  As I watched the advertising and videos of the game, I thought it would be a nice addition to my 
 Wii collection. When I brought it home, I quickly became critical of many aspects of the game. 
 I have played about 3 hours, and am wishing I could return it for something else.
  
  The following issues were discovered with the game:
  
  There is an unacceptable delay or lag 
 when you make selections. It takes about 5 or 6 seconds between the time you click on an option, 
 and it responds as being selected. Thats unacceptable, and feels broken.
  
  The tutorial isnt friendly, and you have to go through the entire thing, even the music video creation 
 stuff. Cant skip it, which is totally lame. Even after going through the tutorial, I had questions 
 about how to do things once you start playing the game.
  
  The dancing is too simplistic. All you do is move the controller up, down, left or right. They 
 have attempted to expand this by having you click the A button to access different moves, however, 
 in order for this to work, you cant be doing anything else in the game. So you have to stop your 
 rhythm, push A , then wait for it to switch, then pick up about 2 beats later. Again, unacceptable. 
 Also, if you are off beat, you just get a little message saying you are off beat. They should have 
 made the dancer fumble, or look like a geek when you screw up. Oh, and if you are doing well staying 
 on beat, it only counts the first 6 consecutive successful beats, then just says your on fire . 
 I like to see my score like DDR shows it, so you can be like dang, 122 consecutive beats. This 
 game doesnt ever report that.
  
  The bonus combo moves add flash to the experience, however, the timing isnt really right with them, 
 and it gets frustrating when you absolutely hit the beat, but it cancels the combo move. I even 
 went into the practice combo move option, and discovered when the 2nd move in a combo is left or 
 right, you have to do it slightly early on the beat, the 3rd one needs to be on the beat exactly. 
 Thats just jacked up, and I was able to repeat this over and over. Its just wrong when you cant 
 land your combo moves when you are actually hitting the beat.
  
  The dance moves are too simplistic. They could have done so many cool things with the Wii remote, 
 but this is lacking. Um, some circular movements could have turned the dancer around, moving the 
 remote at different height levels could have impacted dancer stance height, etc...
  
  The story mode is way weak. The scripting is unintelligent and not entertaining. Its just blah, 
 blah, literally. The characters representation of speech is horrible, as though it was created 
 on a cheap 80's synthesizer. Its painful to experience, and pressing A doesnt allow you to skip 
 it, just to make it go faster.
  
  The clothing you have to pay for to unlock isnt any better than the clothing that comes unlocked. 
 Incentive to unlock clothes is minimal at best.
  
  The Kareoke is weak. I have about 4 other kareoke games on my PS2, and they blow this games kareoke 
 feature away. The problem is that the words and the pitch notation are seperate, and not easily 
 tracked with the eye at the same time. Also, the pacing of the display of the song changes with 
 various parts of the song. For example, the line that dictates where you should be speeds up and 
 slows down based on the amount of words they want you to sing, it doesnt remain steady with the 
 tempo of the song. That totally bugs.
  
  Oh, one feature I have really enjoyed with the Wii games is the inclusion of your Mii's in the 
 games. They have NOT done this with Boogie, but they could have. You have to create your own name 
 in the game, and you only get to select from their set of 5 or so characters. This doesnt represent 
 the feeling that my other Wii games have of incorporating your Mii into the game.
  
  For my 5 year old daughter, the rythem aspect of the game is too difficult, my 7 year old picked 
 it up after a couple attempts, and its too simplistic for myself and my wife. There needs to be 
 some adjustment available to the degree of difficulity in how players experience the game.
  
  There are 3 levels of difficulty associated with the dancing songs. The difficulity levels 
 only seem to represent different score structures, not different degrees of beat timing, or dancing 
 combinations or moves. This limits the availability for replayability as soon as you get the basic 
 play functions down.
  
  Oh, there is a really disturbing feature called solo . In the middle of your dancing, the words 
 solo, 3...2...1 appear. During this time, you cant do anything, and any current combo attemts are 
 failed. Then, you have to press the Z button in a Kareoke style for these bars that come across 
 the screen. Its totally stupid, and you no longer have controll over the dance moves until its 
 done. Then you are suppose to go back to being right on beat. Lame.
  
  There is some monkey looking thing that appears on the dance floor to give you coins, and you have 
 to move close to him to get it. This just feels like the developers recognized that you could stand 
 in one place and play the game, so they added this feature just to get you to move out of a single 
 spot, where you were probably doing 4 simple moves, just changing the order so your score doesnt 
 go down.
  
  Overall, I am not impressed with this game. I thought it would be a cool concept, as I have other 
 rhythm games (DDR, DK. Bongos, Kareoke) and enjoy them. This one will probably end up on an online 
 auction site soon.
  
  Oh, and for $59.99, I think the mic should have been wireless, just like the Wii controllers, but 
 now I have a cord stretched across my living room connected to my Wii. Not cool.
  
  You could rent this game and experience all of its content within the 24 hour rental period, if 
 you could put up wth the frustration and punishment inflected by this title.
  
  About the only thing I enjoyed in this game were a FEW of the songs included. They did have a catchy 
 beat, too bad your experience of that beat with your dancer is severly limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenicolo
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  As title says . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryuusake
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Boogie is a pretty good game, but it'll take some getting used too. this is a rip off of other 
 singing games, but this one is the best I've played so far.
  
  Gameplay 6/10- To get though the whole story mode of all five characters takes a few hours, then 
 unlocking all the songs and stages and outfits takes even longer. The only problem I have with 
 this is the control of the danceing. It feels kind of stange. this is the first singing game where 
 you don't even need to sing, blow into the mic at the right time and you win.
  
  Graphics 8/10- Kind of cartoony, but that's what EA was going for. A few textures don't look right, 
 but it's overall good.
  
  Sound 7/10- Not too bad of songs choices. during story mode then the characters talk- cheap sounds 
 that are kind of scary. I turned the sound down for this.
  
  Value 6/10- After you unlock all the songs, there's not much to do. that's where party mode really 
 helps. only two people can play, but it's fun and makes you want to keep playing even after your 
 done with the songs, but it's not enough to save this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonicker
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  If you compare what else $60 would get you entertainment wise then Boogie is worth the price even 
 though it is short and lacks much depth. It will provide a solid 3-5 hours of entertainment value. 
 Personally it costs me more than that for dinner and a movie for my family of 4.
  
  If you are expect to get more than 5 hours of use out of this title then I recommend not picking 
 it up, Even after the first few hours I can see myself loading this game when we have a party and 
 that in itself may provide much more entertainment value than the initial 3-5 hours of game play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure some of you out there have played the Karaoke Revolution series. Well EA has just released 
 a knockoff called Boogie, and not only does it feature pitch-detecting singing gameplay, but takes 
 advantage of the wiimote with wigglin' and wagglin. But how does the final product hold up?
  
  Well... it's a notch below the series it imitates, but that doesn't mean it's junk. There are 
 several characters (which you can customize with clothes and hair color) that you'll play as during 
 your singing and dancing adventure. There are dozens of songs to choose from, and on the whole 
 the selection is nice. Expect hilarious times with Fergalicious and It's Raining Men . The microphone 
 that's included is adequate, but I can't believe they didn't work on a mic wiimote attachment (it 
 just makes sense!) . So yeah the singing is self explanatory... and it works pretty well.
  
  The dancing however, is not as enjoyable . It's simply not as satisfying as vocally embarassing 
 yourself. Instead, it's a repetitive and uncompelling wave-your-wiimote element that I could've 
 done without. It controls well enough, but your character just moves so awkwardly around the screen... 
 it just feels dumb. EA tried try to keep things fresh by adding arcadey elements such as power-ups 
 and combos, but I wanna bust out karate moves while doing Kung Fu Fighting , not some generic shake 
 or twist. They should have built the dancing around each song individually, and not just slap on 
 some half baked waggle-fest. It's not BAD... it just doesnt feel right.
  
  The game looks pretty nice. It's smooth and colorful (just the way it should be) , and it's got 
 some good &amp; flashy effects. However... the mouth movements on the characters look blocky and 
 primitive compared to the lip-syncing in KR. But the game looks good on the whole.
  
  The sound is good, too. Although it baffles me that they didn't aquire the original songs... the 
 covers are decent. I just don't understand why they picked suggestive songs like Milkshake and 
 Combo No. 5 just to have it censored. It bugs me... but still. These minor gripes will all be swept 
 aside as soon as you butcher U Can't Touch This. 
  
  Other things worth noting. You can save your performance, edit it, and save the video. Don't expect 
 a vast and deep editing studio... but it's a VERY nice extra. To keep your tacky performance of 
 Don't Cha for all of your friends to laugh at is a great bonus. It features good multiplayer support 
 for all modes. But the fact that the game packs in a measly FIVE characters is a downer. You can 
 also unlock stages, items, and songs as you progess.
  
  Several hiccups like the dancing get in the way... but thanks to a solid presentation and a good 
 song list, this a decent addition to the wii's party selection. Although it's a shallow game overall, 
 it's undeniably fun. If you have friends to play it with... it just might be worth a purchase.
 
  
  It's this or High School Musical, folks. That fact alone should aid your decision.
  
  UPDATE: Gameplay score increased because of discovering strike-a-pose while using the nunchuck 
 in dancing. It adds another method of getting a high score, and makes it deeper. Sound knocked 
 down a point because some songs you know by heart and love have entire sections cut from them (Let's 
 get it Started is unforgivable!) and will confuse you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  the game is a mix of singing and dancing its 60 bucks cause it includes the microphone to so you 
 can sing to some songs and the Nunchuck and Wii remote are used for dancing the game is good at 
 makeing both feel different for instance for dancing you need to use your hand to get the beat 
 and dance to the music . On the singing part is simple say the words at different highs and lows. 
 The songs are pretty good and there good songs for the game. Charcter creating is simple choose 
 a from a few people them turn em into what you like. Even though this looks a bit childish (even 
 though it really is) its worth a shot . But if your not into the old songs from the 70s to early 
 90s this is not for you but if like those types of songs id take a shot at this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
