-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Boom Blox
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/pqrs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hundreds of puzzles.
 Strong competitive and co-op multiplayer.
 Level creator adds a ton of replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shooting gallery and escort-style levels dilute the fun.
 Story and characters are embarrassingly bad.
 Can be repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.5, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 806 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Puzzle
Date: May 6, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Boom Blox overcomes its flaws with its sheer volume of puzzles, engaging multiplayer, and robust 
 level creator. 

  In July of 2007, EA announced that it would be collaborating with Oscar-winner Steven Spielberg 
 to create video games. The famed director said, "I really wanted to create a video game that I 
 could play with my kids." The first game to be born from this partnership, Boom Blox, succeeds 
 in that endeavor. The single-player mode can get tedious and a few of the play styles would have 
 been best left on the cutting-room floor, but Boom Blox is an enjoyable puzzler whose flaws are 
 least apparent when played with friends or family.  

           Boom Blox has some similarities to Jenga, but there's more to it.      

  It's hard 
 to avoid comparisons to Jenga when describing Boom Blox, which is unfortunate given how horrible 
 Jenga World Tour was for the Wii. Rest assured that while the two may share a similar concept, 
 Boom Blox is much, much better. Most of the game's 300-plus puzzles involve plucking blocks from 
 perilously high block towers in hopes that when you do, they don't fall over, but there's much 
 more to it. For starters, you'll use multiple methods to extract the blocks. Sometimes you'll be 
 able to grab the blocks and cast them aside with a virtual hand. On some levels, you can aim at 
 a block and then make a throwing motion with the Wii Remote to try to knock it out with a baseball 
 or bowling ball. In other levels, you'll spray a water hose and try to get the blocks out with 
 your stream.  

  Most of the time, you move from one level to the next, earning bronze, silver, or gold medals based 
 on your score. Not only does the way you interact with blocks change from level to level, but the 
 objectives change as well. You might need to remove blocks with varying point values from a tower 
 while trying to prevent blocks with negative point values from falling. There are also some cases 
 where you'll throw balls and only want to break gem blocks. You'll also need to contend with explosive 
 blocks, vanishing blocks, and chemical blocks. Sometimes you must work around these blocks, but 
 at other times, you can use their unique properties to your advantage.  

  You may struggle if you try to slowly remove blocks by pushing or pulling them rather than yanking 
 them out like magician with a table cloth, and the game sometimes has difficulty recognizing how 
 hard you threw a ball, but for the most part, the simple controls work just fine. It takes a little 
 while to get used to manipulating the camera and how the game's physics -- which are both inconsistent 
 and more akin to what you'd find on the moon -- affect the blocks. However, once you become acclimated, 
 the difficulty is just right and the game is enjoyable. Its multiplayer component is especially 
 enjoyable and allows four people to play 60 or so puzzles cooperatively or against one other.  
 

           The level creator not only lets you make your own puzzles, but it also gives you a chance 
 to torment the Mitten Kittens.      

  The sheer volume of puzzles found in Boom Blox should keep you busy for quite some time, and once 
 you finish, you can go back to earn better medals to unlock new content. You can also channel your 
 inner game developer with the game's Create mode. This lets you design your own levels using pieces 
 unlocked during the single-player modes. Although it can be difficult to place items with precision, 
 the interface is generally intuitive, and if you're patient, you can create just about any puzzle 
 you can imagine. Once you've completed your masterpiece, you can send it to a friend. This is a 
 nice touch, but it's disappointing that there's no way for you to share your work with the masses 
 or view a list of levels created by other builders.  

  As long as it sticks to its strengths, Boom Blox is quite fun, but it seems like more and more 
 stuff just kept getting crammed into Boom Blox during development without considering whether all 
 this stuff was any good. A great example would be the shooting gallery levels where you use the 
 remote like a light gun and shoot blocks as they fly across the screen. This is dull and only serves 
 to interrupt the flow of the game. The levels where you must protect your cutesy block animals 
 from attackers by throwing balls or moving blocks are another type of play Boom Blox could have 
 done without -- unless you enjoy repeating hundreds of throwing motions while fighting with the game's 
 camera.  

  Although you may have enjoyed Spielbergs work on  Tiny Toons  and  Animaniacs , unless youre 
 a huge fan of material for small children, youll find that Boom Blox tries just a little too hard 
 to appeal to little kids. The game was designed with families and children in mind; case in point: 
 The game's story mode. The stories are written by a wannabe Dr. Seuss and are barely comprehensible. 
 Then, there are the domino-shaped animal characters -- all of whom have goofy names that could have 
 only been dreamed up by someone in marketing. The sheep are named Bahhhs, there's a beaver named 
 Boots McBeaverton, and who can forget the Mitten Kittens? There is some nicely done artwork in 
 the cutscenes, but the in-game visuals are less appealing. The colors are ultrasaturated, there's 
 almost no detail, and the frame rate is sometimes an issue.  

           Thankfully, there's little need to follow the game's painfully bad story.      

  It 
 stumbles with certain game modes and its effort to appeal to kids with a poorly integrated story 
 is ham-fisted at best, but Boom Blox is still a good game. Most of the hundreds of puzzles are 
 fun to play alone, and it's also entertaining to taunt friends during their turn as they try to 
 keep a tower from collapsing. The ability to create your own levels adds quite a bit of value as 
 well. In terms of where it ranks in Spielberg's body of work, Boom Blox is no  Schindler's List 
 , but it's a heck of a lot better than  Hook .     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  Boom blox is a really fun game to play especially if you are able to do it with your friends. 
 
  
  Let's start with the single player campaign. The campaign does take some time to finish, which 
 is great. It's a little easy, so if you are not worried about getting Gold in everything, you might 
 finish this really quick. The campaign (or Adventure mode) follows 3 different story lines all 
 with different methods of play. From zapping monkeys, removing blocks from under cows and throwing 
 blox with baseballs. It's really cleverly thought out and keeps it interesting.
  
  The graphics is really simple, but it matches what the game is all about. It's not meant to be 
 taken up as a serious game. The Physics of the game is pretty good, although i've noticed some 
 "bouncing" blocks when doing nothing but move the camera around. 
  
  Music isn't really something that is distracting at all, but each track compliments the stage. 
 Also using the speakers on the Wii remote really helped a lot when knowing that you actually targeted 
 something. 
  
  As I mentioned, this game is a great arm workout with me spending most of the day after playing 
 putting ice on my bicep. 
  
  Good game. Worth it if you are having people visit you and they like playing around with new gadgets. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  So i bought this game last week at wal-mart for 40 bucks. Let me start by saying yea i know that's 
 a lot of money for a game that came out a half year ago. But this game is just good enough for 
 that kind of price. I adore the graphics and gameplay, and the sound ain't bad either. The customization 
 is unique, and the variety is worth noting as excellent also. However this game has a couple of 
 flaws. For instance, the characters are annoying, and you can beat the game in less than a week. 
 Bottomline: Buy this game if you are a fan of fun family-friendly games or party games, don't buy 
 it if you think annoying characters make a game unplayable. Well, that's it for 2day gaming fans. 
 I will write again very  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  I first knew of Boom Blox when news broke out that Steven Spielberg was being involved in it with 
 EA (Los Angeles) . What? Steven Spielberg? The movie director? Er... yes. I don't know what exactly 
 his input was for this game despite having his name slapped on top of the game title, but I can 
 say that Boom Blox is an easy game to get into. It's simple and yet it can be devilishly difficult. 
 Small parts of the game can be easy and yet that heightens the sense of competition if you were 
 to involve 1 to 3 more players. The game is made up of several different game types. There's a 
 Jenga-like game, shooting gallery type game, explosive type game, defend the castle type game, 
 golf-like game etc. I could go on and on listing the different types but it'd be too long. Ultimately, 
 the game plays with extensive use of the Wii pointer. Motion is kept simple by using your swings 
 as a gauge for how powerful your throws are. And depending on the game type you're allowed to shoot, 
 grab and throw blocks around. Mix in explosive blocks, fragile blocks, point blocks, heavy blocks, 
 chemical blocks and enemies into the game with a great physics engine working behind the scenes 
 then what you get is an accessible and pleasing puzzle/action game.. The levels are easy to start 
 with and would make you fall into a false sense of security (especially with the comical and cartoony 
 looks) because beyond the 70% completion mark you'd probably be swearing and cursing as you try 
 to achieve Gold on that seemingly impossible level. Take that as a compliment though; there's scope 
 for those who want to breeze through the game and also for those who aim for perfection. And if 
 you have completed the game, you can go and create your own levels with the objects you unlocked. 
 This create mode along with the multiplayer gives the game much replayability. Don't be mislead 
 with all of my positivity with the game though. At heart, it is still a puzzler and one that is 
 on the whole very simple. If you're looking for a good story or want some violence to spice things 
 up, you're obviously barking up the wrong tree. Within the puzzle genre though, Boom Blox is one 
 of the best out there.
  
  For some reason, my Wii is constantly making a lot of noise when reading the game disc which does 
 get very annoying (this is something to do with the way the game was made which causes the disc 
 to be read loudly, I think) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  Boom Blox is an EA Game created by Steven Spielberg. In the tutorial, you go through 7 levels explaining 
 every move in the game. You must do all 7 before you advance in the game. After you complete that, 
 you'll unlock two modes, these modes are, Adventure, and Explore Mode. In Explore Mode, you can 
 practice taking down different types of Blocks the game offers. In Adventure Mode, you go through 
 different legends, or stories. Of certain characters in the game. As you make progress through 
 the game, you earn different objects available in Create Mode. In Create Mode, you can build you 
 own level, with cool tools. You automatically have 2 levels saved, that came with the game. There 
 is also Multilayer. Certain games in Competitive Mode take about 10 minutes or more to complete. 
 Or do a Co-Op mode where two brains do the job. There are gold, silver, and bronze medals. You 
 need at least one of these to progress in the game. If not, you"ll be asked to do it again. The 
 weaknesses of this game include, that there is a limit to how much stuff you can put in your level, 
 some of the cutscenes don't really match the games graphics, and the starter up levels in create 
 mode have descriptions. Though you can't put anything. 
  
  Boom Blox gets an 8 out of 10 Great.
  
  NOTE: You don't have to use your Mii as your profile 
 
  
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartoonguy11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  Boom Blox is a really fun game that can sometimes get a little too hard. The gameplay is really 
 simple, so anybody can play, but you might experience problems from playing too much. My arm started 
 hurting for about a week from making throwing motions with the Wiimote a bit too much. :p
  
  If you are not experienced, there are Practice levels to help you, well, practice.
  
  Some 
 levels of the adventure mode can get too hard. My least favorite of the adventures is Gorilda's 
 Rescue. It's just too hard! If you're one of those short-fused people (such as myself) , these levels 
 can drive you insane.
  
  Overall, Boom Blox is a great game to add to your collection. If you enjoy destroying stuff, then 
 this game is for you. This game also has a level editor, and although it can get a bit hard to 
 build things, it gets the job done.
  
  Overall: A-
  
  Thanks for your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scringuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is like nothing you've ever seen. The single-player levels are interesting, sometimes 
 a cakewalk, sometimes maddening. Multiplayer is good, and has competitive and co-op. The replay 
 value is through the roof, thanks to the level designer combined with the awesome physics engine. 
 There were a few things I would have liked to see in the level designer, like a block designer 
 where you give them attributes, but you can't have it all. These more than make up for the hopeless 
 and weird story and characters; all the more reason to make elaborate traps to pulverize the characters. 
 No gory deaths, though; this is rated E, after all. Instead, they just flail around and go "poof" 
 in a puff of smoke. For those who just want a "yes" or "no" answer, yes, this game is definetely 
 worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I will warn you now that this game is VERY, VERY childish when it comes to the storyline and the 
 graphics, but that can be one of the best parts of the game. It seems that whether you are an adult 
 or a child you can find some happiness at throwing balls and blocks at the ridiculously named animal 
 characters.
  
  As for gameplay, it's varied, the shooting sequences are really bad and seem out of place in a 
 game like this. Also the sensor bar sometimes doesn't pick up when you throw a ball and when you 
 are in a timed puzzle it can get really frustrating. This becomes a real problem when you go into 
 puzzles where you must fling the balls at incoming enemies to protect something, and if you aren't 
 quick, the enemies will easily overtake you. 
  
  But the game itself is a gem if you can overlook these, the puzzles are very nicely done, with 
 you having to use your brain outside the box to solve some of the tougher puzzles and the multiplayer 
 is a blast when you get a few of your friends together. 
  
  Here's the rundown though, if you love puzzle games then get this because if you don't you are 
 missing out. If you are a hardcore gamer though, I think you should either rent or skip this up 
 because the cartoony graphics and frustrating controls at times could really put you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Fun, but can get kinda boring. Throwing baseball balls, bowling balls, bombs, and rubber balls 
 (theres more out there) can be fun the first and second time you play it but it can get kinda boring, 
 so can blasting blox with lasers, six-shooters or water guns. Also sometimes you know what youre 
 doing but taking your time to line up your shots perfectly and this info box pops upp and tells 
 you what to do and you can't get rid of it. I like the multiplayer. I like the attack mode, in 
 which you have to destroy the opponent's castle, made out of blox. There's one more thing i have 
 to say. the level crator stinks. Unlike the one in Super Smash Bros Brawl because all you do is 
 stack gem blox, bomb blox, dissolve blox, chemical blox, firemwork blox and regular blox which 
 is really hard to control, thanks to the guy who made one of my favrite movies - Raiders of the 
 lost ark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Boom Blox is a great game and i love playing it. Its kind of annoying sometimes though... I mean 
 the sensor won't find the remote in time and before you know it, from a gold to a silver to a bronze 
 to a big, fat, LOSER!
  
  Story line
  What story line can you get blowing up blocks?
  
  Graphics
  Good graphics and coloring but really, how good can it get when everythings squares 
 and rectangles?
  
  Gameplay/Controls
  Annoying when throwing the ball and you can't find the sensor, but other than that its good...
 
  
  Sound
  One word: BOOM!
  
  So maybe rent it... or buy it... I guess... Just keep in mind not to get really mad, mad or madder 
 or maddest if the thing with the sensor happens to you. Just keep in mind its a game... So just 
 remember to have fun with it and keep trying because eventually you will get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The Wii was built with the part-time gamer in mind. When it comes to the casual market, however, 
 there's a severe shortage of decent games. Most developers seem content in putting the absolute 
 minimum effort into their games, or porting over an old game with tacked on waggle controls. Fortunately 
 for these Wii owners, Steven Spielberg and EA have teamed up to bring us Boom Blox. This puzzle 
 game is easy enough for anyone to get into, but has tons of hidden depth to keep even the hardcore 
 crowd engaged for hours.
  
  Boom Blox's premise is a simple one; at the start of each level you're given a stack of blocks, 
 and each level tasks you with dismantling it in a certain fashion. Some levels have you pulling 
 out blocks meticulously to stop the whole tower from falling Jenga-style, and others will have 
 you knocking down structures in the fewest number of throws possible. All the blocks are affected 
 with extremely realistic physics, and any move that looks like it would be possible in the real 
 world can probably be done in-game. Mostly all the game's controls rely on IR, resulting in a mostly 
 simple and intuitive interface. You can freely rotate the camera by holding the trigger and once 
 you've got a shot lined up, you hold the A button to lock on. Then, it's simply a matter of making 
 a throwing motion as hard as possible with the remote and watch the tower topple.
  
  When it comes to play options Boom Blox is no slouch. If you're playing solo, you gradually progress 
 through series of levels which each incorporate different styles of play. In the normal mode, Explore, 
 these levels are focused around different block types, and you'll move on to another after you 
 master a previous one. The chemical block challenges, for example, have you knocking two green 
 blocks together to start chain reactions that topple structures in seconds. There are an absolute 
 ton of these throwing challenges and since they are undeniably the most polished, it's probably 
 where you'll spend most of your time. There are also Pull challenges which, while fun, have less 
 responsive controls. Pull challenges will usually have you removing as many blocks as possible 
 without allowing a penalty block on top to fall. The biggest problem with the pull challenges is 
 that most of the time, the game can't accurately pick up your motions. Since the Wii remote can't 
 tell how far it is from the screen, all your sliding has to be done sideways. More often than not, 
 you'll accidentally weaken a structure by bumping it with a block you should have been able to 
 pull out cleanly. Last (and unfortunately least) are the extremely shallow shooting gallery stages. 
 The biggest problem with the shooting galleries is that there's nothing to them; just shoot at 
 whatever moves. It does nothing to incorporate the rest of Boom Blox's awesome physics, which definitely 
 comes as a disappointment. 
  
  Apart from the Explore mode, solo players can find a hefty amount to do in the Adventure mode - 
 just be sure to skip the painful story scenes. Like Explore, Adventure offers up different sets 
 of levels surrounding different themes. The themes this time, however, are far more varied and 
 fun. One of my favorite level sets has you clearing off a bridge without allowing the bridge to 
 fall. Another great one has players setting up bombs to bring down a tower of golden point blocks 
 with one shot. The Adventure mode is surprisingly fresh and fun (despite more than a few shooting 
 gallery stages) and for people playing solo, it's probably the best investment of your time.
  
  As good as the single-player options are the game really gets its legs in multiplayer. Boom 
 Blox offers up competitive and cooperative multiplayer for up to four players, and it can be played 
 all with one Wii remote, if you wish. Much like in single-player there are laundry lists of levels 
 to play; you can topple towers of point blocks, knock down an opponent's fort, or try to make blocks 
 fly onto a multiplier board. Once you get skilled and sneaky, you can actually line up your shots 
 to hit still-falling blocks from your opponents, stealing their score and forcing players to come 
 up with new strategies. Even the pull levels, flawed as they are, get new life in multiplayer mode 
 as well. It really takes the Jenga concept and runs with it, offering up mind-boggling structures 
 for players to dismantle. Playing with friends, Boom Blox gets dangerously addictive and competitive, 
 and there are enough level styles to ensure you're engaged for a long time.
  
  Further enhancing the impressive replay value is a robust level editor. While the level editor 
 is slower than it should be, it's easy enough for anyone to make their own levels the same caliber 
 as the developer's levels. Any sort of structure can be built if you give it the time and patience, 
 and you can assign whatever rules you like allowing the levels to be entirely your own. Levels 
 can also be traded with friends via WiiConnect24, making the replay value almost endless. The only 
 flaw with the level editor is that you can't tell what the physics will do to it until you hit 
 the 'Play' button - something I recommend doing often. It really hurts to see a great level ruined 
 because of one messed up support. 
  
  Boom Blox is no slouch visually, but don't expect the graphics to floor you. The great physics 
 engine uses most of the Wii's processing power, and doesn't leave much to make the graphics technically 
 advanced. Apart from the annoying domino-esque characters, the look is very clean and unobtrusive 
 - just how a puzzle game should be. And while the music is entirely forgettable, the sound effects 
 are usually great - there's lots of noises coming from the Wii remote's speaker and the convincing 
 explosions help make the game feel more immersive.
  
  All in all, Boom Blox is a great puzzle game and a must-have title for the casual crowd. Literally 
 anyone can get into the game in a matter of seconds, and the extremely addictive multiplayer mode 
 ensures no one will want to leave for a long time. It's one of the Wii's most accessible and addictive 
 offerings, and if you're looking for a great party game, Boom Blox is the one to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froidianslip
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I admit it, I watched the commercials for this game endlessly and wasn't to impressed. Steven Spielberg 
 producing a video game was not a draw to me, but my kids (13, 8 and 5) thought it looked "epic." 
 Eventually I was worn down enough to make the purchase while it was on sale at a local retailer.
 
  
  Once I got Boom Blox home and loaded it up, I figured something out- ad campaigns don't always 
 work.
  
  Boom Blox is addictive and fun. It's use of the Wii Remote for pulling, pushing, and throwing make 
 it hugely entertaining for everyone in the family. It's equal part Jenga drama, grenade toss destruction, 
 and super ball spastics.
  
  In single player mode, you get increasingly challenging puzzles that test your nerves and logic. 
 Each time you successfully complete a puzzle, you unlock new pieces to use in the construction 
 part of the game.
  
  In the two player games, you can play both cooperatively and head-to-head. Some of the most fun 
 I've had is playing the head-to-head tower tumbling levels against my family. 
  
  I learned that lesson the hard way. Boom Blox is a fun game to play for five minutes or for an 
 entire rainy afternoon. Warning: A steady hand is necessary, so reduce your coffee consumption 
 before playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samstherealhero
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  boom blocks is a easy but engaging play it combines childrens building with toys bombs etc it hs 
 medacore multi player but the free style editor is ours of fun for those who love biulding and 
 desinging things (or simpely blowing things to pieces) you can desine briges held together by tention 
 or disign a cannon powerd by bomb blocks its a qiute fun endeavor trying to tune it for maximum 
 damage ive made one that can destroy a wall that spans the whole screen and i desind to with stand 
 heavy attacks it is five standard briks wide well now that ive bragged awhile i think ill end this 
 with a nuuget of wisdom.................. dont pick your nose in public o k heres the wisdom when 
 thinking fails....... either blast thru it with a bomb grenade etc......... or use a cheat code 
 or simply ask a friend well this is ockward uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuum im kinda outa stuff to say im gonna 
 check lenth agin now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Oh Boom Blox, I have looked at this game for so long, contemplating whether or not I wanted to 
 buy it, and I finally rented it. I was excited to play it, and had every right to be. This game 
 is great. Probably one of the best Wii titles to date. Granted, the game starts off slow ( i mean 
 like actually starting it, before you actually play it ) I don't much care for pushing A+B 2 minutes 
 after i start the game lol.
  
  You are given a few options to start playing, which is easy to navigate, yet tedious at the same 
 time, a good analogy would be your computer. you have "my computer" then the C drive, then a folder, 
 than another folder, then a file. sometimes i just get confused as to where i am, but overall its 
 easy and good.
  
  the game play is simple, yet... attractive. you throw things by targeting an area, holding the 
 A button, then releasing it as you make a throwing motion. easy enough. the puzzles start out pretty 
 easy, nothing too big, but man can they get hard. the physics are pretty good, though at times 
 i feel they are less realistic than they could be, which isn't necessarily bad all the time.
  
  my main concern with this game is length. over a few days i've gotten over 75% of the game 
 completed, and im already playing it less and less. i of course am an exception to a lot of other 
 gamers though, thats just how i do things. I would definitely play this game over and over again, 
 getting golds in everything and multi player is amazing. 
  
  id say overall this game is great as a single player game, if taken in small doses so you don't 
 beat it right away, and definitely as a game to play with multiple people, you will find yourself 
 picking this one up again and again, because it truly is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somme_ma
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I was faszinated from the first minute we played it in multiplayer to start with Boom Blox. Got 
 it for 25 euros :) The single player modus is easy at the beginning, but it takes some time to 
 get gold at every level so far. 300 Levels waiting for you, starting of with a tutorial and getting 
 more difficult with every step you take. The graphic could have been somewhat nicer. It looks ok, 
 but nothing special. There are some cool gimmicks like ice blocks, nitro blocks and so on. One 
 can also build his on level - but it needs practice to create somethin special. My favorit game 
 is Yenga against friends - always fun! I almost forgot to mention so co-op Mode. There is plenty 
 to discover and hidden things to win. You can also share your own levels via internet with friends! 
 
  -  Nice game, especially with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2Dude89
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Boom Blox is one of those games that you look at right away and say "wow, is this just another 
 little kid game for the Wii?" The answer to that is a simple no.
  
  Boom Blox is an extremely revolutionary game. Who would think that dealing with blocks in a video 
 game would be so fun and addicting? You have everything from blox that disappear to blox that blow 
 up. You have everything from monkeys to chickens in this game. What can you say, this game has 
 pretty much everything. Great single player and multiplayer, an enormous amount of puzzles to play 
 through so that you won't ever get bored. It's really satisfying to play through an entire adventure 
 and get all gold, especially getting gold on a level that you worked so hard on beating. Boom Blox 
 is just a game that everyone really has to try. Although there are not an abundance of good 3rd 
 party titles on the Wii, Boom Blox is definitely up in the top of the best games on the Wii.
  
  So what are you waiting for go get Boom Blox! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TgunXD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Weapons/toys- Alot. There are balls, hoses, guns, lasers, bombs and more. Blocks- Alot. Too much 
 to mention. Though there are some secret ones too. Don't forget the transparent ice block and ball.
 
  Strategies- Varies on puzzle.
  Characters- Lots of animals. Each animal will do something different. The animals never attack 
 one of their own.
  Music- Nothing big.
  Graphics- Not that impressive.
  Gamemodes- Alot, especially the create mode.
  Story/story mode- 1st- Medieval sheep protect their 
 jems.
  2nd- Gorilla rescues her 30 children.
  3rd- Kittens collect candy on halloween. Don't forget the zombie army. Coolness- Explosions and 
 killing animals are what is cool
  ESBR Rating- how is shooting cats with a pistol not E10?
  
  Though the create mode is long and stressful, it can be worth the work, depending on what you 
 make. Alot of people create 3d sprites or recreate their house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_roamer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Here comes boom blox, the explosiv puzzle game from steven spielburg. Wait, steven spielburg? Yeah. 
 He made a game. And it's actually pretty good.
  
  So in boom blox, there's a few different modes. In play, you can do a campaign of sorts, where you 
 complete pre made puzzles to unlock stuff on the level creator. 
  
  There's Party, which is the multiplayer aspect. There are a variety of different mini games in 
 a few simple action categories, such as grab and throw. 
  
  And then there's create, where you can tweak campaign levels and design your own. I especially 
 like this mode because it lets you be creative and make many different chains or explosions for 
 often spectacular effects, and makes full use of the game's great physics engine. 
  
  Uplifting music, solid graphics and flat out great gameplay make this a solid addition to the Wii's 
 library and a game to buy if you like solving puzzles and making things go boom, or killing cute 
 little animals by squishing them with a wall or blowing them up.
  
  So overall, this game is solid and great on every level, and even though it has flaws, I have no 
 clue what they are. So, yeah. Buy it, or rent it if you're casual (did I mention this game is great 
 for casual players? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of boom blox for the wii I thought it would just be another mediocre 3rd party 
 game like Blast Works or Super Monkey Ball: Bananna Blitz. . About a month ago I saw this game getting 
 very good reviews so I decided to look into getting it. I made a wise decision. This is one of 
 those wii games that many people don't have but is still a good game like Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings or rayman raving rabbids
  
  Here are the basics:
  
  Graphics:7.5 out of 10. These are not every good and nothing is too detailed but the animation 
 is great and the explosions look very convincing. These aren't that good but they dont need to 
 be
  
  controls:8.5 out of 10. The controls are very intuitive and what you would expect from the Wii 
 but it's pretty hard navigating the camera and in the level creator it is very hard to place blocks 
 with pressision. You usually are having so much fun playing the game though that you dont even 
 notice 
  
  gameplay:9.5 out of 10. The gameplay is really really fun in boom blox and thats essentially what 
 matters right? The physics are really accurate and you can sceem ways to topple the most blocks 
 with 1 throw. There are about 4 modes in the game but gamespots review explains this is really 
 high depth so im not going to get into that
  
  overall:8.5 out of 10
  
  The games really creative nature is why this game is so fun but this is watered down by a awkward 
 camera and mediocre graphics but thats definately not a reason not to get it. I highly recommend 
 this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  boom blox started out great and i played it non stop for a couple of days completing its very short 
 story line and then i moved onto its mini games which was fun but then you get to a really hard 
 one that you just cant complete no matter how many times you try and you cat move till you do them 
 which is ashame
  
  it has some pritty decent songs to keep you entertained while playing
  the grapichs arent great but they dont need to be
  
  the creator mode is what kept me playing 
 this game make masiives catsle then demolishing them all which was very fun and so was the multiplayer
 
  for a while but then there isnt many levels and it would be better if could unlock alot more or 
 be able to dowload them from the interenet
  
  and play games over the internet but there is not much to do afteryou have completed the mini games 
 and story apart from playing the same games again to try unlock new stuff for the creator mode 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Boom Blox's basic idea is very simple, but the multitude of levels and a fun local multiplayer 
 manage to overcome game's flaws.
  
  There is a story mode (called Adventure) in Boom Blox, but you don't really care about it in any 
 way. Still it's nice that the developers had an effort in creating a story to a simple puzzle game.
 
  
  Graphics are very humble and simple in a similar way you might remember from cell-shaded Zelda 
 Wind Waker. This is not bad thing, since who really needs detailed falling blocks anyway. Colors 
 are bright Nintendo style you've come to expect.
  
  Music is the worst part in Boom Blox: it's way too simple and looping all the time. Good thing 
 is that music always stays in the background. Sound effects in general are pretty good, although 
 I would have expected that different blocks make more different sounds when colliding to one another. 
 
  
  This kind of game would fall on its face if the physics engine is not top notch quality, but luckily 
 it is. All blocks behave just like you would expect them to behave and this makes creating a strategy 
 a lot easier.
  
  Controls are very simple and intuitive: you just point the screen with a Wii Remote, press a button 
 and do appropriate actions. Everyone will know what to do in about 2 minutes of practice. Boom 
 Blox would be a whole different experience if ported to any other console or PC.
  
  Gameplay is simple: just smash some blocks and get points. These blocks come in many different 
 types and in order to complete a level you usually need to fulfill certain things like make everything 
 fall in just 1 or 2 throws. There is multitude of levels to play so you'll definitely get your 
 money's worth in Boom Blox. And if that's not enough you can always create a level of your own 
 and send it to your friends through Wi-Fi connection.
  
  There's also multiplayer options to choose from, but they are all local with a single Wii so don't 
 expect to compete with a friend from another country through by using Wi-Fi connection. Multiplayer 
 modes are either co-operative or competitive, which are pretty self-explanatory.
  
  There are some loading times, but they are mostly very well hidden, except in just 1 occasion: 
 sometimes after a throw your Wii Remote's cursor will freeze and it takes awhile for it start moving 
 again. It's not a huge thing, but every time it happens it'll break that otherwise smooth flow 
 of the game.
  
  Boom Blox is not perfect, but it's still fun, simple and addictive experience that you can have 
 only on Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Creating a Wii game that appeals to casual gamers is pretty simple. Just use the capabilities of 
 the Wiimote in some silly way that will make people watching TV commercials automatically mesmerized 
 by the "innovation" contained within the game, throw a few mini-games in there and make sure you 
 state clearly that the game will be fun for the whole family. You just got yourself a game that 
 will sell tons of copies giving you lots of money, but that deep down is just a product without 
 any qualities and that will just be reminded as a mediocre game that managed to top masterpieces 
 while making its way to the best-selling chart.
  
  Third-Parties have proved that doing that is pretty effective and it doesn't take too much effort. 
 But the true challenge for companies lies in creating a good package that is based on the premise 
 of fun and manages not only to interest casuals but also generates high expectations among a crowd 
 that is used to play and master games like Metroid, Zelda and Mario. Just a very restrict group 
 of companies were capable of achieving that but this group just got slightly bigger because with 
 Boom Blox, a created by Steven Spielberg, Electronic Arts has shown us that sometimes it takes 
 a genius from Hollywood to notice that a simple activity like destroying giant towers of blocks 
 would make a great game.
  
  Boom Blox is commonly confused with one of those low-quality games mentioned previously, but in 
 fact it is a long lasting game with enough features to keep you entertained for long periods of 
 time. People usually think that toppling towers is the only activity featured in the game but that 
 is absolutely wrong. On Boom Blox you will use the Wiimote in many different ways in order to throw 
 baseballs (or bowling balls) on big towers, use the pointer as the aim for a gun that fires water 
 (or bullets) , use it as a lasso to carefully remove blocks from big structures without toppling 
 them or to simply have a fun contest where you and your pals throw balls frantically at each other's 
 castles to see who will survive the barrage.
  
  If you think that is not enough you will be glad to know that the developers got extremely creative 
 and were able to design plenty of different activities using some blocks and a few inventive structures. 
 Just when you think you have already seen it all you will discover a new experience hidden among 
 the impressive amount of levels contained in the game.
  
  Controlling the game is pretty simple. If you are on a throwing level all you need to do is aim 
 carefully and press the a button to lock to your target, after that perform a throwing motion and 
 the game will capture the power you use to make that and will automatically transfer it to the 
 game, therefore the force you use to make the motion influences the result and the speed of the 
 ball. Controls for the other activities are also pretty straightforward and one can quickly learn 
 all of them. This doesn't mean that the game doesn't require any kind of skill. Truth is only the 
 good players, that master every corner of the levels, are able to complete some of the challenges 
 in the game.
  
  If you want to move the camera around the level in order to get a great angle you only need to 
 press the b button and move the pointer on the direction you want the camera to move. It is also 
 pretty simple but it can be confusing for some players since sometimes the camera moves way too 
 fast.
  The title has a single-player mode and a multi-player option. On the first one you will encounter 
 Explore and Adventure levels. Explore challenges will introduce you to all the concepts used in 
 the game such as the different types of blocks and the different ways to interact with the structures 
 the game presents. When finishing each one of the levels you will acquire a medal which is based 
 on the amount of throws you used to destroy everything, or on the number of blocks you removed 
 before toppling the tower, it depends on the level you are playing. After getting a medal you will 
 feel extremely compelled to try to achieve the best rank as possible not only because you will 
 probably unlock something interesting if you do, but also because creating huge chain reactions 
 is one of the most fun activities you can perform while playing the Wii.
  
  Meanwhile, on the adventure mode the game will show you a very silly story that will create the 
 setting for your adventure, the presentation of the story is way too simple and could be more polished, 
 but I guess the developers opted for that path to keep the same simplicity that can be found of 
 the game's graphics and gameplay. The adventure mode has some pretty unique challenges  some of 
 them don't even show up on the explore mode  such as protecting a group of cats from an army of 
 zombies by throwing balls at them, or creating chain reactions by placing bombs close to massive 
 structures in order to get the gold that was stoles from you back. Some of these levels can be 
 slightly boring and I feel like overall the simplicity of the explore mode is much better, but 
 you can also have loads of fun here.
  
  In total the game has something around three hundred different levels. Some of those are exclusive 
 to the multiplayer mode. Here up to four players can compete to see who will get the biggest amount 
 of points, or who will be the first one to destroy a big tower by removing a part of its structure. 
 In this mode the game truly shines and you will quickly discover that Boom Blox pleases everyone 
 because even those who are not interested in games will ask you if they could try to cause some 
 massive damage to huge piles of blocks. This game has one of best multiplayer modes you can find 
 on the Nintendo Wii, easily on par with Super Smash Bros Brawl and Mario Kart Wii.
  
  Finally there is also the Create Mode which is a very simple, yet effective tool. The tool offers 
 everything the producers had on their hands while creating the game's levels. You can use all the 
 blocks available such as the chemical block that explodes when it touches other chemical blocks, 
 the vanish block that completely disappears when touched by a ball and bomb blocks that explode 
 in contact. There are also plenty of characters available, and some of them act on their own to 
 affect and interact with the environment around them. A really impressive feature here is that 
 you can copy any structure that appears on any level and use it on your own user-created level 
 or to simply see how it was made so you can build something similar.
  
  The interface of the game is very simple and easy to navigate and the graphics could be easily 
 made on the Gamecube, but the physics effects that are very realistic would probably be too much 
 for that system to handle. The graphics are justified exactly because of that, had they been more 
 polished the game would probably face serious slow downs once blocks started falling apart all 
 over the place. The physics engine is so realistic that if you thrown a ball in the corner of a 
 block it will spin while if you throw it in the middle it will have a more solid movement.
  
  With more than 250 levels, and the ability to create your own, Boom Blox is a great game. At 
 first it may look like one of those games that are simply created to sell as many copies as possible 
 despite its quality but truth is this is one of the best original third-party efforts the system 
 has ever seen. With endless amount of content, many activities to perform this is a game that can 
 be enjoyed for many hours.
  
  Actual Score: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  The name Steven Spielberg has been associated with famous movies like Jurassic Park, War of the 
 Worlds or series Indiana Jones... Hence, it was public opinion to expect an imposing Action-Adventure 
 after the director revealed that he was cooperating with EA in a video game. However it turned 
 out to be totally different. Boom Blox (BB) , the game with fanciful name, is a pure puzzle-solving 
 and supposedly suitable for everybody.
  
  Game play of BB is based on cubes and rectangular parallelepiped of different sizes. In play scenes, 
 these blocks are arranges in various orders and architectures to achieve several goals like destroying 
 a structure or pulling out a block without affecting others. In order to do so, players are provided 
 with many destructive tools: the baseballs, tennis balls or bowling balls as bullets, the hand 
 tool to hold objects and even bombs and laser guns. Manipulation in game play is simple, mostly 
 exploit sensor of Wii Remote. For example, to throw a ball you just need to choose your target 
 by moving the bull's eye, hold A button then swing your arm to carry out the movement. The only 
 other manipulation you need to remember is holding B button to rotate the camera until you get 
 the right view. That's all about the control, easy, simple.
  
  Though most of the blocks are cubes and rectangular parallelepipeds but they possess many distinct 
 attributes that result in different interaction. Take the yellow cubes, you will gain points when 
 dropping them onto the ground, but the same movement with gray ones will decrease your score; the 
 purple blocks will disappear when being touched; more dangerous are red ones, they are bombs that 
 will explode on collision; similarly the green cubes containing explosive substances but only activate 
 when placed besides another green cube... However, the above are only basic, insentient figures. 
 we will later meet others which resemble lovely animals. For example, the courageous Gorilda mother 
 fighting to rescue her babies from Tiki autochthon, the hen McCluck running around and lay ... 
 bombs, the Reaper Gurgles Grimm and his skeleton companion Skully McGill who are specialized in 
 ... destroying other characters, and their only enemy is the dog Buster Maguff. There are about 
 30 such characters, all are funny and contribute a great deal to the success of this game.
  
  Besides exultant game play, physical effects and the ability to calculate the strength and 
 angle of player's throws also play an important role in BB. Basing its puzzles on physical interaction, 
 the game's success depends greatly on physical engine. That's why the famous Havok is chosen. In 
 fact, the engine play a critical role in producing many interesting scenes: withdrawing a plank 
 can collapse a tower above; a bomb exploding in the space will cause tens of small blocks flying 
 in all directions; or you can try throwing a bowling ball into a tunnel and watching it rebound 
 insides... The reason physical interaction is so persuasive is that one movement will always cause 
 "domino" effect, meaning bringing about many other ones sequentially. It's not exaggerating to 
 say that these effects are on the same level with Spielberg movies.
  
  As for the capability of the game to calculate exactly the force and angle of your throw, it's 
 not hard to find out the evident. Depending on how hard you swing your hand, the balls or bombs 
 will have different orbits: a slight throw causes them fly up a bit before dropping slowly; a strong 
 one makes them fly straight ahead like a bullet. Moreover, the camera can be rotated freely, so 
 try to adjust the angle just a little bit will result in a totally different trajectory and interaction. 
 As a result of the combination between physical effect and precise calculation, one situation can 
 be solved in various ways. That's how the game stimulate our ability to measure, predict and explore 
 new solutions. In many scenes, it's not hard to achieve the goal, but trying to break your own 
 record will become more and more challenging, but still possible over time: complete mission with 
 two throw while the criterion for gold medal is three, for example. The game is highly appreciated 
 in its replay value.
  
  Like many other puzzle games, BB contains a great number of play scenes, up to hundreds. They form 
 two main groups: Explore and Adventure. Explore mode includes singular and simple objectives. You 
 only encounter basic blocks of several colors and exploit their attributes to complete the mission. 
 Adventure mode are more comprehensive with stories in fairy-tale style. One of them is about the 
 Sheep kingdom, where you have to protect your block against the attack of wild beasts, but finally 
 lose them to the monkeys! Or you may want to travel with the cowboy Boots in his gold-rush adventure 
 towards the West. Another is about the Gorilda mother as told above. The basic game play in Adventure 
 is not much different but the participation of lively characters make them much more absorbing 
 and dramatic. In addition, every story has cartoon cut scenes and poetic narratives, which make 
 us feel like Alice in the Wonderland. Once you have completed both modes, there are other difficulty 
 level to try. Moreover, you can join your friends in Party games with either Competitive or Cooperative 
 modes. In the end, you can create your own adventure, characters, blocks with the toolset provided 
 along with the game. It's a chance for our creative mind to show quality, and who knows if someone 
 may even make more interesting adventures than those of EA and Steven Spielberg!
  
  Of course BB has some drawbacks, which I really do not want to go into. Control with Wii Remote 
 sometimes proves to be too sensitive and makes difficulty when our hands tremble. Processing power 
 of Wii show limitation in big explosion with many blocks when the frame rate drops considerably. 
 For the same reason, you can place too many objects in the scene you create yourself with toolset. 
 However, they are minor besides the success of other aspects.
  
  Video games do not have a very good a very good reputation for educational objectives. However, 
 this is an exception. BB is not only suitable for dedicated gamers, but also for parents who want 
 something different from Lego for their children in this summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewieGee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  "A Steven Spielberg game".
  
  I didn't know exactly what to think of that statement.
  Doesn't he make movies or something? Not games? Go figure.
  
  But although he may be new to 
 the gaming market, he's done a good job here. Boom Blox is one of the simplest concepts of any 
 recent game. You have a certain number of throws. You have some blocks. And you have to knock 'em 
 off the platform. Sounds good to me.
  
  But no? There's more? there's items, like the heavy bowlingball and the exploding bomb balls? Cool. 
 And there's over 300 levels, the game informs me? Well, yes, that sounds good aswell.
  
  This review sounds very much tounge-in-cheek, but besides my apparent lack of seriousness, this 
 really is a fun game. One of the only 'puzzle' games (Can you really call this masterpiece a puzzle 
 game?) that I have enjoyed. 
  
  Now, the controls. They're... simple, to say the last. You move around with the nunchuck, position 
 your throw with the wii remote pointer, press a and do a throwing movement. It's THAT simple. Yes, 
 there are a couple of levels where you might have to drag a box or re-arrange a wall, but mostly 
 just point and throw. Good, especially for younger players or those who find basic controls easier. 
 Me, I'm good with multi-button pressing and all this stuff, but this game was a nice change control-wise.
 
  
  The Tutorial is open when you first start, and you're kinda almost forced to play it because of 
 the fact that everything else is locked! Don't worry, though, it's quick and you can jog straight 
 through it. Moving on.
  
  Explore Mode? 
  This is what Classic Mode was to SSBB. A nice little series of challenges to help you get used 
 to the controls and feel of the game, and educate you on the various blox at the same time. Most 
 are fairly simple, and you'll get a gold first time without even really thinking, but there are 
 some trickier ones. AND if you found them all easy, there's an expert and master mode to be unlocked 
 aswell. Good luck.
  
  Adventure Mode...
  Yes and no. Okay, we have some thought-out, complex levels which clearlytook time and effort to 
 make. Until you smash it with a bomb ball, of course. But the story is... just childish. A beaver 
 harvesting gold, a cow on a tower, and kittens getting lost in the woods. And they're all mde of 
 blox. Sometimes levels get a teensy bit repetitive here, but most are so easy you'll never realise. 
 Note the most. Some of these levels, for me, anyway. The second last one with the kittens. Nightmare. 
 Took me about 3 hours, with 2 kittens left.
  
  On a related topic, one thing about this game is that you never really feel stressed out when you 
 can't do a level. Well, i mean, you might begin to, until a block cow comes onto the screen and 
 makes you happy again.
  
  There's even trickier challenges to be unlocked if you feel you're up to it.
  
  And that is 
 the adventurous modes on Boom Blox. Work over, time to have some fun. And it is exactly that. Fun. 
 There's Party Play which brings into light this game's excellent multiplayer mode. All games, for 
 me, seemed entertaining, except the castle keep ones. You throw a bomb at a castle. Big deal. Some 
 of the shooting ones could have been improved, but still, excellent. 
  
  And then we get to create. Using all your favourite "characters" (characters meaning dominoes with 
 faces drawn on) , and a variety of blox, you can build your own stage, army, castle, or my favourite, 
 nuclear war. (hehehe, just put the entire stage as Chemical Blox, leave a small gap, and stick 
 a Bomb Block in there. Oh, the joys of destruction...
  
  If you have a friend registered, which i didn't, because nobody i know owns this game, then you 
 can send them your levels for them to try. Great... :)
  
  You can also make customised Tiki Towers for a XL Jenga, or an army of dominoes, i mean, um, characters 
 to battle it out. 
  
  All in all, this game's flaws are just overseen because of this game's entertaining levels, simplicity 
 and because it's so damn fun.
  
  I'll never get tired of hitting a fat sheep with a bowling ball.
  
  So there we go, Boom Blox. 
 An entertaining game that i'm sure everyone in your family will love. The only thing that's got 
 me off Brawl this weekend. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers43
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Boom Blox does what soooo many other Wii games tried to do. They tried to be realistic , have SHARP 
 motion control, Great multiplayer, Great create mode, Great all around enjoyment... yet so few 
 actually succeded. 
  
  Boom Blox took me and many others completely by suprise, this game look kiddish (it is to a certain 
 extent) not fun to the narrow minded and only for people with lots and lots of patiense.... this 
 is not true the game is for all to enjoy and all to love. its a bit kiddish but fun for everyone 
 and you dont have to be the smartest person in the world either.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  1. Sharp motion control that doesnt go wack!
  
  2. over 300 levels to play and you can edit 
 EVERY SINGLE ONE!
  
  3. Lots of different weapons to choose from // lots to unlock!
  
  4. an amazing create mode which lets you do all most anything you can think of (check YOUTUBE) 
 includig editing already made levels!
  
  5. lasting apeal the game is not going to end infront of your eyes and end up in the bookshelf 
 // you can push yourself to get gold and unlock new weapons and multiple difficulty modes for explore!
 
  
  6. PHYSICS SYSTEM this physics system is amazing it uses the ones they use in hard core shooting 
 games to make sure everything happens like it should!
  
  7. great multiplayer you can play coorperatively or against people in games like fortress where 
 you are trying to knock down other peoples castles
  
  THE BAD
  
  1. this may sound weak but if played for over an hour your arm will get a little.... tired
  
 
  2. when playing with 4 people sometimes the wii doesnt pick up you aimer for 2-3 seconds (doesnt 
 matter much)
  
  3. physics system is so real that sometimes you will miss 1 gem block and all you have to do is 
 play the game the EXACT same way and the blocks MIGHT just fall the way you want them too
  
  
  ALL AROUND SCORE = 9.4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilot872
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Boom Blox is actually a great game to try, but be careful because it can surely suck you in for 
 hours at a time. Its unique game play and graphics style are one of a kind. Boom Blox gives you 
 tons of different kinds of puzzles for you to solve, and even sometimes using the WII nunchuck 
 and controller for blasting away monkeys and many more fun things. But some people might think 
 its boring so I also suggest renting it first if you like, also because you can beat it in a pretty 
 quick time period or possibly renting it for the kids because they'l love it. You won't be dissapointed 
 in this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  So I was a little dissapointed at Indies last adventure. Well it seems that Steven Spielburg wasn't 
 doing his best... Or was he. Mabey he had his eye on something else. Mabey he was still creating 
 a masterpiece. Yes he was. He was creating Boom Blox!
  Yes that's right a new and unfamiliar game called Boom Blox! Now right now your thinking what could 
 this be? Well it be the most innovative game of the year! Boom Blox compliments the Wii in every 
 way. Controls, fun and everything. You see this game is specially designed for Wii so there is 
 nothing more you can expect then greatness. 
  Boom Blox as I said takes great advantage of Wii controls. You can shoot, grab, and blast your 
 way to victory through over 300 amazing and fun levels. You can shoot baseballs to destroy giants 
 structures and collect gems or lead a gorilla to her babies. With this game you never know what 
 your going to encounter next! And that's just the adventure mode. 
  Explore the various blox and gems you'll encounter through unique and fun levels in explore mode. 
 This isn't as creative as adventure mode but does a great job of introducing the diffrent blox 
 and tools.
  Now while I have hardly dabbled in the level builder I won't say that it is perfect. Firstly you 
 need to earn a lot of items and characters before the levels are truly worth building. Also lots 
 of times it is very hard to be accurate and correct when building. Also when you start from scratch 
 you don't create a level but rather a enviroment. You also have the option of tweaking any of their 
 levels. Although this time you can actually set an objective it still proves to feel somewhat held 
 back.
  The multiplayer is also very good. Although the cooperative really seems lacking the versus is 
 awsome. You can play Jenga with a friend or strive to gain the most points. You can even destroy 
 each others castles with a unique combat system. Things can get so crazy and fun, that this is 
 a must have at your next party. Your friends will love it.
  So the nutshell of it, a great game. It's not the best game on Wii but it sure does bring some 
 more enthusiasm back to the Wii. It shows the true purpose of the Wii's developement. Creative 
 games like this that everybody can enjoy. So yes, Steven Spielburg still does have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  You know those rare occasions that you encounter in life where you have a lot of fun with something 
 that is very simple? No? Oh, well you can have one of these rare moments with Boom Blox. 
  
  Yeah, its made by EA, yeah Steven Spielberg helped make it, but this is not what makes this 
 game special. What makes this game great is the simplicity of the gameplay, and that its actually 
 fun! Boom Blox offers several different ways to solve puzzles. You can throw, stack, unstack, blow 
 up, escort, and use physics and gravity to solve puzzles. Each puzzle is basically played on a 
 circular playing field, with the puzzle or task positioned in the middle. Most of the time you 
 have a 360 degree access around the puzzle, so that you can look at it from all angles and find 
 the best way to solve it. Though there are some puzzles that are linear, where the task is straight 
 in front of you. These linear tasks are usually the shooting galleries, which most of them should've 
 been left out.
  
  You only need a basic knowledge of how gravity works to play this game. Well, that and a good arm, 
 because the faster you swing your arm, the harder you throw. Also, make sure that you finish your 
 swing with the Wiimote pointing at the T. V. for the best result. I didn't learn this fast enough, 
 and ended up with a sore elbow in the morning. Well, it was the lack of knowledge and playing it 
 for 4 hours straight that caused this....
  
  Anyways, the gameplay is fun and addictive, though the single player is pretty bland, with a half-hearted 
 story that might not even appeal to kids, the story is nothing special at all. Where this game 
 shines is with the multiplayer, which can be played with up to 4 players. There are tons of levels 
 to either play on competitively, or as co-op. Some of the levels and ways that you must beat them 
 can be tedius and get frustrating after a while. The controls can also be a bit tricky. For example, 
 when you are throwing objects, it can be difficult to determine how hard you are throwing. It can 
 also be a struggle to get a sence of depth and just how far away a target is. The physics are where 
 the game hits the nail on the head. They are very well done. The feel is very lifelike, even though 
 some situations can be a little over-the-top, like a huge stack of objects balancing on one very 
 small object, but its the situations like this that make the game fun. 
  
  The graphics are okay, nothing special. Its very cartoonish, which is fine, but the game is littered 
 with jagged edges and lackluster colors. The game does lag a little when there is alot happening 
 on the screen at once, though I have only encountered this a couple of times.
  
  Sounds are alright, again nothing special. Some of the background music gets annoying after a while. 
 There are little animal characters scattered around the levels and you can smack them with whatever 
 you are throwing and get a satisfying yelp out of them. There are also levels with "Mitten Kittens", 
 and these little fury bastards can be so annoying that its more satisfying to send them to their 
 demise rather than help them get to the goal.
  
  With all that being said, this game has some great gameplay value, and I feel that soon, especially 
 when the price drops, this game will be as common on the Wii players shelf as Wii Sports. With 
 the fun and simplistic gameplay, and loads of MP levels as well as the level creator, this is a 
 game that can be well worth the money, as long as you have someone to play with.
  
  Gameplay: 8.0
  
  Graphics: 6.0
  
  Sound: 5.5
  
  Value: 8.0
  
  Tilt: 7.5
  
  
 Overall: 7.0
  
  Thanks for reading and I hope that you enjoyed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  i have been playing the single player of this game for a while now. there are literialy hundreds 
 of puzzles to solve. the create a puzzle mode isn't as good as it could be. it isn't easy to make 
 a puzzle that is remotely enjoyable. but the coop play and the multiplayer is where this game is 
 at its best. i could play the multiplayer for hours. there are throwing puzzles and grabing, blasting, 
 and attack. i think the most fun is a tie between throw and grab. it is so fun to make the whole 
 tower fall over and get like 600 points and destroy the other players. if you havn't figured it 
 out, i think this game is awesome. you should pick it up if you have a wii, or you should get a 
 wii just to get this game. this game is superb! if i had to pick one thing that i didn't like, 
 it would be the chareters. they are really dumb looking. i think the gameplay is amazingly fun 
 and i could play it for hours. i really don't like the charecters so i try to get all of them out 
 by taking my turns throwing stuff at them and making them flip away. but anyway, this game is one 
 of the best on the wii. get it or you will regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Boom Blox is an awesome game with so many different blox and balls, and it's got a certain silly 
 charm that is hard to describe. I've only played it for about an hour, but I can tell that it is 
 very fun, and has many fun skills, such as Boom Blocks, or Bomb Balls, or even Rubber Balls. You 
 can make structures such as a structure that you can throw bomb balls inside to get points or gems. 
 Explore mode is mastering skills or mastering using certain block types. Adventure mode is going 
 along certain stories such as protecting/getting sheeps' gems. If any animal is there, you can 
 usually shoot it or throw something at it. You can choose an animal of your choice for a file icon, 
 and you can earn animals for creating mode in adventure mode. There are balls and blocks for creation 
 mode in explore mode. Another great mode is multi player. The only problem is the co-op isn't that 
 good. Other than that is Castle battles, where you hit gem blocks out of your opponets block castle/tower. 
 Another multiplayer mode is shooting YOUR (you take penalty for shooting opponets blocks, but your 
 block bumping theirs doesn't matter) block into score zones, and every turn it is there you get 
 a certain amount of points. First person to reach one-hundred points wins the round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroids1fan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I rented boom blox for the nintendo wii just last week and I must admit that I've never relly been 
 the puzzle kind of guy, however I still enjoyed boom blox quite a bit. So i cracked it open and 
 surprize the disk was scratched so much that if it were mine i'd be ashamed ( this was block buster's 
 fault ) . So after 10 min of intence disk cleaning I finally started playing it. The menu gave me 
 a very wide verity of options and this relly pleased me. I came to a conclusion that all the games 
 modes are fun ( a bit on the easy side ) however the game lacked any type of story. Also the wii 
 remote was very, very sensitive and could mean life or death in situations. I have also found that 
 Boom Blox is not for everyone if you liked zelda, grand theift auto, halo trilogy, or anything 
 that has a long involved story andnormalerchacters then this game MAY not be for you. Therefore 
 I give Boom Blox for nintendo wii an 8 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonmxz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Boom blox is a incredible game that has a great physics engine,400 singleplayer and multiplayer 
 levels, and a robust level creator. It makes use of the wii controls far better than most wii games 
 out there from grabbing the blocks to throwing things at them. There is also a ton of varitey here 
 with many diffrent challenges, characters, and blocks. A big incentive for completing the levels 
 is just to see what the next challenge will be. The multiplayer is great as this game gets better 
 with the more people you crowd around the T. V. . Finally the level creator is so immersive with 
 the fact that you can create just about anything you want. This is one game you will want in your 
 collection.
  
  Gameplay:10
  With a level creator, 400 levels, and great multiplayer this good you can't go wrong.
  
  Graphics:9 
 
  not the best but it fits the nature of the game.
  
  Sound:8 
  good.
  
  Replay value:10
  you can send your puzzels to your freinds, try to get golds on every puzzel, 
 and multiplayer
  
  Controls:10 
  best controls on wii 
  
  Final score 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  This review is going to be quite small because there really isn't much to Boom Blox. While this 
 is not good news for most games on the Wii, Boom Blox is more captivating with these simplicities. 
 Additionally it's... dare I say... cute. Yeah, cute. And I like it, so if you have a problem with 
 cute, play this game to get you more in tune with your softer side. 
  
  The game is simple: pick a mode, play. There's a bunch of game types and modes that are basically 
 "throw some s**t at blocks", a jenga-style pull blocks adventure, and a few pointless shooting/spraying 
 exercises. With blocks that give points, blocks that take away points, and a great physics engine, 
 the multiplayer is great. The single player is great as well, if not more addicting than cigarettes, 
 but I can already tell after getting all gold (top ranking) in about half of the puzzles that the 
 replay value of single player is LOW. If you play alone, rent this and enjoy trying to conquer 
 each puzzle in a single throw (for gold rank) . However, if you are like me and you are a hardcore 
 gamer that owns a Wii and keeps getting bugged to play multiplayer with the various casual gamers 
 in your life, this is finally the game to replace the lackluster Wii Sports or Wii Play with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarman2uk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  When you discover that none other than Stephen Spielberg has put his name to a video game you start 
 to lick your lips in anticipation.
  It's bound to be great, but what is it? An epic voyage into outer space, an action-packed adventure?... no 
 a game where you have to blow up boxes!
  With tongue firmly out of cheek, Boom Blox from Electronic Arts, is a real jaw-dropper.
  Not 
 because it looks cool, but the way it plays - it's so addictive.
  Who'd have thought that throwing an imaginary ball or bowling ball with the Wii remote at a load 
 of blocks and boxes hoping to knock them down in one throw would have been so much fun?
  It is... trust me - this is a game you definitely want to have in your Wii collection.
  
  For 
 those that aren't familiar with the game, let me give you a brief insight.
  There are two methods of gameplay - arcade-style and adventure.
  Personally, I prefer arcade. 
 This is a 300-plus puzzle-based set of challenges which requires you to knock down or destroy certain 
 block and block types in the least amount of moves.
  It sounds really boring, and I must admit that when I first started playing that's how I felt, 
 but after you get the hang of the game, it's addiction personified!
  You just have to keep playing to see what the next puzzle/challenge is going to be.
  
  Spielberg, 
 who teamed up with EA last year, decided he wanted to make a game to play with his kids - and he 
 has completely succeeded - big kids and little kids love this game, although certain elements of 
 the game should have remained on the cutting room floor.
  
  The adventure element of the game is weird, to put it bluntly. I've got two young children and 
 even they weren't impressed with the in-game characters, it even scared my youngest!
  
  That aside, the gameplay itself is great and this title really comes into its own when you play 
 with friends or family. It can get a little tedious blasting through the puzzles on your own, although 
 there is a modicum of satisfaction knowing you've just obliterated the blox in one throw.
  But invite some people around the challenge is on. You'll take great delight in working your way 
 through a level by either completing the puzzle yourself or crippling your opponent - the choice 
 is yours... either is a great laugh.
  
  Where I think this game has really succeeded over similar titles is partly due to the realism in 
 which the blox fall to the ground!
  
  The real-world physics are incredible and should this ever make it into the 'real world' then I'm 
 sure the bricks/blox what fall in exactly the same way - demolition here were come.
  
  But it's not just about throwing a ball as the blox do different things and act in different was. 
 Sometimes you'll be able to grab the blocks and throw them with a virtual hand, then there are 
 the balls and bowling balls and once you start to progress further into the game then you'll be 
 able to grab a hosepipe and shoot water at them!
  
  I presume Spielberg's kids enjoy playing these sorts of games.
  
  Another plus point about 
 this Jenga-style game is that you can actually create your own puzzles. Admittedly, it's going 
 to take some time to get used to setting up the perfect 'challenge', but a great addition to what 
 is already a great game.
  
  Personally, I found myself becoming immersed in the entire experience and desperately trying to 
 complete each level so I could discover what what next.
  
  Boom Blox may not be to everyone's taste, but from a pure gameplay perspective, I would advise 
 people to get this one in their collection.
  
  For more information about this game, check out www. electronicarts. co. uk/ and also my other blog 
 pages on wordpress. com/gadgetspeak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Some gamers love when a game has good physics just so they can screw with stuff and blow things 
 up. Look how many Crysis videos there are on youtube of people just playing with the physics. Bloom 
 Blox takes this brand of fun and simplifies it for the Wii.
  
  There are a few core gameplay methods in Boom Blox. The first has you strategically throwing (which 
 consists of pointing and clicking A to lock your position then a throwing motion) balls/bombs into 
 a structure in order to knock down special blocks. Others include hitting certain types of bricks 
 to make them disappear, cause a chain reaction, or blow up. Some games are even like jenga where 
 you have to remove certain blox. The base of all these game types is pretty much just to knock 
 stuff down. It's good simple fun and can keep you entertained for a bit.
  
  That is until you play most of what the game has to offer. Yes there are a lot of puzzles to play, 
 but they don't differ much. The ones where you make stuff explode or just generally knock things 
 down are fun, but there are other game types that just aren't. These include ones where you have 
 to make a path for people to walk on, shooting gallery type things where you have to defend 5 people, 
 or escort missions where you have to move blocks and keep enemies at bay. None of these are as 
 fun as just generally knocking things down.
  
  Lame things aside, there are more positives about the game. For one, the multiplayer is simple 
 and fun. There is co op and competitive gameplay and it is a sure shot to keep you and your friends 
 entertained. Also there is a stage editor where you can create your own stages and share them via 
 WiFi. You can either create fairly simple stages or pee wee herman breakfast machine complicated 
 stages. 
  
  Overall, Boom Blox is a good game. If you don't usually play with multiple people on you're Wii, 
 give it a rent. If you are looking for another game to play with friends, rent it and then see 
 if you want to buy, you could have a blast, you could not. It depends on your taste really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman6251
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is a game I'm having a very hard time trying to associate with a numerical score because 
 frankly I find myself loving it and then hating it in a never ending pattern of inconsistency.
 
  
  I bought this game because it was getting lots of good reviews (and XPlay is treating it like a 
 god send) and because I like puzzles. I got it under the impression that it was a physics puzzler 
 where you would try to knock certain blocks a certain way to obtain the most points and it is just 
 that, some of the time.
  
  The thing is Boom Blox doesn't seem to be able to decide what kind of game it wants to be. I'll 
 be having a blast moving the bombs around so that when I hit the GO button the beaver will go blow 
 up a bomb and hopefully if I put my bombs in the right spot there will be a nice chain reaction 
 destroying all the point blocks and then all of a sudden I'm shooting monkeys to protect cows. 
 NO! As I said the puzzle type games are the ones that I enjoy, the action type games are the ones 
 I loathe. The arranging of the bombs for the most devastating chain reaction was fun. It made me 
 think "hmm where should I put this" and even though they were usually fairly obvious in this particular 
 string of games it was still FUN. The monkey shooting thing was just annoying. You had unlimited 
 ammo and you could try and shoot the supports out from under the monkeys spawn points so they couldn't 
 come back but that does nothing except make the monkeys spawn on the ground making them harder 
 to see.
  
  There are tons of different kinds of puzzles and of course there are also tons of different kinds 
 of action sequences. There are puzzles where you want to knock over point blocks without knocking 
 over negative point blocks. There are puzzles where you want to destroy all the gems in the least 
 number of throws which then incorporate other blocks like the bomb, vanish, and chemical blocks.
 
  
  Then theres the action games like the monkeys or blow up the bears so they can't steal your gems 
 or kill the ghosts long enough so the kittens can get to the other side.
  
  I'd like to give two specific examples. Theres one set of puzzles where you have a mom gorilla 
 and baby gorillas and you want to move several blocks out of her way so she can get to her babies. 
 This was one of my favorite puzzle sets. There would be a block obstructing her path but to get 
 that block you'd have to move another block which trapped the one in her way. There would be a 
 massive chain like this so I had to find the first one, get rid of that, then get rid of the next 
 and the next etc until she could cross the bridge. I liked this a lot.
  
  Then theres the halloween set where the kittens try to get to the pumpkin but a bunch of skeletons 
 try to kill them and you have a gun (unlimited ammo of course) and you want to stop the skeletons. 
 What this ends up doing is making me sit there and mash A until the kittens can reach the goal.
 
  
  I love action games but the problem is this game wasn't meant to be an action game and when it 
 tries to do so it just doesn't succeed. It would be a better game overall if they just stuck to 
 puzzles.
  
  Now theres two more things I really hate. The camera in this game is fixed. You can rotate it but 
 you can't scroll it and this often causes very awkward angles or requires me to make a shot at 
 a small target from VERY far away. This shouldn't be an issue because in creator mode when you 
 test your level without any rules set you can scroll and rotate the camera any way you want and 
 it works fine. However the second you turn on any rules the camera gets locked. This is an especially 
 big problem on large levels.
  
  And thats another thing. Creator mode works fine (although if you don't take your finger off A 
 insanely fast you'll have 40 more blocks than you wanted) but the rules are awful. You can't do 
 anything. You can limit throws and set a timer. I made a point block puzzle and when I knocked 
 the point blocks down I didn't get any points. I made a gorilla/baby level and when the gorilla 
 got to the babies nothing happened the gorilla just sat there as the time dwindled away.
  
  Now for the other thing I hate, jenga puzzles. The hand tool is ridiculously hard to control. As 
 you pull a block it will start to violently shake and it will flick anything above it way into 
 the air. If you are holding a block in midair it will violently spin around in the air and flail 
 like a dying fish often accidentally knocking over a block you don't want to fall over. Its just 
 too unstable and hard to control.
  
  All in all sometimes I'll have a blast with this game and I'll love it and treasure it and other 
 times I'll want to pull my hair out from the bad design and throw my copy out the window. The amount 
 of fun you get from the game is very dependent on which string of puzzles you are playing and I 
 try to avoid the ones I don't like but to unlock more of the ones I enjoy I have to beat more of 
 the ones I hate.
  
  I give it a 7.5/10 because its just too wildly inconsistent to be thoroughly enjoyable
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred1712
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  This game has a fun adventure mode, I liked the little cutscenes after you beat a level ( unlike 
 gamespot ) I haven't played it with another person but im sure that it is fun. Do you remember 
 playing with blocks when you were a little lad? Well here is the game for you if you liked playing 
 with blocks. Explore mode is also pretty fun when the creators made a level on the game and you 
 have to solve them. Basically the game is throwing baseballs at blocks. but the baseballs can be 
 bombs or sticky hands and other things. Create mode is fun but its hard to keep the cursor that 
 is making blocks steady, for example: I try drawing a straight line and it makes the line of blocks 
 swerve and go on top of each other, this makes the game harder, so you better have a steady hand 
 if you want to go in create mode. Overall this game is alright but dont pick it up if you havent 
 played it yet. So rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdc720
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Boom Blox is exactly that type of game. I only rented the game for 5 days but that was more than 
 enough time to realize that it was just amazing, It actually made me stop playing Super Smash bros 
 brawl, and Mario Kart Wii. The game may seem like a simple puzzle game that copies Jenga, but it 
 is so much more than that. The game involves different types of blocks that are built into formations 
 that you have to knock down, by pulling, pushing, placing, shooting, and throwing different "toys". 
 But the puzzles are not just your basic block towers, they include different special blocks like 
 bomb blox, which explode when hit, Chemical blox which explode when they touch one another, and 
 cloud blox which will slowly rise up if not weighed down. Of course those are just 3 of the many 
 different blox in the game. Adding to all that are the little block-ish creatures that run around 
 and have different effects on puzzle. Beavers, for instance will detonate bomb blox, dogs will 
 throw baseballs at other characters, and bears will steal gems. There are about 20 of these little 
 characters and it's fun just to see them blow up. There are 3 main modes in Boom Blox, Single, 
 party, and create. The singl player mode offers, training (which is self_explanatory) , experiment 
 which are increasingly chalanging puzzles that involve different blocks, and Adventure which is 
 4 stories with multiple epiosodes. The scenes that brake up these epidodes are just litteraly ryhmes, 
 and the adventure mode itself just serves to unlock some very plentiful hidden goodies. Where Boom 
 Blox really shines is it's multiplayer. Me and my family played into the wee hours of the night 
 playing the game and they were hooked. The multiplayer is the best part of Boom Blox without a 
 doubt. No matter what kind of game's your into, If you own a Wii then at least rent Boom Blox, 
 and you will be in for a pleasant surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smojus
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is insanely fun! It combines the best of my personal favorite things creating and destroying! 
 This game is simply amazing even though the graphics are a tad bit dry this game overcomes it's 
 flaws because well your having so much fun you don't even notice!
  
  This game is by far one of the best games i've ever played here are the positives:
  creative 
 characters
  amazing level design
  amusing storylines
  over 300 puzzles
  36 characters
  tons of toys including a BOWLING BALL HOSE!
  
  Here are the negatives:
  
 When you play on your own created map it lags a bit
  the shooting gallery lvls just wasn't what you wanted or expected
  it has friggin' Jenga which 
 just pisses me off } = [ i hate friggin Jenga.
  
  Well anyways this game is awesome and anyone who says this game is bad is  
 i think i can say that.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow did this game fool me. Honestly, when I first saw this game I thought to myself, "WTF?" Seriously, 
 looking at this game, then looking at Steven Spielberg's name as well as a huge company such as 
 EA stamped on it you would guess this was some sort of joke. But its reality and reality also proves 
 that you should never judge a game by what it looks like. Just like Viva Pinata, this is a gem 
 underneath a kid friendly coating. So be a man, and play this game.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are passable. As you can tell, this games focus is not in graphics but in gameplay. 
 But luckily, with its simple designs and textures, it still looks good. 
  
  THE STORY is probably the most lame part of the whole entire game. Its told in a story book format 
 and every other word rhymes with the previous as if your are reading a Dr. Suess book. So, taking 
 this into consideration, you can forget about the story. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is where this game truly excels. Its provides superb puzzles unlike anything in it's 
 genre. Whether its throwing bombs at a castle, or shooting bombs underneath a bridge of monkeys 
 to collapse them to their deaths, it all feels great. Allowing the game to produce a gravity physics 
 to where you hit blocks in certain spots and let gravity take control is a beautiful thing. The 
 game also challenges you perfectly. As in most challenges are too easy or too difficult, this fits 
 right in the medium. There are times where it will challenge you, and even if you pass with the 
 lowest score to get the bronze, it gives you the challenge of besting yourself to take the gold. 
 So it never becomes too challenging unless you want it to be. There is a ton of modes to play here, 
 all ranging from explosive puzzles, to ones where you must keep a steady hand to play a Jenga-inspired 
 match. Along with all this you also get a create mode. This works extremely well and lets you not 
 only build your own levels, but also lets you create the rules, layout the playing field, and choose 
 your tools of destruction. Did I mention you can then share your creations over Wiiconnect24? Add 
 on multiplayer and you got yourself an original gem. 
  
  THE SOUND fits the game just right. It supports the music you would expect from the environments, 
 and provides the typical animal noises. The sound fits the game just right and doesn't faulter 
 the game any bit.
  
  OVERALL Boom Blox is a rare gem that I'm afraid is gonna get overlooked by alot of people. As with 
 Viva Pinata and Zack & Wiki, many people overlook certain titles because of this kiddish look. 
 I hope that this game does not fall under such circumstances, because this is indeed one of the 
 best titles on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Boom Blox is a game overseen and directed by Steven Spielburg. Now, I know that it looks kind of 
 boring, but this is a game that must be played to be enjoyed! The singleplayer component is a good, 
 solid experience, but the offline multiplayer is where this game truly shines! Do not be mistaken, 
 this is not jenga! There are jenga modes but they are only a few of what this game can truly offer. 
 This game has both turnbased and cooperative multiplayer. If you are looking for the next great 
 multiplayer game for the wii, look no more and GET THIS FRIGGIN' GAME!!! It may be $50, but it 
 is oh-so-worth every penny that you spend on this game. This game is just pure fun and addiction 
 and is great for the whole family or large groups of friends; so be it hardcore gamers or casual 
 grandma's, be prepared for lots of sleepless nights of mind-blowing entertainment!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  The mark of a good game is simple: It's fun.
  
  The mark of a great one, however, is one that not only is fun, but uses its engine and its concept 
 in unique and original ways. Boom Blox is a concept of a good game: Gameplay is centered around 
 different types of blocks and the properties it has. Sometimes you have to pull blocks away without 
 losing the top block or you have to knock down certain blocks with as few throws as possible.
 
  
  What makes Boom Blox great, however, is the implementation of the puzzles using these blocks. Using 
 this simple concept, the game gets really creative with puzzles ranging from hitting a block at 
 the right speed and angle to hit another block to hitting a single explosive block making a chain 
 reaction in hitting others. Also, using other properties (like tennis balls, hoses and grab tools) 
 add further to the game itself.
  
  Problems? A few: Some single player puzzles tend to be too frustrating, due to the camera. Also, 
 some single player scenarios, such as the Tower Defense-esque games, just aren't that much fun.
 
  
  That is all fine however since you get an excellent and easy-to-use editor to fool around with. 
 Creating puzzles and scenarios are fairly simple, but you can go as crazy and complicated as you'd 
 like to. This adds a ton of replay value to a game that could easily stay in your Wii for months 
 at a time.
  
  All in all, Boom Blox is a simple game that was made much more compelling by its physics engine 
 and its excellent use of puzzles. Puzzle fans will definitely want to purchase this, but multiplayer 
 fans will also find tons of fun in this unique game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racalavaca
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  As far as casual gaming goes, it doesn't get much better than this EA collaboration with director 
 Steven Spielberg for the wii. With a mix of little games and a nice simple storyline that serves 
 more as a compliment to the actual gaming, this unpretentious game is great for playing alone for 
 long hours as well as in parties with your friends.
  
  There are a few modes of play, as well as a "creation" mode, where you can make up your own levels 
 to play in once you run out of the defaults (wich will probably take a long time, since there are 
 plenty of them) . Adventure mode consists of a quick compiling of all game modes, complimented by 
 a cute litttle story to put them all together. For the more casual gamer, you have "Explore mode" 
 where you can select what type of game you want and play that. "challenge mode", for (brace yourselves!) 
 more challenging play! And last but not least, "Party Mode", for those of you who enjoy playing 
 with friends and family.
  
  If you're into innovative puzzle games with nice presentation and characters, this highly addictive 
 game will keep you up into the late hours of the night, and give you serious sores on your arms 
 the next morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Relys
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the greatest, most original, creative and well developed Wii style game I have. 
 It completely blows the crap out of Wii Sports, Mario Party 8 and all the other games the Wii stands 
 for.
  
  The premise is simple, you're given a set of blocks and a certain objective (Such as knocking them 
 down, or picking certain one's up "janga style") the way you win is to find the weakest point or 
 create a rube goldburg effect with the different "bloxes", such as: "Bomb bloxes" which explode 
 when hit. "Chemical bloxes" which explode when two "chem bloxes" hit together. and "Ghost bloxes" 
 which vanish when it leaving a tower of bloxes to come crashing down. 
  
  There's single player mode with over 300 puzzles, and party mode which has puzzles that you a 4 
 other people can play with. The game has infinite replay value with a strong level editor which 
 you can create huge levels of any shape and size. You can send levels to your friends via WiiConnect24/7.
 
  
  The graphics are fine considering it's running on the havok physics engine. Everything is bright 
 a cheerful. It's amazing that each of the bloxes actually have a shadow considering the amount 
 of physical interaction going on.
  
  The physics engine runs perfectly and simulates very accurately. It uses the Havok physics engine, 
 which is the same engine used in Half-Life 2, Brawl, and mostly every other big hit game.
  
  The controls use the Wiimote perfectly, everything is very well programed and thought out. 
 The controls are very responsive and accurate.
  
  If you have a Wii, there's no reason why you shouldn't pick this game up. It's simply the best 
 there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSUJD524
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Wildly addictive, uniquely innovative, inspiringly creative, everything the Wii console has promised 
 from the beginning in their games; few have delivered. Steven Spielbergs breakthrough attempt of 
 game creation was nothing short of brilliance. Boom Blox does not fall victim to the vast shameful 
 collection of poor Wii motion controls Wii games. It will raise your standards for how responsive 
 motion controls are for all Wii games from here on out. Boom Blox is a home run and it's single 
 player is only surpassed by it's multiplayer. Knocking down blocks couldn't be more fun... well... unless 
 your not counting building your own structures and making a Rube Goldberg-esque domino effect just 
 to make you smile. There are only a handful of games I consider perfect and I'm always reluctant 
 to don such a prestigious title, but Boom Blox didn't even make me hesitate. It's a 10 in my book. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewiirocks1
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  One thing I like about reviewing this is that I'm the first one to review it. Boom Blox is a action 
 paced game where you have to blow up, topple, and destroy big statues made of blox. Now a lot of 
 people are thinking that this is going to be the same crap that we saw with Jenga. WRONG!!! It 
 sure does look like it but it's a lot better. With it's three-hundred plus levels, unlockables, 
 stage creator, and great multiplayer this game will keep you busy for a while. It is also defiantly 
 worth the $50. What also make this game great is that it's Steven Spielberg's first game and it's 
 excellent. Overall this game is awesome and if you're reading this go out and buy it. And now because 
 you have to put eight-hundred charactersso here's a lot of periods  
 there we go. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
