-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brunswick Pro Bowling
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/brunswickprobowling/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Attractive ball and pin visuals.
 Brunswick goods will delight professional bowling fans.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Wii controls don't allow accuracy to the degree the game demands.
 Excitement sacrificed on altar of realism.
 Same thing over and over again.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 187 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: Point of View
Genre: Bowling
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brunswick Pro Bowling proffers dry simulation fare that only a big fan of professional bowling could 
 love. 

  With a video game, as with the proverbial book, it's generally not advisable to judge the contents 
 by the cover. Game titles usually proffer precious little information about the nature of the game 
 itself, opting for an attention grabber or brand identifier over a content descriptor. It's a rare 
 game that lays it all out in the title, yet Brunswick Pro Bowling is one of those games. Let's 
 see, "Pro Bowling" indicates a simulation approach to the sport/game of bowling, rather than an 
 arcade interpretation. "Brunswick" is a venerable brand name in the bowling world, covering everything 
 from shoes to balls to pins. This brand backing likely means that Brunswick is hoping to leverage 
 and increase said venerability through this game, so we can expect a polished, by-the-numbers representation 
 of the professional bowling scene. And that's exactly what we get. The only remaining questions 
 are, how well did they do it, and how enjoyable is it? The answers: Fairly well, and fairly dull. 

  Brunswick Pro Bowling keeps it simple straight from the get-go. Do you want to hit up league night 
 and launch a career, or do you just wanna bowl? For those interested in the latter, there is quick 
 play. One to four players can lace up their bowling shoes, choose one of the premade bowlers, and 
 get to rolling. For those inclined toward the former, it's not quite as speedy as all that. First 
 you must design your character, choosing gender, hairstyle, clothing, and body type from existing 
 palettes. Facial expressions range from focused to irritated to downright glum, and the slow speed 
 with which you will cycle through these, or any, menu options will ensure you get a good look at 
 them in all their unremarkable splendor. Complete this ponderous process and it's off to league 
 night for some head-to-head competition.  

           The befuddled John desperately tries to remember scenes from The Big Lebowski that might 
 help him in this situation.      

  League nights pit you against a random computer opponent in a three-game competition. Win two or 
 more games and you'll be declared the winner, earn money, and improve your reputation. Money can 
 be expended at the pro shop on -- what else? -- Brunswick gear, which can give your bowler's attributes 
 a boost. These attributes, such as stamina, accuracy, and arm strength, actively influence the 
 quality of the shots your bowler can make over the course of the league night, and you'll gradually 
 notice this improvement. Attributes increase over the course of your career, but the bonuses afforded 
 by Brunswick gear are a helpful boost. You'll need to trudge through a fair amount of league play 
 in order to earn the money and reputation needed for tournament. Winning tournaments will earn 
 you access to more advanced leagues, where you rinse and repeat your previous experiences against 
 tougher opponents.  

  When it comes to actually bowling, the control mechanics are nigh identical to Wii Bowling. You 
 adjust the angle and position of your release by using the D pad and rotating your Remote, respectively. 
 Then, starting with an upright grip, you swing your arm back while holding the trigger button down, 
 then swing forward and release the trigger to roll. The amount of hook on your ball is determined 
 by the speed of your release, so the action of bowling is primarily an exercise in speed control. 
 The angle of your wrist during your release won't have an appreciable effect, and fans of Wii Bowling 
 will likely lament this lack. No matter how slow or fast you swing, you'll never really be in sync 
 with your character onscreen, which is entirely unhelpful.  

           The enmity between ball and pin plays out yet again, as it has since time immemorial. 

  Overall, despite the seemingly well-suited control scheme, the Wii version somehow manages to serve 
 up the least enjoyable action of the three available versions. As a simulation game, Brunswick 
 Pro Bowling aims to incorporate the myriad factors and miniscule variables that make the difference 
 between a good roll and a great roll. Lane oil patterns, bowler arm strength, fatigue, hook, and 
 power are all incorporated into the action. Regrettably, the Wii controls do not allow for the 
 type of precision necessary to take all these factors into account, and this creates a margin of 
 error that will frustrate even the steadiest hands. You can still manage to bowl a reasonably consistent 
 game, but the intermittent inaccuracy is bound to ruin at least a few of your rolls -- and if you're 
 aiming for scores above 200, a few ruined rolls is a ruined game.  

  The overall presentation sticks with the lackluster theme, offering predictably styled colorful 
 clothing to outfit your bland characters while they bowl in a bland alley. The one visual bright 
 spot is the animated roll of the ball down the lane and the crash of the pins, which, being the 
 focal point of bowling, is crafted lovingly. The music loops through a few pastiches of different 
 music genres that, while fairly innocuous, does nothing to enhance the experience. Also, for some 
 reason, the Wii version costs $40, which is $25 more than the PS2 version at retail. Just one more 
 reason not to go with this version.  

  On the whole, Brunswick Pro Bowling presents a fair facsimile of professional bowling, which itself 
 is pretty unexciting. If you take umbrage at that assertion and actually enjoy watching the PBA 
 on ESPN, then Brunswick Pro Bowling offers the kind of bowling sim you'd likely enjoy. If, on the 
 other hand, the only pro bowlers you can name are The Dude, Walter Sobchak, and a guy who calls 
 himself "The Jesus," you'd best leave this one alone.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zerex92
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  IT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE IT IT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME 
 I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE 
 OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT 
 IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT 
 LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF 
 TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS 
 A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT 
 LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF 
 TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS 
 A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT 
 LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF 
 TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS 
 A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT 
 LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF 
 TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS 
 A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT 
 LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE ITIT IS A WASTE OF TIME I DONT LIKE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  In this game it is just like going to a bowling alley and bowling there. But in this game the controls 
 are hard and it is not the best Wii game to play but it is just a little fun with family and friends.
 
  
  The good part of this game is that it is a little fun to play with the familly.
  
  The bad part of this game is that the controls are hard. The graphics are terrible and everything 
 else is terrible.
  
  Overall I give this game a 2.0 outta 10 and I don't think people should get this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay/Interface: 4/10
  - No story what so ever. Barely any characters to choose from and small amount of things to change. 
 Overly hard game when it even works. I spend overy 30minutes just to get the game to recognize 
 that I was bowling the ball.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 3/10
  - Not at all an emersive game and really everything always looks the same other than opponent and 
 bowling balls. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7.5/10
  - Graphics were decent, and bowling ball is unresponsive to hand movements.
  
  Sound: 6/10
 
  - Alright sound? I just played this game and I don't even remember anything noticable from the 
 sound other than when the pins are hit. Gameplay sounds are decent at most.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 1/10
  - Well after 30 minutes of reading the manual and just simply 
 trying to get the ball to roll, I simply gave up. I would say the ball rolled 3 out of the 10 times 
 I tried to get it to. Its not my Wii because it works on other similar games, this one just simply 
 doesn't work but a few times.
  
  Replay value: 2/10
  - Won't be coming back to play this one anytime so..... how about never. Look else where for a good 
 bowling experience.
  
  Value for money: 1/10
  - OMG I just wasted $40 on this game. Seriously, little to no value.
  
  Will this game be remembered 
 by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Maybe but only for just how bad it was.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - I'm 
 not sure if the people who made this game even liked it. Seriously COME ON! I'll go to the local 
 AMF lanes any day over wasting this kind of money.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 3 - Developers really rolled a 
 gutterball on this game. I really hope you read this before wasting $40. This game so far has been 
 one of the worst games I've ever played to date. I truely wish this game had been good but unfortunately 
 its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronin_Hikaru
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I love bowling in real life. I have an average of about 160, and a high score of 245. I'm 
 rather happy with this. I also love Wii Sports Bowling. It's easier than real bowling and just 
 as fun. I tried AMF Bowling: Pinbusters for the Wii, but it was a load of garbage (half of the 
 time, the ball goes straight instead of curving.) I knew that Brunswick Pro Bowling had been released 
 for the Wii and decided to try it as well.
  
  My first reaction was "WTF." The mechanics of the bowler took time to get used to and I couldn't 
 make the ball hook to begin with. After I tinkered with my shot for a bit, I found the pocket rather 
 easily and was soon bowling 200 games in the Quickplay feature.
  
  I tried my hand at the career mode, and this is where the game slowly goes downhill (albeit very 
 slowly.) There are almost no customizable features for your "created character." Your bowler's 
 face is set to whichever "ethnicity" you choose for him (or her.) Clothes start off in very small 
 supply. There isn't much to choose from.
  
  After my bowler was created, I took him into practice and realized that the house ball doesn't 
 hook the same as the Quickplay ball. In fact, I spent over an hour trying to hook the house ball 
 into the pocket, only to end up throwing the ball straight until the first tournament came up, 
 and I got some cash to buy a ball.
  
  The game picked up for a while as I was finally hooking the ball easily and making good strikes. 
 Of course, there were times when something was wrong (whether with me or the game/controller, I'm 
 not sure) and I couldn't find the pocket to save my life. There were also many times where the 
 CPU player got such lucky hits, that any true bowler would yell at the screen (I would know; my 
 parents have gotten onto me for yelling.)
  
  One thing I did notice is that it is nearly impossible to win the Invitation tournament at the 
 end of the amateur league without bowling a near perfect game. It seems like the game programmers 
 wanted the customers to yell and get angry at the game... they got their wish.
  
  One last thing about the gameplay is the overall inconsistency of the mechanics. You can throw 
 the ball in the exact same spot, the exact way and get different results, whereas the opposite 
 is true for the CPU. They throw the ball in six different spots (most of which have very low chances 
 of hitting strikes) and throw six strikes in a row.
  
  Other than gameplay, there are several minor flaws with the game. First of all, the graphics are 
 obviously sub-par for the Wii. The sound design is a bit annoying as you'll hear just about the 
 same sound wherever the ball hits. The sound is only dependent on how many pins are knocked down. 
 True bowlers know that the sound of the ball hitting changes with each shot. The last thing is 
 the bland background music. I'd rather turn the sound on the TV off and listen to my mp3s, thanks.
 
  
  Overall, I sincerely wish this game had been much better than what it was. I had been hoping for 
 a more realistic bowling game for a while, and when I heard about this game, I got excited. Now 
 I'm out of $40 and pissed at my Wii Remote. If you really need a new bowling game, rent the game 
 for the multiplayer and save yourself the frustration.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brightwinter
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to give this game a shot. We have a lot of fun playing the Wii Sports version 
 of bowling. Wii Sports actually gives you the impression that you can alter the course of the ball 
 by altering your swing of the Wii remote. Brunswick Pro Bowing gives you not of that. It has terrible 
 and seemingly random play control. There is no feedback to let you know what you're doing. The 
 box showed pictures of a meter (strength, accuracy, etc.) . This was apparently removed from the 
 Wii version. No matter how I swung the Wii remote, I got a strike almost every time. Where's the 
 fun in that? The customization features were also lacking. All in all, I just couldn't get into 
 it without knowing how to affect the ball. It seems the ball goes where it goes, regardless of 
 what you're doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  ---I edited this review after playing it more by chance! ---
  
  Well not sure how to review this. Not much to the game. If you played the cute version of Bowling 
 that was with the Console then you've done this. 
  
  When I seen "Brunswick" first thing I thought was "WOW! This should have realistic physics and 
 controls". Guess not. It has better graphics and physics but horrid controls. No matter what you 
 do you hook left. For those who aren't into bowling as much your bowl ALWAYS spins to the left 
 and misses everything unless you WAY over compensate. So far the only trick that seems to work 
 is bowling left handed and messing around a little and you can "semi" bowl straight balls. 
  
  This would be the perfect game if they used the controls like bowling game that came with Wii 
 Sports. This way you for the most part bowl like you really do and not be forced to throw hook 
 shots. This pretty much kills this game.
  
  Controls aside you can choose from quick play or career and have up to four players. Although you 
 can only choose from a limited selection of pre-created people (men and women) . And pretty much 
 everthing else in the game is limited to from ball selection, music and even sound. The only thinkg 
 you can "unlock" is new bowling alleys. I think about 10-12 in all (to unlock) .
  
  Overall this game would be alot of fun if they had at least fixed the controls. Without that theres 
 really no point in playing. Its just annoying to no end. I returned it after 30 minutes and rented 
 something else. Next in line is AMF Bowling Pinbusters! Lets hope that is better!
  
  ***EXTENDED REVIEW***
  Well before I returned it I thought I would give Career one more shot 
 since I only played a quick game then quit. Basically Career is where you unlock everything. Think 
 of it as well... a career. You can check stats, level up and buy stuff as you go along competing 
 to be a better bowler! And unlock stuff for "quick" play too as you buy it (and career of course) .
 
  
  So did this improve the game? Well first off since 99.9% of people can't play the game however 
 it was designed to play you'll have to use the "opposite" ball glitch and still bowl with your 
 dominate hand. So if your right handed tell the game your a lefty and still bowl with your right. 
 This does 2 things. 
  1. Makes the game playable.
  2. Makes you you bowl "to good" sometimes. I have got 300 a few times now. But my average is around 
 250 after about 14 games.
  
  Heres the downside. Even WITH this "glitch" that makes you bowl better the career is SLOWWW and 
 boring! Yes the game is meant to be more real since its Brunswick but just to get to a tournament 
 I had to bowl 8, yes 8 weeks of bowling. Each week you bowl 3 games a week. So before you can even 
 do a tournament you bowl 24 games! Until the tournament you get no prize money either (It says 
 :Prize Money $0, Fee $5) . Although somehow I got some. Maybe for high score or something. 
  
  After each time you bowl you get to watch the other guy which if you mash the A button to skip 
 his animations takes about 20 seconds each time. Each game took me around 8-15 minutes depending 
 on if I got strikes or spares (and setup time) .
  
  Overall.... Assuming you can get the glitch controls down, make it past the grueling bowing to 
 a tourney every few hours and FINALLY unlock a few items at a time this game will take weeks to 
 get everything unlocked. Its pure torture unless you a 100% pure bowling fan with to much time 
 on your hand. Even I being a bowling fan can't take this game. Between the controls and the waiting 
 forever its horrible. Don't bother renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tensetsu
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This was practically the first Wii game I ever played that didn't feel like a Wii game. It felt 
 like I was playing it on another console, of course with the exception of the Wii Remote. However 
 not even this revolutionary idea can save this boat from sinking. The controls are pretty much 
 the same as Wii Sports, you 'control' the bowler's arm with your remote to throw the bowling ball 
 towards pins, knocking over as many pins as you can, the problem is your character moves soooo 
 slooooow that it pretty much kills all the excitement in throwing the ball. By the time you've 
 finished bowling the ball, your guy is only halfway round the cycle. If you try to copy the slow 
 movement then it doesn't exactly fell Wii like. What's worse is that the ball itself, seems to 
 have a mind of its own, even if you throw the ball straight, it still spins to the side. Very frustrating 
 indeed. Career mode is dull and boring and even multi-player games can be a drag. Another issue 
 with the game is it's choice of music. Sure, I love rock music, it's real music to me and bad taste 
 to about 65% of the world's population, but surely this doesn't go well with a bowling game now 
 does it? What's so heavy metal about bowling? Alright lets set the picture straight, I love rock 
 music and I enjoy bowling, but combining the both together to make a mediocre bowling game, it 
 doesn't seem to go well at all.
  
  All in all, a huge disappointment, those expecting another Wii Sports will get the complete opposite. 
 Surely this is not how the Wii should be treated. Even if you are an avid bowling fan, I would 
 strongly recommend that you save yourself time and money and avoid this game. Aside from Wii Sports, 
 there are better bowling games on other consoles than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrescue5
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Never get this game for the Wii unless you want to spend like 903849 hours practicing! It's so 
 hard! Even if you keep your arm and wrist completely straight, the ball still curves all the way 
 across the lane! And the beginning is super boring. Before you can even get into a tournament you 
 have to get an average of 179 and you have to win 26 games. I've played about 17 games and my highest 
 game ever was a 143 because i got lucky with a bunch of bad throws. So, no matter what, don't get 
 this. Get like Mario Party 8 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teet-O
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Yeeeaaaahhh... definitely not as fun as the Wii Sports version. Sure, the graphics look more realistic, 
 but graphics ain't everything. Unlike Wii Bowling, You can't really control the ball when you throw 
 it as freely as in Wii bowling and your characters doesn't throw the ball when YOU throw it, it 
 throws it like 3 seconds after you've thrown it which is pretty..... eh.... I was highly disappointed 
 when I played this game after spending like $30 on it. Don't get this game unless you are a HUGE 
 HUGE fan of bowling, I mean HUGE! Just stick with Wii Bowling, its WAAAAAAYYYYY more fun than this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nxumdon
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  So to start off, I've been a bowler (real life, 10 pin) for the better part of my life, so about 
 15 years of bowling in leagues and whatnot. When I first played Wii Sports Bowling, it was friggen' 
 awesome! It felt damn near spot on, sounded like a real bowling alley and the pin physics were 
 great! (sure, a little more arcadey) ... and one final thing, the way the characters arm moved in 
 reaction to the Wiimote position felt great too... remember that for later... lol.
  
  Now I was REALLY looking forward to Brunswick bowling since I first read about it online. I thought 
 for sure it would be like Wii Sports Bowling 2 (like someone else said here earlier) ... same fun 
 physics, same great sound, a nice face lift and maybe some online league play or something. We 
 got none of that. The game looks terrible, even compared to Wii Sports Bowling. The graphics are 
 just pretty bland and not very fun to look at. The sounds are hollow and tinny and the pin action 
 sounds VERY weak, completely unlike WSB. The pin physics are lame and and again, there is no fun 
 in watching the ball make contact with them, again, unlike WSB. And what I found the most troublesome, 
 was the control... no longer does the characters arm move in sync with the wiimote... instead, you 
 use the same throw gesture as in WSB, but the character on screen throws AFTER you've completed 
 the gesture fully... which leaves you feeling very detached from the game-play.
  
  Sure, the lane oil feature is great, and there are some other nice tweaks like the rolling of the 
 wiimote for left to right positioning...
  
  Guess I'll have to wait for Wii Sports 2.... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX7PoweredBug
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a simulation, this is as close as it gets. This is the best bowling sim 
 since Circuit Pro Bowling and Circuit Pro Bowling 2. Even then, a lot more fun, since it is with 
 the WIImote. I need 100 words, so here it is. If you don't know anything about bowling and suck 
 at games, you probably won't like this game. However, if you have bowled and have some common knowledge 
 on the sport or are good with the WIImote, you should enjoy this game. I am finally at 100 words 
 with this final sentence. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplaydnd35
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I am by no means an expert in real life bowling but I have been playing off and on now for over 
 5 years, and I have played on several leagues, so I have a pretty good understanding of how the 
 game of Bowling works. I will now go over my thoughts on this game and some of the things that have 
 happened to me while playing it. Brunswick Pro Bowling is very realistic in many aspects, the first 
 one being that new bowlers will not throw the ball down the alley perfectly each time. All it takes 
 is just a slight turn of the wrist the wrong way and the ball goes way off target, and this happens 
 in BPB at least once per game for the first few games.
  New bowlers often get tired while they are building up arm strength and this has obviously been 
 incorporated in BPB as you get tired rather easily. And buying new items costs a lot and it will 
 take you sometime before you can buy a descent ball. And the house ball you start with is horrible, 
 save all your pennies for a good ball.
  Now lets talk about what is really good about this game. You can make up your own character and 
 customize the hair and clothing, especially the pants. After character creation, there is the career 
 mode that takes you from your hometown alley to such places as London and Hawaii. There are tournaments 
 that you can bowl in and if you can win them, you could get a lot amount of money . There are many 
 locations that are unlockable that you can bowl in and there are a lot of unlockable items as well. 
 I have enjoyed this game so far as it is several steps above Wii Sports Bowling but is far from 
 being perfect, there are some parts of the game where the not so good parts are a real minus. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
