-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bully: Scholarship Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/bullyscholarshipedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Matchless, amazingly crafted gameworld.
 Fantastic, funny dialogue.
 Great voice acting and overall sound design.
 Solid extra content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the motion controls don't work out that well.
 Inconsistent frame rate and other minor annoyances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,096 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar Toronto
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Mar 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bully's enhanced rerelease is raucously entertaining, and the extra content fits right into its 
 schoolyard hijinks. 

  Jimmy Hopkins is not your standard video game hero. In Bully: Scholarship Edition, he breaks a 
 drunken schoolteacher out of an asylum, helps the lunch lady drug her date, steals panties from 
 the girls' dorm, and takes pictures of snotty kids sitting on a homeless Santa's lap. But this 
 is not your typical game, and 15 months after its release on the PlayStation 2, Bully's gameplay 
 stands tall and proud. On its own, the original was already an embarrassment of pleasures, but 
 additional features have been added to this enhanced version, including some local two-player minigames, 
 new missions, new classes, and other less-noticeable goodies. If you haven't yet played Bully, 
 now is the time to catch up with one of the better gaming experiences in recent years. However, 
 Xbox 360 owners should stand warned: though Rockstar Games has promised that a patch is in the 
 works, we experienced major bugs on that platform on multiple machines.  

           Jimmy Hopkins is smooth with the ladeez.      

  Provided that you play on the Wii 
 or escape the wrath of the Xbox 360 version's bounteous bugs, you'll find an insanely entertaining 
 experience that overcomes its small gameplay frustrations with heavy doses of humor and attitude. 
 As new-kid-on-the-block Jimmy, you find your sneering self dumped at Bullworth Academy, a private 
 school populated by the usual cliques we all came to know and hate in our own adolescences. By 
 fulfilling missions, you'll progress from one chapter to the next, alternately gaining sway over 
 one social circle while alienating another. One of Bully's many brilliant aspects is the variety 
 it throws into these tasks. At one point, you'll man a potato-spewing turret to defend arm-flailing, 
 bedwetting nerds from invading jocks; at another, a professor instructs you to infiltrate the preppies' 
 dorm and kill a prized Venus flytrap. In fact, some of the most amusing missions were created specifically 
 for the Scholarship Edition and revolve around a Kriss Kringle gone bad.  

  The story at the heart of Bully is incredibly involving, and Jimmy is both charming and exasperatingly 
 cocky. He's also believable, and likely to remind you of at least one person you know or knew in 
 your younger years. The enormous surrounding cast of goofball nerds and slick-haired greasers deserves 
 equal praise, from the obese and enuretic Algie to Mandy, the head cheerleader with a surprising 
 streak of insecurity. The success here is twofold. Firstly, you have an incredible script bursting 
 with both cringe-inducing realism and snort-out-loud one-liners. A romantic interest says "I'm 
 such a player" after flowers and a kiss; cafeteria cook Edna tells you that hawking a loogie into 
 the mystery stew gives it flavor. At first glance, these moments seem to play to stereotype, but 
 each character transcends labels and comes across as remarkably individual. Secondly, the voice 
 acting is utterly spectacular, from the main cast to the hysterical quips from minor characters 
 you overhear in your travels.  

  You're hardly stuck moving in a straight march from one mission to the next. As you play, more 
 and more of the academy and its surrounding community open up, giving you plenty of leeway to explore 
 Bully's many unique nooks and crannies. If you choose to stay on campus, you can attend class in 
 the morning or afternoon. Standbys such as gym (dodgeball time!) and chemistry are still here, 
 but four new classes have been added, and they are arguably more entertaining than the holdovers. 
 In biology class, you must carve open a specimen and remove its vital organs in an allotted amount 
 of time -- and it's much tougher than it sounds. In geography, you must place the appropriate flag 
 on its corresponding country. Math takes a Brain Age approach by asking you to quickly solve simple 
 math problems, whereas music class involves a rhythm-based minigame. Passing your lesson means 
 gaining a new reward, whether it be new clothing, new melee combos, or better aim with your slingshot. 

  Of course, you can skip class entirely (and risk being seen by the keen eyes of prefects and police 
 officers) and tool around on your own. Here, you can bully other kids to your heart's content, 
 or save the meeker students from their own bullies by beating up the aggressors. Close combat is 
 on the simple side, especially after you unlock various combinations. However, there are times 
 when you'll need to handle multiple enemies at once, which makes for a greater challenge. If you 
 choose to explore your inner intimidator, there are plenty of ways to do it outside of fisticuffs, 
 though. You can shoot bottle rockets at fellow students, give wedgies, stuff them into lockers 
 or garbage cans, or taunt them once you've sufficiently whittled down their health bars. If you'd 
 rather follow the straight (mostly) and narrow, you can romance the ladies (and a few gents) by 
 giving them flowers -- or chocolates, in the case of the big-boned gals -- which usually merits a sloppy-sounding 
 kiss. Alternately, you can run quick errands for townspeople, mow lawns for extra cash, participate 
 in bike races, drop some quarters into arcade machines and gun for a high score, egg cars, take 
 yearbook photos, or head to the local carnival and lounge with the little people. You could probably 
 sprint through the main quest in 10 hours or so, but could easily spend four times that number 
 if you wanted to see everything Bully has to offer.  

  If you want to extend the value even further, you can try out the local two-player minigames that 
 are exclusive to this edition of Bully. These games take classes and arcade games from the single-player 
 experience and transform them into competitive minitournaments. There are 10 of these events in 
 total, ranging from photography and geography to English and Consumo. These minigames are good 
 for some quick entertainment, though they don't add a lot to the overall package. But given that 
 they tie in nicely with the game proper and use all four of the new classes, they serve as more 
 than just contrived add-ons.  

  As you move from one task to the next, you will discover some of Bully's idiosyncrasies. This is 
 a game that does a lot, though mechanically speaking, not every aspect of the game works as well 
 as every other. Triggering an event or opening a door can sometimes be a pain because, for whatever 
 reason, even standing right on top of the marker won't always generate the prompt; bicycle and 
 skateboard controls can be loose, which in turn leads to some frustration on certain missions; 
 and some targeting foibles can make it a pain to punch or aim, among other small peculiarities. 
 Some of these quirks are specific to the Wii version. Motion controls are used in place of standard 
 button pressing for such activities as punching, aiming ranged weapons, throwing off tackles, and 
 more. In some cases, such as with the biology minigame or standard scuffles, these work out really 
 well. In other cases, such as a series of boxing missions, they are repetitive and annoying. Overall, 
 however, the addition of the Wii Remote is neither an improvement nor a liability.  

  On the other side of things, the Xbox 360 version lacks the stability of the Wii release. During 
 our testing period, we experienced multiple crashes and system freezes. Additionally, we saw bugs 
 that caused Jimmy to get stuck in place in the middle of the street for no apparent reason, twice 
 had mission NPCs freeze while running (which forced us to reset the task) , and encountered countless 
 examples of blinking geometry, three- or four-second freezes, and sound hiccups. Similar reports 
 are widespread, so if you are considering a purchase, you may want to wait for the announced patch 
 to be released, or better yet, grab the Wii iteration, which exhibited a few small glitches but 
 nothing to the extent of the Xbox 360 version.  

           The new classes are a welcome addition.      

  Of course, the high-definition capabilities 
 of the Xbox 360 make it easier to see the visual hiccups, and in general, Bully: Scholarship Edition 
 doesn't live up to current-day standards from a visual point of view. However, there's something 
 to be said for seeing every bursting pustule on Edna's face. Bullworth is rendered with incredible 
 skill and style, from restrooms dingy enough to make you wrinkle your nose to a beautifully designed 
 carnival funhouse that hits all the right notes. On the Wii, you won't get an equally crisp presentation, 
 but the hardware's performance capabilities make Bully a more comfortable fit on the Wii and better 
 hide the awkward animations and pixelated shadows that are obvious on the Xbox 360. Both versions 
 have an occasionally erratic frame rate, though the Xbox 360 version seems to be harder hit in 
 this regard. Regardless of the platform, you'll get an equally amazing sonic experience. As previously 
 mentioned, the voice acting is outstanding, and everything from ambient sound effects to the eccentric 
 minimalist soundtrack strikes just the right chord.  

  If you've played Bully already on the PlayStation 2, the extras in the Scholarship Edition may 
 amuse you, but they don't justify purchasing the game all over again. On the other hand, if you 
 skipped it the first time around, this is a great excuse to catch up on what you missed. Bully 
 offers plenty of memorable moments and crafts an adolescent world that is both surreal and painfully 
 truthful, so don't be surprised if it causes you to relive portions of your own painful youth. 
 Xbox 360 technical issues and other peculiarities aside, this is a fun and boisterous game that 
 will ring true for anyone who has endured the unique adventures of student life.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (53 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: naruto3336
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the closest thing to GTA on the Wii and I think that it is really well made. This game 
 has everything that makes up a good game. Amazing voice acting, which is cheesy but makes you laugh 
 at the same time, Interesting storyline and sweet graphics that make this port one of the only 
 ones that feel like a game that is not a port. 
  
  You are Jimmy Hopkins and you are a bully. Well sort of. You are actually a guy trying to save 
 all the nerds from the bullies. But it is so fun trying to slingshot people trying to throw stuff 
 at a nerd doing a speech or just randomly hitting a guy on the street. 
  
  The missions are amazingly diversed and all are well thought. This game has 8 new missions from 
 the PS2 version along with 4 new classes, 4 new characters, Multiplayer mode, and many more rewards. 
 RockStar has made a port with so much effort it seems almost flawless. The only reason why I gave 
 it a 9.5 and not a 10 is because I think that the classes that you have interfere in your life 
 and you can not do anything about skipping the classes and not worrying about anyone can catch 
 you.
  
  This game is certainly one of the very few games that you want. Best of all is that this game is 
 only rated T so people that can not get M rated games can get it. So what are you waiting for? 
 GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:04 am PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is an enhanced PS2 port of a successful game Bully, which features an 
 open world design and a unique setting in a world of youngsters studying in a private school. The 
 end result is a good game with lots of great gameplay and awful graphics.
  
  Story in Bully follows a troublemaker called Jimmy Hopkins, who is sent to Bullworth Academy. He 
 is supposed to study there for at least one semester. For some reason Jimmy wants to be the king 
 of the school and this means that he has to win all the different factions in the school (Nerds, 
 Jocks, Greasers, Preps etc.) to his side. Pretty much every single stereotype you can think of 
 is here so this is a great way for you to re-live some of the finest (or worst) moments in your 
 childhood. Bully has a distinctively innocent feel to it so it's not as serious as GTA series and 
 not as violent as the Saints Row series.
  
  Graphics were bad in PS2 and they are almost as bad on the Wii. Colors are a little better, but 
 the draw distance is awful, there are frequent texture popping and there's no widescreen support. 
 Gaming area is quite small and there's not that much to do like in GTA, but this way it's easier 
 for you to keep track of the big picture, because Bully is very much a story-driven game. Loading 
 times are very frequent and they take too much time, but after a while you get used to it. All 
 of this means that the technical presentation is not good at all so it's advisable to focus your 
 attention to other parts of the game.
  
  Sound has always been a strong part in Rockstar games and Bully is no exception. Effects are plentiful 
 and voice acting is very good. Even though the graphics are horrible, it's the sound design that 
 compensates a lot of those technical shortcomings. Music is a mixture of tunes fom different decades 
 and it fits the action quite nicely. Still it's hard to tell in what decade Bully takes place. 
 My guess is 70's without that awful hairstyle.
  
  Structure of Bully is the same as in any GTA clone, but since this is a story-driven game the experience 
 has been divided into 5 (or actually 6) different chapters and in them you can see the progression 
 of time: there are red leaves on trees, then it's snowing and finally the summer is near.
  
  Missions starts and ends with a cutscene, and they consist of almost everything you can think 
 of from a schoolboy's world. Luckily the tasks usually don't have multiple phases in them so this 
 makes them both easier and shorter. This is not a bad thing by any means. Some key missions are 
 noticeably longer, but in them there are checkpoints to ease the pain of frustration. Side missions 
 are mostly delivering stuff from point A to point B and taking classes, which consist of mathematics, 
 chemistry, geography, biology and so on. These missions open new clothes and accessories for you 
 to use and also give you more money. Playing Bully can be described in just one word: fun.
  
  Traveling in the city happens either on foot, skateboarding, riding a bike or taking a bus 
 back to school area. Combat is a big part in the game, but instead of using pistols and assault 
 rifles Jimmy uses a slingshot, eggs, marbles, stink bombs, fire crackers and so on. Hand to hand 
 combat happens by swinging the Wii remote and nunchuck and it's precise enough for you to do it 
 successfully.
  
  All in all Bully is a different take to an already familiar GTA formula and it's definitely worth 
 playing. It takes around 12 hours to play it through, if you concentrate solely on the main quest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krssmn96
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  *Fun and addicting gameplay.
  *Lots of side quests and errands.
  *Addicting.
  *A good 50-70 hours of gameplay to get 100%.
  
  The Bad:
  *You get the feeling 
 that you're not really in control about how the factions treat you.
  *Your not going to have a social life.
  
  When this game came out on PS2 it looked brilliant 
 but I couldn't find it anywhere so I resigned myself to looking and never playing it, so when I 
 saw Scholarship Edition I was very excited.
  
  When I got home I started playing it and it was amazing the graphics (brilliant for a Wii game) 
 were awesome and I am currently about 35 hours in and on 50%!
  
  This game reminds me of GTA and never having owned GTA I am now having lots of fun with the sandbox 
 style school game with tons of humour
  
  Thee only problem I have is that you never really are in control with the hostility towards factions 
 e. g. when you do missions for the nerds in Chapter 1 (that you have to do to continue to the next 
 chapter) the bullies respect for you drops until they start attacking you on sight 
  CONCLUSION:
  A solid, fun game with a immersive storyline and addicting gameplay, you should 
 definitely buy it but if you don't like these kinds of games rent it first
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simondengrymme
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Bully makes a come back but now on the wii. Bully Scholar ship edition has a small selection of 
 new things asswell as old from the ps2 version. The new version to the wii is a nice game with some 
 polished graphics and smother gameplay although its not really enough.
  
  The GOOD: New content, Enchanced Graphics, Nice combat moves, Nice bullying interaction
  
  The 
 BAD: Not that much of NEW things you can do except for the classes and missions that end quite 
 fast, Annoying and frustrating aiming with the wiimote (got to be veeery steady at hand) , You can 
 ONLY use your wiimote and nunchuck (cant use virtual control or gamecube controller) wich in the 
 end makes the game pretty One WaYeD.
  
  If you havent played the game before and you have a wii, you should buy it.
  Have you played 
 the game you SHOULDNT buy it again since its pretty much the same though are you a hardcorefan 
 of the game and feel its reeally nesseccery then be my guest. But somewhat this game fells like 
 its a way for rockstar games to earn some extra pocket change :/ 7/10
  
  Nice effort of rockstar games but then again.. its not enough =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  School is not fun. I'm an honor student and I don't like it! When I got Bully, I thought I would 
 have to go to 2 High Schools: One in real life and one when I'm gaming. I'm typing this review 
 to eat my words. Bully is nothing like real life school! You control the 15 year old teenager Jimmy 
 Hopkins: A less than optimistic boy. His mom and Step dad are going on a one year honeymoon, so 
 they're dumping Jimmy at Bullworth Academy: A Boarding School filled with Bullies, Nerds, and Psychopaths. 
 Jimmy meets the stuck up dean of the school: Dr. Crabblesnitch (Even his name is ridiculous!) . 
 After getting comfortable at the school (As comfortable as you can get anyways!) , Jimmy meets the 
 psychotic but sly teenager Gary, who is also having trouble with Bullworth. Jimmy also meets Petey, 
 a shy but smart boy who's constantly tortured by Gary. Those two would eventually become his "friends". 
 As he stays at Bullworth, Jimmy runs into trouble with the cliques of Bullworth. These include 
 the typical bullies, the muscleheaded jocks, the snobby preppies, the tormented nerds, and the 
 greasy greasers. None of these kids like Jimmy, so he's in for a rough time. But knowing Jimmy, 
 he's not taking that without a fight. He's got a goal: become king of the school and get some respect.
 
  Controlling Jimmy is a pleasure in this game. Bully is like the PG-13 version of Grand Theft Auto. 
 Jimmy can explore the school, attend classes, kiss girls, and become the toughest kid in school. 
 Doing this, however, is tough with the strict prefects breathing down your neck. The player is 
 given missions that allows you to progress in the story, like Gta. Depending on how you handle 
 the situation, you could get respect, or get busted. Your journey isn't limited to just the school, 
 however. Bullworth town is a vast city to wreak havoc in. You can get jobs, buy stuff at the local 
 supermarket, race bikes, and buy tons of clothes. The motion controls of the Wii version are pretty 
 responsive, and you can pull off tons of melee attacks. There are some flaws in the game too. Bully 
 is really glitchy. If you're really unlucky, missions start off frozen. This also freezes your 
 entire console, which forces you to unplug the the console and plug it back in. If that happens, 
 the mission will stay like that forever, and you'll be forced to restart the entire game if you 
 want to get anywhere. There are other minor glitches too, but they're not too serious. If you like 
 school (God help you) and you finally want the feeling to be free, get Bully immediately. I have 
 to warn you though, there are some sexual themes in the game, and there's occasional uses of the 
 B word (Female dog) . There's even a mission called "That B**ch". Despite this, Bully is a great 
 game and a true spin-off of the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkofengland
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Even though there are a lot of glitches the game makes up for it with a great dialogue and incredible 
 game play. the controls are nothing special but are really easy to learn. with fun classes and 
 great characters Bully: Scholarship Edition is a must buy for the wii. But some aspect of the game 
 are less than perfect with annoying glitches and mediocre graphics. The game is really addictive 
 I have spent twelve hours straight doing nothing but playing bully even though it is pretty difficult 
 to complete one hundred percent of the way. the game is really funny and has an amazing script. 
 The game really gets fun when you can go outside of the school into the town and the carnival and 
 also ride bikes and race go-karts. The game is really fun and a must buy and for only thirty bucks 
 its really a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamologhlen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  I thought that bullworth academy was potrayed so well and has many great comments from students 
 like"What is absent anyway?" and "Why is my underwear so squishy?" but those are only the beginning 
 of funny comments made around the school by nerds and fat kids. It's comedy is only second to Family 
 guy [not the game]
  
  The funniest part about the game is picking on fat kids like Algie and Fatty and making them wet 
 themselves.
  
  Missions are either fun and easy or challenging and enjoyable. classes are great fun but happen 
 a bit too often and get boring. once you get up to chapter two you can walk around outside of school 
 which is where the fun really begins.
  
  It is the best game i've ever played and I really like the new graphics and exclusive wii features 
 like fighting using the wii-mote and nunchuk and the funner classes. I think that because of the 
 wii's motion sensor that it's funner than the 360 version or the original PS2 version.
  
  One thing i'd like to say to companies working on wii games is that it wont hurt to have HD graphics 
 or to at least have a lot better graphics than the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  cant really say I liked this game all that much and I usually like all the games put out by rockstar 
 but this one annoyed me a little maybe its just the school environment or somthing or it could 
 just be the obvious defects that kept me from enjoying this game well first of the game has terrible 
 graphics I know its a port from the ps2 but they are really bad and I dont like the controls eaither 
 just to joggy and AI is pretty cruddy to and alot of the missions get pretty annoying and aiming 
 with the sling shot is pretty bad to but all together the game is ok it does some things well it 
 has the gta feel but I cant help but noticing the gta feel has been watered down and in my opinuon 
 relies to greatly on the grand theft auto series they changed alot of things but its still a teen 
 grand theft auto but for all its worth there are some fun parts and some immature humor to keep 
 you going 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellben_wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  i rented it for the second time and i really liked it, firstly it comes from rockstar the creators 
 of GTA, it was the reason why i rented it the first time and it was great.
  
  It is always fun to mess around and to do extra missions to get stuff... etc... but..... since i rented 
 it, it lags and freezes to the point i have to turn off the console.
  
  The classes are fun (except english) and you can (as i said) get fun stuff from completing them, 
 something i didn't like about the new classes for the first to scholarship edition was that the 
 things you get from them are not as fun/exciting as the past ones but its always fun to play them 
 though...
  
  You can always find fun stuff to do.
  
  About the punishments.... well.... i just discovered it was possible to get punished, don't like 
 punishments? then don't get caught... its easy....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrancoFerraro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  -fun controls in the wii console.
  -concrete multiplayer and extras.
  -Funny and welcomed dialogue and story.
  - Good sound and Video
  -After the Game playing
 
  
  The Bad:
  - annoying punishments
  -short story
  -Lags... *sigh*
  - unreturn
  
  Okay, first talking about the controls, they are very fun to perform (punching) , the game takes 
 advantages of the movement sensor in the basic controls while punching, and in mini-games while 
 some commands appear in the screen. like in classes (biology) .
  
  The multiplayer is very good and concrete with the game present in story mode, both arcade and 
 classes, extras and collectibles are fun to perform and prized with funny stuff like trophies in 
 the room or just cloth.
  
  The dial and story is funny because of stupid stuff happening, nerds with potato machine guns, 
 you kissing either girls or guys, sports and challenges, people making you suffer and then you 
 fixing it while becoming the king of bullsworth, and graffitis like the bullsworthless one.
  
  After the game comes a sixth chapter called endless summer, in which you can resolve stuff 
 unresolved ( side missions, errands , etc) to complete the 100% of the game, or simply making pranks 
 and stuff.
  
  Here comes the bad, if you get caught and sent to the principal he will make you mow the lawn *sigh* 
 first it is easy but then its annoying to mow 80% of lawn in the football field.
  
  During the game sometimes you will notice lags either while loading of in the game, de-coloration 
 or simply just stopping the game, none of the controls work so, disconnect the wii, connect it 
 again and if you are not a saver, to do all again...
  
  Unreturning means you cant return to events like halloween to make stuff you forgot even in endless 
 summer ( for me so far hasn't happen but it is possible that halloween returns sometime) .
  
  CONCLUSION:
  good game better than i expected but a little annoying.
  
  almost all opinions 
 of magazines and sites talks good about the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  As we all know, the Wii is filled with lame ports of old games, gimmicky mini-games and bad 3rd 
 party hardcore games. Bully is all of the above.. but actually very good. It's a 2 years old PS2 
 port, there are many gimmicky but fun mini-games in between and Rockstar games really did a good 
 job on this game. You just end up wishing there was more to it just like any Rockstar game in the 
 end.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: A very GTA feel but at a lower scale and on a Nintendo console, Good variety of stuff to 
 do, Great concept, Cool multiplayer options, Very long game.
  
  Cons: Fighting with the Wii mote feel clunky.
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  Bully is a very Rockstar 
 game. It plays like GTA.. It feels like GTA.. It looks like GTA.. but it ISNT GTA.
  Plus that's interesting, Bully is just GTA at a lower extent meaning that no big crimes, no guns 
 and stripers. You end up with skipping classes, breaking the rules, use a slingshot and makeout 
 with many girls. The concept is simple: do whatever you want in the campus but don't get caught.. 
 or you end up going to class or detention. Classes are fun with some gimmicky mini-games and the 
 variety of things you get to do around the campus is cool. You eventually get to get out of the 
 campus and roam around the whole town which is pretty huge. You can skateboard, bike or even drive 
 a car, as long as you don't get caught by the cops. Bully has a very simple concept.. but the layers 
 of depth is nearly countless.. The game is over 30 hours long and even after the career, you can 
 still have fun with the game. The Wii mote works fine but the fighting is very awkward and you 
 just end up shaking the Remote everywhere and just beat the hell up out of the people.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Good: Looks like GTA, The areas around campus and town look decent.
  
  Bad: 
 Character models look terrible, A lot of graphical glitches, Some bad frame-rate, Bad texture and 
 annoying clippings, Looks pale.
  
  Score: 4/10
  
  PS2 ports don't look that great on the Wii. They do not implement enough time on them and also 
 screw up the motion controls * ahem Tomb Raider ahem*. Although they had some great last gen ports 
 on the Wii like RE4 and Okami. Bully is like in the middle. The game is fun but looks very bad. 
 Graphically it looks like a mess.. although the game looks ok compared to other Wii titles. This 
 is where Bully loses a lot of points. I will not go any further into details.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: Great voice-acting, Funny quotes, Eavesdropping on others conversations are very fun, 
 Music matches with the game.
  
  Cons: Some annoying sound glitches and misplaced voices.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  As with any Rockstar game.. You would expect great voice work and music.. 
 and Bully delivers. There probably aren't any funny radios or swearing quotes and screaming.. and 
 moaning..: P but the game sounds real great. The dialogues are funny, music fits the tone of the 
 game and the game just sounds GOOD. Too bad the annoying sound glitches get in the way.. sometimes 
 you hear girls having guy voices.. but that is EXTREMELY rare: P
  
  Value: In the end, if anybody is looking for a hardcore Wii title and hasn't played Bully on the 
 PS2 yet.. which is pretty doubtful.. this is a must buy. The game might not look great graphically.. 
 combat could be a chore and a few annoying bugs here and there.. this is still a great Wii title. 
 Probably the closest we will ever get to Rockstar + GTA on the Wii.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zodriac
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's 
 a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very 
 good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good 
 game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, 
 buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's 
 a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very 
 good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good 
 game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, 
 buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's 
 a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very 
 good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good 
 game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, 
 buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's 
 a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very 
 good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good 
 game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, 
 buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! It's a very good game, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  A wide open game. Bully: Scholarship Edition gives the gamer a chance to explore the wild open world 
 of Bullworth Academy, and even the existing small town of Bullworth itself. As Jimmy, you will 
 come across hundreds of different characters: geeks, jocks, preps, jerks, and teachers that think 
 yelling at you and telling you you're a horrible kid will help. That's just in the school ground! 
 Basically, you run around the school and city doing tasks and "missions" that will remind you of 
 a GTA setup. Plus, there are side missions that other students ask you to complete such as stuffing 
 kids into lockers, beating up bullies, and other rebel acts. Plus, you will come across different 
 costumes and unlockables as you go to class throughout the year. Going to class is useful for once!
 
  Graphics
  The bottomline, it does the job. The graphics and images are realistic enough to feel like you're 
 actually exploring a physical, realistic world. Amazing? No, but it doesn't need to be. 
  Sound
  Maybe the biggest downfall in the game. Sometimes, it adds realistic feel as you hear 
 conversations between other students, teachers, and adults as you run, skateboard, or even bike 
 by them. However, these get HIGHLY repetitive and extremely annoying. During missions with another 
 person, their dialogue will get extremely repetive if you don't know what to do. That's pretty 
 annoying too. 
  Value
  The game is very long in story mode if you completed all the different tasks. They could last you 
 for months. However, between that and a small multiplayer mode, you lose interest because of the 
 same type of missions over and over. It's just how it works and by the time you're halfway through 
 the game, you're about ready for the story to develop more and the game ultimately to end. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Bullworth...
  
  A little school that lives up to it's name - filled with cliques and bullies.
  
  This ame thrives 
 on stereotypes - each and every teacher is exactly as seen in typical american highschool movies 
 - every clique is exactly as seen... well, you get my drift.
  
  You play a young, 15 year old juvenile - kind of GTA style. You can do whatever you want to, torture 
 whoever you feel like, start a food fight or massive brawl & kick the prefects in... very tender 
 places.
  
  You can also steal bikes, go on dates, kiss both ugly & pretty girls - then kiss another and watch 
 a nice chick fight...
  
  On top of that, there are some genuinly nice mini-games, which are a lot of fun to play despite 
 being largely stolen from other games (biology, for example, is like trauma centre lite) .
  
  Furthermore, the game is filled to the brim with great audio & voice acting, memorable characters, 
 very funny dialogue and some interesting prompt & actions for the wii-remote.
  
  It is also a lot more fun fighting in the wii version, as you actually have to throw those punches 
 with you nunchuck and remote.
  
  Although I have been in detention for most of my own highschool years (even though I had good grades...) 
 I never had so much fun doing it, and getting into it.
  
  The game is also filled with a lot of hidden stuff, extra weapons, pranks, moves and conversational 
 possibilities to keep you interested for a while.
  
  The graphics aren't ugly, but aren't great either - a bit more style to the game would have been 
 welcome - although the animations are done so well that, together with the sheer amount of stuff 
 to do, I hardly notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition / Wii / Action / 9.0
  
  
  Bully gets revamped for the Wii - is it any good?
  
  
  Jimmy Hopkins is a bad-boy teenager 
 that has been expelled from a number of schools before. Now he's taken to a boarding school because 
 his mother and stepfather is going on their honeymoon. The school is called Bullworth Academy and 
 lies within a Bullworth. It's your job as Jimmy to gain respect by all the different factions in 
 the school by completing different missions.
  
  The game is not much different from the classic GTA series. You can do missions, or go rampage 
 in school and town. The control is sharp and the Wii gives some new features to the game. You can 
 punch with the Wiimote and Nunchuk just like in Wii Sports. You can also aim with your shooting 
 weapons, "school-weapons" like the slingshot, spud gun and bottle rockets. In Bully there are 10 
 different classes with 5 lessons in each. 4 of these are new in the Scholarship Edition. With the 
 Wiimote you get to do stuff like drumming in Music class or makes incisions in Biology. 
  
  Time is important in this game - unlike GTA. All students at Bullworth Academy wakes up at 7: oo 
 am and has to go to morning class at 8:00 am. The second class starts at noon. After that you can 
 do whatever you want un till the curfew starts at 10:00 pm (I think) . You can break the curfew 
 and sty up untill 2:00 am when you pass out.
  
  As in GTA you get busted for doing illegal stuff. It could be everything from Violating girls and 
 bullying to truancy and curfew breaking. More crimes gets you higher on the wanted-meter and The 
 prefects will hunt you down and give you detention (which is mowing a lawn) and take all your weapons. 
 When outside of the school grounds - you'll be chased by cops instead.
  
  The missions are actually very varying and fun. In one mission you may egg a teacher's house for 
 some reason and on another you may protect the lunch lady from attacks in her date and so on. There 
 are also small errands that you can accomplish to get some extra cash. Cash is probably the easiest 
 thing to collect in this game though. Going from one place to another is alright because you get 
 to have two different bikes, one which can be upgraded to a moped.
  
  The factions are Nerds, Jocks, Bullies, Preps and Dropouts. You can do missions for each faction 
 and gain respect and so on. Girls and kids are special because when you punch them they run away 
 and your wanted-meter fills up. Girls can be kissed for health bonuses (and some guys as well) .
 
  
  What really makes this game playable is the soundtrack - oh such a spectacular soundtrack! It's 
 very hard to describe but it goes from minimalistic bass-riffs when you run around to electric 
 music when you get chased by the nerds. You'll definitely want the soundtrack after you've completed 
 the game. And don't forget the voice acting - nearly perfect! 
  
  The graphics are all right for being a Wii game.
  
  Overall this is a game that you should 
 not miss! It will entertain you for hours and it manages to keep a low rating spite it's violence, 
 making it playable for more people. It's a shame it did't sell very well - that doesn't spawn sequels.
 
  
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manwhowins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Having never played the original Bully, I wasn't totally sure of my decision to buy Bully: Scholarship 
 Edition without renting first. Let's just say that it's one I'm glad I made. 
  
  First of all, I'm aware that this is a port. However, having never played the original, I will 
 not deduct any points for its being a remake. 
  
  With that said, the reviewing itself shall begin. The main strength of the game is its do-anything 
 nature. There is an incredible amount of content spread all around a pretty large town. I beat 
 the game with about a 65% completion, and I don't know where half of the remaining 35% is. With 
 a large amounts of missions and items spread across this big town, it is a relief that Rockstar 
 included both the ability to have faster ways to get around town/school, and multiple places to 
 crash at night before you collapse. 
  
  All of this would be nothing without solid gameplay. Luckily, Rockstar delivers here as well. The 
 motion controls provide an excellent way to fight your way through crowds of bullies. Fighting 
 is deepened through the use of unlockable punches/kicks/grappling moves, in addition to weapons. 
 Unfortunately, it is a little hard to aim your ranged weapons as compared to most Wii games. Also, 
 the classes provide a nice distraction from the main game, and help to create a fun multiplayer 
 experience. 
  
  This game does have some flaws, however. While the town, to use a cliche, does seem alive at times, 
 the detail is terrible up close. I mean, Jimmy Hopkins cheeks seem to be a single polygon each. 
 The graphics overall are at least adequate, and I have not noticed any significant slowdowns. But 
 still, to say that it does not push the Wii to its limits would be a huge understatement. 
  
  Overall, this game is a very deep, not to mention humorous, experience. From wandering the 
 streets of Old Bullworth Vale to taking out your greatest nemesis for the final time, there's so 
 much to do. And even on top of that, there's multiplayer. Despite its graphical shortcomings, it's 
 easily one of my favorite Wii games, and undoubtably one of its best offerings to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar is the king of the hill when it comes to the open-ended action game, and Bully is yet 
 another jewel in that crown. It is an excellent game, and the best third party game yet on the 
 Wii (admittedly, that's not saying much) . It isn't quite as ambitious or addictive as Rockstar's 
 flagship Grand Theft Auto series, but it is every bit as inventive and funny. Bully deserves to 
 be mentioned in the same vein as the GTA games, but perhaps one notch below. Some issues such as 
 subpar graphics, minor control issues, and a few lackluster gameplay elements keep Bully out of 
 Game of the Year territory. Nonetheless, if you missed the Playstation 2 version of the game and 
 you are looking for a great Wii action title, Bully is a very easy game to recommend.
  
  Bully can only vaguely be described as an "action/adventure" game, because is a large amalgamation 
 of gameplay elements. About a third to a half of it is fist fighting. It also has a little bit 
 of sneaking, some racing, item collection, and a lot of minigames. It is a classic example of a 
 game whose whole is greater than the sum of its parts. All of the gameplay ranges from passable 
 to enjoyable. What ties everything together so beautifully is Bully's terrific and unique setting, 
 huge cast of entertaining characters, and memorable story. Bully succeeds tremendously at providing 
 a tongue-in-cheek, amusing simulation of teenage life. It is always fun interacting with the world 
 and completing missions, just to see what happens next. Traditional action/adventure gameplay has 
 been adapted perfectly to the setting. Every mission and every minigame draw you into the fictional 
 world as a boy at Bullworth Academy.
  
  Bully is a funny game, because it is full of the quality writing and American cultural satire that 
 Rockstar has also become famous for. The academy is populated by stereotypical cliques of nerds, 
 jocks, cheerleaders, rich snots, all of them portrayed in amusing over-the-top fashion and brought 
 to life by terrific voice acting. The obnoxious faculty has all kinds of rivalries and romance. 
 Sound bites abound everywhere, so that if you do nothing but stand in a hallway and listen to random 
 lines from the students, you can still get a chuckle. You play as Jimmy Hopkins, a classic antihero 
 and one of the more interesting protagonists in a recent video game. Jimmy is somewhat of a free-spirit 
 with a penchant for troublemaking. He stands up to bullies, but it is more out of self-preservation 
 than principle. He is not sadistic or violent, but he has a mean streak and he can pull out his 
 fists when he has to.
  
  The fist fighting is the highlight of the gameplay, having made a solid transition from the PS2 
 to the Wii. Punch motions with the nunchuk and Wii-mote throw left and right punches on screen. 
 It is often clumsy and unresponsive compared to button pressing, but punching through motion control 
 has a satisfying feel that button pressing can't replicate. At the end of the day, this game probably 
 controlled better on the PS2, but the Wii controls definitely work.
  
  You will need to learn the controls well, because the fighting isn't just a button-mashing beat-em-up. 
 It is a deep system, full of combos and different tactical approaches, which work depending upon 
 who you are fighting and what tactics they are using. A fight against one big boss in a small arena 
 requires vastly different tactics from fighting five enemies in an open space. You can grapple 
 opponents and throw short punches or knees to the gut. You can throw them on the ground and punch 
 them or knee them in the groin. You can also use some basic weapons for ranged attacks. In addition, 
 you can unleash brutal punches and kicks with precise timing of punching gestures. These combos 
 are a lot harder to throw than it might sound. The controls favor short, jab-like gestures, but 
 while you are playing, you will be tempted to make large, flailing, haymaker-like motions with 
 your arms. These motions often don't register cleanly with the game, and that leads to occasional 
 frustration with the controls. On top of that problem, a long, drawn-out fist fight can see you 
 sweating and breathing heavy at the end, kind of like Wii Boxing.
  
  Outstanding mission design is one of the defining traits of the Grand Theft Auto games, and Bully 
 shares that same strength. The missions are fun to play, totally unpredictable, and they sport 
 a huge variety that makes one unlike any other. In these missions, you might find yourself chasing 
 someone down in a bike, protecting somebody from bullies with your slingshot, vandalizing a teacher's 
 house, using your camera to gather evidence, sneaking around the girls' dorm collecting panties, 
 and assaulting an enemy stronghold to beat up the boss. Many missions take a twist halfway through 
 that will have you finishing it totally different from how you started it. The fact that you can 
 play through 50 or 60 missions without ever getting sick of them is a testament to how well they 
 are designed. Rockstar should write a textbook on how to fill an open-ended game with variety. 
 Then they should use it to teach the designers of other open-ended games how not to fill it via 
 copy-and-paste *cough* *cough* Assassins Creed *cough*.
  
  When you are not going through missions or just picking random fights, you might find yourself 
 street racing, either in a go-kart or a bicycle. The racing is acceptable, but it does not excel. 
 The bike racing is somewhat annoying, actually, because it requires you to hammer away at the "A" 
 button vigorously to pedal faster. This motion is so uncomfortable that after a two-minute race 
 you will probably find yourself grabbing at your cramping wrist. The go-kart racing is fun, but 
 it shares a problem with the bike racing  over the top rubberbanding AI. The AI rubber bands so 
 badly in this game that no matter what you do, you can hardly ever win or lose by more than a second 
 or two. If you spin out at the start, you can easily make up a ten second deficit within a minute. 
 If you bolt to a lead, the AI will remain about a second behind you pretty much the entire way. 
 The racing is ultimately too easy. I won about 90% of the races in my first try.
  
  Attending classes is another big part of life at Bullworth Academy. Bully has a unique day-night 
 cycle that loosely simulates teenage academic life, and completing various classes is a big part 
 of it. There are classes in a wide variety of subjects, each of which involves a mini-game. All 
 of the minigames are at least decent, and some of them, like using the Wii-mote for Biology dissection, 
 are quite fun. What makes them all valuable is that each minigames matches its class wonderfully, 
 and the act of going to school and passing classes adds to the game's immersiveness. One slightly 
 annoying feature in the game, however, is the requirement to go to sleep by a certain time every 
 night. The game requires you to spend too much time just running to your bed when you would rather 
 be doing other things. And my word, are there a lot of things you can do. You can set off firecrackers 
 in toilets, hand out wedgies, stuff people in lockers, slap "Kick Me" signs on people's backs and 
 watch the mayhem, pick locks, shop for new clothes, grab girls' behinds, explore the world to collect 
 items, spray tags, play minigames, and many others.
  
  Bully is a game infused with a lot of attention to detail, but that doesn't keep it from looking 
 outdated. The game has hardly been upgraded from the PS2 version, if at all. The game renders some 
 huge environments, but makes up for it with low polygon counts and low details everywhere on textures 
 and characters. Combine those problems with jagged edges an each shape and object pop-in, and Bully 
 is generally an ugly game. Nice art direction and creativity improve the game's aesthetics, but 
 is ultimately a port from an outdated console onto another outdated console. Graphics are not the 
 primary attraction for Bully, but the ugly graphics are still disappointing.
  
  There is a lot of stuff to do in Bully, and if you wanted to, you could spend 40 or 50 hours playing 
 this game to reach 100% complete. The story quests take maybe 15-20 hours to get through. There 
 is a lot of content in this game, and regardless of your play style, you should easily be able 
 to get your money's worth out of it.
  
  If you didn't notice this game come out, and you have any interest in open-ended action games, 
 then don't let this one pass you by. It might not go down as an all time masterpiece, but it is 
 one of the best games on the Wii. Bully is only slightly below Rockstar's best games, and that 
 is saying a lot. The great setting, story, and mission design will constantly keep you coming back 
 for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtslade27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Imagine Grand Theft Auto meets Mario Party and you might have an idea of what this game is like. 
 Your playing as Jimmy Hopkins, a guy who gets himself into a lot of trouble who ends up in a dump 
 of a school, Bullsworth Academy. Like GTA you can customize what he wears, his hairstyle, and what 
 to do. Police Officers are replaced by Prefects and a fun part of the game is just beating the 
 prefects senseless or stuffing them in trashcans. 
  
  All of the games classes are played out as fun little mini-games, and they all reward you for playing 
 by unlocking clothing or bonuses. You can also do jobs to make extra cash, and do some errands 
 for students for other bonuses.
  
  The game doesn't stop at school either because once you get so far, you venture out into the areas 
 surrounding the school to do other things. You can even get a couple of places for yourself (Cabins, 
 Etc) .
  
  Overall this is a great game that any one could like. It's fun, innovative , and will keep you 
 hooked for a long time to come. Real Score 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Bully's Scholarship edition came to the Wii nicely. It has pretty good controls that suits the 
 Wii and the game itself. It Has a nice story line of taking over the school and some pretty cool 
 fighting moves. You start off with your mother going on a honey moon with her new husband for 1 
 year. So she decides to put you in Bullsworth Academy. When you arrive at the school everyone pretty 
 much hates you then you build on to becoming gang leaders. That was pretty much the story beat 
 the gangs, become there leader, and own the school. It has some fun missions, cool weapons like 
 Sling shot, Stink Bomb, firecrackers and many other ( wont spoil them) The thing that makes bully 
 unique is that you can go to class to learn new things like How to make stink bombs and etc, Or 
 in English class you learn how to talk to girls and etc. That's what's really fun about bully. 
 Bully is also a great free-roam game you can do anything you want if you feel like starting a fight, 
 start a fight! If you feel like having a food fight start one! Bully leaves the choice for you 
 to do anything you feel like. And that's what makes Bully really unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I rented these games first I got the 360 and it was awesome but the classes where boring. I didn't 
 beat the game on 360 then couple days after I returned it I got it on the Wii and the classes like 
 Biology and chemistry and shot and also MUSIC almost all of them where way funner. The fighting 
 was funner but can be a pain in the butt sometimes. The only thing I had trouble doing was trying 
 to hit someone while riding the bike. But the fighting with the wii controls made the fighting 
 funner than ever the Last mission was so fun that I made a spare save file to play that mission 
 again. I mean the free-play is kinda lame but the missions where really fun has hell. But was it 
 me or the game seemed a little easy. Cause the last fight was the easiest fight in the game I beated 
 the last fight without losing health (I'm trying not to ruin it) By the way people who disagree 
 with this video is mad cause I said it's better than the 360 version. Also I play 360 way more 
 than the Wii to let ya guys know.
  
  Good
  Gameplay beats 360's version , Missions were really fun
  
  Bad
  Graphics weren't as good 
 as 360's version , The fighting can be frustrating at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wonkyman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  While I'm crazy about my Wii, I'm not a huge fan of motion controls. In a lot of games I find them 
 to be clunky and silly, not really adding much. Using the Wiimote as a pointer, like in Trauma 
 Center, Big Brain Academy or even the celestial brush in Okami, has always seemed much smarter 
 design-wise. But Rockstar Games has changed my mind with their re-release of the 2006 game, Bully.
 
  
  Jimmy Hopkins gets attacked a lot, and you find yourself getting into fist fights no matter where 
 you are. The Wiimote and Nunchuk act as your right and left hands, and work exceptionally well. 
 It was a jab with the wiimote, then the Nunchuk, then the Wiimote again, then they'd drop to the 
 floor, then I'd kick them in the ribs. Stay down you stupid Prep! The first few minutes I played 
 this game, I tried to walk past groups of bullies and degenerates casually without making eye contact, 
 like I did in high school. And they beat me up. And the first time I made one of them fall, I let 
 out a whoo so cathartic, it was better than years of therapy. Smashing buttons gets the job done, 
 but throwing actual punches really lets you blow off steam. 
  
  The story was good, considering it was in the same vein as films like Ferris Bueller's Day off. 
 The characters are generally all walking cliches. The nerds all have bad skin, social anxiety, 
 dress poorly and wet themselves regularly. The jocks are all large steroid users with minds on 
 the level of third graders. You get the picture. You can't fault Rockstar for not developing any 
 of their characters if it was intentional. 
  
  The only problem I had with the story was the ending. You defeat your enemy in a rather easy fist 
 fight, the head master gives you everything you want, you get a round of applause, you kiss the 
 token girl from the Townies, and the credits roll. After all the brilliant storytelling earlier 
 in the game, I was expecting a similar ending. One with more of an epilogue. 
  
  But beggars can't be choosers, I suppose. It had great gameplay, some truly funny dialogue, a long 
 interesting cliche filled story, and it was on the Wii. I'd like to see more games like this come 
 to the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurachinp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Bully Scholarship Editionfor the wii is a great game. In it you play a 15 year old Jimmy Hopkins, 
 who has been expeled from 7 schools and now his mum has married her 5th husband, and gone on a 
 cruise for a year. They dump Jimmy at Bullworth Acadmey for the year which is the worst school 
 in the country. At Bullworth there are 4 cliques, many bullies, and townies who are the school 
 dropouts, and who hate the students. At Bullworth you go to classes and complete missions around 
 the school and the town. You try and gain respect of all the cliques and try to stop Gary, a mean 
 boy who wants to take over the school. 
  The only bad thing about Bully is that you can't play the missions all again once you have beaten 
 the game, and you will get 100% in about a week.
  Overall Bully Scholarship Edition is a fun game to play and is very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Well its finally here on the Wii with enhanced graphics, gameplay, and new missinons etc. now the 
 story here is about a 15 year old boy by the name of Jimmy Hopkins and his Mom and step Dad are 
 dropping hime off at a school called Bullworth Academey. This school is full of Bullys and freaks 
 and its up Jimmy Hopkins to bring order, he is greeted by the princepals assisstant. After he is 
 introduced to his room and dorm now he gets jumped by these bullys. Later Jimmy meets a boy named 
 Gary who talks about taking over the school later in the game he betrays you as you take over the 
 nerds, jocks, preps, and greasers. With the exception of those you will eventually have to go to 
 class every now and then but they benfir you go figure. 
  
  PRESENTATION:
  The cinematic feel is retained from the last PS2 installment but with improvments. AI can be frustrating 
 at times.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Like the PS2 version but with some improvment visuals in the clutch, glitches show up every now 
 and then
  
  SOUND:
  Good music tons of VO 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The motion controls make this game more simple and easy to fight with the other enemies
  
  
 LASTING APPEAL:
  A huge list of mini-games, the open world is similiar to its older sibline Grand Theft Auto but 
 still fun
  
  Thats why Jimmy is gonna give you a wedgey 10 times out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sporty108
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is great !! Its basicly a teen rated virsion of grand theft auto. In the game you have 
 to go to a private school with bullys. You live on the huge campus and u get to walk around change 
 cloths beat people up, kiss girls and more. eventually You get to leave the campus and then it 
 gets much funner. You get to run around town ride bikes, skateboard and motor scooter and also 
 buy better cloths spray paint and go to the carnival. Like free roam like in GTA but if you want 
 o do a mission there always there. In this game instead of guns and knives you get items like bats, 
 bottle rockets, sling shots, eggs, fart bombs ect. In this the police will catch you if your out 
 during school or if its past curfue just as in GTA you will get locked up and they will take ur 
 items as they do in bully.
  
  Do if u liked Grad Theft auto you will deff like this game and its also fun to play it on the wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Jimmy Hopkins is one naughty little boy who doesn't always keep his nose clean when it comes to 
 being at Bullworth. He returns from the classic on the PS2 and has brought more hijinks than any 
 other student, or game has ever brought.
  
  You start out as Jimmy Hopkins, a boy who was recently expelled for the year, returning to Bullworth 
 academy. If you watch the first little movie, you'll see the secretary already reconizes you and 
 informs you that the head master is expecting you. Obiously, he has had lots of old memories of 
 you. Vandalism, truancy, simply fighting or using weapons. He'll be keeping his eye on you.
  
  After that, you'll head to the boys' dorm to change into your school uniform. Somebody will 
 be trying to become your friend already. Well, somebody who's nobody. The boys' dorm is a lot of 
 fun, simply because you cannot get in trouble in there. You can cause as much havack as possible, 
 but that doesn't mean people won't fight back. It's probably where you're going to be if you're 
 skipping classes.
  
  There are quite a number of people. There are jocks, nerds, greasers, and more. Some have different 
 personalities from the rest, but be warned. If you attack them, they, especially jocks, greasers, 
 and sometimes nerds, will fight back. Some can be depicted from the rest. Others, you won't remember 
 which is which.
  
  In Bully, there are 8 subjects; Chemistry, Art, Music, Gym, Biology, Math, and more. There are 
 5 classes in each subject, and you can repeat the last one as many times as you want. If you pass, 
 you'll go onto the next class when you have that subject again. If you fail, next time, you'll 
 have to redo it. Each time you pass a class, you'll recieve an item or unlockable. Chemistry seems 
 like the must-attend as it completing different classes will unlock 3 different items; the Firecracker, 
 Stink Bomb, and Itching Powder.
  
  Prefects are the officials. As in, if they catch you doing something you shouldn't, they'll come 
 after you. There is a ! bar around the radar that shows how much trouble you're in. As you do more 
 bad things, the bar increases. As time passes, the bar decreases. You can also get in trouble from 
 the secretary and teachers, but prefects will likley be the people getting you to justice. If you 
 are caught during class, they'll catch you and send you to class no matter what. If class is not 
 in session and you do something bad, they will get you and you will end up with the principal, 
 outside the office, or around nighttime, your room.
  
  There is time in the game. Classes are from 9:00 am to about 3:30 pm. If you are in the school 
 house after 7:00 pm, you're trespassing. If you stay up after 2:00 am, you pass out. You wake up 
 at 8:00 am everyday. There are no dates, but sometimes, special events like Halloween will occur. 
 When that happens, some exlusive tasks only available that day may happen such as pulling a prank 
 on the Gym teacher.
  
  Yes, there are girls in the game. It's limited to what you can do with them as you can't go in 
 the girls' dorm and they are quite mean. The most you can really do with them is harass them or 
 kiss them. But you need to give them flowers in order to kiss them, every time.
  
  The multiplayer may not attract you as much as the story mode. I myself had no interest in it whatsoever.
 
  
  Bully is a great sequel to the PS2 edition, but where does it come flat? Well, the multiplayer 
 may entertain some, but not as much as the story mode. Especially when there is no online play. 
 There also is not much interaction with the girls. Stare all you want, you dreamers. Also, a big 
 pile of things need to be unlocked. The moves, the weapons, the town. If you only have a day to 
 play this, don't expect too much.
  
  Bully: Scholarshop Edition is a fantastic, well put together game that marks a great sequel for 
 the original. It is very funny, especially in the boys dorm. Jimmy is also a likeable character 
 most of the time. Not as in friends, but as in you know the kind of guy he is and you think he's 
 pretty cool. You probably won't be drawn to multiplayer, but many of the things in story will be 
 amazing enough that it won't matter. If you are a fan of free roam sort of adventure/action games, 
 this would definently be the game to add to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  A semi-negligent mother is your first of many enemies in this game. She, along with her new boyfriend 
 or step-dad seem to take pleasure in dumping you at the notorious "Bullworth Academy" for what 
 will be a long time indeed.. This scene is played out over the credits of the game, (it's reminiscent 
 of a tele-movie) , and your character "Jimmy" doesn't hesitate to express his feelings about this 
 from the back seat of the sedan. The feeling is similar to that of being taken to prison  (not 
 being a private school student, I can only imagine the feelings of betrayal and disappointment 
 this guy must feel!)
  
  You play as Jimmy, a fairly troubled guy who has had a patchy academic record at best. He's often 
 referring to his list of suspensions and expulsions to other students, and from his appearance 
 you find these stories fairly convincing. His skin-head, burly figure and defensive body language 
 are all there for anyone to read. Does a sensitive and intelligent character lurk under this exterior? 
 To some degree, Rockstar let the player decide that. At first, you find Jimmy's character quite 
 impenetrable.
  
  In a complete reference to their own back catalogue, Rockstar developed (to the best of the technology's 
 ability) a living, breathing and dynamic urban landscape, the hub of which is initially the Academy 
 itself. We see that the school is fairly dilapidated, and lacks the prestige and traditionalism 
 that many other institutions may have. It's probably where the regions lower-middle class send 
 their kids! We see sprinklings of graffiti, general carelessness and pretty confronting and impulsive 
 behaviour by many of the students. The brilliantly programmed campus sees kids beating up others, 
 fire-crackers going off and eggs being pelted all of the non-playable characters' own accord. This 
 gives the game the crucial feeling that the town is alive and that this is really happening now.
 
  
  The game-play itself asks players to keep Jimmy alive (and even excel academically!) in this disordered 
 environment. So how do you do that? Well, there are heaps of activities to take care of. Firstly, 
 each day you can attend two classes (remember them?) , and you are required to fulfil certain requirement 
 or meet a standard. Sounds boring and too much like real school right? Well it's not. Biology asks 
 players to dissect frogs, rats and other freshly killed vermin with precise and speedy motion controls, 
 geography is a flag-dropping exercise performed over a given part of the world (tricky) , and gym 
 makes use of the infamous game of dodge-ball, among others. These are no means the majority of 
 the game, but they allow you to take a break from your missions, as well as unlock useful (and 
 not-so-useful) items for your schoolboy.
  
  The missions that you're faced with are wide and varied. Some are trivial, some are funny, and 
 some are plain criminal. But they're mostly fun. Using the motion controls to punch, kick and combo 
 works well, and the fighting that you have to do is never really a chore. Even if it were, the 
 range of alternatives available means that you never have to throw a punch if you don't feel like 
 it. Try a stink-bomb, fire-cracker, slingshot, bottle-rocket or even a soccer-ball if you want. 
 Luckily, the auto-targeting makes these things quick and easy to use, and I find that this is a 
 good way to weaken your fellow pupil, prefect or civilian before getting close. 
  
  Control-wise, this game is a little shaky. Some times your targeting (initiated by the silly "C" 
 button) skips a beat and you're looking at the wrong dude. Other times the camera is put-off by 
 your erratic but necessary movements, and sometimes (especially with the sling-shot) the IR detection 
 plain fails. There is one mission in particular where you're sitting in a tree trying to snipe 
 students. Crucial seconds pass by while you're waiting for the software to "detect" that you're 
 actually pointing at the right place. Meanwhile, these schoolboy thugs have already dished out 
 some ultra-violence on the lunch-lady (not that she didn't deserve just a little) . There is also 
 some amount of frame-skipping happening, but this is somewhat inevitable when playing in an open-area 
 world such as this - or is it?
  
  As you're a teenager, car-jacking, firearms and most adult activity is not featured in this game. 
 However, the petty pranks and juvenile vandalisms, as well as the displays of disrespect make up 
 for this. Egging people while on your BMX, or ollieing over an SUV or even baseball batting a port-a-loo 
 seems stupid to do, but it turns out that this stuff is pretty fun. It brings out the delinquent 
 tendencies in all of us. Sigh.
  
  The cast and crew of Bullworth and the surrounding area are pretty well done too. The voice-acting 
 (although hardly convincing) is well done and suitable. The characterisations are pretty well done, 
 and some of the characters do draw the right emotion from you. Gary particularly gets my goat, 
 while the shy and unconfident Pete does drum up some sympathy. Let's just say that stuffing him 
 into a garbage can was less fun.
  
  Bully isn't perfect. I find some of the missions fragmented and unfulfilling, and some of the environments 
 decidedly non-interactive. Also, I don't find Jimmy Hopkins a particularly likeable character. 
 He's not too intelligent, and is completely humourless. I can't get into characters that take themselves 
 so seriously, such as Master Chief or Gordon Freeman. Musically the game varies too. Sometimes 
 the tempo and textures reflect the urgency suitably, but other times, the vibraphone-soaked quasi-spy 
 theme that circles endlessly hurt the experience. And don't get me started on music class.
  
  This game has its merits in the originality of concept. The schoolyard is the biggest battlefield 
 of our lives (well, for those of us that stay out of prison) , and Bully draws on this environment 
 well. The "Lord of the Flies" parallels make for some good game-play and opportunity for struggle, 
 conflict and survival of the Bulliest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I stumbled upon Bully by complete accident since my roomate rented it for my Wii. Originally, it 
 was a title I never thought about playing, but after experiencing it for a while, I realized it 
 was actually a great game. I know, I was surprised as well. I figured that you play a domestically 
 disturbed young man and the point was to beat up as many kids as possible. Well, that's kinda the 
 main idea, but you're not usually the bad guy. The storyline directs you away from the dark side.
 
  
  Good:
  
  - The gameplay itself is littered with variety. Not only can you explore campus and eventually 
 the whole city, but you have classes to attend to that are filled with fun little minigames that 
 make good use of the Wii controls. In all honesty, you might learn a thing or two while taking 
 a class such as geography. You can also do minigames that are jobs to earn some side cash.
  
  - There is not really a set goal. While the storyline itself is linear, you can do the progressing 
 missions at your own pace. You're not pressured to continue on unless you want to. You can do whatever 
 you want with your free time. Procrastinate on!
  
  - When people piss you off, pop them in the mouth, then run from the hall monitors. The act of 
 beating up people who try to bully you coupled with you trying to avoid trouble makes for a scenario 
 that is hardly dull.
  
  - You can buy a moped. Seriously, how cool is that? Plus, a dirty hobo on campus teaches you how 
 to fight!
  
  - The controls work very well for the Wii, and they are pretty easy to pick up.
  
  - Just when 
 you think this game doesn't have something, you turn around and BOOM! There it is.
  
  - You get really drawn into the storyline, probably it's because we can all relate to high school 
 as opposed to the mafia life. I saw this game as a way to do lots of things I never got to do back 
 in high school. Ex: give bullies swirlies, shoot stuff with a slingshot, and throw firecrackers 
 at people.
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  Ummm..... detention? I really can't think of anything worth mentioning. Even in detention all you 
 do is mow grass.
  
  
  In the end, Bully was a surprising and enjoyable experience. If I had to sum up this game into 
 one word, it would be "fun." And that's all that really matters. Try it out for yourself, and drop 
 a cherry bomb in a toilet for me.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramzy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Bully on the wii has a very unique gameplay. The GTA style gameplay with a 90s high-school movie 
 theme really works well together. So the graphics in the game are ok... just ok... I mean they are 
 the same as on the PS2 which isn't a bad thing but still it could do better. The sound in the game 
 is superb the voice acting is excellent the music is great the sound effects are great and everything 
 considerng the sound is great. The gameplay is great too you can free roam on your bike, skateboard... the 
 missions are great too, the class missions on the wii are also awesome you got two new, biology 
 & music class.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 9/10
  
  So Overall Bully is a great game of you own the PS2 version dont buy this one except if you want 
 Bully on the Wii and try some cool motion controls and new features but it isn't worth buying it 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi-Fan-Mike
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics = 9.0
  
  They polished the graphics up from the original. Not much of a difference but it still looks good.
 
  
  Sound = 7.5
  
  Music is nice, but hearing the same music over and over again can get a little bit annoying.
 
  
  Gameplay = 9.5
  
  GTA type gameplay with some boundaries. Better if you like hearing you suck instead of go *bleep* 
 yourself. Violence and language still in there but just enough to make this game around 12+. Driving 
 bikes, giving wedgies, fighting, slingshotting, stink bombing and other mechanics are tons of fun. 
 Rule the school while taking over the cities.
  
  Story = 9.5
  
  Comedy, Romance, Action... this game has it all! The story is not only funny, but it's intense and 
 also sexy. Taking the hot posters of a school girl off the cities wall to earn her as a girlfriend 
 so you can makeout is an example of what i mean by "sexy." 
  
  Replay Value = 9.0
  
  Enough things still to do after you finish the game [Like bike races.]
  
  
  
  
  
  Pros:
 
  
  - Great Story
  - Gameplay Rocks 
  - Rockstar knows what we like
  - Enough violence to quench your thurst
  - Pranks everywhere
  - Taking school to a new level
 
  - Many items that people use everyday
  - Cities to explore
  - Revenge that you feel in the game
  
  Cons:
  
  - Music can get annoying
  - More people 
 wanted it to be a little bit more "mature"
  - Glitches, not tons, but noticeable ones
  - Pretty much the same game as the original
  
  So in all I give Bully: Scholarship Edition 
 a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics: They're really no different than their casual GTA game, although some of the lighting 
 is a little better.
  
  Sound/Music: I have a lot to say about the sound, which includes the speech. The lines are completely 
 hilarious, all the way from cheerleaders freaking out over breaking a nail to the jocks taunting 
 nerds. Once you gets nerds after you, it's like living in Revenge of the Nerds, oh you know they 
 totally come up with the best insults. The other sounds are pretty good, goes along with everything 
 that it is set for and does its job. The music isn't too noticable but isn't bad, some however 
 can be irritating.
  
  Difficulty: Just like any other game you've played by Rockstar, you know some of your missions 
 are easy and some are hard. Of course, there are side-missions to do.
  
  Gameplay: Almost perfect. The way the Wiimote and Nunchuk are used are amazingly fun, and fighting 
 is easy if you have fast hands; but I'll save the controls for the Controls portion. Yet again, 
 you play the role as Jimmy Hopkins and of course, the job is to take over the school. This will 
 require you to go around the school and do brawls, panty raids, go out and about in town and vandalize 
 the City Hall with your mark and infiltrate the insane asylum. A game you can certainly play for 
 hours on end and have a new experience each and everytime.
  
  Controls: Ah yes, the controls.. A lot of what you'll do is using both pieces to throw punches 
 (swing with Nunchuk to throw a left, Wiimote to do a right) . Other times you'll use the Wiimote 
 to aim and fire different things such as spud guns, your slingshot, apples, and so on. During the 
 game you'll learn new fighting techniques which require you to use a specific order of controls 
 to use, almost like Red Steel's swordfighting idea.
  
  Overall: Not one you wanna turn down if you like Rockstar, GTA, or these kinds of games period. 
 I mean seriously, who the hell wouldn't want to beat down those preppies anyway!? Even a cheerleader 
 or two. Best when played while picturing specific people you think belong in each group. And yes, 
 there's the nerd with an unzipped fly you can torture. Pick it up if you got some cash on you, 
 you'll not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veger77503
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Well it reminds my of a cross between Godfather (Black Hand Addition) and Harry Potter OotP. I 
 will give it a a Thumbs up for overal fun with beat downs, entertaining classes where you learn 
 something, and exploring. This is a true adaption to a typical School Fighting Anime from Japan 
 placed in England except you are the Anti Hero. This does not have the graphics of the 360 but 
 does have the beat down skills of a true fight. Remember the Wii controls make it easy to have 
 fun as a Bully but watch the time classes are starting and you dont want to miss chemistry. The 
 mini games are fun and keep you entertained unlike real school. The only problem is this get repeative 
 after a while and sleep does take time. Remember to play it cool infront of the teacher and hit 
 them Jocks with that Sling Shot. Have fun but stay in school for the rewards or you will get no 
 Figgy Pudding. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition for the Wii is a modern-action adventure game which is sort of like 
 Grand Theft Auto except you control a teenage boy who tries to take control of the school. Gameplay 
 is similar to GTA except instead of guns you get weapons like slingshots and stink bombs. Instead 
 of cars you ride bikes and mopeds. Like GTA, you get to move around freely around the school grounds 
 and city and do just about whatever you want. To move forward in the story, you have to do various 
 missions which tries to get you closer to different cliques. Once you beat a chapter, you unlock 
 a certain part of the town which you couldn't visit before. Controls are good when it comes to 
 combat. You use the Wiimote and Nunchuck to fight with your hands or you can use the Wiimote for 
 aiming with certain weapons like the slingshot. It's also used quite well in classes but sometimes 
 it doesn't register the movement you're trying to do which can be annoying sometimes. Some wiimote 
 problems aside, the controls are good and the gameplay is great.
  
  Graphics aren't that great but they aren't that bad either. If you have the component cables, it'll 
 help smoothen it and make it look better. If not then it's alright since the graphics are alright, 
 it's just not "great".
  
  Sound is one of the best component of the game. The voice acting is top notch, from the students 
 to the townies to the prefects to your own character, they all sound great. When you bump against 
 a nerd, he/she will try to apologize and when you threaten bullies, they will try to fight back. 
 All the characters sound great and then we have the background music which also pretty good. It 
 definitely suits the game. Sound effects are also great, hooting of cars/mopeds sound good, windows 
 being smashed sound good, crashing your bike sounds good. Basically what I'm trying to say is, 
 the sound is great! Definitely the best part of the game
  
  I recommend this game to anyone looking for a good single player game. It's quite lengthy and has 
 quite a bit of replayability as well. Definitely a must own if you want something like GTA or just 
 a great single player game in general.
  
  Overall, I had fun the game. I had some wiimote problems at times but it didn't stop me from having 
 so much fun. Graphics aren't that great but the gameplay is fantastic and the sound is good. It 
 was a great single player experience all the way through 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEndBoss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  School is right up there with long lines and office cubicles; it's one of the last places you'd 
 want to be in a video game. After all, games are supposed to entertain, right? Bully: Scholarship 
 Edition is set at a boarding school called Bullworth Academy, and could have very well been a complete 
 snoozefest. But instead, it's an intriguing open-world game that just goes to show how much a few 
 fistfights, stink bombs, and wedgies can spice things up.
  
  As the game booted up, I found myself in control of Jimmy Hopkins, a 15 year old kid with a talent 
 for getting into trouble. His mom and new stepdad decided to dump him at a boarding school while 
 they went off on their honeymoon, and he's not too pleased. After becoming acquainted with the 
 principal and several places on campus, I was free to wreak havoc on my fellow classmates, the 
 school's staff, and the citizens of Bullworth Town.
  
  Those I could torment were quite a crew. I encountered nerds, jocks, bullies, greasers, and preppies 
 in the student body. With the staff, I had to deal with a perverted gym teacher, a nasty lunch 
 lady, an alcoholic English teacher, and many others. In a similar fashion to other Grand Theft 
 Auto-style games, much of the game involved taking on certain jobs. These often had an impact on 
 how much the social factions of the school liked me; protecting a nerd from bullies upped my status 
 with the nerds, egging some preppy kids' houses made it my status with them go down, etc. Other 
 jobs would just give rewards: saving a kid from greasers let me get my mitts on a skateboard and 
 breaking in to the girls' dorm to steal panties got me money from the gym teacher.
  
  But also like most open-=world games, I didn't have to follow the jobs religiously. I was free 
 to take a time-out and just goof off. Starting fights, smashing cars, nailing people with the slingshot, 
 and participating in bike races were only a few activities I took part in. Bullworth Academy and 
 the surrounding town were pretty big places, so there was always quite a bit to do.
  
  Bully isn't without problems, however. Since the game's world wasn't exactly small, I spent a lot 
 of time on the skateboard or on a bike. The controls for both were too imprecise for me to be able 
 to navigate well (especially with the skateboard) , so making sharp turns or going into smlal spaces 
 usually planted Jimmy's face in a wall. Motion controls weren't always very good, particularly 
 with aiming the slingshot. More often than not I found myself admiring the dust on Jimmy's shoes, 
 and had a hard time to moving from this position. Occasionally the controls would cut out altogether, 
 and the buttons would refuse to work correctly. I couldn't acquaint faces with my fist for certain 
 periods of time and would let go of an enemy the instant I grabbed him for some reason.
  
  Motion controls in Bully are otherwise functional, but they seem to be there just because they 
 can be. They don't bring any significant improvements to the game at all, except for re-living 
 the childhood fantasy of taking a swing at the teacher. The only time they're put to good use is 
 in the minigames that serve as classes, and even then only in biology's dissection game and music's 
 rhythm challenges.
  
  Combat works pretty well, but it's insultingly easy. Fighting was controlled, for the most part, 
 by swinging the Wii remote and nunchuk to throw punches. If a fight couldn't be won by flailing 
 my arms like a drunk taking on a bartender who refused to give him another round, I simply had 
 to grab my opponent and flail my arms while holding the grab button. Once I learned some more advanced 
 attacks the whole system provided almost no challenge whatsoever unless I decided to take on large 
 groups.
  
  The whole concept of navigating the social hierarchy in school by taking jobs to make a group's 
 disposition toward you better or worse was a good idea, but it really wasn't used well enough. 
 Bully, despite being an open-world game, never gives you much freedom when it comes to this. I 
 had to take jobs in a linear order, with the only differences being that I could choose which one 
 to take on first, knowing I would have to do all of them eventually. There was no way to skillfully 
 avoid or take on jobs to change the dispositions of fellow students any way I saw fit, which felt 
 like a wasted opportunity. At the end of every chapter the particular group I was up against ended 
 up having a completely positive attitude toward Jimmy anyway, so I came off feeling that there 
 was really no point to the whole system.
  
  "Scholarship Edition" definitely makes this sound like it's the best overall version of Bully. 
 While that may be true, it's not by much. This version of Bully feels more like a port than anything 
 else, with a few extras not seen in the original version thrown in to justify charging full price 
 for it. Those who already played the original probably won't find much reason to buy this version 
 of Bully; there's not enough new here for a full price to be a good price.
  
  But for all its fault, the one thing tying Bully's loose ends together was the story, characters, 
 and the humor of the whole package. With a mixture of poking fun at the usual stereotypes for schools, 
 slapstick, one-liners, and great voice-acting it all came to a satisfying package. Each of the 
 goofy characters was perfectly cast, and the script the actors read from was a very funny one. 
 Every character sounded as I expected them to, and spoke dialogue that felt natural.
  
  School is one place few video games dare to go, but Bully: Scholarship Edition took me to one of 
 the most fun settings I've been to in a game. With humor, a satirical world, and all kinds of mischief 
 it succeeded in crafting one of the most interesting open-world games I've ever played, it did 
 so in one of the most boring places people can imagine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Going through all the shovelware, overrated letdowns, and overpriced preemies (games that you enjoy 
 but you end up finishing after a day or two) that have ended up on the Wii to find something worth 
 buying can be exhausting. We should be thankful that many third party publishers are willing to 
 convert some of the better games from the latter part of last generation for play for the Wii. 
 On the other hand, they should also be thankful that we are willing to overlook their lack of new 
 products and faith in Nintendo which necessitated in them having to wiimake games when the Wii 
 became an instant hit at launch: late 2006. We hope they are just buying time so they can fully 
 develop some really good new unique games for the platform because if we're still being fed reruns 
 and underdeveloped disappointments in another year, I'm going to be very upset. Programmers should 
 also be thankful that some gamers are willing to pay twice for a few really good games.
  
  Bully is one such game, and the experience of replaying it is much better than a real high school 
 reunion. You may have played it on the PS2 over a year ago but that doesn't matter because the 
 game has actually matured quite a bit in that time. Now, if you (for some reason) didn't like Bullworth 
 or had no interest in the characters at all when it first came around, there really isn't too much 
 to change your mind about it now. In fact, to you, it may seem even more obnoxious and "in your 
 face" than before. However, if you never got a chance at it for one reason or another (or like 
 me, you were completely inebriated the whole time) or you played it and enjoyed it half as much 
 as I did, this game is definitely worth the purchase. Even if you played it, liked it, but don't 
 really feel like playing through the whole thing again, I would recommend a rent just to try the 
 new classes and some new missions. 
  
  This is also a great game for mature gamers who have managed to sidestep every collection of minigames. 
 Your mistrust has not gone unrewarded. By waiting for Bully, you not only get a full game that 
 will take you more than a few hours to finish, but you've also got a collection of minigames you 
 can play with your girlfriend who waited on some crazy line and bought you the damn machine but 
 hasn't had the patience for anything beyond Wiisports. Watch her squirm when she has to dissect 
 a rat in Biology (as a trauma center fan, my personal favorite) , dance & hum as she plays the theme 
 to Monty Pythons Flying Circus in Music, and laugh at you as she fills up the word scramble page 
 for English. Not all of them are winners. A couple are over glorified strings of quick time evens 
 and lame multiple choice questions but most of the classes are fun and a few are actually edutational.
 
  
  But Bully isn't really even about classes or grades. It's about becoming the most badass mofo in 
 the schoolyard. The classes help of course as they give you more weapons (no guns or anything but 
 in the game you do get an upgradeable slingshot, firecrackers, stinkbombs, and the like) , tools, 
 teases, taunts, and vehicles but if you feel you've played enough minigames on the wii, you can 
 just as well be "naughty" and skip class. The missions are what will move you through the story 
 line and get all the cliques of the school under your thumb by assisting them with their own goals. 
 
  
  The story is a bit more amusing than your typical R* revenge plot line (but only a bit) and the 
 missions provide a good variety of fun on their own. As many had deduced when this game was originally 
 in development, this is GTA Boarding School, plain and simple. You can expect all of the exploring, 
 collecting, random encounters, missions, and activities you would normally expect in a GTA game 
 but without the rather mature subject matters, guns, or radio stations. The story isn't exactly 
 tame but don't expect a gruesome and disturbing Columbine simulator as many ignorant anti-game 
 activists were hoping this was going to turn out to be; and I have a whole other rant about those 
 dbags. Rather it's a present day setting with a bit of a retro 50s themed look at school life (and 
 the common trials every generation has to deal with) with very distinctive gangs who (depending 
 on your skills) you can torment with indian burns, wedgies, nuggies, swirlies, and many other classic 
 non-scarring burns. 
  
  The truth of the matter is that if they had based this game on real contemporary school life, it 
 would've been rated Adult Only rather than Teen so not only would it not have been released to 
 any of the consoles but it would've been ironically pulled out of reach of the very demographic 
 it's based upon. Even now with the re-release, this game faces a lot of flak. Even though we've 
 known for over a year that this game is relatively tame and that (despite the name) it doesn't 
 encourage you to bully little kids (but rather teaches the valuable lesson: that you must stand 
 up to bullies) , this title still garners it's share of controversy of such a lame caliber, I'm 
 not even going to mention the pathetic teachers group involved or the ignorant nuts championing 
 the censorship. The ability for parents, teachers, and politicians to delude themselves always 
 astonishes me. I'm only comforted by the fact that soon Jack Thompson will be disbarred and these 
 fools will soon find another mode of entertainment that they can vilify more easily than video 
 games which can then join the other forms of entertainment that have also survived the puritanistic 
 activist gauntlet such as D&D games, comics, Catcher in the Rye, Rap, RocknRoll, Jazz......
  
  But I digress. I was saying how the teases, taunts, and bullying were relatively tame by the 
 standards of today's students but don't let that dissuade you GTA fans. The hand to hand combat 
 is a satisfying combination of boxing and wrestling that is most intuitive with the motion controls 
 and on screen does a good job of mimicking the awkward & clumsy savageness of fighting youths which 
 is always very amusing. Anyone who's played Godfather on the Wii will feel right at home. Much 
 of the fighting is learned along the way (in Gym class or taught by the old shell shocked wino 
 who lives behind the school) so you're not desperately trying to learn the correct waggle (which 
 is usually fitting and easy to remember) for a ton of fighting moves all at once. 
  
  Occasionally you'll tackle someone you were only trying to toss to the side or head butt someone 
 you meant to kick but as it all works towards the same goal, it's rarely disappointing. In fact 
 as you start playing, these moments usually tend to be pleasant surprises. In fact it's these little 
 touches that make this game for me. I don't want to spoil them for you but a defining moment (the 
 kind that reminds you: This IS a R* game) for me was when I was fighting a bully and rather than 
 toss him to the ground (the action I performed, and you can throw in any direction depending on 
 which direction you thrust the nunchuck) I watched the protagonist stuff him in a nearby trashcan.
 
  
  Many other elements highlight this game as a R* title. The most obvious feature is the visually 
 eclectic and extremely detailed open world, where you can explore school, town, and other local 
 environments in detail or enjoy it all as only a detailed background for the story missions. You'll 
 find exploring to be rewarding though because there are many collectibles (another R* staple) in 
 the little nooks and crannies of the school and it's neighboring community. And of course there 
 are a ton of activities, side quests, and challenges to have fun with in between the main storyline 
 missions. In Bully (as with many R* games) you'll probably spend much more time playing around 
 with the extras in the game than playing through the actual story missions.
  
  Seeing as though they really did fill in almost every detail possible for a game this scale there 
 are a few simple details that could've been updated and I'm not even talking about adding motion 
 controls. Some smaller touches would've been great and done with little effort, like different 
 letters for the English class word scramble. It's still one of my favorite classes but they're 
 using the same letters/words from the ps2 version. With all the new classes and reworking of some 
 old ones, you'd think they could've performed this simple update like they sort of did with the 
 math class. I could've done with some more interesting conversations too. Many don't like the relationship 
 aspect to begin with, but I think it could've been done well had we not needed to sit through the 
 same canned answers as last time. Some updates to the carnival would've been nice too but all these 
 are small complaints. It's only unfortunate because most of these differences would've taken little 
 effort but brought allot of freshness to the game.
  
  But if you're looking for a good, lengthy, and well produced game for the wii, Bully will serve 
 you well. It's a wiimake, yes, but I think you'll find that most of the new original wii games 
 still don't have the value you get from these wiiruns. Also if you're a GTA fan and feel like you're 
 beating the dead horse's head after playing Godfather Blackhand for the past year, Bully will provide 
 you with all the sandbox adventure you can handle until you decide to plunk down the cash for the 
 setup needed to play GTA4. If you're a GTA fan and are saying to yourself, Godfather Black-wha, 
 you can pick up the Godfather Wii game for a better price and have some real GTA style violence 
 with your sandbox. However if you're not a fan of the open world beat-em-ups.... well.... you're 
 probably playing Super Smash Bros Brawl and don't really need any advise from me as MarioKart will 
 be coming along soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleman00
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is a perfect example of how to do a hardcore game right on the Wii. 
 While it is a port of the PS2 game, the graphics are slightly better and the controls are changed 
 to take advantage of the Wiimote's motion-sensing capabilities. There are also a few extra missions 
 and classes added.
  
  You play as Jimmy Hopkins, stereotypical 15-year-old trouble-maker, but overall good soul. He is 
 dumped at Bullworth Academy, a private school, by his mom and new step-dad while they go on an 
 extended honeymoon. Being the new kid, he is initially shunned by the school's student populace, 
 but as the game progresses, you make and break alliances with different cliques, and deal with 
 teachers and the residents of the nearby towns.
  
  The controls work very well. You basically swing the Wiimote and Nunchuck like you would swing 
 your fists, and holding down certain buttons can make you do certain types of punches and kicks. 
 Combos can be performed by executing particular motions in conjunction with button presses. For 
 example, swing the Wiimote forward twice, followed by a swipe of the Nunchuck, then the Wiimote 
 + 'B' will make Jimmy throw several quick jabs followed by a kick to the face. You learn new combos 
 from a homeless man that lives behind the school, but unfortunately learning the combos is a bit 
 of a chore. Swinging the controllers while randomly holding 'B' or 'C' will suit you for most of 
 the game. Also, punching power can be upgraded as you participate in boxing matches against the 
 preppy kids. Once you get the hang of punching and kicking, it becomes really satisfying to go 
 around beating up jocks and preppy kids (just be careful of the jocks because they are a lot tougher 
 than most other students, and when they attack in groups, they can easily knock you out if you're 
 not careful)
  
  The rest of the controls, such as basic walking and riding vehicles also work well. To run, you 
 need to tap 'A', same goes for getting speed bursts while on the skateboard or for peddling faster 
 on the bikes. There are other vehicles to be found, such as a moped and a go-kart. The only complaint 
 I have with regards to the controls is the camera. It stays behind you for most of the game, and 
 you can switch between a behind-the-back to an over-the-shoulder look for aiming. However, on vehicles, 
 the camera isn't fast enough to keep up when turning tight corners. So, you can be turning a corner 
 and run into a car or another person because the camera is about 1/3 second behind. You also can't 
 peddle faster and adjust the camera because both commands require your thumb, so you either choose 
 to adjust on the D-Pad or tap 'A'.
  
  The game itself consists of you waking up and deciding to either take on a mission (represented 
 by stars on your mini-map) or going to class (bells on the mini-map) . Different missions can happen 
 at different times of the day, while you have 2 classes a day, one in the morning and one in the 
 afternoon. The classes usually require heavy use of the Wiimote, such as in Biology class, where 
 it plays similar to Trauma Center, and the Chemistry and Shop classes, where you do specific motions 
 based on what command is on the screen.
  
  Missions are the usual GTA-esque stuff, minus any real violence. You'll be asked to do a variety 
 of things, like keep kids away from the lunch lady as she goes on a date, kill the preppy kids' 
 prized plant, and escort a nerd back to 'nerd territory' (the library) . While these may sound like 
 juvenile activities, they are still fun, and the only difference between them and their GTA older 
 brother is the violence level. This is a T-rated game, so don't expect to hijack cars, shoot hookers, 
 or kill cops. You can beat up pretty much anyone, except for cops and the school's hall monitors.
 
  
  There are plenty of distractions throughout the game, too. There is a carnival to go to where you 
 can win prizes, various bike races around the city, arcade games scattered throughout your save 
 locations, girls (and boys) to date, garden gnomes to destroy, and a wide variety of other things. 
 Speaking of the dating, you can date different girls in the game, but beware, they do get jealous. 
 If one girls catches you kissing another girl, you may get kicked in the junk, the jealous girl 
 might run away and cry, or the girls may get into fights. I nearly busted a gut the first time 
 one of the girls saw me making out with someone else, then ran up and kicked me hard between the 
 legs. Making out with people also has a health advantage as it replenishes your health meter.
 
  
  Overall, a surprisingly well-made game with only a few camera problems. I hear the 360 version 
 has bugs galore and will require a patch to fix them. There aren't any game-crashing glitches here, 
 and the worst problem I ran into was when the game kind of 'hung' on me when I was trying to give 
 flowers to a girl near the lighthouse. It didn't crash and I didn't have to restart, I just didn't 
 get a response for a few moments. For Wii owners who are starving for a hardcore game, or a great 
 single-player game to play between Smash Bros. matches, this is great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  It's sad that only one game for the Gamecube is simply a racing game, the other thing that gamers 
 wishes for from previous titles is an open world. Scarface: The World is Yours, The Godfather: 
 Blackhand Edition, Gun, True Crimes: Streets of LA and Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Majora's 
 Mask, Windwaker and Twilight Princess all have open ended world's for you to enjoy and explore. 
 This makes a major twist about going to school. By the way, I am speaking from a Nintendo point 
 of view.
  
  The controls should be as smooth as The Godfather except this is the third game in which the kid 
 is the star other than Link. If you played GTA, you know what to expect from this game. The exclusives 
 like all other Wii games is missions, people etc.
  
  The graphics compare to PS2 is quite with some minor frame rate issues but that's about it. It's 
 sharp, colourful and it does buck the trend that you don't need a game to be like the foul mouthed 
 adult GTA to win people's hearts.
  
  The sound is excellent. Although you won't recognised everyone's voices they sound just right. 
 The music is unique and enjoyable to listen to. It would be nice to add licence songs to add another 
 unique sound depth.
  
  The value is great. Like all the games mentioned above (heaven forbid the Gun) have a great story 
 but not as epic as the Zelda series. However, the side quests makes up for the games story which 
 is not as great as The Godfather but that's just me.
  
  The Australians should enjoy this 'back to school' game. It hit all the right notes if only they 
 had at least some music licences to listen to but hey, it's school mayhem. I would wish that Rockstar 
 one day will make more spinoffs based on the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition satisfies the tough little punk inside us all. This young bad-ass vigilante 
 shows utter disregard for the rules and authority, but somehow maintains noble intentions.
  
  The story, set, and voice acting are outstanding in Bully. I was surprised how well the designers 
 had recreated that schoolboy world in a very amusing comic style. While running down the school's 
 corridors, you might here shallow gals gossiping, bullies pummelling the weaklings, or the prefects 
 making statements like, "who needs anger management when you can beat someone!?" 
  
  Bully is outrageous. It is without doubt violent, brash, and presenting a general mockery of good 
 behavior; however, it entertains without being overly egregious or gratuitous. This must be Rock 
 Star's idea of youthful innocence...
  
  Graphics: (7) Excellent for the Wii, average compared to games on other systems.
  
  Game-play: 
 (10) Outstanding. The task/quest design is truly remarkable in its variety and entertainment value. 
 The Wii-mote is well-suited to this style of game, particularly when it engaging in fisticuffs.
 
  
  Sound: (8) Great soundtrack. Great voice acting. The characters are very believable and the music 
 complements the setting very well indeed.
  
  Value: (9) A wide variety and ample amount of enjoyable content. Re-playability is limited due 
 to the story-based nature of the title.
  
  Tilt: (9) Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer2200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  bully: scholarship edition is a great sequel to bully on the ps2. the new add-ons are pretty baller. 
 the 8 new missions are fun. the multiplayer mode is ok. its not really that fun, unless you and 
 a friend are really bored. the new classes give you more things to do besides missions. the new 
 characters are fun to use. overall this game is a great sequel. this game is for the person who 
 likes GTA without all the blood, drugs, and guns. i recommend this game to anyone who is a GTA 
 fan. i recommend this for someone who got the 1st bully. 
  the story line goes like this. you are a troubled teenager named jimmy hopkins. his mom goes on 
 a year long honeymoon. he goes to bullworth academy. you go around and complete mission, go to 
 class, and complete jobs for people. it has the same kinda story line as GTA. you have to earn 
 the respect of all the cliques. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Youre Jimmy Hopkins the clone of Rooney, In the Worst school in the country, Your Mother Married 
 an Dumb and put you In BullWorth The School Of Nerds, Jocks, Bullies, Greasers and Preps. I Will get 
 to the point, you can kiss a lot of girls, Wear the cloth you want, Ride an Bike, Skate and an Kart, Fight 
 with anyone, Drink, eat, sleep, Go to Class, Get in to the Girls Dorm, Give Flowers to Girls (to boys 
 too) , Ahhhhh..... Its a lot of things!!!! But the Wii Version Of Bully its a lot better then the PS2 
 version Of Bully, the graphics are better, the controls are more addictive, and we have more classes. I 
 dont now Why but... the girls like jimmy so Much!! I dont understand the Bull$#! T !!!!!!!! Hes 
 an Horrible Guy!!!!! F***!!!!!!
  You control Jimmy With the nunchuk while A make you Run, B throw Things, And Movements with the Wii 
 Remote and Nunchuck make Jimmy Punch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragong73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Bully game and I'm pretty impressed! I thought it was more of a beat up the nerds 
 game. It is but it isn't because you can protect them too. There are also some fun, yet challenging 
 minigames for each class. It's highly addicting! I'm playing it so much my parents are limiting 
 me from it! Now for the main review. The graphics are pretty impressive! When you use the fireworks 
 and firecrackers it's pretty realistic. Sometime the girls will kiss you if you help them. You 
 can give them flowers and chocolate and they'll kiss you. You can beat up everyone you see. You 
 can flip skirts or give wedgies. You can also pick locks. Alternatively, you can do none of those 
 thing. (sometimes you have to defend yourself from bullies) You can do lots of thing in Bully! It's 
 the first game I've played since Animal Crossing that has given me insane amounts of freedom! I 
 think that you should go get this game! (or at least rent it) School is cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bran91095
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Rent it first. This game is actually not as great as people make it seem. If you haven't played 
 Bully before, you should get this. If you have played this game and own it on PlayStation2, don't 
 get this game. The small extra features aren't worth buying this game again.
  
  This game suffers from a few bugs, like characters Jimmy talk with often can't be heard, and sometimes 
 the game gets a bit glitchy, but otherwise it is fine. The game's multiplayer is also a bore, as 
 it gets repetitive and easy. The fights are often annoying as it becomes hard to memorize and even 
 use most of your attacks. Also, using the tiny + and - buttons to change weapons isn't that useful, 
 as in the middle of a fight, you won't be able to use your different weapons at the right time.
 
  
  Still, this game is a good addition to Wii. and if don't already own this on PS2, you should rent 
 it to see if you do like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Jimmy Hopkins is back!, uhm... Well no... More like, Remade!: P, To be honest I haven't played the 
 PS2 version, so I couldn't compare it too the PS2 one or the Xbox360 one, so anyways.
  
  Story:
  You are Jimmy Hopkins, sent out to a boarding school in Bullsworth, which in Bullsworth 
 you go to the Bullsworth Academy, Which is a boarding school, anyways, You have missions which 
 help you to become cool, You can help nerds, which gives you a good nerd reputation, or you could 
 help bullies, jock and popular people, which makes you get reputation from them, Of course... Rockstar 
 bringer of the free roaming, put free roaming on this game, Anyways you must go to classes to unlock 
 more stuff, like chemicals, bikes and put up you stats.
  
  Gameplay:
  As I said before, it is a free roaming game, which means... You could mess around before you get 
 to your next mission, You could also ditch classes, for missions, fun and etcetera, But, you may 
 think ditching classes are cool cause it helps you in no way, but think again, going to class helps 
 you in your skills, stats, and sometimes Weapons and Rides!, So it's pretty helpful to go to class, 
 Of course, like the GTA series, there someone out there trying to catch you, It's not a free world 
 where in you could do anything, doing stuff such as Bullying, Tease, Harassing, Truancy & Use of 
 weapons could get Police, Guards, Authorized Personnel and Principal to get you, You may also have 
 your own place!.
  
  Graphics:
  Same old PS2 graphics, minor bugs, Anyways, Don't let graphics ruin your gameplay!, I guess it's 
 gotten a little better than the PS2 version of bully, And well, looks like GTA3, Their fingers 
 are stuck together such as the old rockstar games,
  
  Features: 
  Ah!, this category is amazing!, but, I have already mentioned some of the features on the gameplay... 
 You could play mini games such as Future Racer 2000, And you may Dress up, hair cut, jobs, and 
 etcetera, well these features, are connected somewhat to each other... You need a Job to buy clothes, 
 but you need hair cuts to match your clothes, which may not have anything that has to do with the 
 review :P, You could swim too!, and the more you play and the more you unlock stuff, Places such 
 as the carnival has tons! and tons! of games, really fun!, too bad you cannot steal cars, but you 
 can steal bikes and motorcycles.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Bring your friend and show em' what ya got!, anyways, remember when I said you go to class and 
 do whatever, well that also has a reason to go to class, to practice your skills and pwn them in 
 multiplayer :P, anyways modes in multiplayer are the ones on classes, such as Engish, Math, Science 
 and bla bla bla bla.
  
  Overall:
  An amazing game if you are a fan of GTA, and other bully games, Major content, lots of fun, and 
 could keep you occupied for about a month or so...
  so if haven't grabbed a copy, go to your local store and get one now!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdiamnz69
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar has reached perfection, again. For people who dont know about this game, you live the 
 life of Jimmy Hopkins in a boarding school, where theres Bullies and all sorts of groups. As you 
 porgress through the Six Chapters of the game, you unlock more things, like Town Bullworth. You 
 also gain more and more respect with The Nerds The Greasers The Preps The Jocks The Bullies and 
 The Townies. Theres more to the game then Bullying or getting Bullied. You get to take classes, 
 like Geography were you are given Flags to put on a Map, or Biology where you disect things. You 
 can also have Girlfriends. you can have as many as you want, just dont get caught kissing one in 
 front of the other, she'll kick your balls. If your a Rockstar fan, every part of this game you'll 
 love. Even if your not a fan of Rockstar, you'll still love this game. Overall, this is a very 
 Awesome game, with a fun Rockstar aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a few levels on my PS2 but I never got around to playing it at the time 
 and I don't have my PS2 anymore. I saw the Wii version and the 360 version, the reason I got the 
 Wii version was because of the Wii controller and the $10 price difference. The game was wonderful! 
 I have to say the Wii controls made the game a bit easier especially during the classes where with 
 the PS2 controller you would have had to press the buttons that came up in order. The graphics 
 are okay, I would say the coloring got a facelift and the graphics were a bit smoother but it wasn't 
 a redo from the ground up at all, but even so the graphics were good enough for me. I think the 
 Bully game is easier than the GTA games, but that just might be because the Wii controls made it 
 easier. The storyline was great and I found myself laughing all the time at what was going on. 
 As far as glitches, the only one I found was that I got stuck after I had to kiss someone one time. 
 I don't think this deserved a 8, I think it should have gotten a 9 because it was better than the 
 original. This is definitely a game a Wii owner should get and hopefully there will be a sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: They're really no different than their casual GTA game, although some of the lighting 
 is a little better.
  
  Sound/Music: I have a lot to say about the sound, which includes the speech. The lines are completely 
 hilarious, all the way from cheerleaders freaking out over breaking a nail to the jocks taunting 
 nerds. Once you gets nerds after you, it's like living in Revenge of the Nerds, oh you know they 
 totally come up with the best insults. The other sounds are pretty good, goes along with everything 
 that it is set for and does its job. The music isn't too noticable but isn't bad, some however 
 can be irritating.
  
  Difficulty: Just like any other game you've played by Rockstar, you know some of your missions 
 are easy and some are hard. Of course, there are side-missions to do.
  
  Gameplay: Almost perfect. The way the Wiimote and Nunchuk are used are amazingly fun, and fighting 
 is easy if you have fast hands; but I'll save the controls for the Controls portion. Yet again, 
 you play the role as Jimmy Hopkins and of course, the job is to take over the school. This will 
 require you to go around the school and do brawls, panty raids, go out and about in town and vandalize 
 the City Hall with your mark and infiltrate the insane asylum. A game you can certainly play for 
 hours on end and have a new experience each and everytime.
  
  Controls: Ah yes, the controls.. A lot of what you'll do is using both pieces to throw punches 
 (swing with Nunchuk to throw a left, Wiimote to do a right) . Other times you'll use the Wiimote 
 to aim and fire different things such as spud guns, your slingshot, apples, and so on. During the 
 game you'll learn new fighting techniques which require you to use a specific order of controls 
 to use, almost like Red Steel's swordfighting idea.
  
  Overall: Not one you wanna turn down if you like Rockstar, GTA, or these kinds of games period. 
 I mean seriously, who the hell wouldn't want to beat down those preppies anyway!? Even a cheerleader 
 or two. Best when played while picturing specific people you think belong in each group. And yes, 
 there's the nerd with an unzipped fly you can torture. Pick it up if you got some cash on you, 
 you'll not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Bully started off on the PS2 and was soon a great hit with a sorta free school world right next 
 to GTA. Now its on the Wii and i will assure you that the Wii version is the best out the other 
 two. You are this boy named who lives with his mom and stepdad. His mom sends him to a school acadamy 
 called Bullsworth. You have to survive Bullsworth, deal with bullies, deal with the dean, and try 
 to get a girlfriend. The graphics are beefed up a bit but not entirely. The Xbox360 version of 
 course looks more better but the Wii version dosent look bad. There is more detail in the levels 
 and characters than the PS2 version. Though the lighting is bad and dark but in the Xbox360 version 
 everything is much brighter. The new thing in here for the Wii version you have actual classes 
 you can participate in. There are many type of classes that can relate to other Wii games like 
 cooking mama in chemistry class and big brain acadamy in geogrephy class. The controls are very 
 innovative but some dont work well like the chemistry class sometimes you can mess up just because 
 of the controls. The music isnt great but the sound effects and voice acting are great. The sound 
 effects have improved from the PS2 version and in my opinion is better than the Xbox360 version. 
 Of corse in the PS2 version Bully has been regonized for its amazing voice acting. Nothing has 
 changed in both the new versions and thats the way we like it! Overall this game sticks to the 
 original formula of the PS2 version but with enhanced gameplay and amped up graphics. This is definatly 
 a buy for some Wii owners. If you want anything next to The Godfather and Scareface this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystians
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Story: 9.0
  
  Since this game is pretty old now, there is no need for me to be retelling the plot. But in my 
 opinion the story is pretty solid, and it's pretty easy to follow. All in all it's like any GTA; 
 you, the main character try to rise to the top. In Bully, you play as Jimmy Hopkins, a 15 year 
 old who happens to be kicked out of every school and ends up at Bullworth Academy... I guess they 
 missed his transcript? Your job as Jimmy is to rise above the Jocks, Greasers, and more, help out 
 your fellow nerds, and become number one in the school. 
  
  
  Game play/Controls: 8.5
  
  The controls are great, except for when the main character skateboards, those controls are 
 not the best. But over all they are pretty good. Some fine tuning would have been great like I 
 said about the skating and also a bit for the fighting. 
  
  
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  
  This is one great thing I enjoy about the game. The graphics are great. For a Wii game I know that 
 it did not push the envelope for graphics but they are very nice. I don't have a HDTV and I never 
 have to squint or anything to see what I am doing or where I am going. 
  
  Sound: 10
  
  One of the best things about anything done by Rockstar games is the sound they put into the game. 
 Everything from kids fighting in the hallways, to the sounds of a carnival this game has got the 
 sound right. 
  
  
  Replay value: 9.0
  
  This game I will defiantly come back to. After about a year or so I know I will be replaying the 
 whole game again. Unless Rockstar gets it though their heads that the Wii needs a GTA title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Bully finally made it's way to the Wii if you did play the PS2 version of this classic game Canim 
 Canis Edit your getting the same game if extras added to the game with a whole different control 
 system. You would of never thought that Nintendo would license a game like this to be on there 
 system but they did which is just brilliant.
  
  Extras included in Bully Scholarship edition is eight new missions, four new school classes which 
 are biology, music, math and geography, additional characters, new unlockable items and clothing 
 there is also games for 2 players which i have not tried as i don't use my Wii for 2 players.
 
  
  Now you know the extras let me tell you about the story. You play as Jimmy Hopkins a boy which 
 is rude and can be nasty. Jimmy's mother is getting sick of him and his step father not liking 
 him send Jimmy to a boarding school called Bullworth Academy. Jimmy's mother and stepfather leave 
 him there while they go on a holiday for a year. As soon as you enter the school you meet the head 
 of the school who gives a Jimmy a good old talk.
  
  Bully has different people in the game you will meet and help Jocks they are sport type of guys 
 cocky and will try and fight you, Nerds scared and most times will need Jimmy's help, Greasers 
 they are a bit silly and full of themselves, Preppies these do boxing and are posh and will turn 
 on you quickly, Townies you will meet these near the end of the game horrible people and scruffy 
 and will start you for no reason oh i they don't go to school, Prefects these will try to send 
 you to class, send you to bed they spend there time looking around for people doing wrong stuff, 
 Police these will send you back to school or send you to the police station for nicking off etc.
 
  
  The game features little games in bully you can go on arcade machines and play racing, you go in 
 the carnival and play on some of the rides like the roller coaster, go karts, shooting targets 
 there's a few more to and it has a freak show in the carnival too and a fun house which you will 
 be only to play during one mission.
  
  The game has weapons as you will find baseball bats, eggs, slingshot you may find others. It has 
 transportation a school bus, Scooters (though the cops will catch you without a helmet, bikes, 
 skateboard.
  
  As for the map it's the same as the PS2 version and for the Wii this is fantastic and the game 
 looks great on the system better graphics i recommend people to get the Wii version over the 360 
 version due to many faults. The Wii version plays good and not once had a problem with the game 
 yet.
  
  Now let me talk about the new classes in the game Biology will see you cutting into a frog, fish 
 and others. Music will see you making music of course. Math will see you adding, taking away, multiplying, 
 objects on what is faster, slower. Geography which i hate you have to get the flags and put them 
 in the right place if you mess up it will take 5 seconds off your time limit.
  
  The Wii control system does work very well with this game and does a fantastic job when it comes 
 to doing boxing because it works more better then Wii Sports boxing and it's more enjoyable. It 
 is great that the Wii control system has been worked on so well i have not noticed anything bad 
 about it even with the classes it does great and makes mini games much easier then the PS2 version.
 
  
  Bully is an easy game i finished the PS2 version in a few days but this game does keep you hooked 
 to it and you will even come back to play it again because it is just that fun.
  
  Bully is just like Grand Theft Auto just without the guns and puts you in a kids position which 
 is really fun to see. If you only own the Wii this is the closest game of Grand Theft Auto you 
 will come across. Rockstar games is one of the best games company's there is which proves it with 
 this game this is a pure classic gem. The Wii version is the best you will find of this game. I 
 am not going to go to in depth of the story as i don't want to spoil it for the people who have 
 not play the game but check it out and enjoy it.
  
  Bully i have to say 10/10 it's a classic and one of the only games that can keep me playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jprime22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Bully: Scholarship Edition is by far one of the best games out there for the Wii right now. It's 
 basically a port from the original bully game for the PS2, with some added features. Some of the 
 new features are: new characters, 8 new missions, and over 50 new clothing items. This game may 
 pretty much be just a port but holds up well with the Wii controls. About 95% of the controls are 
 fun and easy but some make tasks a little harder to achieve. One of the best upgrades for this 
 version is the graphics. Of course the graphics for Bully aren't as good as 360 they are still 
 very well done and their is a noticeable difference. The story of the game is also very well put 
 together and well done, giving players at least 20 hours of game play through the story mode, and 
 that not even including the extras and hidden objects to find and unlock. Another one of the big 
 features to this game is multiplayer mode, which requires people to do mini game tasks that are 
 asked when you attend classes in the game. Some of the mini games include: biology, match, art, 
 and my personal favourite: music, which requires the player to flick the Wiimote and nun chuck 
 to arrows that appear on the screen. Overall this game is very fun and addicting to play. With 
 all the new content and new control scheme, this game holds up better then the original game. This 
 game is a must have for the Wii. So i'm giving Bully: Scholarship Edition a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shappy1010
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Whatever commercial success the GTA series seem to be enjoying, Rockstar's finest achievement may 
 be a little game called Bully. Smaller, slower and less action packed then it's crazy car hijacking 
 cousin, sometimes less means better, and that's exactly what Bully accomplishes. 
  
  Although the characters in the game are oozing with clichs, they grow on you in more ways then 
 any recent games (save for example The Witcher) can accomplish. Gamedevelopers seem to be able 
 to create large worlds, frantic action and dazzling action, but story and character driven games, 
 which we saw more of during the 90's are sparse and far apart.
  
  Bully sets itself apart by being a game where you truly feel like you are back in high school. 
 The enormous amount of mini games (which so often only tend to annoy in other games) don't feel 
 forced and only add to the density of the game world. Throw in the immersive wii controls, an excellent 
 soundtrack and some memorable voice acting, this is a game which moves gaming forward in ways few 
 games have been able to accomplish recently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar seem to like controversy, they appear to feed off it, I guess its all free publicity. 
 Their latest controvesial outing is Bully Scolarship Edition for Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii. Bully 
 originally caused a stir in 2005 when it was revealed for PS2 to the horror and outcry to parents 
 and teachers everywhere. The problem is, that it really isn't as bad as they would like to make 
 you think. I picked up the Nintedo Wii version after having the PS2 version previously and enjoyed 
 it alot, this version has a few extras in like multiplayer modes and new content and new lessons. 
 Anyway onto the main review.
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  The graphics are pretty much as seen in the PS2 version but it does feel like the framerate and 
 draw distance has been slightly improved as well as quicker load times. Whilst it doesn't seem 
 like great graphics the size of the world will take you back. There is a huge world to reap havok 
 in. The world is not only expansive, but also varied nicely textured, I feel like they could really 
 be slightly better but would only really want an increase in graphics as long as the framerate 
 doesn't suffer, or load times are not increased. Although it is not necessarily 'next-gen' but 
 it looks rather nice and the sheer size of the world is more than enough to make up for it.
  
  STORY 9/10
  The story is the whole Rockstar, start off without power, kick some booty, gains 
 lots of power. This is a tried and true story but is pulled off in a nice new way in a different 
 setting to whats normally seen. It's full of humour and is a deep and engaging story, the only 
 issue that may arise is that we've seen this story before in other games but it's been done very 
 well so all is forgiven.
  
  LONGEVITY 10/10
  There is just so much to do in this game, there is a huge storyline, lessons and side-missions 
 and tons of unlockables and clothing. This game will keep you going for ages so there is so much 
 value for money, in order to get and do just about everything in the game will take you months. 
 I should also point out that this game is actually really fun not only when you are doind missions, 
 but also when just doing pretty much nothing. The game gives you freedom to do lots and lots of 
 stuff, usually involving wailing on school pupils or prefects or stuffing people in bins or putting 
 them in lockers, so you can run around doing missions or you can just basically waste time within 
 the game world. This will pretty much keep you playing forever and youll still want to come back 
 to just kick it in the game world.
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10
  The controls are generally pretty good for this game, they've taken to the Wii fairly well. Some 
 of the lessons, such as chemistry are done relly well as it gets you doing a variety of gestures 
 using the Wii remote. However, there are a few issues when getting into fights, its not too bad 
 but sometimes you pretty much have to resort to waving the Wii remote and nunchuck combination 
 frantically. There is also a lot of different minigames which encorporate different control schemes 
 and playing syles so theres a lot of variation in what your doing.
  
  FUN 10/10
  A game based in a school seems like it could really be a fairly dull game, but this is such fun. 
 There is just so much to do but you don't really have to do anything at all in order to have fun 
 in this game. You can have endless fun running around dishing out wedgies and throwing firecrackers 
 around indiscriminately. Everyhthing in this game is really fun so nothing seems like a chore, 
 even the lessons are really well done, which is one part that had the biggest chance of being pretty 
 dull. What I'm trying to say is that I challenge you to find any part of this game which is not 
 fun.
  
  OVERALL 9/10
  This is an awesome game which I would recommend to anyone, I would also tell all those naysayers 
 who want it banned to play this and not enjoy themselves. Also, note for all Wii owners, this the 
 closest thing to Grand Theft Auto you're ever going to get. Basically, rockstar, you've done it 
 again. Hats off to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrism262
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Graphics are not too bad for the Wii in my opinion, given that the graphics suck for all games. 
 But in a relative sense these are pretty good.
  
  The use of the Wiimote and nunchuk works quite well, and makes use of the "waggle" abilities. For 
 example, you want to throw a left jab? Punch forward with the nunchuk (assuming you're a right-hander 
 here) . Another good example is the dissection minigame, when you point with the wiimote to perform 
 scalpel cuts, etc.
  
  To me the sound is hollow. It's like they recorded in a big empty room. I have a high end audio 
 setup, so for people just playing with TV speakers they may never notice this. For me it's an annoyance. 
 Some of the speech as you walk around gets repetitive too, but not too bad. The music is fairly 
 subtle but adds to the game for sure. You'll notice it only at times, and it will be a positive 
 when you do.
  
  The gameplay definitely has similarities to Grand Theft Auto. They track every single thing you 
 do and keep stats on everything which is fun to check up on. There are many side games that you 
 can do for the heck of it, such as delivering newspapers on a bike. The school and town areas nearby 
 get unlocked as you progress through the game but it is all free roaming once open.
  
  The biggest negative so far has been the load times. Sometimes it takes an enormously long time 
 to load while you sit there wondering if there is something wrong. (EDIT: I notice it less now. 
 I'm not sure if the Wii caches anything or my tolerance has changed? I could swear after the first 
 run the game is now much quicker though.) The camera angle also presents some problems at times, 
 particularly when in hallways or other tight areas. You can rotate the camera angle around yourself 
 manually, but it feels like I have to do that far more often than I should need to. I think they 
 could have done a bit better on this.
  
  Overall, the game has been fun for me so far. I'd definitely recommend it as a solid single player 
 game. It apparently has a multiplayer mode but I haven't checked that out yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenarkallaptar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Bully is the story of 15 year old Jimmy Hopkins who gets abandoned Bullworth academy by his newlywed 
 mother and stepfather. He is befriended by a young trouble maker at the school named Gary and soon 
 discovers that Bullworth academy is run by bullys divided up into four groups (Nerds, Preps, Greasers, 
 and Jocks) . He must then defeat these groups by helping some out, or completely humiliating them.
 
  
  Gameplay - Jimmy has free rein of the school day and night, and can do whatever he feels like. 
 The only problem with this is, that there are prefects who walk the grounds looking for troublemakers 
 such as yourself. You are also given the option of going to class two times a day. At first you 
 might want to enjoy playing hooky and skipping as many classes as you can, but these classes actually 
 benefit you by giving you clothing or skills (such as firecrackers, stink bombs, fighting moves, 
 shirts, hats, you name it) . These benefits make you excited for class, and you will be trying hard 
 to get there on time, and to do your best in class. You spend your days going to class, beating 
 up on kids if thats what floats your boat, and doing things for the other students to earn their 
 respect (Like protecting young Algie the nerd as he goes to the library) . These quests vary immensely 
 and you will enjoy seeing what comes next. As you progress through the game, you will unlock more 
 and more of the town that surrounds the academy. Doing so will grant you more things to do, and 
 you can travel around on a bicycle. Even if your bored of the storyline, there is something to 
 do that will entertain you.
  
  Graphics - Bully looks okay. It won't win any awards, but it's not an eye sore. The students and 
 teachers faces done in a cartoonist style, but the fact that there are over one hundred different 
 models makes this fine. The fact that the city is a decent size, and there is so much content packed 
 into this game makes you forget that this game isn't the best looking game out there.
  
  Controls- When I first heard Bully was coming out on the Wii, the first thing I said was. "I hope 
 the controls are good." They met and exceeded my expectations. You move Jimmy with the nunchuck 
 and interact with people by holding c and pressing a button on the wiimote. At first this was completely 
 foreign to me, but after time I grew to like the controls. To fight you simply swing the wiimote 
 to punch with your left hand, or swing the nunchuck to punch with your right. Different moves are 
 performed by holding down a button and swinging. These controls are very responsive, and you don't 
 need to thrash to make Jimmy respond. You will also perform humiliation moves on students by moving 
 the wiimote, or nunchuck. These ranger from giving a wedgie (raising both controllers) rug burn 
 (twisting remote) and several more.
  
  Sound - Bullworth Academy comes alive with sound. Students talk, nerds whimper as bullys beat them, 
 and girls will flirt with you. Every moment you walk around the academy will be filled with these 
 sounds, and they are done well. Voice acting is also superb. Teachers, students, even hobos come 
 alive, and you can see them as real people who have real things to say.
  
  Multiplayer - Multiplayer in Bully unfortionatly is not coop, but instead a collection of the fun 
 minigame you played in class and around town. Nothing much here, but friends will have fun seeing 
 who can dissect a frog the fastest. On second thought people are willing to pay full price for 
 a minigame collection on the wii, and this is a add on for free. Can't be that can you?
  
  Replay - Replay value in the game seems to be amazing. You will find yourself coming back for a 
 little taste of Bullworth even after you beat it. After you beat the game endless summer starts, 
 and you will have free rein of the town without classes to attend.
  
  Bully: Scholarship Edition has a lot to offer for wii players. There aren't that many added things 
 in this edition of bully, but the chance for a Nintendo fan to be able to play what they may have 
 missed before is something that should not be passed up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
