-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bust-A-Move Bash!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/bustamoverevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Supports up to eight players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Eight-player multiplayer is chaotic nonsense.
 motion controls are either too sensitive or not sensitive enough.
 Gameplay modes are predictable and few.
 Presentation lacks any real personality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 5.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Happy Happening
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Apr 17, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Controls that fluctuate between touchy and unresponsive, very few game modes, and lousy multiplayer 
 all conspire to bring down Bust-A-Move Bash! 

  Bust-A-Move Bash! marks the debut of Taito's bubble-bobbling puzzle franchise on the Nintendo Wii, 
 and if you were hoping for some clever motion controls that will revitalize the exhausted Bust-A-Move 
 gameplay formula, prepare to have your bubble burst. The controls turn out to be one of the biggest 
 liabilities against Bust-A-Move Bash!, though the meager feature set and skill-less multiplayer 
 certainly don't help make the package any more enticing.  

          Crummy, gimmicky controls define the tone in Bust-A-Move Bash!.     

  Bust-A-Move Bash! 
 is lean on surprises, and what tricks it does try to pull are either fumbled or pointless. The 
 basic gameplay here is the same familiar Bust-A-Move business, where you shoot colored bubbles 
 from the bottom of the screen at colored bubbles creeping down from the top of the screen, matching 
 up like-colored bubbles in sets of three or more to pop them. Though there are power-up bubbles 
 and the occasional UFO flying across the screen, this is the blandest that the Bust-A-Move gameplay 
 has been in years.  

  Unsurprisingly, the game's big twist is the way it uses the Wii Remote to control the game, and 
 though there are several different configuration options, none of them are ideal. Using the gun 
 controls, you point the Wii Remote at the screen, angling it left and right to aim your launch 
 arrow at the bottom of the screen. If you point the remote directly at the screen, the controls 
 are far too sensitive, and the slightest tremble in your hand will throw your aim way off. Tilting 
 the remote up and down just the slightest bit has a severe effect on the sensitivity, and though 
 it's possible to wrangle out some decent control, it feels like you're constantly struggling against 
 the game. Alternately, you can use the baton control scheme, which has you holding the Wii Remote 
 straight up and down, but it's no better, trading in twitchiness for a general sluggish inaccuracy. 
 There's also an "easy gun" control method, which gives you a targeting reticle to aim with, and 
 though it takes all the challenge out of the game, it might be the most useable motion-control 
 scheme in here.  

          It's a shame that you can only use the Classic Controller in the versus mode.     

 
  The single-player game consists of a predictable puzzle mode and an equally predictable endless 
 mode. There's also a shooting mode that has only the bubble theme in common with actual Bust-A-Move, 
 where you shoot bubbles as they pass across the screen, using the D pad to cycle the color of your 
 targeting reticle to match the color of the bubbles currently on the screen. It's simple, and it 
 goes nowhere. For multiplayer action, the versus mode supports up to eight players, but even with 
 just two, the action is so chaotic that it's impossible to keep track of. And since the playfield, 
 which is shared by all the players, is so littered with insane power-up bubbles, it's pretty pointless -- just 
 shoot anywhere, and you're bound to trigger  something . The only clever thing about the versus 
 mode, and perhaps Bust-A-Move Bash! on the whole, is the way you can have eight players on four 
 sets of controllers by having one player use the Wii Remote while the other uses the Nunchuk or 
 the Classic Controller. The Nunchuk doesn't work so great, but the Classic Controller is unsurprisingly 
 the best way to play the game, which makes the inability to use it anywhere besides the versus 
 mode supremely frustrating.  

  Bust-A-Move Bash! feels thoughtlessly put together. Even the presentation, which sports a blandly 
 friendly visual style and monotonously cheery background music, consists of just a few backgrounds 
 and looping tunes. With little in the way of actual content, the game tries to prop itself up with 
 its flimsy, gimmicky controls, but the whole thing buckles under its own weight.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hyper_Sonic_987
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The math I referred to in the deck was what I had to do to get un-grounded (which was ALOT) in 
 order to get this game when it came out. I finished with it that day (which is surprising if you 
 knew how much it was) ... ANY ways...
  
  Storyline: N/A
  No storyline here. It's a puzzle game. Whaddaya expect?
  
  Game play: 7/10
  It's not EXACTLY 
 what you'd expect in a BAM game, but kinda close. The motion controls won't mess up on you, which 
 is pretty impressive, seeing as it came out soon after the Wii did.
  
  Multi-player/Play-back: 7/10
  The multi-player is chaotic. If you want a party game when everyone 
 is tired and doesn't care, this game is perfect. The total playback is very low, unless you play 
 the multi-player.
  
  Secrets/Unlockables: 5/10
  Secrets: N/A
  Unlockables: You can unlock 2 extra characters (an awesome black dragon and an idiotic-looking 
 wizard) and a couple videos. That's it.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Not a big jump from other BAM games. Not bad, just not as good as the system allows.
  
  Sound: 
 7/10
  Some of the tunes are very catchy; the others get lame after the first level. All of them get old 
 by the time you beat the first 250 levels. I don't have to tell you what the last 250 are like.
 
  
  Cons:
  Stupid characters, frustrating mini games and repetitious game play are large factors.
  
  Total: 
 5.5/10
  
  My advice: Leave it on the shelf unless you're a fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold_prevalence
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for something new out of the series, the only thing you'll find is the multiplayer 
 capability. Although I don't think many people will play seven other players at one time. But, 
 if you're looking for a simple puzzle game for kids and adults alike, this one may end up in your 
 collection. 
  
  The controls have a tendency to be a tad too sensitive at first, causing your shots to miss. But, 
 with some practice and patience, you'll adjust. There are a few other features the original didn't 
 have, power-ups, these can sometimes save your defeat if you're able to shoot at them. They do 
 various things, eliminate a color, laser sighting, etc.
  
  There are a few different modes to play as well, however the gameplay is still the same, and therefore 
 nothing different.
  
  All & all, this game is not worth more than $20 in my opinion. I'd check the discount area from 
 time to time to see if this drops to a low two digit or even smaller price. A good game for children 
 and families to play, but serious gamers have way better choices out there to put their money towards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 4, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Bust a Move addict since the original. I loved its original gameplay and fun characters. 
 Well, it seems all has been lost here in Bust A Move bash. It was 20 bucks why not check it out 
 right? Well I now know why not to check it out. 
  
  This is a small complaint but I used to love Bust A Moves whacky and unique characters, they scrapped 
 their fun loving characters to bring it in the 21st century. Not the 21st century in Americas standards 
 (blood, sex, violence) but Japan 21st century (cutsey wootsie anime characters) . I'd accept if 
 they had one or two little anime cuties but all of these characters are bubbly eye little kids 
 or childish animals. Seriously they have a Wolf with a friggen backwards hat. Not cool.
  
  The gameplay remains unchanged for worse and not better. The little additions they tacked on don't 
 work. For example a 30 second shooting gallery with the same exact bubbles no matter what level 
 you pick. It's not cool. Also the controls actually WORKED on previous installments now they are 
 either too sensitive or not sensitive enough. You think you have your bubble in a perfect spot 
 but with one slight movement of the hand you may have just screwed yourself over.
  
  It's not all bad. The puzzles are still fun and unique the only issue is that it's a pain to play 
 them! Bust A Move bash is a serious dissapointment from a fan of the series. Now, I'm pretty scared 
 to see how they can ruin it any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The idea of BustAMove with improved graphics, new characters and on the Wii were exciting... at 
 first. 
  
  BustAMove's strength has never been the characters. BustAMove is a simple puzzle game that is a 
 lot of fun when done right. Unfortunately it's not really done that well this time around. I would 
 of just rather they make Super Bust A Move (PS2) with better graphics and maybe 2-3 more characters. 
 At least that game was fun. 
  
  This game doesn't have any really fun multiplayer modes (it has one chaotic multiplayer mode with 
 up to 8 people just shooting crazily at the sky with no need for a strategy) . you can do just as 
 well just randomly shooting everywhere as you can with an actual strategy; especially the way the 
 balls slide around after you shoot them as if they're almost LOOKING for same color balls. 
  
  Bottom line the graphics got a bit better but the essence of the game and the heart of the 
 game (which was it's multiplayer) has been lost. 
  
  And while i understand this is the Wii... motion controls should be optional not forced on you. 
 In order to use a regular controller you have to use a Wiimote... connect the traditional controller 
 to that and then sign up as two players and ignore the Wiimote player. The games controls thus 
 end up either being WAY too sensitive or at times feel like they're not responding at all. And 
 you have to figure out just the right way to hold the controller THEN figure out how to turn it 
 to get it right making sure that any possible threat of enjoying this game is killed. 
  
  Bust a Move was a cool and fun game for me on the PS2 but this was a huge disappointment that doesn't 
 do the game any genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nobarai
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  .... The only fine point of this game is that there is a lot of puzzles, and the 8+ charaters are 
 anime styled.... That's it, really.
  
  Music is boring and repetitive, sound effects are annoying, and graphics are plain and bland.
 
  
  But please, this game may have the most awful, poor progammed control system ever. You use your 
 Wiimote, and you have to tilt it to point at the bubbles you want to shoot at, and it doesn't work 
 half the time. Sure you can use the nunchuk, or classic controller, but 1st player is always stick 
 using the wiimote.
  
  But Multiplayer mode is where it's worst. Literally, I fired just plan up rapidly, and I beat the 
 CPU opponents everytime.
  
  Don't buy this game ever! I don't care, if it's collecting dust at the bottom of a bargain bin 
 with a $5 price tag on it, DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I rented the game, expecting I would love it and eventually buy it as I've enjoyed every version... and 
 being that Wii is THE multiplayer console, i would buy this version. This verision. although the 
 controls work pretty well.... it's overall horrible. The multiplayer, although sounds fun when you 
 hear or read chaos ... it's actually very boring. The single player does have tons of puzzles, but 
 everything else is pointless and unfun. And yes the visuals are generally not important, especially 
 with puzzle games... but the colour looks so drained and faint, pretty crap.
  I was severly disappointed in this title.... expected much more from it. The controls do work pretty 
 well, but everything else has just bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bass_monkey_86
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Just as expected from any bust a move game you have to solve puzzles, but this time you add in 
 a splash of the innovation that is only possible from the fluid motion on a wii remote. If you're 
 a fan of the bust-a-move series then you will love this game just don't expect too much variation 
 because there isn't much. My favorite aspect of the game is the shooting mode, at first I was wondering 
 WTF! but after about 2 tries I realized it was my favorite mode. Also with the added fun of 8 players, 
 you'll be knee deep in bubble busting pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ercarta
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Bust-a-Move Bash is a solid puzzle game for the Wii. This game was clearly not designed for the 
 hard core gamer. Bash is for the rest of us who simply have a hand and want to play. This is the 
 best looking Bust-a-Move yet and the game play is seamless. The Wii-mote point and shoot style 
 is what I expected and is not quirky at all once you understand how it works. The game breaks up 
 into four sections... Puzzle, Versus, Endless, &amp; Shooting. While I don't care for Versus or 
 Shooting, I will say Puzzle &amp; Endless make up for the $39.99 price tag. There are over 500 
 puzzles in this game and Endless has you play until you lose. The game has a high replay value 
 because of its simple fun, beautiful vivid colors, and overall ease of play. You can pick this 
 up anytime, bang out as many puzzles as you heart desires or take it as far as you can in Endless, 
 then turn it off and get back to your book, cooking, gardening, or whatever is one does these days. 
 That's not to say that you couldn't go on for an hour or more as Bust-a-Move does have a rep. for 
 being really addictive. This is a game that will not challenge you mentally at all so you'll never 
 get stuck . Bust-a-Move Bash delivers simple good old fashion 2-D fun with updated interface and 
 graphics. While Bust-a-Move Bash is not revolutionary the Wii-mote is and Bash was designed to 
 fit our Wii-motes like a glove. This game is exactly what the Big N had in mind when they designed 
 this next gen console. Simplicity + Ease + Color Rich Settings = An addictive &amp; really fun 
 puzzler, no question. Thank you Majesco. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isom3tric
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Bust-a-Move BASH! is essential all the things you'd come to expect from the franchise but thats 
 about it. The new multi-player game that features 8 players is the only noticeable difference but 
 its hardly worth mentioning. You can literally just shoot like a mad man with no aim or strategy 
 and still come out in 1st place. Up to eight players can go at it using 4 Wiimotes with 4 Nunchuks 
 attached. Wiimote works better than the Nunchuck when aiming but its not like it matters since 
 its too frantic to notice. Bust-a-Move BASH is entertaining for a bit, but it gets old fast, however, 
 the single player mode is not bad. The graphics are pretty much the same as always but the backgrounds 
 are colorful and vibrant. I would recommend renting this one first unless you're a big Bust-a-Move 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjdavids
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game and as far as bust a move goes its right on target. It 
 controls fine nothing revolutionary but good still. The shooting game is not as cool as one might 
 think. The multiplayer for me was the main attraction and is very disappointing to me it got a 
 new type which is ok but for some reason they took out the old multi player instead of just adding 
 a new one to it. Strange and stupid idea in my opinion. OH and by the way more people need to review 
 game on here we cant rely one them to half the time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
