-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/callofduty3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Once you learn them, the basic controls work well.
 Campaign is intense and makes you feel like you're a small part of a huge war.
 Awesome sound and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Insufficient training mode means there's a steep learning curve for the controls.
 No multiplayer.
 Some aspects of the controls don't work very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.9, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 2,082 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Exakt
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Call of Duty 3 for the Wii manages to overcome its lack of multiplayer and a sometimes-unwieldy 
 control scheme with an exciting and enjoyable single-player campaign. 

  World War II may have ended in 1945, but that hasn't stopped the Axis and Allies from waging war 
 against one another on the video game front. And now there's a new battleground: the Wii. Call 
 of Duty 3 for the Wii has the same great single-player campaign found in other versions of the 
 game, though it's missing multiplayer options, and not all aspects of the new control scheme work 
 well. But the overall intensity and playability of Call of Duty 3 remain intact, making for an 
 exciting first-person shooter experience despite these issues.  

          There's practically never a dull moment in Call of Duty 3.     

  Call of Duty 3 takes 
 place in 1944 during the Normandy Breakout. After landing successfully on the beaches of France, 
 the Allies focused on getting the Germans out of France and liberating Paris, which was under Nazi 
 control at the time. As was the case in the last game, you're placed in the role of several different 
 soldiers, and you'll participate in campaigns for America, Britain, Canada, and Poland. Each country's 
 campaign has a unique storyline that is supposed to get you emotionally involved with the characters, 
 but the stories aren't very interesting; there's a soldier with a strong distaste for the French, 
 an overbearing sergeant, and a young radio operator who has been labeled a coward. Though the stories 
 aren't particularly engaging, fighting for four different armies works because it gives you a sense 
 of how much effort it took to wrest control of France from the Germans and that it wasn't just 
 the United States that lost men and women in World War II.  

  The game opens with a brief training mission. Here, you'll learn how to fire weapons and throw 
 grenades, as well as how to move around. The training mission is sufficient in other versions of 
 the game where you just have to learn how the buttons are mapped on a standard controller, but 
 here you're learning a whole new control scheme, and the training doesn't get the job done. You'll 
 have to learn on the fly, which initially means a lot of frustrating deaths as you fumble with 
 the controls. Movement is controlled by the analog stick on the Wii's Nunchuk. You look around 
 and aim by pointing the Wii Remote at the screen and moving it. Moving your reticle around the 
 inside portion of the screen affects your aim, while moving it near the edges makes you look up 
 and down or turn left and right. You can fire your weapon by pressing the B button, but this doesn't 
 allow for much accuracy. For precision aiming, you'll want to press and hold A, which raises your 
 gun to eye level and lets you use the weapon's sight. The basic mechanics work quite well and are 
 the easiest aspect of the controls to learn, though it will be quite a while before you're a crack 
 shot.  

  There are a couple of alternate control schemes, but each one is limited in some way by the physical 
 position of the buttons on the Wii Remote -- specifically, any move mapped to the D pad. Any time 
 you need to hit the D pad you've got to adjust your grip slightly, and this causes the remote to 
 move, which in turn alters where you're looking or aiming. This makes it extremely difficult to 
 throw smoke or frag grenades with any accuracy. An alternate control scheme lets you toss grenades 
 by making a throwing motion with the Nunchuk. This feels neat when it works, but you still have 
 to press the D pad to select the grenade, and sometimes the game doesn't recognize your throwing 
 motion. You can perform a melee attack by pressing down on the remote or by moving the remote forward. 
 Once again, this almost always screws up your onscreen view.  

          Close-quarters combat is an uninteresting but new addition to the series.     

  There 
 are other surprises in store. Rather than hitting a button to plant a bomb and then running away, 
 you'll put in the fuse by moving the remote, rotate the Nunchuk a few times to twist the fuse, 
 and then pull back on the remote to arm the bomb. There's also a close-quarters battle mechanic 
 that takes place when you're surprised by an enemy. Some of the scenes look pretty cool, but the 
 mechanics are boring, and there are less than 10 of these situations in the entire game, so they're 
 rather worthless. These scripted events have you rapidly moving the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk 
 forward and back to fight off your attacker and then make a sweeping motion to finish him off. 
 The game tells you to turn the controls sideways here, but that doesn't seem to work -- keeping them 
 perfectly straight works best.  

  Not all of the game's action takes place with you on foot. There are a few missions that place 
 you in the driver's seat of a jeep, and it's your job to follow the checkpoints and avoid enemy 
 fire while escaping from an area or rescuing hostages. You'll need to hold the remote and Nunchuk 
 in the 9 and 3 o'clock position to steer. Like many other aspects of the controls, this takes getting 
 used to, and even when you get the hang of it, it doesn't add a whole lot to the game.  

  The game starts with a bang. After your training is complete, you hop in the back of a truck and 
 ride into battle. When you get out of the truck, or rather are blown out of the truck by an explosion, 
 you're boosted over the cemetery wall. Here, you'll find yourself in the midst of one of the more 
 impressive firefights in any first-person shooter. Everywhere you look, there's carnage. Bullets 
 and grenades whiz through the air while bombs explode all around, leaving soldiers to scramble 
 for whatever cover they can find -- be it a bombed-out mausoleum or a gravestone. The bodies of your 
 fallen comrades are strewn about the battlefield -- a stark reminder that unless you want to join 
 them, you need to keep moving. A later level sees you making your way across a pasture using a 
 tank (and even the carcasses of dead cows) as cover to shield yourself from the Nazi soldiers who 
 surround the field. Most of the rest of the game's 14 missions aren't quite as intense as these 
 two examples, but there's rarely a dull moment to be found.  

          If stuff's not blowing up, you're doing something wrong.     

  Call of Duty 3 isn't 
 a run-and-gun FPS, but it's not as slow-paced as a tactical shooter, either. You'll fight alongside 
 CPU-controlled soldiers, and you'll generally need to stay behind cover, pick off as many soldiers 
 as you can, and then advance to the next safe location. Because there's no health bar in the game, 
 you'll need to watch the screen when you're getting hit. As you get shot, the edges of the screen 
 turn crimson and close in around you the more you get hit. Should you fall victim to a grenade 
 or a bullet and not die, all you have to do is seek shelter to recover your health. Because the 
 game's artificial intelligence initially appears "smarter" than in a typical FPS, it can be frustrating 
 to be unable to clear a particular section because of cheap tricks like how new enemies will spawn 
 to replace fallen soldiers in outdoor levels (they don't do this indoors) . But once you come to 
 grips with the fact that you can't kill them all, it shouldn't bother you much. You still need 
 to be careful not to shoot fellow soldiers, but the game is forgiving -- you're not forced to restart 
 when you fire that first bullet into your comrade's chest.  

  Call of Duty 3 isn't a terribly difficult game on the default setting, nor is it particularly lengthy, 
 clocking in at 8 to 10 hours from start to finish. On the default difficulty, enemy soldiers aren't 
 very aggressive -- even less so here than on the other consoles, probably to help compensate for 
 the sometimes unwieldy controls. They'll also follow the same patterns over and over, so it's easy 
 to sit back and wait for them to show themselves. Series veterans looking for more of a challenge 
 will want to bump up the difficulty to hard or veteran, because doing so results in a vastly different 
 and more intense experience. Enemies are much more aggressive, they're better shots, and your health 
 disappears more quickly.     

  Call of Duty 3's mission objectives are varied but don't stray far from what you'd expect from 
 the type of first-person shooter that takes place in World War II. Sometimes you'll simply need 
 to get from point A to point B, while other times you'll need to defend an area from attack, rescue 
 hostages, or plant explosives. You'll also have to use your binoculars to mark targets for air 
 strikes, man stationary guns, and even ride in the back of a jeep and pick off bad guys with the 
 jeep's machine gun. A couple of other scenarios have you behind the controls of a tank, and you'll 
 need to eliminate enemy tanks and armored vehicles. Rather than there being a single path to success, 
 there are occasionally multiple ways to approach missions. Sometimes the game presents you with 
 clear-cut options, while other times you'll have to find them on your own. Each objective is shown 
 as a star on your radar, making them easy to find even in the heat of battle. One of the game's 
 biggest strengths on other systems is its great multiplayer play. Since the Wii version doesn't 
 even have split-screen multiplayer, much less online play, its omission is the game's single biggest 
 weakness.  

          The cutscenes look nice, but they can't be skipped, even if you've already watched them. 
     

  It's worth noting that we encountered a handful of bugs in the single-player campaign. None of 
 these prevented the game from being completed, but they did force us to restart levels from previously 
 saved checkpoints. In several instances our soldier got stuck in the floor, and we got temporarily 
 stuck a few times because one computer-controlled soldier had stopped in front of us while another 
 had stopped right behind us. The most annoying glitch is that the CPU can see through, walk through, 
 and shoot through walls and doors, which leads to many frustrating deaths. Sometimes there are 
 glitches that work to your benefit, like when your squadmates shoot at people one floor above you 
 through the ceiling, even though they can't see them. Once in a while they'll actually kill someone 
 this way, and if nothing else, their fire warns you that there are bad guys waiting up ahead.  
 

  Call of Duty 3's visuals are mostly good, though you'll have a hard time appreciating them if you've 
 seen the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3 versions. Whether it's a farm in the French countryside or a 
 war-torn village, each level is nicely detailed and looks good. The outdoor environments are impressive, 
 and though you'll run into an invisible wall should you stray too far, smart level design makes 
 them feel larger than they really are. There are plenty of lush bushes, thick grass, and large 
 trees to use as cover, too, and there are lots of great effects to enjoy. Throwing a smoke grenade 
 results in a thick cloud of smoke so dense and so realistic that you'll sometimes find yourself 
 squinting in an effort to see better, and explosions from grenades, rockets, and bombs are similarly 
 impressive.  

  There are a couple of visual issues that mar the otherwise good graphics. The levels are full of 
 blurry textures, and they're not helped by the game's bland color palette. Everything's brown and 
 gray. This is particularly a problem when you're trying to discern an enemy soldier from a tree 
 or some other fuzzy object from afar. The frame rate, while not bad, struggles to keep up at times. 
 Another area that's lacking is the animation. Both your squadmates and your enemies jump from one 
 action to the next and often warp from one place to another. Soldiers both alive and dead will 
 occasionally get stuck in walls and even float in midair. It's also possible to see the sparks 
 from weapons fire through solid walls.  

          There are plenty of different guns for every occasion.     

  Call of Duty 3 sounds 
 great, even if you're listening to it through your TV's built-in speakers. But if you've got your 
 Wii hooked up to a surround-sound setup, the game sounds phenomenal in Pro-Logic II. You'll hear 
 bullets coming from all directions, and explosions will rattle your (and your neighbor's) walls. 
 The chatter from your fellow soldiers and your enemies not only adds to the atmosphere, but also 
 provides helpful clues as to what you need to do next. Your squadmates will direct you to the next 
 checkpoint or cover, and listening to Nazi soldiers will let you know their tactics as well as 
 whether your presence has been detected. Joel Goldsmith ( Star Trek: First Contact ,  Stargate 
 SG-1 ) has written a gorgeous orchestral soundtrack that elevates the presentation to another level. 
 Performed by the Slovak Symphony Orchestra, the majestic score is on par with that of any major 
 motion picture. It's a shame there's no option to just listen to the music from the game -- it's 
 that good.  

  Call of Duty 3's action is fast-paced, and the sound effects and music are some of the best in 
 any game this year. However, a complete lack of multiplayer really hurts the game's value when 
 compared to other versions or to other first-person shooters in general. The basic controls are 
 good, but the Wii just isn't designed for games that require so many different inputs. It's hard 
 to shake the feeling that the game would have played better had it been designed for the Wii from 
 the ground up, but for those who consider themselves fans of the series and who don't mind learning 
 a vastly different control scheme, Call of Duty 3 is worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (191 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: coolduderyan
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  quite good no multiplayyer lets it down cut scenes are good and there could be better and more 
 guns. its interesting though could be a good game if you like story erm i need to submit this noww....... ill 
 just filll it up df d df dfs sf ds fds dsf ds f ds ff sg f hdf g gds fd sgds f dsv f ds fv dsf 
 sd sd s gfvsd g f gfvfs gtr hg dd s dfesr ds vf g df f gh dfg h d gb dhgf gd hdf hdb fd g d fg 
 hg fb mg cs vc vdnf v df vfjd vdfv df v dfv dfghdf bugdrhdfwpofncv inv fj ffdvn df v ds v s v s 
 dnv fnv snvs cvndv dv dsvndsvs vnsdcv s mnvsdnvdjhfsdfsd cshf uycdbs d ,mn, mnbdvsbhsndezx dijwadsnxgdbfgs 
 szdsbhfnh v dsnbdsdfmsj fdhjnmfs dsnhfs dnfnbsd hfds df sdfsd fdfdsfd dfsdfsfds fsdutgfdvfug tsvgyfdsv 
 f g dsfv cdgscf dsfdscf d sfd i was even awesome when i was a baby can i havea schoodupob and thats 
 were it ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akinburak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  There are no differences between Call of Duty 3 and the other Call of Duty series. (excluding the 
 last two 4 and 5) Actually, the series are very fluent and they are taking you into the game. 
 
  The controls were very difficult at first sight. But I got on with it. After that, it becomes 
 a delicious table to sit.
  Try it!
  
  There are no differences between Call of Duty 3 and the other Call of Duty series. (excluding the 
 last two 4 and 5) Actually, the series are very fluent and they are taking you into the game. 
 
  The controls were very difficult at first sight. But I got on with it. After that, it becomes 
 a delicious table to sit.
  Try it!
  
  There are no differences between Call of Duty 3 and the other Call of Duty series. (excluding the 
 last two 4 and 5) Actually, the series are very fluent and they are taking you into the game. 
 
  The controls were very difficult at first sight. But I got on with it. After that, it becomes 
 a delicious table to sit.
  Try it!
  
  There are no differences between Call of Duty 3 and the other Call of Duty series. (excluding the 
 last two 4 and 5) Actually, the series are very fluent and they are taking you into the game. 
 
  The controls were very difficult at first sight. But I got on with it. After that, it becomes 
 a delicious table to sit.
  Try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful cutscenes; absolutely amazing voice acting; very realistic sound effects; driving 
 controls are very real; the campaign is pretty long; aiming the gun works almost as well as you'd 
 hope; the ending is awesome.
  
  The Bad: The graphics are blocky in-game and the Wii can do much, much more; gun struggles have 
 poor remote detection; turning around is stilted; no multiplayer, local or wireless.
  
  Call of Duty, mainly on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC, has made some absolutely spectacular games. Despite 
 the annoying, endless flow of WWII games out there, when done right Call of Duty is still tons 
 of fun.
  
  This edition that was released simultaneously with the Wii itself isn't utterly poor, but it's 
 not the quality one has come to expect from the Call of Duty franchise.
  
  The game opens up with one of its cutscenes, which are spectacular. They look very real, and the 
 voice acting is better than you could possibly ask for. What's really disappointing is that this 
 is pre-rendered. The graphics in-game are blocky, and while not particularly terrible, they just 
 aren't the quality you expect from the next-gen consoles.
  
  Many people are under the impression the Wii is incapable of solid graphics. Yes, the Wii isn't 
 as powerful as, say, a 360. But it's important to remember that the Gamecube, from last gen, ran 
 Resident Evil 4, on an engine more powerful than the PS2 version. And the Wii has twice that power. 
 If effort were put in, third parties could produce graphics that at least stand up to the other 
 consoles. It's the same as if developers made awesome PS3 graphics and terrible 360 graphics.
 
  
  Third party disappointments aside, this is still one of the better efforts of the Wii launch titles. 
 The graphics are so-so. However, the sound effects and voice acting are top-notch, as are the cutscenes. 
 They're still some of the best in their class on the system. Explosions, guns, cars and even the 
 sound of a bullet through flesh sounds just like you'd imagine war to work, if not as brutal (with 
 a T rating) .
  
  The campaign is long and rewarding. You'll battle through the conclusion of World War II and the 
 Battle of Normandy, this being the third and final Call of Duty in the original WWII trilogy. Call 
 of Duty: World at War will return to the '40's, but not in relations to these games.
  
  So you will see the end of the fighting, and there are even interviews with real war veterans.
 
  
  The controls are so-so though. Pointing at the screen and aiming is indeed really cool. It's not 
 revolutionary yet though, because there are some flaws. Turning doesn't work as efficiently as 
 pointing and shooting. You'll get into one-on-one fights with Germans for guns, but the controls 
 aren't responsive at all, and you'll find yourself losing and not knowing why.
  
  On the other hand, driving is done extremely well. Holding the remote and nunchuk like a steering 
 wheel feels almost like driving a real car, and is extremely responsive. Using mortars and such 
 is pretty cool too.
  
  There's no local multiplayer, and (almost expectedly) no wireless. The single player is certainly 
 good, but those, and a couple tweaks with controls and graphics would've drastically improved a 
 game with a ton of potential.
  
  World War II is getting old, and it takes a spectacular game to make it remain fun. Call of Duty 
 3 doesn't fall flat on its face, but it won't make up for how doggedly war games stick with 1945, 
 or that the controls in this particular game aren't utterly superior to using two joysticks.
  
  It is important to remember it's a launch title though, and that it did indeed pave the way 
 for future shooters. On the other hand, there are better choices out there for those dying to shoot 
 some Nazis, or even aliens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Call of Duty game I got and I gotta say, It's a pretty good game. Based on the 
 famous WWII, you can manage weapons such as Machine Guns, Shotguns, Pistols, and Grenades. Amazing 
 combat that allows you to gunslap your enimies to knock them out for a couple of seconds or it 
 might just kill 'em. In certain parts, you can drive tanks, Jeeps, and trucks. It's very bloody 
 and certain parts contain explicit language. You can play as the Scottish, Americans, Polish, English 
 and Canadian teams and fight to take down the Germans. I highly recommend this game to anyone who 
 love the following: Blood games, War games, arcade games, history games, battle games, and shooting 
 games. Trust me, it's worth the buy, don't listen to those suckish reviews, this game is worth 
 it. If your not sure about it though, than rent it first. This game is AWESOME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javier666sps
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  El juego en general es bueno, pero creo que les falto mejorar en ciertos aspectos, por ejemplo, 
 los elementos de la pantallas tuvieron que ser destruibles para darle mas realismo, ese es creo 
 el mayor inconveniente del juego y tuvieron que incorporarle un modo multijugador online por me 
 dio del nintendo wifi. Por otra parte el apartado grafico es bueno, yo lo logre pasar en una semana 
 jugando 3 horas diarias, osea como 9 horas mas o menos, pero estoy satisfecho. Este juego para 
 ser de los primeros de wii en primera persona estuvo bueno para que se abrieran camino comparandolo 
 con el mismo juego de distantas consolas que a decir verdad es menos real desde el punto de vista 
 interactivo que proporciona el wii, pero podria mejorarse. Espero mi comentario sa tomado en cuenta 
 para las personas que navegan en esta pagina, especialmente las personas latinas que a veces nos 
 sentimos ignorados ya que todo el mercado pareciera que va dirigido hacia Estados Unidos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olifisher
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good effort from activision. To be fair there wasnt much build up to it, but it 
 was surprisingly good. To start with the levels were far too easy, but it gets gradually harder. 
 The graphics are OK, the guns and people are crisp and clear, but the scenery lacks puch. The gameplay 
 was also respectable, but with the lack of multiplayer and other options, it fell short in some 
 areas. The multiplayer factor would of made the game better, but we didnt see it applied. This 
 was a disappointment as i think that the game would have progressed much more. Nevertheless, as 
 i once again refer to the graphics, the scenery needs work. With the new games in the series out, 
 i think its a shame that the scenery felt un-finished. The guns were brilliant, so too the human 
 figures, but the scenery was blurred and unclear. Myne also had the problem of the gun drifting 
 away at certain points, which became really frustrating. And after tests on other wiis, i have 
 proved it happens to most. Another thing i found anoying was the fact that the enemy saw a target, 
 locked on that person, and never moved again from that spot. This means it is unrealistic and kind 
 of annoying. Overall its a fair effort, some parts were fantastic, some parts poor, but with other 
 games i hope it gets better. In a bombshell - good effort activision! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to the subject of World War II shooters you'll often hear people ludicrously claim 
 that they're just like fighting in a real war. Of course, sitting on a sofa with a mug of cocoa 
 at your side is nothing like being on the frontline, knee-deep in the mud with bullets whistling 
 around your ears, knowing that one hit could mean instant death. In a game you can always switch 
 off.
  
  And yet that's hard to remember when you're dropped into the very first mission of Call Of Duty 
 3. This is the most panic-ridden we've felt in a war (well, a 'war') since being landed on the 
 beaches in Medal Of Honor. However, once you'd got over the initial fear in Medal Of Honor you 
 realised that it was all for show - you could hear the bullets but none of them were hitting you, 
 leaving you free to amble up the beach and take the German positions. 
  
  Here you can see the flash of gunfire and hear the thud of bullets ripping through your armour, 
 but there's so much going on you can't see the enemy. Where do you go? Who are you shooting at? 
 How did we survive? Who knows, but it's a thrilling start to the latest game in the best war series 
 ever and the pace never lets up.
  
  After this harrowing intro you're moving with your team through derelict houses and barns, gunning 
 down Germans, taking cover behind tanks as the enemy swarm towards you, shooting from every angle 
 and fighting off Nazi soldiers with your bare hands. And the Remote makes the whole experience 
 better than ever. While holding the controller doesn't exactly make you feel like you're carrying 
 a weighty rifle it does add a certain drama that you can't get from a pad, and it makes you feel 
 more than a little vulnerable when you peer around from your cover and find yourself pointing it 
 at a tank. Which is, of course, how it should be.
  
  There are also some new action events that make great use of the Remote. In one scene, for instance, 
 a German will jump on you, forcing his rifle down on your neck. On other consoles you have to press 
 buttons as they appear on screen like in a dancing game but on the Wii you grab the Remote and 
 Nunchuk and move them back and forth as if you're trying to wrestle the rifle from his hands. Once 
 you've brushed him off you swipe the Remote to club him in the face with the butt of your weapon. 
 It's brilliant.
  
  If it all just sounds like flashy, big-budget presentation, Call Of Duty 3 has a bit more to it 
 than that. First mission aside you really have to think about what you're doing, making sure you 
 stick with your team-mates when on the offensive and remembering to stick close to cover so you 
 can reload. The Germans are canny too, lobbing your own grenades back at you and, for the first 
 time in the series, they'll retreat when under heavy fire and find a better position to take cover.
 
  
  
  Shooting Star
  With this and Red Steel released on launch day it would seem like you'd have a difficult choice 
 to make, but what stops this from being an essential shooter is the lack of a multiplayer mode. 
 On other consoles COD3 has a 24-player online mode, and while we accept that there won't be any 
 online games at Wii launch there could have been a split-screen mode. The idea of protecting a 
 real friend would have added to the realism.
  
  Still, while the lack of multiplayer options knocks off a few points, as a single-player WWII shooter 
 Call Of Duty 3 is as good as it gets. It's believable, exciting and it looks fantastic. So while 
 we wouldn't claim it's like fighting in a real war it is every bit as thrilling as the best war 
 movies, only here you're the hero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irongutvi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  So, I've just played it for about a few hours, kind of busy since school started. It's a pretty 
 good FPS for Wii. The battles are intense, motion control is responsive, graphics are ok not so 
 great, sound, voice acting and music is impressive and gameplay is epic. AI is pretty well done. 
 The only let down of this whole game is no multiplayer modes at all, not even online.
  
  8/10- gameplay
  Gameplay is great, you always have something to do.
  
  6.5/10- graphics
 
  It's alright but when you see this on other systems, it looks like it needs serious improvements.
 
  
  8.5/10- music, sounds, voice acting
  This area was impressive. The voice acting had it with the accents and speaking of other languages. 
 The music fits in the gameplay well. And the sounds of bullets and explosions everywhere gets you 
 in the move
  
  7.5/10- controls
  The controls are very responsive. It does tend to go off screen if you go to a direction too far 
 or spins you around. Doing some things were pretty frustrating at first but you'll get it down 
 somewhere between the game. The only problem will be driving, it's not so fun doing those parts
 
  
  7.5/10- Enemy AI
  They're not stupid but they're not smart. You can pretty much go close range in melee them in some 
 parts of the game. (I do it at close range cause melee's fun to use)
  
  Overall:
  7.5/10
  This is a decent FPS for Wii to start off. It has a great Campaign Mode, pretty responsive 
 controls, impressive audio and gameplay will not let you down. If you like real nice graphics, 
 this not for you also if you like multiplayer, this is not for you. I might advise you to get Medal 
 of Heroes 2 instead since it has multiplayer modes and better graphics.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Like the previous console versions of call of duty there is no sense in paying the full price for 
 this game. it's another mediocre ww2 shooter. at least it would have been mediocre had they not 
 messed up the controls especially for the wii version.
  you have to play this game using the wii-mote and the nunchuk. there are no alternatives such as 
 the classic or gamecube controller. you move your gun around by moving the wii-mote. this means 
 the camera goes berserk leaving you sick. you can make the controls less sensitive, so that it 
 becomes somewhat controllable and even a bit of playable on the easy level. 
  part 3 takes you to France where you team up with the French resistance. i got to level three before 
 i quit playing . in level 2 i had to use the wii-mote to drive a Jeep, which was nearly impossible, 
 but i managed. in level 3 i had to set of explosives, but the game didn't respond to my moves and 
 eventually i gave up. i wasn't enjoying myself at all.
  i hope the next Call of Duty will have normal controls, nice graphics and a multiplayer. they say 
 war is hell, Call of Duty 3 on the Wii sure is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Call of Duty game to hit the Wii. If the Wii is your only system and you absolutely 
 must have a WWII first person shooter game, then consider getting this. The game takes place throughout 
 multiple locales during the time of WWII. However, most of the game is significantly underwhelming. 
 The control scheme is too hard to make the core gameplay much fun, as you'll often be struggling 
 to remember which button is which. The visual design is nearly identical with that of the PS2 version, 
 and if you've played the current consoles you'll find it hard to appreciate it. The audio is probably 
 one of the best parts about the gameplay, since the sound effects are very appropriate for the 
 action. There isn't any co-op, so if you expected you and another friend to be playing the campaign 
 side-by-side, you'll be disappointed. Another problem with the game is the lack of multiplayer, 
 though it wouldn't have helped much since the controls are hard to work with. For those who already 
 own this game on a different console, stick with that because this game is extremely underwhelming 
 and will probably just disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful cutscenes; absolutely amazing voice acting; very realistic sound effects; driving 
 controls are very real; the campaign is pretty long; aiming the gun works almost as well as you'd 
 hope; the ending is awesome.
  
  The Bad: The graphics are blocky in-game and the Wii can do much, much more; gun struggles have 
 poor remote detection; turning around is stilted; no multiplayer, local or wireless.
  
  Call of Duty, mainly on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC, has made some absolutely spectacular games. Despite 
 the annoying, endless flow of WWII games out there, when done right Call of Duty is still tons 
 of fun.
  
  This edition that was released simultaneously with the Wii itself isn't utterly poor, but it's 
 not the quality one has come to expect from the Call of Duty franchise.
  
  The game opens up with one of its cutscenes, which are spectacular. They look very real, and the 
 voice acting is better than you could possibly ask for. What's really disappointing is that this 
 is pre-rendered. The graphics in-game are blocky, and while not particularly terrible, they just 
 aren't the quality you expect from the next-gen consoles.
  
  Many people are under the impression the Wii is incapable of solid graphics. Yes, the Wii isn't 
 as powerful as, say, a 360. But it's important to remember that the Gamecube, from last gen, ran 
 Resident Evil 4, on an engine more powerful than the PS2 version. And the Wii has twice that power. 
 If effort were put in, third parties could produce graphics that at least stand up to the other 
 consoles. It's the same as if developers made awesome PS3 graphics and terrible 360 graphics.
 
  
  Third party disappointments aside, this is still one of the better efforts of the Wii launch titles. 
 The graphics are so-so. However, the sound effects and voice acting are top-notch, as are the cutscenes. 
 They're still some of the best in their class on the system. Explosions, guns, cars and even the 
 sound of a bullet through flesh sounds just like you'd imagine war to work.
  
  The campaign is long and rewarding. You'll battle through the conclusion of World War II and the 
 Battle of Normandy, this being the third and final Call of Duty in the original WWII trilogy. Call 
 of Duty: World at War will return to the '40's, but not in relations to these games.
  
  So you will see the end of the fighting, and there are even interviews with real war veterans. 
 The controls are so-so though.
  
  Pointing at the screen and aiming is indeed really cool. It's not revolutionary yet though, because 
 there are some flaws. Turning doesn't work as efficiently as pointing and shooting. You'll get 
 into one-on-one fights with Germans for guns, but the controls aren't responsive at all, and you'll 
 find yourself losing and not knowing why.
  
  On the other hand, driving is done extremely well. Holding the remote and nunchuk like a steering 
 wheel feels almost like driving a real car, and is extremely responsive. Using mortars and such 
 is pretty cool too.
  
  There's no local multiplayer, and (almost expectedly) no wireless. The single player is certainly 
 good, but those, and a couple tweaks with controls and graphics would've drastically improved a 
 game with a ton of potential.
  
  World War II is getting old, and it takes a spectacular game to make it remain fun. Call of Duty 
 3 doesn't fall flat on its face, but it won't make up for how doggedly war games stick with 1945, 
 or that the controls in this particular game aren't utterly superior to using two joysticks.
  
  It is important to remember it's a launch title though, and that it did indeed pave the way 
 for future shooters. On the other hand, there are better choices out there for those dying to shoot 
 some Nazis, or even aliens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  As a COD fan, I couldn't wait to get COD 3 for the Wii. I have been a fan ever since Call of Duty 
 Finest Hour. Now on to the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in this game is great. The story is well-written and the controls work out for the 
 most part. Once you get the hang of the wii-mote, it's a lot of fun. The cut-scenes are emotional 
 and sometimes humorous. There are a lot of explosions to keep you on edge. The missions are very 
 long almost to a fault, but the abundance of check-points and the ability to stop in the middle 
 of a mission and come back is a nice feature. One of the major faults in this game is the shortness. 
 There are only 14 or so missions to keep you occupied. Although a lot of missions are replayable, 
 the lack of a split-screen multiplayer and online multiplayer is a major problem. A great addition 
 is the face to face battles. It's where a German grabs on to your gun and you have to fight him 
 to survive by making various motions with your wii-mote.
  
  Graphics:
  
  It's about the best you can hope for for the Wii. Actually, the graphics were pretty good. The 
 explosions look nice as well as the characters and the guns. It's good to see different faces on 
 the different enemies you encounter. The textures are nice and the landscape actually looks battle-scarred.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  What do you expect?! This is a Call of Duty game! It is bound to have fantastic music. And it sure 
 does. I love how there is no music during the "quiet" parts and when you engage in a particularly 
 intense firefight or a dramatic scene, the music ramps up and pumps you up. Anyhow, the guns make 
 nice, realistic sounds. The voice acting is top-notch with each side having their own accent.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: 
  
  This is another great Call of Duty game. Despite the lack of any multiplayer and the relatively 
 short campaign, this game might be the best WWII shooter to date on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay with the Wii remotes is amazing the fact that the gun movement controls is motion-activated 
 is one of my favorite features in the Call of Duty 3 Wii version. I wish though that they had multiplayer 
 for just at home. I think that they need to make Wii-live for the Wii that would make it more fun. 
 The fact that you cannot play multiplayer at home is kid of annoying because you can really only 
 enjoy it as a one-player game, but war games are really fun to play switching off on every death. 
 This game isn't very realistic when it comes to war games. You can get shot two hundred times in 
 a game and you will not die which can be kind of repetitive, but overall this is a great game. 
 If you want a really fun war game for the Wii you should get Call of Duty 3. You can play the same 
 level for hours and it will never get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluelesspug
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game on the wii is definately best left rented.
  
  Bad
  
  1. Graphics aren't that great.
  2. AI can be pretty stupid at times.
  3. No freakin' multiplayer. 
 What the heck?
  4. No online play either.
  5. The invisible boundaries that you have to cross to activate a cutscene.
  6. You can't cross 
 said invisible boundary until all enemies are killed.
  7. No fully destructible environments.
  8. Controls aren't very sensitive.
  9. Gets old fast 
 without multiplayer.
  10. Short campaign mode.
  11. Cool cutscenes, but they're to long and interupt the action.
  12. When someone jumps on you 
 with a knife, your team doesn't do anything about it.
  
  Good
  
  1. Good voice acting.
  2. Awesome gameplay... the first time through.
  
  So overall, don't 
 buy the game. Rent it because it gets old quick.
  Or buy it for another system. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Connor42
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  
  This is the first Call of Duty game that I got the chance to finish. All my past experiences of 
 Call of Duty games have been over demos and friends bringing their game over. So this game was 
 finally a game where I could sit down and play it all the way through without worrying about when 
 my friend has to leave and take it back. And let me tell you, this game is an intense ride from 
 start to finish! I had a blast playing this game it kicks Red Steel's butt. And what's funny is 
 that Red Steel was more hyped.
  
  This game takes place in the Normandy breakout. You'll be taking the sides of different armies 
 fight the Nazi's. This game is a lot grimmer the most of the other games out there. You'll see 
 people die in front of your face, and this one person said words that are just heart breaking. 
 This game really made me hate Nazis. So, the game will give a motive of killing them. It gave me 
 one.
  
  Sure, the game is out for the 360 and PS3, so what's so special about the Wii version. Obviously, 
 it's the unique controls that this version has to offer. You move using the Nunchuck and you aim 
 and turn using the Wii remote. It gets some taking use to, but in the end, the controls will turn 
 out very smoothly. There are other actions you can use with the Wii remote, like jabbing to do 
 a melee attack or shaking the nunchuck to switch weapons. They work ok, but they've been mapped 
 on buttons, so, you'll probably use those instead of the motions.
  
  There are also some features that work well and others that just suck. For instance, you'll sometimes 
 drive a car, and to do that, you'll have to hold the Wii remote and nunchuck up as if you were 
 steering an actual car, and turn the controls to turn in the direction you want to go. This works 
 well. 
  
  What doesn't work so well is when you're planting detonations on artillery, and it gives a set 
 of actions to do. You have to push the nunchuck forward, turn it clockwise, and then pull it back. 
 It may sound cool in theory, but the nunchuck is the least sensitive thing in this game. You'll 
 have problems just trying to put the pin in the detonation, turning it clockwise actually works 
 ok, but you'll problems pulling out the pin. I had to pull the nunchuck back numerous times to 
 finally pull the pin out, and I actually felt the blood from my arms drain just from doing that. 
 Luckily, you'll only have to do this a couple of times through out the game.
  
  Aiming in this game works great. Using the wii remote to aim is a lot of fun, unlike Red Steel. 
 You use the A button to aim with your gun and the B button to fire. Sure, you can fire without 
 aiming, but that will decrease the accuracy of your weapon. It's fun to aim with the remote pull 
 off some satisfying shots against your enemy. The problem is that when using a scoped weapon to 
 aim with, the cross hair stays in the middle of the screen and you point your remote at the edge 
 of the screen just to turn, while the aimer still remains in the center. Turning while scoped can 
 be incredibly clunky.
  
  You'll be doing a lot of running, taking cover, and shooting at your enemy. The enemies' intelligence 
 is ok, but they hardly take the offensive. You can easily just stay behind cover and pick them 
 off one by one, and with the wii remote, it's actually quite easy. I would recommend putting the 
 difficulty on the harder setting just to get the game a little more entertaining.
  
  There are sequences where you'll get jumped by an enemy and will grab your gun and push you with 
 it. You'll have to push the remote and nunchuck alternatively to push back at the enemy and when 
 he's lost his balance, you have to swing the remote and nunchuck down to send your enemy flying 
 back. This actually works quite well, and this adds to some of the few surprises this game has 
 to offer.
  
  The real downside of this game is no multiplayer. Not even split screen. That leaves with, really, 
 nothing left to do. I know that the online proportion of the game wasn't out when this game and 
 the Wii came out, but they could've gotten around that with at least split screen. Even the 360 
 and PS3 has a split screen mode, and it makes it really disappointing to find out that the game 
 has practically no replay value. But at least the game is solid enough to make you want to finish 
 it without being a chore.
  
  The graphics in this game are ok, but they don't even push the Wii to its limits. At least you'll 
 find lots of destructible environments and good weapon models. The frame rate in this game is pretty 
 consistent, and it had no slowdowns in this game. But, one time the game froze on me, but that's 
 only a minor issue. Still, the graphics won't really impress you, and seeing what the Wii is really 
 capable of, it's a question of whether or not the makers were actually trying to do.
  
  The sound in this game is a different story. There are explosions, gun fire, and some top notch 
 voice acting. This really enhances the games experience. There are even times when you find yourself 
 a little to close to an explosion and your character is briefly deafened from it. Then, you'll 
 hear the sound effects slowly kick in, which makes it a cool and dramatic effect.
  
  Call of Duty 3 on the Wii is a great game. The disappointing part is the lack of multiplayer. But 
 its unique controls actually enhance the gameplay, it's just the small things about the controls 
 that hurt parts of it, but overall, this game is great. You'll hardly find a dull moment in the 
 game. If you're deciding whether to get the Wii version, or the other two versions, you can buy 
 this game, and try out its awesome campaign with the controls, and turn it back in for the online 
 play of the 360 or PS3. That's what I'm doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  A, what could be, great game is ruined by poor controls and the lack of training to learn hot to 
 use them. Training can consist of as little as throwing three grenades and shooting three bullets. 
 So basically they expect you to learn how to play the game with six clicks of the wii remote. It's 
 like being shiped off to fight in Afghanistan without knowing how to hold a gun. However apart 
 from what i've just ranted about Call of Duty three or the wii is a pretty solid game. The sound 
 affects are brilliant, the graphics aren't perfect but there not to good and it provides you with 
 hours of adrenaline puming world war two gameplay. So in conclusion Call od Duty three for the 
 wii is a pretty solid game with a few faults which i'm sure can be sorted in future Call of Duties 
 and all for a great price aswell, only 19.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisPperson
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  ... same. The game doesn't really change much. It depends whether you like continuous "Bam" "move 
 out" and "Get down!", cause most of the game is just that. The graphics are better than what Gamespot 
 gives it, and also the game has great replay value. The sounds actually sound real, and you won't 
 be confused about the enemy saying "fire" or your allies saying it. You can shoot your own men, 
 not in front of other people though, and if you do shoot them the mission ends and you are called 
 a traitor.
  Controls didn't really bother me THAT much, sure they could have had a better arrangement, but 
 using "B" to shoot. How simple is that? Move around like normal, aim by aiming the wii remote, 
 you can choose whether to lunge the wii remote foraward to hit someone with your gun, or just press 
 a button, and you can choose if you want to through a grenade by moving the nunchuck sideways to 
 throw a grenade.
  The game could have had better weapon selection, and more than two kinds of grenades, AND they 
 could have made the game so it got a little harder each time, instead of easy, easy, easy, HARD, 
 easy REALLY HARd, anyway, you get my point, and for the money you pay for this you can get a better 
 game...
  Overall, I actually think that if you are in a mood where you just feel like playing a shooter, 
 maybe have the enviorments change around you a little bit, then Call of Duty 3 is a great game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Activision is taking the highly regarded World War 2 series to the Wii with Call of Duty 3. Using 
 the Wii's new motion sensing controls, you'll be able to take to the battlefield in a totally new 
 way from the other console versions of the game. Even though it might not be as good as the other 
 versions, I'll go ahead and say that for the most part, Call of Duty is a solid shooter that Wii 
 owners should at least try.
  
  The story of Call of Duty 3 isn't spectacular, but is enough to keep you interested throughout 
 the portion of the game. The game takes place in 1944 during the Normandy Breakout. You'll play 
 as multiple countries on the Allied side; including France, Canada and of course America. During 
 the course of the game, the characters we'll try to get you emotionally attached to them, but it 
 really doesn't succeed that goal. Luckily, the story really doesn't need to be that great in CoD3 
 and overall it does its job by keeping you just interested enough so you'll keep going throughout 
 the 14-mission campaign.
  
  Speaking of a campaign, that is the only thing in this game. There are 14 missions in all, which 
 is pretty good since the missions take some time to do. Most of the missions are just about you 
 shooting the Axis, which is fun at first but can get repetitive, but some levels have a special 
 challenge to do. For instance, one level you get to drive a tank on a chase for the Red Baron (some 
 important tank for the Germans) . The level is pretty cool, considering you can just run over all 
 your enemies who aren't as fortunate to have a tank. Even though that level is very fun, there 
 are also similar levels that aren't as great. In one level you get to drive a car by twisting the 
 Wii mote and nun-chuck. Even though the level seems like a good idea, it's thrown off by frustrating 
 controls that demand precise handling. Sometimes you'll also have to fight Germans in hand to hand 
 combat. These can be really uninteresting, considering all you have to do is push the Wii-mote 
 and Nun chuck forward and back simultaneously. The special objectives might not be the best, but 
 they are a good little side step away from the usual shooting of your enemies. 
  
  Other than the car level, the standard controls of Call of Duty 3 work pretty well. Aiming in the 
 game is done by pointing the Wii-mote. Most of the time, you'll be able to hit your enemies without 
 much trouble. To some people though, it will seem like the controls are too fast and wild, so you'll 
 probably need to turn down the settings on the "Option" screen. As for the other controls, you'll 
 have a very short, and un-interesting, training campaign that will give you the basic run down 
 of what to do. You'll move around with the analog stick, shoot with the B button and use Z to duck 
 out of fire. The training is really short and is nothing like the real thing, so you'll sort of 
 have to learn on the fly. This can result in failure at first, but after a while you'll be gunning 
 down enemies without any trouble at all.
  
  The one thing that the Wii version lacks is the addition of online multiplayer. On 360 and PS3, 
 you could play with your buddies online. The Wii does not feature this, so all you'll have is the 
 single player campaign. This leads to a very low replay value on CoD 3 for Wii. After you beat 
 the single player, you have nothing to do but take it back to trade it in. It would have been nice 
 if the developers could have thrown in some bonus levels or something, but sadly that didn't happen. 
 For all you gamers who love high replay value, you'd probably be best to just rent this one, instead 
 of buying it and being left with a game that feels incomplete.
  
  As far as the visuals go, they look extremely detailed and are eye candy to say the least, on the 
 other consoles. On Wii, not so much. The graphics are pretty sad, mostly the environment. The character 
 models look all right, but for the most part the trees and ground look pitiful. The visuals are 
 not enough to take away from the game experience though, even when your enemies fall through walls 
 it's not enough. If you're the kind of person who can get over this, you'll want to pick this game 
 up. If you can't stand these kind of visuals, well you better looks into another First Peron Shooter 
 for your liking. 
  
  That's about it! For the most part, Call of Duty 3 is a solid rent for most Wii owners. For those 
 who are looking to buy the game, well you might want to think about the low replay value due4 to 
 the lack of multiplayer. This is one of the first tries at shooting with the new Wii controls, 
 and overall I'll call it a success. The visuals might not be the best, but don't let that be enough 
 to drag you away from this game. Yes, no multiplayer feature is a bummer, but the solid single 
 player campaign with intense fire fights make Call of Duty 3 for the Wii a shooter worthy of it's 
 namesake. It is a solid rent that I'd recommend to any Wii owner. 
  
  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii gets a solid 7.0 out of 10 from me. 
  
  
  
  -NFS102
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Call of Duty 3 takes a bit of a different approach to the traditional COD world. Rather 
 than playing in token battles of World War II and switching from area to area all over the map, 
 Call of Duty 3 is based on one specific set of battles centered around the Normandy Breakout, working 
 up until the liberation of Paris just 88 days later. Taking control of each region represented, 
 players will jump from the American troops over to the Canadians and Polish, as well as the British 
 forces as they push against the elite German Panzer forces. In this installation, it has taken 
 some ideas from COD: Big Red One and added some cinamatic style stuff to it which is great. Also 
 during combat there is this new melee system where if you get to close to the enemy then you will 
 have this pushing match with your rifle. Of course there is also the usually multiplayer stuff 
 such as team deathmatch and things that most people are are familier with Call of Duty.
  The thing I hated most about he WII version is the sometimes unwieldy controls esspecially when 
 you are exited or in panick mode. 
  
  Graphics: I would have to say that the graphics are good but bad at the same time. Good because 
 the explotions, gun designs and buildings are really well done, but the character models I found 
 were not as well done as in Call of Duty 2.
  
  Sound: As Usuall the sound in these series of game are alaways amazing from the gun shots to the 
 rolling of the tanks.
  
  Value: All in all I though this was a good game but just felt to similer to Call of Duty 2 and 
 I think it came out a little to soon after Call of Duty 2. I would recommened playing this game 
 only when the price has gone down. I Give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is of course the third game to there series, and I would have to say I think it's 
 one of the first games for the Wii. Anyways, well this is my first Wii game, and I was prettty 
 satisfied with it. I mean it was only twenty dollars and it has loads of that first person action 
 people crave with loads of other cool things with the new Wiimote. Anyways, you start out as a 
 guy named Doyle and you basically fight the battles of Normady back in the 40's when we destroyed 
 the German's back in WWII. The games aspects are pretty good, with the complete storyline, that 
 will suck you in, and the nice soundtrack, that has that classic WWII feeling too it, and the Wii 
 controls, which are pretty cool once you get the hang of them. When theres a WWII game out though, 
 there's always defects. The visuals are very bad, just let me say, they could have been better, 
 and once and a while the game gets a little glitchy and all. And of course the gamplay of Call 
 Of Duty is just becoming the same, if seems just like the last one. But to me, I would reccamend 
 this game to any Call Of Duty lover, because you will enjoy this new summed up version of the wii 
 controls, thanks for reading, and thanks Activision for a great game. 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 129260
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This honestly is the first call of duty I have ever played. I was looking at medal of honor heroes 
 2, but I did not wish to spend the $50 for it. So i got this instead, seeing as how it got a decent 
 score from gamespot. And guess what? I'm glad i picked up this game!!
  
  Controls: 
  The controls take a little getting used to, especially if your used to the playstation 2 and Xbox 
 360 types of shooting games. It took me about 20 minutes to get into the action. (And I haven't 
 had a wii for that long, honestly, this was the second time i have used the numchuck controller.)
 
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are decent, and if you have read any of my reviews on Wii games, it is that the Wii 
 was not designed for high or insane looking graphics like the ps3 or Xbox 360. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is really good, enemy soldiers are quite smart and use everything at 
 there arsenal, including but not limited to, grenades, taking cover, and will use any weapon they 
 can pick up.
  
  Sound:
  If you are expecting great sound, look no further, as this game will give you everything you expected. 
 The sound is so realistic and sharp that you feel like your actually there. Bombs are even a very 
 nice touch with the way they handled the sound. 
  
  Summery:
  If your looking for a affordable, ($20) shooting game, with decent graphics and good sound, this 
 games for you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  this game has its goods and its bads. the goods are that it is very addicting and while the first 
 time you play you love it but after you finish it you dont pick and play it ever again. it has 
 a ok story line and a awesome selection of guns. the graphics are very good for the wii. the controls 
 are also quite easy and there are times in the game when you might have to plant a bomb and use 
 the wii remote to turn the the bomb on and then pull out the clip which is very innovative. also 
 you get to have melee fights with germans but pushing the wii remote and numchuk back and forwards 
 and then swing them together to finish then off which is a great asset to the controls. BUT the 
 bad things are that it slows down almost like lag because of the huge battle scene which makes 
 it very hard to shoot enemies when your pointer is flying all over the place and the you press 
 the shoot button once and it releases a whole clip of ammo. another bad thing is that it gets boring 
 after you finish it. i havnt played it for a year since ive gotten it. also weird shadows appear 
 on roofs and other weird things with people stuck in the floor and walls kinda makes it feel dodgy. 
 but overall a very enjoyable game the first time through. but its better to get it off a friend 
 or rent it if you would like to have a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkiller111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Very fun I did't like it at first because of the weak graphics but as I started to progress I found 
 that is was VERY fun. This game wasn't a perfect addon to the series but it was good. Call of duty 
 2 was better but I found myself enjoying this one just because of the innovative storyline I wouldn't 
 call it SUPER FUN but it was very good I really liked how well the controls were adapted. I finished 
 on easy in three days but as I moved up to medium I got my little butt kicked to the for planet 
 of zingmob (not a real planet just an exaggeration) 2,000,000 miles away. I also found that there 
 were times that I could pick which path I wanted. Meaning do I act as a sniper while getting shelled 
 or do I fight for my life through the trenches. I found it a very fun game and it has a nice ending 
 too. Overall I would say this is a good game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The Call Of Duty series has always been one that has attracted me. The Medal Of Honour games never 
 appealed to me that much due to them being pretty unrealistic (1 person pretty much taking on the 
 whole nazi army) . Call Of Duty always throws you in the midst of battle, and amongst a whole army 
 beside you, charging to enemy lines, and taking out sectors of enemy. I love that
  
  So i bought the game pretty much the day i got the wii in 2006, and i LOVED it! This game takes 
 place in Normandy and France if i can remember correctly, and most of the time you're taking out 
 villages, preparing for ambushes, and even driving vechiles!
  
  For the most part, the control scheme is brilliant! I reminds me of the Keyboard and mouse PC controls 
 which i personally believe works the best for shoot-em ups. The fact that you have more control 
 over your character actually makes the whole experience much more terrifying. I found myself almost 
 breathless trying to quickly run to cover and regain my health, and then frantically running out 
 of cover and shooting frantickly at places you believe the enemy is in. The control scheme made 
 me feel more like a soldier. I don't know if it was the controls that did this, or it was just 
 me getting too much into the game. It was even the fact that my grenade throwing was never precise 
 because my hand was shaking so much with the wii remote. It just added to the realism. Depending 
 on how steady your hand is, also effects your accuracy in the game aswell, especially when it comes 
 to sniping. 
  
  The one problem with the control scheme is that sometimes it really lagged, or froze in one position. 
 This sometimes happened in the most inconvenient situations like when a grenade is right next to 
 you! And also, the DRIVING! This was actually a terrible control scheme, trying to hold the wii 
 remote and nunchuck like a steering wheel, it unfortunately didn't work and i was actually dreading 
 it each time i had to drive.
  
  Graphically, this game is pretty good! Obviously it's not the sharpest game on the planet, but 
 i never actually thought they were bad at any point. The smoke actually looks pretty amazing in 
 this game aswell as the explosions, and the people where well detailed and moved realistically. 
 The way they designed the maps aswell was pretty cool. Even though the backgrounds where usually 
 fake, it made it look like you were fighting in country landscapes that would span for miles and 
 miles. 
  
  Some problems with the graphics came when you were close up hiding in bushes, they looked pretty 
 ugly! This also made it easy to get lost in bushes which can be quite embarrassing if some nazi 
 soldiers were waiting outside them to pop a cap in your ass! Another graphical problem was probably 
 the whole colouring of the game. The colours were quite bland and grey for the most part. I guess 
 this portays the grimness of war i guess which is does effectively, but sometimes it can result 
 in not being able to see the enemies properly, and sometimes shooting at your own people!
  
  Sound in this game, was perfect. I've never played a game where sound has effected me this 
 much! It portayed war perfectly, and every level felt so dramatic, with bullets flying past your 
 head, men screaming and cursing at the enemy, and grenades blowing up just a couple of feet from 
 you. It was a truly immersive and terrifying experience. 
  
  
  Overall, this game is actually great! It fully emerses you into the war and i felt very proud of 
 myself after completing it! Definately recommended for COD fans, or even someone who has bought 
 the wii and want's a decent shooter. Shame there's no mutiplayer or online, but hopefully that 
 will come if future editions of COD appear on the hopeful Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korpx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't too bad but it definitly could have been better. The overall gameplay could have 
 been better and the whole game lacked some key things that i feel are key for a game to be succesful 
 in this day and age. Firstly I'd like to talk about the game not having online play. That is something 
 i think all games should have. You get bored of the game pretty fast after you beat it on all difficulties.... 
 twice and can memorize where every AI player is on the map. If you want a game to last you need 
 the excitment of online play. Second the controls wereen't good at all. A FPS for wii has so much 
 potential to be great and i still think there is yet to be a great one for the wii console ( metroid 
 is alright) . So overall the game was okay i just feel that this was an excellant opportunity to 
 make a great FPS game but that didn't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is atrocious. The controls make me go crazy. Normally if this game were using an 
 Xbox controler it would be amazingly easier. The wii remote just does not work out for this game. 
 At all... Believe me do not get this for the wii or you will be frustrated more than ever and it 
 is an easy waste of money. No multiplayer, frustrating controls, boring story, annoying charachter 
 voices, short story, and bad graphics. 6 reasons easily thought of to not get this game. The only 
 war that should be fought is against Activision for producing such a bad game and making you pay 
 $50 for it. Do not be talked into buying this game. I could have Metroid but my friends talked 
 me into getting it. Send me a message about what you think of this review. g g g g g gg g r fr 
 fr ff r fr frf rf rf rf rf fr fr frf r f efr fr freffrefefrf rf r fr f ref erf erf erf erf rf rf 
 erf re fr r fr f ef erf f e fer fr frg rtg erwggq 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game on teh comercials I was like"Wow! I bet that will be better than the 
 one on xbox!" I am quickly realizing this is wrong. The game could be great but there is no aiming 
 balance. You can adjust the sensitivity of the pointer but its like its either too sensitive or 
 not enough. This game is not awful but its definitely not as good as I thought it would be.
  
  Here are the basics:
  
  graphics:7 out of 10. They are ok, but they seem like gamecube graphics.
 
  
  gameplay:7 out of 10. Its realy boring and is more of the same sometimes but it has its brief moments. 
 Its a realy good feeling when you kill someone!
  
  controls:7.5 out of 10. The controls are decent. Its too sensitive but you get the hang of it. 
 There are some combat moves using the wii remote but sometimes its just easier to press the buttons 
 for it.
  
  Overall:7 out of 10.
  
  This is not a great game, But its not bad either. Its just average. It makes a good rent or borrow 
 from a friend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The good: Campaign is fun, good use of the Wii-mote
  
  The bad: missing any sort of multi-player, story does not get you connected
  
  If you played 
 this back in November 2006 the first thing you would notice would be the control. This was the 
 first game to use the Wii-mote in this way, and they did it very successfully. Rowing you boat 
 is intuitive and aiming is spot on. The only part of the control that i have a complaint with is 
 both aspects of hand to hand combat it just seams weird. Melee seams kind of pointless to have 
 it motion sensitive, because you don't have enough time to react in the way it wants you to. Luckily 
 they made an alternative way of using melee. The one control function that you use when someone 
 gets up in your face. its not very responsive and this entire sequence feels like it could have 
 been left out.
  
  The sound for this game is great, the graphics not so much. A lot of textures are blurry and a 
 lot of the character models are blocky. For a Wii launch title they are acceptable, but they wont 
 wow anyone.
  
  The campaign is fun, but they never don't do anything to get you to care about what happens in 
 the story. In fact it does not feels like cared about the story too much at all. You follow multiple 
 groups of people, and you never spend a significant amount of time with any of the particular groups 
 to make you care what happens to them. The main point of this game is to just show you the battles 
 which isn't all that bad, but one of the great things about this series was the way it brought 
 you in and made you care. That just is not present in this one.
  
  A huge disappointment about this game is how short it is. The single player campaign will take 
 you roughly ten hours and then thats it. there is no Multi-player online or offline, and if you 
 paid the full fifty dollars for this one you are going to feel a bit robbed, but at this point 
 it is worth picking up from the bargain bin. Its a good game it just doesn't do anything all that 
 different besides the controls. Now that its been a year and a half since Wii came out that isn't 
 all that attractive, so buy with caution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a game I really enjoy playing, the controls are fairly simple, it doesn't take 
 advantage of the Wii-mote as much as i would of liked but it is still great.
  You switch from army to army depending on what level you're on, it could be American, English, 
 French, Polish (probably more) , but you are always killing the German Nazis, this, to me, makes 
 the game even better, killing plain enemies is fun, killing Hitler's henchman is very delightful. 
 I have nothing against Germans, only Nazis.
  The guns are pretty cool, no bazookas though. The levels are pretty cool, I especially like going 
 into houses packed with Nazis then going around a corner and just shooting with all your heart 
 (if, of course, your heart hasn't been shot itself) .
  It's not incredibly long, but its longer than some games (cough Pirates 3 cough Spiderman 3 cough) , 
 sorry, sore throat. Hours of fun can be had planting bombs, throwing smoke grenades, shooting Nazis 
 and of course, hitting them too.
  If you like your First Person Shooters immersive, violent and tactical (who doesn't) then you'll 
 (hopefully) love Call of Duty 3 for the Wii.
  
  Ending NOTE: Call of Duty 3 and Wii rhyme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ww2gamereviewer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 for the Wii is a pretty good game. In the game u play as an american, british, polish 
 and canadian soldier fighting to free Paris from the nazis. The graphics arent as good as the 360 
 verison but still good. Voice acting is pretty good as well as the other audio. The game has kinda 
 a lot of missions which are a little long, so that means long gameplay. The best part is how u 
 use the wii controls. U use the wiimote to throw gernades, drive a tank, aim, drive a jeep, and 
 more and the best part, fight nazis with a rilfe. What that is is, sometimes a nazi will charge 
 at u when u are all alone and u have to fight back and eventullay kill him. I think thats the best 
 part of the game. AI is pretty good too. Also the enviroment is pretty destructeable so that makes 
 the game fun. But there are some flaws. There is no multiplayer or wi-fi which wouldve added value 
 to the game. The game cant use the Wii Zapper so that isnt good. The graphics couldve been better. 
 And once u beat the game, it gets old and u no what happens. But otherwise this is a good game. 
 I recomend buying it if u want a good ww2 fps for the wii. \,,/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robliander
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Call of Duty on the PC and Call of Duty 2 on the XBOX 360... so 
 I really wanted to like this game, and I was looking forward to seeing how they integrated the 
 Wii controllers to the game play... but they failed badly. It's just not a fun game with the default 
 control scheme. 
  
  The graphics are ok.... I think on the Wii if you're not doing a claymation-like or cartoon-y style 
 you're asking for trouble, especially nowadays on big widescreen HDTVs that everyone has. The cutscenes 
 look especially creepy (it's obvious that they're motion-capture digital models of real actors) .
 
  
  I may go back and try to adjust the controls... but is it worth it when there are so many other 
 games to play these days? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1shotkill
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this game is just a first person shooter letdown and is not that great. Notthing 
 in this game is different than any other first person shooter on the market. Also, their is no 
 online play. If the campaign stinks, then you can sometimes overcome it with online play. This 
 game has a bad campaign, no local multiplayer, and no online play. Can't get much worse than that.
 
  
  Besides that, though, several levels of the game can provide fun for a bit. Although it is really 
 easy, the computers in this game will not just let you shoot them to death without doing anything 
 *cough Medal of Honor Heroes 2 cough*. For the short amount of time that this campaign does exist, 
 you will enjoy a fun shooter with decent enough graphics and good voice acting.
  
  I would only recommend this game to the die hard first person shooter fan with no other better 
 games out. If you can think of even one other better game, then get it. But if you're bored to 
 death and can't find anything to do, this game can enertain you for 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulus-1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  I have been thinking of getting this game for a long time it seemed perfect for the Wii. I finally 
 got it this Christmas and started playing. 
  i started the game and had to get used to aiming with the wiimote after that i was fine.
  It 
 has some good gameplay but i did feel like i had done it a lot before. I especially enjoyed driving 
 the cars, around the cities with explosions going off around you.
  One thing that was very annoying, when planting the bomb things you have to do this thing with 
 the nunchuck it quite simple but on the last bit i would spend a while trying to get it to respond 
 the what i was doing. 
  I did not find the story line very gripping but it did explain what was going on quite well even 
 though i didn't pay much attention to it. 
  They tried to make you feel what your fellow companions feel like, fairly successfully.
  There 
 is not anything else to do apart from the campaign which is a bit disappointing.
  All in all it is a good game but i think the makers could have done something a bit more differen't 
 than the normal attack and defend towns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun no matter what. The campaign never gets old. The controls could be better, but 
 considerign the fact that the game was made a year ago when the Wii first came out it is wonderful. 
 I wish it had multiplayer, but it stands strong without it which is amazing. I highly recommend 
 that you get this game. It will not disappoint you. It has just the right diffuculty level. I have 
 beaten it on easy and normal. I never got past a certain point on hard because... well... it is hard. 
 The game has a better campaign than Medal of Honor: Heroes II, yet it lacks multiplayer. The game 
 is a must have if you like fps games; especially for the Wii. The characters in game are entertaining 
 too. This game actually has a story that is not so serious, like the Medal of Honor games. It is 
 serious no doubt, but it is not like some top secret OSS thing. One of the greatest FPS games I 
 have ever played. 
  
  God bless.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You are fighting in the normany breakout as the Americans, the British, Canadians, and 
 Polish. Your wepons range from semi. anomatics, macine guns, and sniper rifles. The controls are 
 a bit weird at first, but you get used to them. There are a good variety of levels, and you also 
 play as support gunners, and even a tank.
  
  Sound: Some sound sounds a bit cheesy, fake, and quiet compared to what it's supposed to be, but 
 the other sounds soun just about as a mazing as it gets.
  
  Grahpics: They are worse then COD2's grahpics for the 360, but for the Wii, they are pretty good 
 even though things look funny.
  
  Replay value: Pretty high, but soon your love for shooting the Nazis start to diminish and fade 
 away. But not so much that you want to sell the game. Never ever that much.
  
  Concusion: If shooting things is your calling, or if you like WW2 games, make COD3 a game to get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  At first when my brother bought me this game for my wii i was pretty happy. I grabbed it and played 
 it. I got hooked so fast its not even funny. I played for almost the whole day enjoying it. It 
 has a pretty neat story and it lets you play as many different countries. The graphics are pretty 
 decent obviously not as good as ps3 but thats way too much money unlike the wii. Driving in the 
 game i will put it as "interesting". Driving at first will kill you in anger but then when you 
 get used to it you just think, Maybe it wasent THAT bad. Its not just a typical day at battle though 
 it mixs a little bit of humor in there and that gets you a prtty good laugh. over all i really like 
 this game and enjoy it alot and the story line is pretty long so you can enjoy it for a while. 
 This game is definatly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  As I being the call of duty veteran ( played call of duty 1, call of duty 2, 3 and 4 ) . Call of 
 duty 3 seems like worst in the series, but it's not suprising because other company made that.
 
  
  The controls work, but are hard to get used with. The fact is, in the start. You get a short training 
 what takes 3 minutes to complete and wasn't that fun, specially when guys were screaming at you, 
 while you tried to get used with controls. After training, yes. To the war. I understand the fact, 
 wiimote hasn't got many buttons, but it's too akward to take out grenade and throw it to enemy's. 
 While I said, the controls work. Yes, they kind of work in combat mode, but there's a time where 
 you need to control car. That's one of the worst parts of the game, you need to escape from tank 
 while TRYING not to hit objects. At every start of the mission, you get a nice cut scene. But it 
 isn't nice that you can't skip it, fine. But when you load a save, you have to see the whole cut 
 scene again. Also graphics look like bad gamecube title one.
  
  If you'd like to try it out (if you are cod veteran) i'd suggest you to try this at your friends 
 house or rent it. It's not a bad game, but it seems uncomfortable and ugly sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aushej
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Interesting controls, but i prefer the mouse interface... Sometimes the controls are frustrating 
 ..
  Graphics are not bat but could be better, after playing it on 360... well no much to say...
  
 Campaign its short and AI it's quite good. Also hated the thing that i cannot skip the intro movies,, 
 i had to wait until they finish..
  I bought it for 20 bucks, so i think it worth the money... 
  Not a game that i enjoyed, but its 
 just my opinion.
  I give it a 7.5 just because was the first good game i played on the wii, i hope future games improve 
 the controls, i'll give a try to metroid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyking92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3.... Hear the name and you already think good game.
  But this is not the infinity ward classic, instead it is a treyarch WW2 game with the francise 
 name. It would hold up without being special or innovative but that's where the Wiimote comes in. 
 
  The aiming is fluent and easier than the other versions and really immerses you into the game. 
 In some situations you get too immersed and start to just shoot and hit people. I even just blanked 
 out after completing an american level. I knew i had beaten it, I just never remembered beating 
 it all that much. The controls are just that great.
  
  However the wii takes a backstep when it comes to graphics and minigames.
  The driving is fun, 
 but the melee moments and satchel charge minigames are unweidly and stupid. 
  The worst part of the game are its graphics though, they seem like a minor step back from gamecube 
 games. It makes it also hard to play for a long time, because your eyes start to hurt while trying 
 to aim at far away enemies.
  
  Another flaw is the fact that the game only has the campaign mode... Yep, no multiplayer, online 
 or off. And no extra minigames or skirmish modes. So you are imersed only for a very short while.
 
  You can play as the canadian, polish, the British or americans
  
  
  If you love Call of Duty and the keyboard and mouse combo- this is a great way to play COD 3, just 
 don't expect anything besides the campaign mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblane
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is my first introduction into the CoD franchise. Instantly, I enjoyed 
 this game. Never been much for graphics, I was quite surprised how nice it looked on the Wii and 
 for a while, I was running around, happy to be in the middle of a grenade exploding, just because 
 it looked so cool. 
  
  I really enjoyed the gameplay, and just as pointing and shooting was getting a bit dull, CoD3 introduced 
 some new action and weapons to keep things interesting. My only complaint was that it was over 
 all too soon. Being a n00b to the franchise and a fairly average gamer, I took an easier difficulty 
 level at the beginning, but regretted that after finishing the game. Since I have began playing 
 the game through again on the hardest level which does present some challenges.
  
  I'm not sure if it is all Wii's or my lack of understanding of all the controls, but sometimes 
 it seems that the controls lock up for several seconds and you seem to be in slow motion while 
 your enemies are free to continue firing upon you. Seems to happen only under heavy fire, graphics/cpu 
 bottleneck? 
  
  Overall tho, it was a good game, that was unfortunately short. I'm sure a multi-player mode may 
 have more than made up for this short coming, but sadly, it is missing. I'm finding the replay 
 value to be fairly low, but enough for me to keep coming back.
  
  B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJix
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game may not be a 10 out of 10 but it is worth having in your collection. The controls for 
 some things are a little shaky but it still works. The fact that you can actually point and shoot 
 makes it much easier then other console games, but doesnt rob the whole effect and still retains 
 the difficulty. Sure the AI could be better. The way you can run behind them and shoot them all 
 before they even really know what is going on is a little bit of a draw back.
  
  But really if you do to Eb games or etc and see it used or new for a good price why not buy it. 
 It is a worthy investment that at the worst will make you go hmmm how does that reflect to if i 
 did that in real life combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was really good, until Metroid Prime 3. That game alone puts down and owns all first 
 person shooters on the Wii. This is definately one of the better launch titles for the Wii. This 
 game was really good at first, but since then, I have maybe played it like 3 times. It is one of 
 those games where if you do not finish in the first week that youi get it, it is hard to pick it 
 back up and start playing it, much less beat it.
  
  Well that about sums it up, hopefully in the future WWII games in general will have online play 
 and a better single player mode. Well we can only wait for MoHH 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i wouldnt thinks it would be that good, beacuse i only like computer fps. 
 But somehow the wii remote managed to make pointing easy and the forms in which you have to used ( 
 planting explosives, driving the car, fighting with your gun) worked well and where fun. The only 
 thing that I didnt liked was its lenght. It took me no more than 6 hours to complete it,, and the 
 lack of multiplayer made this game suffer a bit. But still, I played it again, beacuse some missions 
 where great. And the sound, oh god, the sound was great. Even if I didnt have a surround system, 
 I could note the differences between a regular game in sound terms. In conclusion, play it if you 
 dont neccesary need replay value and love variety in Wii reomte functions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelon477
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When i first went to gamestop, i saw this game next to Red Steel, and when i took it up to the 
 store clerk guy, he said that it was much better then RS, so i got CoD. Much better? the leagth 
 is probably the only thing that is better, and that is still really short. Much worse? i cant exactly 
 answer that, because ive only played RS at my friends house and they seem to be the same to me 
 actually. GAMEPLAY you know the drill, kill the germans before they kill you. and thats basicly 
 all the game is, shooting at the guys who shoot at you. the game play can get very repetive after 
 the first few hours, Run, shoot, duck, wait till the screen isnt red, and repeat. and you do that, 
 level after level after level. And the game as one down flaw, its graphics. basicly, they suck. they 
 could have easly made this last gen. and they should have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty 3 is no doubt one of the best FPS games I've ever played, it's very intuitive, precise, 
 and you actually feel like you're in the middle of a war.
  The explosion effects, sounds and AI are great. But in the other hand, once you start to addict 
 to the game, it ends, but luckily the game has got a great replay, and it will take you a lot of 
 time to get tired of it.
  PS: there's nothing funnier than the driving in Medal of Honor 3.
  It's definetily a must for 
 anyone who owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive and will make you come back for more. Sometimes the controls dont 
 get sensed but 8 out of 10 times they work. The graphics arnt as good as the PS3 or the Xbox 360 
 but you forget about the graphics when your diving behind couches and chairs as if your really 
 there. To throw a gernade you use a thorwing motion with the num-chuck. To rifle but someone you 
 jab outward with the wii remote. There are some objectives in some missions where you do different 
 motions. For example in one lvl you have to row across the river, to do this you do a rowing motion 
 with the wii remote and the num-chuck.
  
  The one thing about Call of Duty 3 is the lack of multiplayer. It is multiplayerless.
  
  Over 
 all it is one of teh best games on the wii!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHappydude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  the controls are much better then medal of honor. and a lot more easier to use. i'm 1/2 way through 
 the game and haven't hardly touched medal of honor. the training is a bit short, but it's very 
 simple controls make it not that desirable. i just wish allied ammo was more readily available 
 since i find myself picking up axis weapons since they almost always drop their when they die. 
 only thing i don't like and maybe it's since i'm playing on easy, maybe i'll update when i play 
 on harder levels. overall this is a lot of fun, especially the different vehicles you have to drive 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WitIsWisdom
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow, way to responsive of a game! Often times you will find yourself trying to run in one direction 
 looking straight ahead, and then the next your looking straight into the sky! I'm not saying it's 
 a completely horrible game, I mean for the games out it is slightly above average, but I just don't 
 think that it is really suited to the game play of the Wii all that well. If your a die hard fan 
 of the series or similar games it can be a lot of fun in certain situations, but the almost endless 
 amount of flaws in the game and often time horrible camera angles make this one collect dust just 
 a few days after you buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogomesaki
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  there comes a point when the wii motion controll has gone too far. pumping your arms back and forth 
 stupidly to fight off nazis is in that category. nice try, but untill you can make a remote that 
 actually resists when you push against it, just stick to the awesome aim and shoot system. the 
 games got some good action, even if it is interuppted by the previously mentioned. and youve gotta 
 think, wii was meant for first person shooters. I do wish it had a multiplayer feature though... 
 that would be awe some The honest little voice in your head -Drew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is a good game on other consoles, it features good graphics, and online multiplayer, 
 the Wii version takes those away and replaces it with a unique controls scheme that works most 
 of the time.
  
  Graphics: This is not a pretty looking game. There are muddy textures all over the place and has 
 a very rushed look to it. It is a launch title after all but the game just falls short in the visual 
 department. The character animations and models look decent. Every enemy you face looks exactly 
 the same though, it's like the Germans are all twins, they have the exact same face. The only thing 
 that is good graphically is the smoke effects and explosions which actually look pretty good. But 
 besides that this game could have looked much better if they had taken the time to work on the 
 visuals.
  
  Sound: The sound is the most astounding thing in the game. Every gun makes it's own sound and it 
 gives each gun a personality. The game does a great job of mimicking all the sound of battles in 
 WWII. The voice acting and dialog are o. k but are somewhat awkward in the cut-scenes. Some people 
 sound better than others. One thing that you will notice in the game is that many sounds of the 
 soldiers seem to repeat a-lot and could become annoying after a while. But all in all the sound 
 is very good.
  
  Gameplay: While there is no multiplayer at all, the controls really add some accuracy to the game, 
 there are also places where you have to use the controllers to do stuff like arm a bomb, drive, 
 shoot mortars, ect. The game seems to have a problem with some actions since you really have to 
 exaggerate certain movements to get the game to read them, the car driving for example makes use 
 of only the Wii-mote but tells you to move the nunchuck also even though the motion is being read 
 from the Wii-mote only. Then when arming the bomb or other actions, it has trouble reading the 
 movements but after trying a few times it should eventually work.
  
  Overall this is not the best version of the game to get but it does create a new way to play the 
 game. Even though there are some control issues in the game it still manages to be a fun campaign 
 mode. I recommend you rent this game first since there is no real reason to come back to it after 
 it's all said and done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EinsteinEP
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Call of Duty series is famous for fantastic first-person shooter action in a deeply immersive 
 story with award winning graphics and sound that really put you there . Call of Duty 3 for the 
 Wii is no exception. From the first 5 minutes you are thrown into the middle of the hell we now 
 call World War II, with flames, bodies, and bullets all adding to the realism. Although I've played 
 most of the WWII shooters out there, I still found myself ducking and diving to avoid on-screen 
 dangers. The developers manage to maintain this intense edge-of-your-seat feeling throughout the 
 game.
  
  Unfortunately, it's the intense link that the developers create between the player and the action 
 that sets Call of Duty 3 (Wii) up for some real disappointments. The control scheme, while not 
 broken, isn't very good. The combination of aiming and camera pointing is ingenious, but still 
 cumbersome and slow, and the enemy AI is clearly toned down to keep them from decimating you. Very 
 few of the soldiers actually move once they've seen you and most are armed with single shot rifles, 
 anyways. With the limitless health system that CoD implemented, getting shot by one of these drones 
 just gets your attention. By the time you manage to swing your view their direction and finally 
 place the dang reticle on them, they've shot you only once or twice more, while just one of your 
 shots puts them down for good.
  
  If this were the only fault with the gameplay, it'd be easy to forgive - the immersion is really 
 that good - but the Wii control failure system goes further. The two different control methods 
 for throwing hand-grenades (D-pad button or Nunchuk motion) are so fraught with issues that well 
 before the end of the game, you dread grenades - both receiving and sending.
  
  The Nunchuk motion method sounded the most promising and is great: when it works. You press a button 
 on the D-pad and then make a grenade-lobbing motion with the Nunchuk while aiming with the Wii 
 mote. Great, eh? The problem is that in order to press the D-pad button, you have to shift your 
 hand up on the Wii mote, which changes your aimpoint. You have only a few seconds to correct before 
 the grenade cooks off in your face. The most frustrating part, however, is that sometimes the game 
 doesn't recognize your motions. And it doesn't matter how many times you swing that Nunchuk around, 
 if the game decides it's not listening to you, you're dead.
  
  Whether this bug is in Call of Duty 3 or the Wii control system itself, I'm not sure, but it really 
 breaks the game. There's a feature where you can pick up enemy grenades that have been tossed to 
 you and lob them back. When you really get into the game, the frustration you feel as you watch 
 the grenade timer count down as you're swinging your left arm out of its socket is just beyond 
 description.
  
  The game offers you the chance to drive vehicles as well (a jeep and a tank) , holding the Nunchuk 
 and the Wii-mote like you would a steering wheel. Even if the control system worked well (it does 
 much better than the grenade system, but still not great) , the vehicle dynamics are just ... wrong. 
 The jeep slides and turns when it shouldn't and comes to a jarring halt against 3 wooden signposts. 
 The immersion, while probably still good, is so out of whack with the rest of the game that it 
 just feels wrong.
  
  Driving tank is a frustrating experience, but thankfully the developers put in an external camera 
 view. It would have been neat to have real tank controls, where you control the motion of each 
 tank tread, but the control scheme uses the control stick on the Nunchuk: basically point and go, 
 except it doesn't always work. Again, probably to counteract the poor controls, your tank has an 
 impressively powerful gun and equally impressive armor. Your Sherman can take literally dozens 
 of hits while destroying German tanks with single shots: something any serious WWII buff would 
 scream foul at, but probably a nit that's best chalked up to immersion improving . Between the 
 alien feel of the tank controls and the uncooperative external camera, fighting in a tank leaves 
 you feeling as vulnerable as driving the jeep that randomly skids out of control at 20 mph.
  
  All in all, I enjoyed my CoD 3 (Wii) experience, but am sincerely hoping that another FPS developer 
 will spend the time to bring the Wii's innovative control system a worthy partner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisofsteel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  The entire call of duty series is excellent!! This just seemed like an expansion pack of the second 
 one invading into France. For the WII, wireless controllers were fun to use when driving the Jeep 
 and wrestling some up close Germans. The WII controls took a little getting used to, but were much 
 better than using a joystick for pinpointing enemies through a scope. The only complaint I have 
 for this game was the fact that there was really no difference between 2 &amp; 3, just a change 
 of scenery. Overall the gameplay was excellent and the hard setting was exactly that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 changes multiplayer and superb visuals into a different kind of control scheme. 
 The swap is worth it, at least when practicing before Metroid Prime 3 Corruption.
  
  After the successful invasion in Normandy there was still a lot of war to do, and Call of Duty 
 3 tells about this period in WWII in the eyes of various Allied soldiers. This makes it hard to 
 care about your own character or your brothers in arms. Telling a story has never been a strong 
 aspect in Call of Duty and this particular problem is here again.
  
  Graphics are not as good as in Xbox360, but Wii can do better visuals than what Call of Duty 3 
 has to offer. There are also occasional frame-rate drops, which are a big disappointment. Sound 
 is great making you feel the noises of the battlefield, but there are also some serious problems 
 in it. For some reason the game does not play some sounds, which are supposed to be heard at the 
 same time. This causes you to see explosions without any sound and some annoying silences in the 
 middle of an artillery fire.
  
  Gameplay in Call of Duty 3 is very linear, so it&acute; s easy to push forward and there is never 
 a dull moment in the game: always something happens. Controls on the Wii work just fine, if you 
 have the patience to learn them, because the tutorial level is way too short. You probably want 
 to do the first mission multiple times just to be able learn the controls. There&acute; s also a 
 chance to get a sore wrist, since you can&acute; t put the wiimote down for a second: your view 
 starts immediately roll wildly everywhere and it makes you feel ill for watching it.
  
  There is no multiplayer what so ever, but instead there are some video clips and extras to dig 
 as you progress. This helps you to suck yourself into the story, because the story in the game 
 itself is very thin.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is a good practice for anyone who is waiting to play Metroid Prime 3 Corruption 
 on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  In Call of Duty 3 you'll be fighting as an American, Polish, Canadian, and British SAS soldier 
 in the Normandy Invasion campaign to retake Paris and practically everything in between. Sorry 
 no Russian front this time around.
  
  The graphics are alright although they're nowhere near as sharp or detailed as the 360 or PS3 versions. 
 For the most part the game runs pretty smooth except at some points where there are combinations 
 of large amounts of people, vehicles, and explosions on screen at the same time. The sound is pretty 
 good, bullets and explosions sound realistic and make you feel you're apart of the war. The music 
 really helps the mood of the situation ingame and the acting although exaggerated at times is good 
 for the most part. The controls are really what sets this apart from the other systems as the game 
 is pretty fun for the most part with the Wiimote. However though the game was not really designed 
 specifically for the Wii so you'll notice at times where the controls seem unresponsive and can 
 get a bit frustrating. This can be really the case if you use the nunchuck to throw grenades, which 
 sometimes won't actually throw it causing you to unnecessarily die by your own grenade. However 
 there are some fun moments such as using your two controls to form a steering to drive as well 
 using both in a bracing stance to fight off enemy soldiers in hand to hand combat, which can be 
 a nice workout depending on how intense you do it. As far as the gameplay goes, it's your typical 
 first person shooter that has pretty much you fighting to retake German occupied towns as well 
 as defending a few then and there against the German war machine. It's pretty fun for the most 
 part at first and they have some variety in the missions such as driving a SAS jeep or taking control 
 of a Polish tank, but the missions themselves are pretty linear only offering at a few select moments 
 to take a different route to an objective. So for the most part every mission becomes the same 
 clear every house/bunker and kill every Nazi you see until the mission ends, rinse wash repeat 
 until game ends. The use of the Wiimote gestures add some fun though. One thing I really don't 
 like about this game is that you can't skip the cinematic sequences even if you've previously viewed 
 them before and so you have to watch them every time you load the level and some of them can last 
 1-2 minutes.
  
  The lack of multiplayer will make the replayability of the game limited as even though the game 
 is a good length and will probably take you 10-15 hours to beat, more than likely once you beat 
 it you'll probably never play any of the missions again as there are no special unlockables for 
 going back into a mission. The only unlockable extras you get are for when you beat the game like 
 some video interviews with some of the old war veterans who were at the some of the actual battles 
 as well as concept art and pics and brief info on all the weapons and vehicles in the game. Overall 
 Call of Duty 3 is still a fun game for people who like FPS and the World War 2 genre. I recommend 
 renting it though rather than buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinal15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  CoD 1 was a bummer I hated the game so much. When CoD 2 came out it was better but still did not 
 like it, well CoD 3 changed that. CoD3 has to be the best war game ever made to date. The story 
 was realy good. I wished we could play as the rushins but oh well. The places, citys, towns and jungles 
 were done very well. This game was never boring filled with action I had to have my water bottle 
 beside be at all times. The charaters are very good and it was a ashame that some had to die but 
 oh well. The sniping system was easy to use and very good for headshots then the other games. The 
 wii version in my mind is the best because of the controlls. Fighting, pointing the gun, swintching 
 guns and blowing **** up was fun. The only bad thing about the wii version is no multi but it made 
 up for the story mode. The interviews with vetrans was a nice thing to see to honnor the young 
 man and woman who sacerficed there selfs for us. I just would like to say you should buy it you 
 wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  If there's one thing that wii can do is make a FPS like noone else can. Call of Duty 3 for the 
 wii is such a game. You have great use of the motion controls that the wii mote and the nunchuck 
 do. Including times like fighting off a german officer that wants your gun, planting a charge for 
 a bang, or even rowing a rowboat. Besides that you have your band of brothers forming a nice story 
 around the game as well. This game is a must buy for wii players even if they're not big FPS fans 
 because this game takes shooters to another level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfonzoZ121
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This was a blast....... while it lasted. I beat this game in like 3 days, but i didnt play all day 
 so that cuts of on some time. It was just like any other Call of Duty. I did like it. But it still 
 was disappointing. Too short and the same old same old. Other than that it was a pretty good game. 
 Now that it was for the wii it was a little funner. Like when you drive, you have to steer with 
 the remote. Another bad thing is..... there is no multiplayer. I like most games with a good multiplayer. 
 Like halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty may be frustrating at points, but it does a excellent job of bringing the WWII series 
 to the Wii. The controls are great in terms of shooting and walking and camera and all that stuff. 
 There are 2 controlls that really annoy me, which is driving the jeep and setting explosives, as 
 they often don't work. It is a fun and addicting single player campaign mode, but it is a little 
 too short, but still really fun. I had trouble really following the story and which character i 
 was using, but you don't need to know that. All you need to know is how to shoot the Germans. Kill 
 those Jerries!!! That phrase is often used in the game. That's pretty much all you do in the game, 
 but in different enviorments, so the story is poorly excecuted. Also its lack of multiplayer mad 
 it lose some more points, but overall Call of Duty is a solid game, and you should get it, but 
 if you could only afford one game, and you want it to ge a multiplayer game, get Medal of Honor: 
 Vanguard, but Call of Duty 3's single player is much better than Medal of Honor's, in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Well the 3rd and last Call of Duty game set during the world war 2 ear is here. And while presenting 
 the players with intense battles that really do make you feel like you are in the heart of the 
 action. The game just does not devliver where it should.
  
  Bad:
  The first negative thing about this game is the lack of multi-player, with no online or off line 
 multi-play at all, this hinders the game not only in comparison to its xbox360 and ps3 versions 
 but also to the numerous other FPS games out there that offer this now quite simple feature.
  
  Second negative on this game is the AI, half the time dispite being surrounded
  by a squad 
 of battle harden soldiers, you find yourself fighting almost every battle single handedly, against 
 stupidly high odds. But the AI isnt the only
  bad thing about this game for some reason still unknown when in a battle the Wii controls stop 
 working and your character will randomly look at the ground or sky and walk backwards and forwards, 
 and when being attacked by German troops this does not really help as it takes a while to regain 
 control
  
  Good:
  One of the things that first caught my eye were the games graphics, dispite not being as good as 
 the 360 version of the game they are still impressive and present a detailed battleground.
  Gameplay: with the added motion controls it really does feel like you are shotting a gun or feeding 
 off an enemy in hand to hand combat, this helps add to the realism of the game and makes for a 
 much more better experience.
  
  In short if you have played the other 2 CoD games then this is more of the same, if not then this 
 is a treat if you want a good old fasioned FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfear
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot and I think the graphics are well achieved CONSIDERING THIS IS A Wii Game. 
 The gameplay is fun and the missions are great, but this one could be way better if Activision 
 had put a multiplayer option on it. The missions are well structured with a lot of varied objectives 
 to complete. Call of Duty 3 captures well the essence of the war and the Normandy Breakout and 
 has a good one-player mode. However, I insist, putting a multiplayer option on this game would 
 make the game a much, much better game. I invite you to try the game, it is really worth playing! 
 Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblackshadow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 , though short and has bad graphics, is a great FPS game for the WII, mainly because 
 of the amazing controls the wiimote provides:
  
  You Aim with your remote and change weapons/relode with your nunchuck. you hold them like a steering 
 wheel and drive a Jeep, and many other uses that will make you feel your inside the game. the control 
 will first apear to be annoyingly difficult, but when u get used to it and find the perfect sensitivity 
 option for you, it will be the smoothest FPS control u ever experienced.
  
  The sound in the game is another thing that makes this game worth playing, the people fighting 
 with you will shout things like: REALOADING , etc. that will make u feel you're in a REAL war, 
 and the war music is nice. As for the graphics, most maps have really bad details (specially in 
 the begining) but some are ok. the movies have good graphics though, but its irritating to watch 
 them over and over again because u cant skip them...
  
  The short campaig is fun if you're playing it for the first time. Rent this game if u can or borrow 
 it from a friend (thats what i did) because its SOO short you can finish it in one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watzup555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is good game for the wii. This time you must liberate Paris after the Normandy landings. 
 You play as the Americans, British, Polish, and the Canadians. You use the wii remote to aim, switch 
 weapons, throw gernades and melee attack. You use the nunchuack to move, and to crouch, stand or 
 go prone. You also use the remote and nunchuack to use a motar, control a tank, drive a jeep, plant 
 exlposives and more. The game has some flaws though. Its not as detailed as the game for the ps3 
 and 360. If you pull the remote away from the tv, it spins non-stop. Otherwise it is a good game. 
 I recommened getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs459
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Where to begin... First the overall interactiveness of this game is just unbelieveable, like jabbing 
 the remote forward to do your melee attack or moving the nun chuck in an upwards motion causes 
 your character to reload is gun. One of my favourite parts in this game is when you have to drive 
 the jeep because its just like driving a car, only without a gas pedal and a brake. There are some 
 downfalls to this game, like when operating a turret it is very hard to control the direction of 
 the turret and when you do move it in the direction you want it to, it is very hard to stop it. 
 One of my least favourite levels is when you have to be the Polish forces in the tank because the 
 barrel of the tank is kind of like controlling a turret because it is hard to stop moving when 
 it starts. Overall, even though people were telling me that it wasn't a very good game (All of 
 these people do not have a Wii and have never played it) i still went ahead (and listened to my 
 friends who have a Wii with this game and told me its a must for Wii) and bought this game. I don't 
 regret buying it and its amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  OK so this game game out multiplat fourm and i thought red steal was bad but this maby alot beter 
 and it was but it was not as good as other verson of the game. This plays like all first person 
 shooters and it gives you a feal of like your in miny battles. The wii verson gives you the inavathion 
 of the controller (witch controls decently) . The graphics are not the best ive scene but this is 
 the wii and it dosent pack as big of a puch the sound the gunshots and voice acting is good and 
 the value is prety bad with no ONLINE play its just a rent nothing special so the gameplay is good 
 but with no online it turns 2 a 7
  graphics 6
  sound 9
  value 5
  tilt 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- 10
  Graphics- 8
  Sound- 9
  Value- 7
  Tilt- 8
  
  When i was in the store to buy a wii game, i was confused.. i didnt know what game was the game 
 that i wont regret (other than Zelda because i already have it) . After a lot of thinking i decided 
 to get COD3. The moment i entered home i tried it, played for a while... the game was worth it and 
 i didnt regret it at all.
  The game is exciting all the time, no dull moment and one of the other good things about it is 
 the way soldiers talk in the game -- it makes you feel as if you are their comrades and you got to 
 know their personality better.
  The controls of the game look very hard at the beginning, but trust me.... later on they'll be FUN 
 and EASY.
  
  The bad things are obvious -- NO MULTIPLAYER and a short gameplay for about 9 or 10 hours. But the 
 game is surprisingly hard that i had to play it with the difficulty as easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajh20
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  this it time for us to play call of duty 3. Activision is maintain there releases in correct time. 
 call of duty 3 is a amazing game for the wii. if you play call of duty 1&amp;2 you can fell the 
 importance of the call of duty 3. it is pretty interesting to play. if you decide to play that 
 you can't never come back again.
  
  mainly the graphics are amazing. i don't want to tell about that. because you all are know about 
 Activision. the sound are perfect. if you watch gameplays you imagine what type of game is this. 
 it is a really amazing historic first-person shooter. if you started to play you can fell that 
 you in the part of the situation. the game is remind that the war happened that before.
  
  the good thing is buy and try this one. you can enjoy it............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicRevolution
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  To the fans of the Call of Duty series, you might find this a disappointment compared to other 
 games in the series and some may find it good, but to new comers of the series this game in my 
 opinion is worth the buy. The game play for Call of Duty 3 can be tricky and annoying to master 
 at first, but eventually grows on you. A new ability of being able to throw back live grenades 
 from the enemy has been added and works well, most of the time. The new close combat is fresh, 
 but isn't really exciting or hard to do. The aiming can be hard to get used to, but you get used 
 to it and the same goes for the grenade throwing. There are 2 options for throwing grenades, either 
 you hold down the control pad and let go to throw the grenade or you press the control pad to get 
 the grenade ready and cooking and then you swing the nun chuck as if you were throwing a grenade.
 
  One aspect of the controls that is frustrating and could have been improved is the driving sequences, 
 sometimes the remote doesn't respond properly and sometimes the remote gets a mind of it's own 
 and continues to drive even after you've stopped pressing buttons.
  
  The graphics are good to look at, but they could have been vastly improved. The common glitch of 
 an Al's body appearing through walls isn't missed in Call of Duty 3 and sometimes dead bodies land 
 in impossible positions. This doesn't harm the game play at all, but it makes it feel that less 
 bit realistic. Apart from that good game play and video graphics.
  
  Sound is fantastic and creates a great feeling of being surrounded by gunfire and bombs, which 
 helps the player feel more alert and alive to the games surroundings. Overall I would say that 
 the game isn't perfect, but still well worth the rent and even the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawny-boy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game because of the controls. Pointing the Wii remote at the screen like 
 you had a real gun was fun. Some of the other controls weren't that great like driving but, once 
 you get passed those parts its not bad.
  
  I gave gameplay a 9/10 because, like i said, use of the Wii remote was really easy and fun. Also, 
 the nunchuck served as a pretty good attachment.
  
  I gave graphics a 6/10 because lets face it, for Wii, those graphics suck. They reminded me of 
 PS2 graphics. I was very disappointed but, luckily, it didn't change the gameplay.
  
  Sound was an 8/10 because the gun noises were really realistic but, some of the guns sounded the 
 same.
  
  Value got an 7/10 because for $40 i think it was totally worth it. The bad thing is that after 
 you beat the game, there is nothing else to do. Also, its only single player which isn't that great.
 
  
  Finally, the tilt is a 9/10 because i enjoyed this game and recommend it for all WWII, 1st person 
 shooters, and Call of Duty fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii makes a debut on the Nintendo Wii as a launch game. And, as expected 
 from a launch game, isn't the best game out there. However, it is a fairly decent game and has 
 controls that really add to the experience... when they work. Call of Duty 3 follows a number of 
 different Allied groups during WW2, and while the story isn't very engaging, it does bring home 
 that each soldier was a small part in a larger war.
  
  The Wiimote seems like a perfect match for the FPS genre and it is, it's just no games have really 
 taken it all the way to make an awesome game. Call of Duty 3 attempts to use the unique Wii controls 
 in a productive way. You fire by pointing at the screen and pulling the B trigger on the Wii mote. 
 However, this is not very accurate. The best way to combat those Nazis is to aim down the weapon's 
 sights by holding the A button. This control scheme is rather intuitive and satisfying. Reloading 
 is done simply by flicking the Nunchuk upwards and to switch weapons (you can hold two at a time) 
 you flick the nunchuk sideways. Grenades however, are difficult. First you must reach over to the 
 D pad, then you simulate throwing it by moving the Nunchuk in a throwing motion. This seems like 
 a good way to do this, however, reaching to the D pad almost always messes up your aim, and then 
 throwing the grenade does not always register. And with that, you will be killed by your own grenade.
 
  
  The graphics are fairly dissapointing compared to other titles like Red Steel. The character models 
 look decent, but are distinctly last-gen. Also, the enviromental graphics leave something to be 
 desired, having a lot of blocky green and brown textures. The physics engine is something to be 
 praised in this department though, considering when an enemy is hit by a grenade they will fall 
 or fly accordingly.
  
  The sound is also somewhat dissapointing from a WW2 game. While the orchestral scores are exciting, 
 they are just too few and far between. The weapons' sound effects are decent, but sometimes you 
 can't hear the enemy or allies firing even when they're a couple feet away from you, losing the 
 realistic sense of the game.
  
  The game does attempt to offer some replayability with higher difficulties, but unless you're a 
 huge fan of the series or just have some downtime every now and then, you probably won't be seeing 
 yourself replaying it. The game does last anywhere from 10-12 hours, and is fairly satisfying while 
 it lasts.
  
  Call of Duty 3 is not the best WW2 shooter out there, but is the first one on the Wii, which is 
 enough to excite most. The controls generally work well and you will most likely enjoy the game 
 while it lasts. However, it does leave a lot to be improved on, and hopefully the issues will be 
 addressed by others willing to make WW2 shooters on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  call of duty and wii were meant to be i love this game its my favourite game for the wii it has 
 excellent controls with the wii mote people say its hard but its easier then a stupid analog stick. 
 levels are great they are all in France for the Normandy breakout. you can be a number of country 
 squads from USA, England, France, and Poland. the weapons are good too mostly the same in previous 
 call of duties. And theres some parts in the game you get to drive a car you hold the nunchuk and 
 the wii mote like a steering wheel and drive. And there are also some parts where you put bombs 
 are barrels and buildings and stuff and you screw in the pin with the nunchunk and then take it 
 out with the nunchuck. there are also a bunch of nazis to kill to and bazukas to blow up there 
 tanks. if your looking for a shooting game or a game in general to buy then buy call of duty 3 
 its only 40$ youll have alot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studwig
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The controls make it a pretty good game. Call Of Duty 3 does a great job of showcasing the wii's 
 capability in a first person shooter. The only things holding this game back is that it is too 
 short and fairly easy no matter what the difficulty. I like the shooting aspect but it takes a 
 little getting used to. A multiplayer would have been a good feature in this one. If your a fan 
 of the traditional war games this game will amaze you on the aiming part but you'll find much of 
 this game to be the same old war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  i have been a big fan of the call of duty series and have finished the first two games, i was definitely 
 going to get call of duty 3 and surprise surprise , i did.
  
  my first reactions were that it looked good but, as i discovered, looks can be deceiving. the graphics 
 aren't that bad and they are playable, but sometimes they can be a bit boring and dull. the sound 
 is pretty much the same as the graphics with some good effects and environmental sounds but some 
 rather bad voice acting. the gameplay would be the best part of this game with some good missions 
 to do as well as the odd surprise every now and again.
  
  this game falls short of the others for two reasons, one is the lack of multiplayer which would 
 have certainly given this game a bit more depth, and the other is the controls. the controls are 
 average anyway but what makes it worse is the unresponsiveness, the dodgy motion sensing and the 
 bad accuracy of the weapons themselves.
  
  this game isn't all bad but i would only recommend it to fans of the series. a real disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greekgoddj
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game but not as good as medal of honour vanguard. It is longer than Medal of Honour, 
 but the graphics are not as good and the controls can be annoying. In medal of honour, you can 
 do things like throw gernades by moving your hand, and the harder your movement the further its 
 thrown. You can also do things such a lean behind walls to shoot, rather than have to move your 
 whole body away from the wall to shoot, in Cal of Duty.
  
  Probably the worse thing about this game is setting explosives. The controls are garbage... it WON't 
 Properly remoe the pin! It says to move your hand backwards but that just doesnt work. Sometimes 
 you are stuck there moving your hand like an idiot for up to a minute... the game is fast and chaotic 
 and here you are stuck with your hand trying to pull the pin out!
  
  There are serious bugs also in some parts where there are just TOO MANY things going on and clearly 
 the Wii cannot handle it.. it then just stutters and you harldy can control your character. This 
 happens at least twice. At first I thought it was the batteries but it clearly is a problem with 
 the game. Either optimize the game more, or put less complexity to the scene.
  
  Call of duty is better than MEdal of Honour in some ways that you can drive a car, and a tank.
 
  
  Overall a good game, but not as good a Medal of Honour Vanguard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorL
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Alright, Call of Duty is a great game. Big Red One was great, so you usually expect this to be 
 just about as good.
  
  Well, you sorta would be right, but while playing Big Red One you feel it is thick and strong, 
 playing this, you start to realize, it skinny, and lacks depth. First of all, the developers just 
 assumed they had reached the graphical abilities of the Wii when they made this... So why does 
 it look like Playstation 1? The only actually good graphics I see here, are those flashy gun flashes! 
 Oooh, you have really out-done yourself there, Activision!
  
  On a good note, aside from graphics, CoD3 is fun and easy to get into, and it will keep you entertained 
 for a long time. And if your a semi-hardcore gamer like me, you'll have it finished in two days. 
 Wow. Two days. No, not: Wow, that took me just over 48 hours to complete! . Two days, I mean about 
 3 hours of gameplay a day, two days. And then you are left hanging thinking; That was no end! I 
 was just beginning to actually get to know the characters! . You see, Call of Duty 2: Big Red One, 
 you knew the characters, and actually fought for them, like they were real. Which, infact, they 
 WERE. Big Red One was a real infantry division. In this game, you don't give a hoot if one dies! 
 The other characters don't either! Just like you, they watch their comrad die, shrug it off, and 
 start cracking jokes to you!
  
  And, to top it off, this game has NO replay value. Being a CoD fan, I KNOW this. Comparing this 
 to Big Red One again, you could replay that game a million times and never get bored. Possibly 
 tired, and die, but never get bored, if you had immunity. With this game, you don't want to replay 
 this. Thats how fun it is! This game is still great, but, once again, does not live up to its hype.
 
  
  Some of you may be complaining, saying: I want multi-player! 
  You may have witnessed me say this before. Nintendo has not given permission to 3rd party game 
 makers, to use Wi-Fi yet. Therefore, I, for one, am NOT complaining.
  
  The sound, on the the other hand, requires NO explanation. it is amazing.
  
  I give this game 
 overall, a 7.0, out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Being a Call of Duty fan since the very first one came out all thoose years ago. This one seems 
 perfect to wrap up the, if not greatest, WWII series that has been so good to its players. Remebering 
 the awesome multiplayer gem of the first Call of Duty, and the better single player of Call of 
 Duty 2. This one enhances the single player experience, but has one mighty downfall... and it can 
 be summed up in one question: Where is the multiplayer? So with that said lets get on with the 
 review, sans the multiplayer section.
  
  The graphics. The graphics for the other systems looked goregous, but for the Wii they only look 
 so-so. Yes they may be a smidge above the Gamecube's or PS2's , but by looking at screenshots and 
 gameplay footage of the PS3 or 360 the graphics look junnky at best. So then a better thing to 
 do is to compare them to other Wii and Gamecube games. Overall they look quite well. The characters 
 have a nice detail to themselves, but in my opinon they look a little shinny. The guns and explosion 
 have a slight upgrade which keep them looking crisper than in the last games. While the smoke stays 
 the same, which could be a bad or good thing as it was always higher quality smoke than others. 
 The controls. This is the main reason why this was purchased in my case. After having Red Steel 
 fail misserably on me, I had little hopes about the controls on another early FPS. Overall the 
 controls were similar to Red Steel's, but they have more of a response. The response has the gun 
 spin around more slowly and doesn't spaz out as much. But enough with the compare contrast thing 
 and back to the review. The controls were decent for an early FPS for the Wii. Throwing grendades 
 were alright and the aimming was very good. Every once and awhile there would be a spasstic moment, 
 but could easily be fixed with a quick flick. Drive cars were somewhat of an experience though.
 
  
  The sound. This part did not seem to be changed from the other Call of Duty's making it sound outdated 
 and boring. With no new weapons or anything else there was nothing much to change. Leaving this 
 catergory a little lower than it has in the past.
  
  The multipalyer... wait there was none... so then lets review the single player. The single player 
 seemed to be much longer (by an hour or two) and also gained something that it never really had 
 before. It is the cinematics. The cinematics all had a graphical update and made teh game seem 
 more like a movie rather then a video game. Other than that there was still the wave after wave 
 of Nazis and the constant screaming of comrades on the battle field. Overall the game is nice, 
 but could be more fun if it had some sort of multiplayer even if it had to be played split screened. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Playing Call of Duty 3, which is a WWII game focused on the battles that took place during the 
 liberation of Paris, for the Nintendo Wii seemed like a great risk to play since the last big first 
 person shooter, Red Steel, was utterly unplayable. Thankfully, the gun-movement controls of Call 
 of Duty 3 have been refined, if ever so slightly, from Red Steels controls, which makes shooting 
 actually possible in this game. Although there are some other Wii-exclusive controls that give 
 the game some substance, this game is ultimately a downgraded port from the PS3 and X-Box 360.
 
  
  As mentioned above, the controls for Call of Duty 3 are designed around the Wiis motion control 
 functions. While you snap in the Nunchuck attachment to move, you point the WiiMote at the screen 
 to use your gun. As with any Wii game, as soon as you move your remote out of the sensor bar area, 
 your character spins wildly in a circle, often causing motion sickness to the player or death to 
 your character. Aside from this now all-too-familiar-problem for Wii games, the shooting is surprisingly 
 much better than horribly demonstrated in Red Steel and the guns also have a heavier feel to 
 them- meaning that your bazooka doesnt aim or move as quickly as your sub-machine gun. Surprisingly 
 enough, there were quite a few other WiiMote functions in the game. One instance when you are driving 
 a vehicle, you are to hold the Nunchuck and WiiMote at 9 oclock and 3 oclock respectively, as 
 if holding a real steering wheel in a car. This position didnt work too well however, due to the 
 lack of the actual weight of a steering wheel in your hands, often causing a fiery crash. Another 
 WiiMote addition was to whack Germans in the face during an interactive cutscene. Here, you follow 
 the on-screen commands to fight off a relentless German, usually by pumping the controllers and 
 slashing them together down over his head. As with the driving, the controls were not properly 
 matched, causing me sore arms after about five minutes of pumping and slashing. Other mentions 
 include holding the WiiMote as you would a oar to row a boat to shore and planting explosives by 
 pushing and twisting the Nunchuck to set the fuse. Overall, the controls respond okay, but often 
 fail or glitch in the heat of battle.
  
  The game play in Call of Duty 3 is consistently mediocre. When shooting at the Germans, you will 
 often waste a whole clip trying to decimate one solider where as the next soldier dies from a far 
 off fragmentation grenade. For most of the game, I would be melee attacking the troops or shooting 
 them at pointblank range due to their seemingly invulnerability to bullets from only short distances 
 away; I felt that even when zoomed in on their heads, my shots only whizzed by their ears as they 
 stumbled to the ground but jumped up again apparently unscathed. Another problem I soon encountered 
 was the clearly designed re-spawn points that the enemies would appear from. I often would stare 
 into an empty corner where I had just slaughtered an enemy only to soon watch another flat, lifeless 
 character rise from the ground or wall and start to shoot me. Other annoying re-spawn points would 
 be found at the edges of the maps, where you could see dozens of troops running towards you, all 
 of which were unable to be shot at although they could shoot at you. This would especially be a 
 concern when I was depositing an explosive, only to get shot to death by the endless waves of troops. 
 And as with many other games for the Wii, this game does not support any multiplayer. If this console 
 is supposed to bring players together, the Wii is going to need some good multiplayer games, including 
 first person shooters. These presumably little game play problems made the game experience a big, 
 heaping pile of frustration.
  
  After playing the other versions of this port, Call of Duty 3 for the Wii doesnt hold up in the 
 graphics, sound, or options that the other two versions offer. The graphics are bland and flat, 
 the sound is muffled and boring, and the options are scarce- no multiplayer and no online play. 
 Although this game version of the game isnt an award-winner, if you havent played the PS3 or 
 X-Box 360 versions and really love the Call of Duty series, then I recommend just renting this 
 game; save your money for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly a good start for FPS shooters for the Wii but there is a long way to go 
 before it gets to the standard were used to. FPS shooters are one of the most popular genres in 
 gaming and because of this many ground breaking games have been made in this area. Unfortunately 
 this means for new games on the market there is a lot to live up to and the added problem of the 
 Wii re-inventing the controls makes it all the more difficult. The controls while in some instances 
 take some getting used to are not as difficult as some people make out and the more you play it 
 the easier it becomes. Using the wiimote to aim is akin to riding a bike, while seemingly impossible 
 at first, once you get the knack it becomes second nature. While the wiimote mini-games are hit 
 and miss they do lend a variety to the game and in some instances like the driving missions, can 
 be a lot of fun. The graphics are rich but dated they have plenty of action going on but appear 
 significantly grainy. I am predominantly a PC FPS game player and because of this I am more accustomed 
 to state of the art graphics, which aren't always the case on console games; so i believe my perception 
 of the graphics may be somewhat slanted due to the spoils of the PC. The sound is excellent however 
 and help to add greatly to the atmosphere.
  
  The big let down however is only experienced late on in the game with the last few levels. In a 
 bid to add to the chaos and atmosphere they push the wii right to its limits. The action going 
 on however is one step too far and this creates lag spikes and freeze ups the seriously hinder 
 play. In the last couple of levels the game is virtually unplayable as you find there is a 3 - 
 4 second delay to the move you make and a response on the screen. This is the first time i have 
 experienced lag or a drop in FPS on a console game and didn't think it was possible. I was severly 
 disappointed as the reason you buy console games is to avoid these pitfalls that are more commonly 
 associated with PC games. In conclusion, great idea, enjoyable game just ruined by the machines 
 limitations creating laggy play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilafrica14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is one of Wii's games which uses the Wii remote as the crosshairs for the gun (of 
 course) . The controls are pretty simple, but sometimes the wii-mote can be aggravating, especialy 
 in my case when im chunking the grenades, because it sometimes wont recognize that i threw it, 
 so I die.
  The game would've been 10x better if they added multiplayer play, maybe some more weapons, and 
 a little more work on the controls.
  For the most part, Call of Duty 3 is a pretty solid game, which shows excellent voice acing, decent 
 graphics, simplistic gameplay, and nice sounds/music.
  If you're new to the Wii in need for a WWII game, you should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waitaseck
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game is great at a reasonable price. I wouldnt recommend it at $49.99 but anything lowerm 
 would be good. The shooting portions of the game are great. The gun wrestling part is sometimes 
 unresposive so you have to work a lot. Sometimes, planting bombs is also unresponsive. The graphics 
 are great for the wii, especially the cutscenes. The game always has the perfect tone of music 
 at the right time. The tutorial is a little short so you will have to learn a lot by yourself. 
 This was my first Call of Duty game. It has little replay value unless you try the different difficulties. 
 Overall, this game is better than I expected, but falls a little short of its price. I myself got 
 it for $19.99 so it was a good deal. Multiplayer would have made this game a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicinkee
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  After looking at all the dissapointing first-person shooters for the Wii, I thought, can't there 
 be one good fps for the Wii? Oh, I know! Call of Duty 3 will be there to save the day!!!!!! Or, 
 at least I thought. Of course, the game takes place in World War II, during the Breakout of Normandy. 
 So, in other words, kill lots of nazis and serve your country. The game starts out alright, I guess. 
 A little tutorial in the begining, which could have been alittle bit more, but was sufficent, I 
 guess. You start out, after a long period of doing nothing, on the battlefield. It starts out pretty 
 fun, but then, you have a little fight with a nazi a melee fight, and well, I couldn't even get 
 past that. I know i'm probably a noob, but the controls are extremely unresponsive. I've tried 
 it many times, in so many different ways, but, well, its just terrible. Don't even rent it unless 
 you have the pacience with waving around you arms with little results until you finally get it. 
 Why did a great game like this have to be spoiled by messed up Wii controls, why????? Besides, 
 that, the graphics are really bad, the sound is actually the best part and sounds very realistic, 
 I guess it has some replay value, but the unlockables are usless, and, well, if you are looking 
 for a good first person shooter for the Wii, wait for one to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is filled with action. If you are not shooting then you are doing a ton of things wrong. 
 The gameplay works well and I only had problems throwing the grenades. The aiming works very well 
 and you will rarely find yourself spinning in circles. The graphics are good. There are some muddy 
 areas in the game but they are still good. The sound for the game is great with realistic shooting 
 and explosions. The game is short but oh so sweet. You will have quite a good time with this game. 
 This is a war experience that I reccomend you should at least rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playthehorn
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  When I got a Wii, Call of Duty 3 was the first game I played. When I was going through all of the 
 training, I would shoot at something and immediately let the remote drop, making the view spin 
 around and around. It was kind of funny, yet kind of nauseating. Besides this, the controls were 
 relatively easy to get used to. Now- moving on to the controls, the motion controls have absolutely 
 no resemblence to the action performed (except when setting bombs.) This I found very, very annoying, 
 especially after I started to play some Twilight Princess, where the controls are pretty much perfect. 
 The AI and difficulty settings work very well, but there is still no multiplayer, which is also 
 not very fun at all. The Missions are reasonably well made but some can be a little lengthy. There 
 is also a severe void in the variety of available weapons. It is reasonably fun to play, but it 
 got really old really fast. Oh well. I'm sure that on any other console it would be a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii has an awsome campaign that includes different armies, good characters, 
 and fun action. The graphics in this game are the best I have seen for the wii yet and really makes 
 the game look great. The sound on the other hand isn't that great, only because sometimes you can't 
 hear your squad-mates talking at all unless you aren't facing them which is really wierd. The characters 
 really make the game worth playing because instead of just having random soldiers, you sort of 
 get to know your squad which adds more depth to the game. I would have loved to see mulitplayer 
 on this game because I think it would have turned out quite well and would have been really fun. 
 All in all, I think this game is definitly a game you should try but it probably doesn't have too 
 much replay value and isn't an extremely long game so, with the absence of multiplayer, I wouldn't 
 buy it, but would just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arry_ng3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  As it is my first experiance for FPS on my Wii some wont agree with some of my oppinions.
  
  Before playing i strongly suggest reading ur manual (not what most of us do anyway) but it 
 explains all the buttons for stuff playing in game doesnt.
  
  Controls:
  
  Firstly it started off -OK- intro to the game and how to use the buttons was short and sweet, (not 
 complaining) but the way to control ur player was very hard to start off with, tuck me about a 
 hour to fully get used to them. but thats what i was expecting anyway seems as its a Wii and how 
 else would you have to control ur person.
  
  I also tried the grenade gesture option (change in options) where you had to mimic a throw with 
 your knuckle duster... that got turned off straight away as my grenade kept blowing up in my hand.
 
  
  To lean around corners you have to litrilly lean, thats really good i like that
  
  The Missions:
  
  Story seems Call of Duty-ish, reminds me of Brothers in Arms alot for some 
 reason but anyway missions are typical COD missions, shoot and run shoot and run
  
  Pros: Wii-tastic of corse, uses quite alot of the Wii's powers with control Front cover looks juicy
 
  
  Cons:
  
  Graphics are alittle on the shabby side
  lots of glitches and lag
  music is abit loud (no option to turn it down) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tukkertje1992
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  You're some soldiers from France, Poland, England and America and you fight against the German. 
 And you have to walk or drive around France. First you get a little exercise and then you'll be 
 dropped in a gigantic battle field, where you will be shot from all over the place. Hiding is their 
 very difficult. When you have to storm an house there are some guys behind with a machinegun on 
 a standard. They are very hard to kill with a normal machine gun or pistol, and if you killed him, 
 not 5 seconds later there is a new one. When have that machine gun with standard, its is damn 
 hard to aim, because its very sensitive. When you have a little wrestle with a German guy the 
 controls dont react very well when youre using the control like they say. Driving isnt easy 
 as well, because the controls dont react good here as well. Placing bombs or spinning wheels is 
 annoying too because the controls dont react well as well. You have to make the move 6 or 7 times. 
 You cant skip the movies and see them every time when youll restart the level. Only the sounds 
 are pretty good, but it isnt fantastic. Overall, this game sucks really hard. Robin Kramer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 29, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  The day I put this game in my wii I was thinking about bringing some guys over and beat the sh*t 
 out of them, after I practice overcourse. That very day I saw the menu screen and noticed an odd 
 site. THEIR'S NO MULTIPLAYER CHOICE. Why didn't they put a multiplayer in here. It wouldn't be 
 very hard to. Red Steel did it and so could Call of Duty. Just do it.
  
  I'm going to have to say that this game was disappointing. First of all the graphics are out-dated. 
 I thought the world was done, with octagon guns. I thought the world had smooth cylinder guns instead. 
 This game sure prooved me wrong in that category.
  
  The gameplay was akward. When you go off screen the view flies around everywhere. This makes it 
 neccesary to keep your hand pointed at the screen at all times. But it doesn't end their. At this 
 point you must keep your wiimote directed at the absolute middle of the screen in order for your 
 gun to not move up and down. If you point the wiimote slightly in another direction your gun will 
 start to move. This makes it harder to kill enemies and makes sniping much more difficult. If you 
 want to buy this game, get it for Xbox 306. Only becuase you get better graphics, better controls, 
 and a multiplayer. The sound is amazing. Fantastic sound. It sounds so realistic and really gets 
 you into the game. If you are interested in playing it for the Wii. I would reccomend renting it. 
 Their isn't any reason to keep the game. If you buy it you will end up beating it and selling it. 
 That's what I did and it is bound to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean2339
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I got a little frustrated. No matter what I did I could not stop 
 my screen from spinning out of control. But after about half an hour of play time, the Wiis control 
 scheme worked for me better than any other game I have ever played. Unlike traditional analog sticks, 
 the Wiis pointer adds quick precision and fun. It along with the great sound, and well timed rumble 
 makes this game feel like the middle of WW2. That makes this game well worth the money. I think 
 when this game was first reviewed the reviewers were not quite ready for the Wiis control style. 
 I think now that the Wiis been out for a wile this game can finally be appreciated for the greatness 
 it truly is. Oh and yes, this game is so much fun that now Halo 2 system link with my friends feels 
 like a chore. This game beets red steal and medal of honor because the screen moves with the pointer. 
 In the other games the pointer can go fairly wide with out the screen moving. This fps style makes 
 COD 3 for the Wii one of the most fun games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Higgo2006
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 23, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is the first game i bought for the Wii. I'm still glad i bought it as it was entertaining 
 with its excellent graphics, which were alot better than i expected, and its unique wii controls 
 which were enjoyable and easy to pick up. This game lacked alot. There wasn't a great choice of 
 weapons and the sounds of the guns was pretty dull and low. The storyline was average. The missions 
 were good but as the game progresses the missions do not and you are left playing the same old 
 throughout the game. An all round enjoyable game but i lost interest quicker than i'd have like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsoundman
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game before buying and was glad I did. It was a lot of fun, but it seemed rather 
 short. It ended way to fast. I was looking for at least one more really good fight when up comes 
 the credits. It was very anticlimactic. I beat the game in under eight hours. Another thing is 
 you have to watch the opening video sequence for each level all the way through every time you 
 have to restart a level. You should be able to skip this on restarts. Also once you've played it 
 once there's not really any replay. Overall it was enjoyable and I would recommend renting it, 
 but I would not buy because of lack of replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseolDragon
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This is the best shooter for the Wii (So Far) . The levels are exciting and intense. You have about 
 12+ missions. You are just a special soldier in a unique batalion for the USA, British, Canada, 
 and Poland. The sequels and cutsense are great. Making you fell like as if your watching a movie. 
 The AI players are welled-desgined and about perfectly realistic. The Wii control schemes are somewhat 
 awkard, But its o. k. This game a make you feel pretty much in the zone. Sadly, there is a few downfall 
 for this. One is there is no multiplayer, like the PS3 and Xbox360. This can defindently ruin the 
 replay. But hopefully, the creaters of the Wii, Will make an online-gaming-network for later games 
 that will be release soon. The graphics is similiar to the PS2, but the Wii quality is little better. 
 But who cares, its stil a fun game to play. I recommend this game for those call of duty fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7arek
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 18, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I have to be honest here. I never played through a WWII FPS before this game. I know, I know, 
 this review might be a little inaccurate to almost every gamer whos played one before, but I think 
 everyone can agree that its good. So when I first popped this game in my expectations werelow. 
 I mean, every third party developer treats the Wiis graphics like its last generation, and Im 
 warning you, theres nothing great about the graphics here. Playing through the game I got hung 
 up, stuck in walls, seen enemies get stuck in walls, and just didnt really enjoy any of the visuals 
 period! Also, the audio sounded almost muffled to me in the game, and during the cut-scenes, I 
 had to actually face away from the characters to hear what they were saying (that was my biggest 
 problem about the game) . Also, let me remind you that this is just another run-of-the-mill WWII 
 FPS, so its not going to feel fresh to anyone whos played a previous one, but it does to me. 
 Ok, with all these negative points, how could I possibly give this game a good score? The controls. 
 Seriously, the shooting in this game works great, and once you get the hang of planting charges, 
 and doing other tasks my the use of motion, they work well too. I played this whole game standing 
 up, and I didnt feel like sitting down once, theres so much action and Nazi-killing goodness 
 in this game its very hard to put down. However, I did have a few issues with the controls, like 
 the driving. Let me explain: to drive you have to hold the nunchuk and wii-mote up and down, parallel 
 to each other, and you have to rotate them as if theyre apart of some imaginary wheel. It sucks, 
 it feels unresponsive, and you often find yourself accidentally discovering new ways to do it more 
 efficiently, which makes you look even more stupid. Ok, that pretty much wraps up everything I 
 have to say about this game, so if youre someone whos got a wii, and looking for a cool-new experience 
 (providing you havent played a WWII FPS before) I suggest you look into this game, its very fun 
 and quite satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbo-b
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 10, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Well lookee here, another WW2 FPS. But actually this game is pretty dang fun. Let's start off with 
 the good stuff. The controls are excellent. Oh sure there's a few kinks here and there but overall 
 this game really feels good. The aiming just simply rocks, its so smooth and precise you'll be 
 nailing good looking Nazis. What I mean by this is that the graphics are pretty slick, and the 
 framerate is hardly ever slows. The smoke grenades look awesome! The story is your typical WW2 
 tale of heroic soldiers and overcoming loss. Which gets me to the bad stuff. First of all I'm getting 
 really tired of WW2 FPSs; why can't anyone make a good ol sci-fi shooter anymore? The stories are 
 all the same and don't really add to the atmosphere of the game at all. Thats one gripe, but the 
 next absolutley drove me insane. The cutscenes. Oh man! Sure they look good, but other than that 
 they are just a pain in the butt. Everytime you play a mission a five minute cutscene that basically 
 tells you about something you don't care about pops up and subjects you to utter boredom and impatience. 
 And get this, every time you replay a mission after you beat the game, you can't skip the cutscenes. 
 This definetly takes away any urge to replay the game. A definite rent for those who aren't WW2 
 fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Once again, iv got to say, gamespot have underrated ANOTHER wii game (they have a thing against 
 the little machine) . Anyhoo, back to the reason your reading this.. A REVIEW!
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Iv played the 360 version and PS3 version, and both have had slow downs, but the wii version, 
 i havent had any slow downs what so ever. The graphics might be worse than the 360's or PS3's, 
 but they still look pretty dam good once you get into you first mission (training look terrible 
 graphically btw) . Iv seen a few twitching corpses, and a gun or 2 sticking through walls, but overall 
 this looks pretty nice from start to finish.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in this game IS one of the highlights, it has GREAT voice acting, it makes you feel like 
 you are part of WWII with the quality of gun fireing, explosions, deaths, running and walking. 
 Each gun sounds different and the sounds they each makes you respect the power of each gun you 
 use.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  On default i belive the camera is far to sensetive, so i knocked it down a notch or 2. The basic 
 pointing and shooting is easily picked up, grenades are used with ease and movement is very smooth. 
 The biggest problem is when you get into a Melee fight, in short, they suck. It took me 2-3 tries 
 before i realised what to do. But overall great controls with no glitches (in other words, be gentle 
 with your controling, swing around like a maniac and you wont get good results)
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Well, its a great campagin, but doesnt add much to the CoD franchise, theres a 
 few tank battles, a few missions where you use a turret, a stealth mission here and there. Dont 
 get me wrong, it is a great game to play, but if you have played previous CoD you will see the 
 simalarites once or twice through playing it. Unfortunatly the campagin is also very short, and 
 there is NO MULTIPLAYER on the wii version!! So theres little replay value.
  
  OVERALL
  
  A great sounding, nice looking and controlling game with a few glitches here and there. Where 
 the game lacks Multiplayer it makes up for it with a GREAT story and some memorable charatcers. 
 I would adives you atleast RENT this game, but its also worth buying as it is a solid game overall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panosfz6
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Bad PORT!!!!
  It looks ok in some places but the game has some serious issues.
  The game will show signs of high CPU usage and slow to a point where its unplayable, once it gets 
 going again you will be able to continue. This is not a wii problem as Zelda has more to show and 
 has no performance issues.
  
  There were times where i enjoyed playing this game and I am looking forward to a real Wii exclusive 
 FPS.
  
  Controls: Control issues out of the way the controls have been thought out quite well.
  
  Value 
 : dont think I will go back and play this game !!! Sound is very good and you will enjoy
  Try it before you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  At first, I was a little hesitant on buying this game but I wanted to try it anyway and I have 
 to admit, It's a really nice game for the Wii
  
  The Graphics are alright, When I saw the pictures online, it looked like an N64 game but when I 
 saw the graphics on my television screen, it looked really nice. Not as good as the 360 or the 
 PS3 but I think its alright.
  
  The Gameplay is really good. The controls are a bit hard at first but once you get used to them, 
 the game gets good although driving with the Wiimote is a bit hard at times. The problem with the 
 Wii version of Call of Duty 3 is that theres no multiplayer at all. Theres no even a Co-op play 
 available. A real shame
  
  Sound is excellent. The music is good and the explosions and gunshots sound really nice. It feels 
 like youre in the middle of a war zone. Voices of the characters in-game are also loud and clear. 
 This is probably the best thing about the game.
  
  I think this game is worth the money. The controls are good but it takes time getting used to them. 
 Graphics are good. Sound is excellent. I think this game is really worth it
  
  I had a lot of fun playing this game. I'm glad I got the game in the end. This game couldve been 
 done better with added features such as co-op play and online play but I guess we'll have to wait 
 for the next Call of Duty game for the Wii. If there is going to be another Call of Duty 3 for 
 the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with this game. I hadn't played a military game for some time so this was a 
 nice refresher. I really enjoyed the game overall but was disappointed by how short it was. Didn't 
 take very long at all to beat. Graphics aren't too bad on the Wii and they added some interesting 
 remote functions throughout the game. This game put me back in the mode to play more of these types 
 of games even though this genre seems to have run its course. This is a great little rental to 
 blow off some time. Multiplayer definitely would have been a nice addition considering other consoles 
 had it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyTerrible
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Pretty well made, overall fun. Control of mortar and mounted guns are easy and fun. Overall a good 
 buy, easy to beat, but lengthy. Only problem i had was when i wanted to replay a level, id have 
 to restart the whole game again from that level on. That becomes a serious downfall considering 
 most of the really fun levels are towards the middle. In the end though, it was the first Wii game 
 i beat and really wanted to play again. Oh! Another great feature is the smoke grenades, really 
 fog up areas allowing you to move and use the aiming cursor (i would smoke an area then move my 
 aim around until it turned red and then fire.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was a very fun game. It didnt last very long though. The games lack of multiplayer 
 really makes the games length stand out. But during that short time, it was really good. The graphics 
 look very good (for the Wii) . The controls are excellent, much better than Red Steel, and the story 
 is good, you actually want to pay attention. There are 14 missions total. They are all interesting 
 and fun. There are a lot of different guns to use. Different vehicles offer different gameplay 
 styles. There is not much more to say about this game. It is a good game game, just too short and 
 doesnt have multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  well i like to play this game when im really bored and have no one over at my house but since i 
 beat it twice in one day ive never played it because it was like been there, done that 
  
  well the graphics are like a suped up N64 (in my opinon)
  and or a young gamecube game so it 
 give it a -6
  
  gameplay has a great use of the wii mote to through gernades, shoot your gun, set up bombs, drive 
 etc. - 8
  
  sound well its sort-of medicore sound nothing really put towards the scence of action and sort 
 of sounds the same to all war games.
  -7
  
  value... well it should have been a $39.99 game on release but it just happend to be $49.99 so 
 i gave the value a -5
  
  tilt well its around 8ish - 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfire_wd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  WOW esta genial, aprovechan lo que es el control, al prijncipio esta dificil acostumbrarse al control 
 pero una vez que le agarras la onda todo esta genial, habra que ver las opciones para mover la 
 sensibilidad y ver los controles para que se ajusten pero esta genial, recomendable para los que 
 tienen un wii en casa y les gustan los juegos de guerra y shooters, puesto que aprovechan las ventajas 
 de la sensibilidad de los controles, sobretodo para lo que es manejar los vehiculos, como reitero 
 lastima que no tiene miltiplayer o jugabilidad en linea pues eso le daria un gran plus o extra 
 al juego en si, pero la campa&ntilde; a esta chida, recomendable para ser de la primera generacion 
 de juegos de wii, esperemos ver la siguiente generacion de juegos y mejoren las graficas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The game play is a little mixed with the good and bad. Sometimes it it almost impossible to walk 
 up some stairs. But I say aiming with the Wii controller is easier and faster than the 360 verasion.
 
  
  The graphics are cloudy and bad, and sometimes you don't know who you're shooting at. The smoke 
 effects looks pretty good though.
  
  Nothing to say about sound, exept gun shots and bombs.
  
  Well, I have to say this game lasts 
 longer than Twilight Princess (well I played TP an average of 6 hours a day) I never did beat it.
 
  This game has no muiltiplayer what so ever, and no online really keeps the score low from the 
 360 version.
  
  So if you have a 360, and want this game, get the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I really think Call of Duty plays great on the Wii. But, heres the thing, if you don't have a Wii, 
 chances are you will hate the game. I'll tell you why, I have a Wii, and I let my friends play 
 it. I show them Call of Duty 3 and they just can't figure out how to work the thing. Honestly it 
 took me five seconds to figure out how to play, but if you don't own a Wii, it will take you a 
 lot longer, which sucks for you because the first battle is really intense. The gameplay really 
 puts you into the game and makes you almost feel like you're fighting. You move with the nunchuck 
 and aim with the wiimote, sounds simple right? well not for most people. There are these little 
 things that are there just to tick you off when the germans jump you and stuff, it is just really 
 annoying, but other than that the gameplay is great. The graphics are pretty damn good, probably 
 the best the Wii has seen yet. Though at times it can let you down, it looks and feels pretty realistic. 
 The sound is great, I would have given it a 10, but sometimes its so hard to hear on a normal TV 
 without surround sound. I just turned subtitles on, so..... well I guess it was ok. The value is 
 pretty good, about $50 new isnt bad, though it coulda been a little bit less. I tilted it a little 
 because i think it deserves a little more respect then what gamespot and other reviewers think 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was good in a way and bad in a way. The gameplay was very good. I loved every minute 
 of it. Once you get used to the movements in the game Call of Duty 3 could be a promising game. 
 Story: You play as the Polish, Canadian, Americans, The Maquis, and the British. You will switch 
 from time to time. Like say you are doing a mission with the American after you finish that mission 
 you would be in the shoes of a Polish soldier. You will take part in the Normandy Breakout. Basically 
 you will be freeing France from Nazis. So overall the story is solid.
  
  Sound: I have nothing to say about the sound. The Sound is absolutely fantastic. No doubt about 
 it. I fell in love with the sounds as soon as the first battle started. Graphics: Although the 
 graphics aren't like the PS3 and the 360 the graphics are good in their own way. I personally like 
 the graphics. I didn't think it was bad as it looked. Gameplay: The gameplay was pretty solid but 
 then again the controls wouldn't work well in the game such as pulling the pin on a charge. Some 
 other motions would detect like driving a jeep or hitting nazis with the butt of your gun. But 
 the gameplay was good. Well this game isn't all that long you could expect only a good 8 hour game 
 from it. So I highly suggest you do it on Hard Mode.
  
  Replay Value: The game could be fun after you beat it but since you know whats going to happen 
 it won't be as fun as the first time. i found playing my favorite levels pretty fun yo play but 
 it was awesome at the first time.. then it got pretty boring as i was playing the level for the 
 third time. So overall the replay value ain't all that good.
  
  This game was good in it's way. but before you want to buy this game you may want to ask yourself 
 is this game worth it? I found it was pretty worth it. this game was a very good WW2 title for 
 the WII and one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  There aren't many games these days based on natural happenings or anything like that. Though war 
 games are becoming quite common. Call Of Duty 3 for the 360 and PS3 give you the sight and sound 
 experience of what it's like being in a war. Although, to get the full experience , including sights, 
 sounds, feel, and most importantly, fear, you have to get the Wii version.
  
  The controls at first may feel odd to you, but you are guaranteed to get used to them fast. There 
 are some games on the Wii where you can sit down while playing or stand up. You'll probably have 
 to stand up unless you're sitting in front of the TV. So once you learn how to shoot, throw explosives, 
 and move, you're basically all alone in the war, following orders from leaders. These orders, or 
 missions, probably will take you a range of 1-5 minutes depending on the missions. Missions can 
 go from finding opponents for your team to shoot, to finding bases. You will expierence different 
 things throughout the game, such as driving in a very unique way with the Wii Remote, to keeping 
 enemies off you by hitting them with your gun. The missions will get harder throughout the game, 
 and I rented it for a week and still didn't come close to beating it, so it will probably last 
 you a while. I didn't see any Multiplayer though, so after you beat it it might get kind of boring.
 
  
  The graphics aren't as good as the 360 and PS3 versions, but they're good enough to keep you playing 
 without frustration. The sounds probably aren't as good as the 360 or PS3 version either, but once 
 again they are good enough to keep you playing with out getting frustrated. Plus, the sound is 
 amazing as it stuns you like no other ordinary game. So overall, this is a amazingly realistic 
 game. A couple of cusses and a little blood but nothing to worry about. Really disappointing that 
 there's no multiplayer though. You just have to get past that and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshphillips
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  First off I bought the game knowing it wasn't going to be on par with the 360 version when it came 
 to its graphics, but I didn't think it would looks as bad as it does. Close up the textures are 
 a nightmare to behold and you are close to alot of walls when dodging bullets so you are in view 
 of those textures in about 90% of the game. Another gripe is that there's absolutely no multiplayer 
 and this sickens me. I mean it's a freaking war game with thousands of soldiers and you play alone 
 aaaaallllll alone. Guys co-op is a must. Have you not learned anything from Halo and Gears of War? 
 Now for the good stuff. Unlike Red Steel the other shooter for the Wii is that the box in which 
 you aim is alot smaller so moving the camera up, down etc takes less time to do which is great 
 and speeds up the action alot. There's not one bad thing I can say about the controls and I prefer 
 them over the exact same way the 360 version plays compared to Call of Duty 2. If you have a good 
 surround sound system setup in your little gaming haven then you'll love this game it sounds amazing 
 even if it isn't coming from a digital input. Dolby Pro logic II does a fantastic job. You can 
 hear grenades and gunshots miles from where you're standing and the weapons sound like the real 
 deal. Over all I give this game 3 stars out of 5 because the graphics are very dated and not having 
 a multiplayer online or off kills the replay for this game. Props for the awesome controls though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFTricks
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  L'histoire est r&eacute; aliste et tir&eacute; e de fait r&eacute;&egrave; l qui cr&eacute; e un univers 
 intrigant et r&eacute; v&eacute; lateur. Les missions sont longues juste assez pour nous amusez sans 
 &ecirc; tre interminable ou impossible &agrave; finir, elle sont aussi tr&egrave; s nombreuses pour 
 un FPS. J'ai ador&eacute; le fait que l'histoire ne soit pas simplement les GROS US , comme on 
 le retrouve dans bien des jeux de tir historique. En effet, on y retrouve des CANADIEN (rare mais 
 sa arrive) , des Englais, des Polonais (le control du tanks est tr&egrave; s bien pens&eacute;) et 
 bien s&ucirc; re les &Eacute;-U. Les controles de la Wii sont les meilleurs de tout les FPS sur 
 la Wii que j'ai pu essayer (Redsteel, FarCry: Vengence) fluide quoique un peu ennuiyant lorsque 
 l'on veut repos&eacute; ses main et que le pointeur se retrouve &agrave; l'ext&eacute; rieur de 
 l'&eacute; cran, car la vue va se m&ecirc; tre &agrave; tourn&eacute; sans fin dans un sense jusqu'&agrave; 
 temps que nous remetions la Wiimote centr&eacute; vers l'&eacute; cran. Je regrete le manque de 
 Multijoueur dans un jeux si bien cr&eacute; e, m&ecirc; me s'il n'aurais pas eu de multijouer en 
 ligne, le tout aurait &eacute; t&eacute; un brillant ajout &agrave; une console de ce genre. Les 
 graphiques son bien d&eacute; taill&eacute; m&ecirc; me s'il se trouvent meilleurs sur la version 
 PS3 et Xbox360. En gros, achet&eacute; le pour 1 mois et renvend&eacute; le ou louer-le pour le 
 temps qu'il vous faudras pour finir l'histoire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_angelofdeath
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Okayy first i think EA is going to be release many game in NINTENDO Wii but
  i never thought that my superb game Call of duty will be in the Wii.
  But you know it's good 
 it's really look good on Wii (in Graphic) but in the PS3
  YESS i should say PS3 is more beautiful than Wii but the control is more awesome than PS3. In PS3 
 = OVER Bright (Shiney Play Station) In Xbox360 = Over Dark (Black Box 360 Degree) In Wii = Overall 
 Superb (WOW)
  But on Wii you can feel it's smooth and look great. Sound okayy It's depend on your speaker but 
 i think it's support for 5.1 Sound for any speaker.
  Game Play (Most important that make it win over the other console.)
  It's easy to aim &amp; shoot 
 you can feel it i shoot with the B button very easy man
  just aim and feel it HAHAHA PS3 can't aim like that sorry about that Xbox360 too. Ai of this game 
 is so clever it's look smart. Last the price of this game is just right so what do you say? for 
 this game i say MUST PLAY &amp; ROCKS 
  if you have Wii you can't miss this!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishtari23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  The good: Very immersing, the weapons feels great, great action and the controls are intuitive 
 and work well.
  
  The bad: It's really ugly for a new shooter, stereo sound effects seems a bit screwed sometimes, 
 annoying slowdowns from time to time.
  
  First of I'll have to admit that I am a sucker for great graphics, so much so that I bought Gears 
 of War because it looked good. Even though I actually hate to play shooters with regular console 
 controllers. That said, after playing a few minutes forgot all about the ugly lo res textures in 
 this game. The controllers where spot, the feel almost like an extension of ones arm, and made 
 me feel like I almost where in the thick of it. And there is lot of thickness in this game, after 
 the short in-game tutorial (similar to CoD2) you crash in to a battlefield with bullets and grenades 
 flying all over. Good stuff.
  
  The game makes good use of the wiimote and nunchuk for the most parts. However there are a few 
 sequences that feels like they thought they had to come up with as many ways to use the wiimote 
 as possible, and most of them feel weak, un repsonsive and just tacked on. Over the course of the 
 game you'll be m&euml; l&eacute; e-ing german soldiers that will have you jabbing and throwing the 
 'mote and nunchuk all over the place. Or you'll have to turn valves or prime explosive charges. 
 And the speed and timing never seems to match what you are doing with the controllers, and sometimes 
 nothing happens at all while you are flailing with them like a mad man. luckily most of the time 
 you use the controllers to fire all the different weapons in the game, and that they're good at.
 
  
  All in all there are a few nitpicks with the game that can some times be a nuisance. Such as the 
 AI isn't stellar (but not as bad as red steel) but they are not big enough to get in the way of 
 enjoying the game. The only thing that's a major flaw is the fast that there is no multi player, 
 split screen or otherwise. That in it self doesn't change the single player experience, but it 
 diminish the value and re playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santore43
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is a amazing game. for all of u retards who say the controls are hard, well u r 
 so damn wrong. i bought this game a couple of days ago and i learned the controls right away. If 
 you can not get past the part where the nazi soldier steals your gun, well heres what u hve to 
 do. put the controllers on their sides , withe the buttons facing te tv, (if the buttos arent facing 
 the tv, this wont work, after you take the gun, put the nunchuk and wii controler on top of each 
 other, and strike them down, notice that u have 2 do this twice. the rest of the game is retty 
 easy, so have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5709jeb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a WWII game that come from different character perspectives.
  You get to battle through Normandy, and you can liberate France. perhaps I am a bit baised, because 
 i am World War II buff, but I enjoy this game a great deal. You may or not call this a greatest 
 hits one day, however, I will tell you that it does take a bit of hand-eye coordination on the 
 Wii. You can not just ramdomly aim and hope you in the right area. You must be on cue, and on the 
 mark.
  This game over all is fun and is worth some time checking it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Xbox360_Lover_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a great game , the Gameplay is very cool and fun , Graphics are super on X06 
 and pretty good on WII, Sounds are nice , but i say that having it on WII is better that having 
 it on X06 , Because you really feel your'e a solider on a war Because you are actually pointing 
 the gun and crashing doors and fighting enemy's hand to hand! and on X06 your just playing using 
 the controller , of course if you care about Graphics more than Gameplay get it on X06, the game 
 in genral is nice Because of the teamwork . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiuKang3000
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  COD3 is the new COD game for Wii. It takes place in WWII (Like all of them) . I don't like this 
 game because I feel like I'm playing the same game over and over. This game just doesn't feel new 
 to me.
  
  Gameplay: The game is fun in the gameplay section because you shoot some Nazi chumps.
  
  Graphics: 
 The graphics are beautiful for a Wii game
  
  Sounds: Sounds like Call of Duty 2. Pretty good but just not what I want.
  
  Value: It's npt 
 really that valuable because COD2 on 360 is the same game but with online play. This, one the other 
 hand has no multiplayer at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett507
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Once you get the hang of the controls, Call of Duty 3 really is an excellent game. Getting use 
 the Wii-mote's design for a first person shooter does take a little getting used to, but with practice, 
 you will be able to aim and shoot and move just as quickly as you did when you played with any 
 other control, if not faster. The storyline is a little choppy, as you play soldiers in four different 
 armies all moving in on the same spot, so it is hard to get attached to any of the characters like 
 you could in Call of Duty 2: Big Red One (You know you cried when Sarge died) , but it flows well 
 and meshes nicely. The graphics are not as impressive as I had hoped for, barely an improvement 
 over CoD2, but the sound can't get much better. It definitely feels like the mortar shells are 
 falling down around you as you advance on a German bunker. All in all, this game is solid, if you 
 take the time to get used to the unorthodox controls, and is worth buying if you like WWII era 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisscott
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I love the COD series, I've always played it on PC and its great; great game play, great controls, 
 great graphics, everything great. When it was being released on the Wii I thought this was going 
 to be as good as the PC, if not better. But i was wrong. The graphics are around PS2 standard, 
 the sound is good, though the controls are terrible. Every time you return to a fight after a movie 
 or cut scene the remote doesn't know what the hells going on. Even if you aim dead at the screen 
 it doesn't want to know. It takes about 30 seconds before it realizes whats going on, where it 
 should be and what its going to do about it. It can be the same during gameplay. If the remote 
 goes of the screen for a second if takes another 10-15 to realize where it is. I have only been 
 playing this game for around 3 hours so it mite just be that you need to get a hell of alot used 
 to it. I'm sure on the PC or xbox its excellent, but on the Wii I'd leave it and possibly wait 
 for MOH Vanguard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirius_metlhed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Reading the early reviews on this game really got me bent: one of the launch games I was looking 
 forward too was being called a weak, lackluster offering for the Wii. Listen, biggest thing that 
 upsets many gamers is the lack of multi. This is never an issue for me, as I'm the only gamer in 
 the house, and usually, when I've played other games online, there's so much abuse hurled around 
 or people trying to find ways to cheat it actually feels like a source of stress. I don't want 
 my games to stress me out! This is supposed to be fun! This is fun, intense, and as the first FPS 
 I've played on the Wii, the controls enhance the gameplay compared to how COD3 plays on Xbox (only 
 other port I've played) : straight, no frills, FPS control fare. Players turn with the Wiimote, 
 use the nunchuck to strafe and go forward/back... it just feels the way it should. I did have to 
 get used to moving the thumb from the - button to the 1 or 2 buttons on the bottom, to the directional 
 on top to cook off some greandes. Yeah, it takes some getting used to... so what? Most games I've 
 played in my life have some getting used to. The sound is sick - it makes me want big, thumping 
 surround sound more than ever. I'm glad I disregarded the magazine reviews and bought this one. 
 I can't believe I'm typing this crap instead of playing COD3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Call of duty.
  
  A game i borrowed of my friend, i didnt expect it to be much.
  
  Personally i thought it wasent that great, the shooting i prefered in Red Steel and that game seemed 
 too much like another war game. Which you have to admit is getting really old now the same old 
 world war games over and over again.
  
  Somepeople may like it, but to be honest it really is getting boring hehe.
  The game has some 
 good points tho, it does seem very realistic and does use the wii contoller quite well, and makes 
 use of its features. The sounds are good, the bullets and the bombs and people talking is a great 
 feature it seems more realistic. But unfortunatly this is only in cut scenes, not in the gameplay 
 which kinda sucks. I think if they did this like Gears of war did it would have bein alot better.
 
  
  But altoghter not a bad game, but for a shooter go with red steel.
  
  DrEd2k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  But it is nonetheless a very good game. It has good graphics (for a Wii game) , a control style 
 that works, fun gameplay, but something feels like it is missing. I don't know what it is yet, 
 but for me it just feels like theres an empty hole where something should be. However, the campaign 
 is still very fun, and the driving controls are the best I've seen to date (excepting the wheels) . 
 One of the main faults of this game though, is that sometimes the motion sensing controls don't 
 work, like when you are trying to arm a charge, it takes a 10 seconds to do something that would 
 take around five in real life. The only other fault is that the Wii remote sometimes goes off screen 
 and your character starts to have a seizure, but this happens very rarely. Perhaps the best part 
 of this game on the Wii is that the controls are better and more realistic than the 360 and ps3 
 versions, such as in the hand to hand combat, which feels more realistic on the Wii. But the best 
 example of this is firing while moving, you can aim a lot better than in the other versions.
  So if you're looking for graphics, don't go with this version, but it is a lot more fun than the 
 others.
  P. S: If you buy this game on ebay, you can get it a lot cheaper than in stores, new or used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure brilliant on the Wii, although the graphics don't compare to the 360 version 
 it sure makes up for it in game play. The controls work like a treat are well mapped and respond 
 to every action or attempted action you make. It's a great use of the Wii remote and numchuck extension. 
 It's very responsive and that makes aiming easy, everything can be preformed with an action and 
 it also provides you with a nice little work out whilst playing. The melee scenes are no push over.
 
  
  Although it; s quite short it's a nice addition to the COD series and with the Wii's unique controls 
 it explores every avenue and try's out thing's not seen before.
  
  One of the down sides is no multiplayer online or split screen. Such a shame and yet has such opportunity.
 
  
  Never the less a great purchase and nice addition to the series and your Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MolsonCDN
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  How does COD 3 for the Xbox 360 compare to the Wii version?
  
  Not well in my opinion. Ive played about 30 minutes of the Xbox 360 version then never resumed 
 the single player campaign.
  
  The Xbox 360 COD 3 version has great visuals and a sub-par online version (COD 2 online is still 
 better imo) but its still the same old experience for a console FPS game. It's boring. The only 
 FPS game entertaining on a dual analog stick control scheme console is Gears of War.
  
  COD 3 for the Wii is by far more entertaining that the 360 version. Wii COD 3:
  
  Graphics:
 
  
  The games graphics does not demonstrate the Wiis performance potential. With that in mind, they 
 are not offensive either. The graphics are decent for this game that visually looks like a first 
 gen build yet achieves the result for adding to the immersion.
  
  Gamespots and IGNs in-game screen shots and videos make the games graphics look worse than what 
 they actually look like on a 480P Widescreen CRT HDTV.
  
  Controls:
  
  You will find the controls to be spazzy for the first 30 min or so, but after that, you should 
 have adjusted to it for smooth in-game movements. It's similar to the Keyboard and Mouse PC control 
 scheme but a bit better. The control scheme alone is what separates this version from the other 
 console versions and is what really pulls you into this highly entertaining game. As far as I am 
 concerned, any console FPS made with out Wii COD 3 like controls (that is more polished) is just 
 a waste of code. Sound:
  
  The sound is probably the games best executed feature. It sounds great in 2 channel and it actually 
 places you on the battlefield in Dolby ProLogic II through a 5.1 channel sound system. Its another 
 key ingredient executed really well. The voice acting is better than what you would find on the 
 majority of other games and the music scores adds to the whole authentic experience. Value:
  
  The game is a must buy if your are a FPS genre fan, even if you cant stand the thought of 
 another WWII game. Its fun and challenging. You might even put aside your disappointment for the 
 developers exclusion of Online and Local Multiplayer components once you become immersed into 
 the campaign mode as COD 3 for the Wii holds good ground with only the single player experience.
 
  
  Gripes: No Online and Local Multiplayer. WTF? seriously... This is a mandatory feature of any FPS 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heathcliff
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the game that proves that Wii is great for the FPS genre. For the most part, 
 the controls work very effectively. It is also a very exciting WWII shooter. It takes place in 
 1944 during the Normandy breakout, the days that followed D-day and which led to the liberation 
 of Nazi-occupied France. In classic CoD tradition, you play from the perspective of different soldiers 
 from various allied countries. It follows that formula but with a new twist. Unlike previous installments 
 where you played in three different fronts, this time all 4 allied soldiers are fighting in one 
 front. There's American, British, Canadian, and Polish soldiers. Polish? Weren't they overrun by 
 the Nazis at the beginning of the war? Well, apparently a small pocket of Polish fighters did contribute 
 to the liberation of France. And kudos to Treyarch for including Canadian troops. Their contribution 
 to the Allied victory is often overlooked by games and films, and it's nice to see them finally 
 represented. CoD3 improves upon its most immediate predecessor, CoD2: Big Red One, which was a 
 good but very linear shooter, by being more open ended. Battle sequences are pretty exciting and 
 often tough. Visually, the game looks good though I'd like to believe the Wii can do better. The 
 sound is also quite good. The realistic sounds of gunfire and the combined shouts of both Allied 
 and Nazi soldiers compliment nicely the war torn and chaotic environments you're in. In addition 
 to the core FPS sequences, there's also the inclusion of driving. Tank combat also makes a comeback. 
 And how does the game control on Wii? Very well, though not perfectly. The basic shooting and movement 
 work effectively. Movement is done with the nunchuck and the remote is for aiming and shooting. 
 The remote is used creatively and effectively for driving jeeps as well. You hold the nunchuck 
 and the remote like a driving wheel holding the A button for acceleration. It can be a bit frustrating 
 at first, but once you get the hang of it, it's quite fun. Hand to hand struggles with enemy soldiers 
 are also simulated by moving the nunchuck and remote back and forth, and it also works well. Other 
 actions don't work that well. Simulating the use of a crowbar to detach wooden barriers is quite 
 boring, and setting up explosive charges is a bit unresponsive and frustrating. So CoD3 is a very 
 good FPS that does the compliment the Wii's innovative controls rather nicely, for the most part. 
 It probably won't convert those who've had enough of WWII shooters, but for those who've stuck 
 around with the genre, it's a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty recently made its wii debute with Call of Duty 3. Okay now you might be thinking COD 
 with no online what will I do?! well hold your pants on becaus in this action WW2 shooter you'll 
 have loads of great fun shooting down nazis' and stopping hitler's soldiers from completly taking 
 over france and other areas that were threatined by WW2. This game takes a turn in the factions 
 you play as no more standard russian, british and american missions this time we're protecting 
 france and playing as american, polish, canadian (yes canadian) and british. You help out whats 
 left of the french army with stellat controls, graphics, sound and gameplay. Now for some missions 
 you'll be driving a vehicle this is all done with tillting your wiimote in the right direction. 
 However when patroling the abandoned streets a nazis may pop out and try to take you out for this 
 you maybe have to move the wiimote and nunchuck forward and back simotainsly or strike with both 
 like your giving him a peaice of your cold hard rifle butt. The games campaign is relitively short 
 but its got some fun replay value to hold onto and cheerish. Now the graphics and sound are both 
 stunning and equally brilliant in their own ways. The controlls are awesome and are way more functional 
 than the other FPS on the wii Red Steel' every movement of yoiur hand can affect how you set the 
 bomb, bash a nazis or drive a vehicle towards victory. So overall everything i nthis game makes 
 it THE BEST FPS OUT ON WII. With stellar gameplay, graphics, sound controlls and story to it, its 
 an awesome shooter for every wii owner. Call Of Duty3 on the wii gets a 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clor0x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I've played the PC version, and the Xbox 360 which is an identical clone to the PC version. I have 
 a strong enough PC to where I can play the game fine, and I loved it. Truly lived up to the craziness 
 of the first game, and then I got a Wii since I didn't want to upgrade my computer for next gen 
 games like Crysis to get a good graphics/frame rate ratio.
  
  I bought Zelda, Red Steel, Call of Duty III, Metal Slug Anthology, and Excite Truck (Still shipping 
 in the mail) as my main games and I had high hopes for this game, which didn't fail at all
  
  Story: Basic Nazis are taking over, you gotta eliminate them, however heres the main difference, 
 you play as America, Poland, Britain, and the Canadians. The Polish are comparable to Call of Duty 
 I's Russians, and Britain is more like Call of Duty I's Britain (kinda recon missions) , the Canadians 
 remind me of Americans, while America is just America, I like all factions, and the Polish Tank 
 Missions are fun no doubt about that.
  
  Graphics: The still images looked pretty dirty I'll admit, I was truly discouraged. However on 
 my 32 inch Tube TV and always moving, for some reason the game looked much better than pictures 
 do. Guns are accurately modeled, smoke isn't too blocky, and fire looks alright
  
  Sound: Everything sounds great, music, surroundings, voices ( I have a Sony Home Theatre hooked 
 up to my Wii and it uses Pro Logic) however, I just wish some guns shoot much louder. The Trench 
 Gun (Winchester Shotgun) is very loud and I LOVE it, I have a real Winchester shotgun and that 
 too is very loud. However, guns like the M1 Garand (Bolt action guns in general) need to be much 
 louder, these guns were really strong, why don't they sound as strong as they were?
  
  Gameplay: Finally, after 2 games of getting grenades thrown back at me, I can finally throw them 
 back... or press the - button so I can keep it (I guess its a glitch but it works fine) . I love 
 the Grenade gesture, as it works well, switching guns by shaking the nunchuck to the right works 
 really well during times you need to quick switch, I use Down on the D-Pad to melee since I usually 
 have my elbow on my knee, and dont wanna elbow myself in the stomach. The Close Quarters encounters 
 are interesting, they're fun and happen every now and then, so it doesn't get too redundant.
  
  I know that this game will always be a Call of Duty, it has the boldness of its older brothers 
 and pulls it off well with the Wiimote and Nunchuck. I don't have another set so Multiplayer doesn't 
 really matter, but Online Multiplayer would've been cool, but NO wii games have Online Multiplayer 
 so I'm not gonna deduct points from that
  
  
  Overall I love this game alot, I got it used from Amazon. com for $37, but it was auctually still 
 in Shrink Wrap so I guess it was new for the price of used, a great buy. I always buy my Wii games 
 around $30 used on Amazon. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: This Wii remote changes it. Shake to change guns. The B button feels like a trigger in 
 your finger. Move nunchuck and set a bomb. I thought it was great 9 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: On a nintendo level it is at least an 8 out of 10.
  SOUND: The only bad part of the 
 sound is sometimes the volume of someone speaking just drops to 0 and you have to turn a certain 
 way to hear them right. 7 out of 10.
  VALUE: I thought the 50$ was worth it.
  TILT: I loved the game. SHOOT THE DAM NAZIS! 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haywire4
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  When i purchased this game i was hoping for a game to continue the excelence of the previous titles 
 in its series but i was let down. The story i might say is fantastic there are no let downs here, 
 when i went through the first level i was impressed all seemed to be running smoothly until i reached 
 the second mission. Here the frame rate went seriously haywire and the controls just stopped moving, 
 this may be because it was a hectick level but this stills hould not have happened. But the controls 
 in general work well, except the odd mission where your driving where your have a steering wheel 
 effect motion that does not work fully to what you wish it to. The graphics on the new call of 
 duty are not a great step up from the gamecube versions in my view even though you can see some 
 good details like for example aircraft battling in the background, in general there seems not to 
 much of a improvement but that is not saying it is bad as they were quite good in the first place.
 
  
  The thing that i was most impressed by was the sound as you can hear every bullet wizz past you 
 and it gives you a real feeling like your in the action.
  
  To sum up, it recreates the battles well with a absorbing story and tremendous sound but it is 
 let down by the oocasional sloppy frame rate and control jitters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty and Call of Duty 2 we awesome games hands down. These were PC games then ported over 
 to Consoles. And on the PC these games offered huge amount of multiplayer gaming. But the release 
 of Call of Duty 3 on the Consoles was a major let down.
  
  The Wii offerers a different style to playing FPS games that other consoles don't. In all it attempts 
 to copy a PC with the new Wii controller which I find very well down, as using a joystick to aim 
 a crosshair in the thick of a fight can get annoying.
  
  The game in a nutshell is a major let down and not just cause it is on the Wii is that it is on 
 the consoles and not on the PC where the game started. Activision saw a new market to try to run 
 the series into but happend to fail with. The game suffers from graphic and game playability that 
 its sequels rival it on the PC. Until COD comes back to the PC the COD series is on very thin ice! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krn_jpn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  For a week, I was debating whether or not to buy this game. I was reading reviews and watching 
 videos for this game. It looked quite enjoyable and this would be the first time playing a FPS 
 for a wii. Instead of buying it, I rented it and played it for the first time. I had high hopes 
 for this game, but it let me down. The only problems were the new innovative controls. I was quite 
 frustrated at walking around in the game. I was just plain annoyed at losing control of moving 
 around and aiming with the wii remote. Everything else was fine, such as sound and graphics. I 
 strongly recommend a rent before purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thor1981
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty has always been a high-quality series that has enjoyed much deserved success amongst 
 gamers. The single player campaigns play out like Saving Private Ryan, and the multiplayer skirmishes 
 are quite intense. All around, most gamers who enjoy first person shooters speak highly of the 
 COD series. Now in its third iteration, COD has made it to the current crop of next-gen systems, 
 including the Nintendo Wii. How does it stack up with the other systems? Well to be honest, I don't 
 know. I don't own a 360 or PS3 with which to compare it to. However I DO own a Wii, and was curious 
 to see how one of my favorite series translated to the quirky system.
  
  In comparison to the other FPS on the Wii (Red Steel) , it compares quite favorably. In strict comparison 
 to that game, the graphics and sound are superior, as are the controls.
  
  Controls:
  By default, you use the Wiimote as your firearm and to look around. The B trigger fires the gun, 
 the left D-pad lobs a frag gernade, and the right a smoke gernade. The bottom of the d-pad initiates 
 a melee attack (unless you decide to push forward with the Wiimote as an alternative. I found this 
 to be cumbersome at first as you can loose what you are looking at, but grew used to it over a 
 few minutes of fighting) .
  The nunchuck is used to jump (C button) , crouch (Z button) , and move (joystick) . A flick of the 
 nunchuck to the right switches weapons, and a flick upwards reloads.
  
  Graphics:
  Not as shiny as even Call of Duty 2 on the 360 or PC, COD3 on the Wii holds its own well. Some 
 textures look sharp (like wood planks in a barn) , and others look muddy or watered down. The NPC's 
 and enemies look good, without too much blurriness. A few hiccups were seen however, like in some 
 interior areas, shadows of recently killed Nazis were seen on the ceiling from a lower level. But 
 these are few and far between. Lots off excellent looking particle effects, like smoke plumes, 
 explosions, and rain fall.
  
  Sound:
  Phenominal. The soundtrack is rousing, the voice acting is well done, and the sounds of battle 
 in general are all convincing. Very well done on this front
  
  Story:
  Essentially, another slog through war-torn Europe, although this time specifically focusing in 
 France. You play as mulitple members of the Allies, such as the British and Americans. Wii Quirks:
 
  It took me a good 20 minutes to a half hour to get used to the Wii-specific controls, but after 
 that, I had no problems. The Wiimote is responsive and eventually becomes very intuitive. You utilize 
 the Wii controls in some unique ways, such as holding the remote and nunchuk at a 9 and 3 position, 
 and drive a Jeep through France while your NPC buddies take shots at the baddies. I'd heard horror 
 stories about this, but those quickly vanished. The Wiimote is plenty responsive for the driving 
 activities, and it is actually quite fun. I wouldn't want to plat a racing sim like that, but it's 
 pretty cool. Another feature is the scripted events where you fight a Nazi up close with his 98K 
 rifle. You grasp the nunchuk and remote side by side (with the buttons facing you, and opposite 
 the screen) and move them back and forth alternatly to struggle with the enemy. If you do this 
 fast enough and long enough, you push him away, after which you can perform a killing blow by swiping 
 both controls quickly and diagonally down and to the right. It sounds clumsy, but it is actually 
 fairly intuitive and fun.
  
  Is it a must buy? Probably not despite what I've said. It is fairly short, and has not mulitplayer 
 (which is really the most severe offense in my opinion) . The game feels much more like an expansion 
 or add-on to COD2 than a full-fledged sequel. Definitly a rental, however, as it shows what the 
 Wii can do for FPS titles in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is a great shooter to launch the Wii with, but just can't compare to 
 the other versions of the game.
  
  It takes a loooong time to get used to the controls. While they can be a bit frustrating at first, 
 in some areas, you definitely feel into the game.
  
  Chucking grenades is a bit frustrating since any slight move of the controller (and you'll have 
 to adjust your grip to throw the grenade in the first place) can send your aim off in places you 
 don't want it to go.
  
  Planting charges is fun; you actually follow a series of motions to set it in the first place, 
 giving a more realistic feel to the game.
  
  Overall, for the Wii, it's highly recommended. However, the lack of multiplayer and online is frustrating, 
 especially for a console that should've had some online compatability by now. if you have any current-gen 
 consoles or the 360, try them instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioSonicMK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start the reveiw by saying medal of honor is... or, was my faverite series of shooters. 
 Call of Duty just seems to do the job better. Call of Duty 3 is an extremely fun game, with a storyline 
 with dynamic characters unlike medal of honor. The only problem is you play as 4 different soldiers, 
 and you aren; t always sure who you are, nor do you know two of the names. The American storyline 
 is by far the best with a wide variety of personallities. Theres a leader, an **** a theif, a smartmouth 
 and others who make it very interesting. The Canadian and Polish storylines are pretty boring, 
 and French is ok. The game is intense, with loads of different weapons and some pretty cool aspects. 
 For example you hold the wii-mote and nunchuck like a stearing wheel while driving, can throw grenades, 
 and you actually set up bombs by putting in fuses, screwing them in and pulling the pins out. One 
 annoying aspect though is at random points in the game a German will charge you and grab your gun. 
 Now at times there will be 5 friendly soldiers right behing you and be doing nothing to help you. 
 These sequences aren't even fun to begin with because instead of using the controllers as your 
 hands you just push them forward and back frantically. Those are my opinions now for the facts.
 
  Sadly there is no multiplayer, but the good story, and 14 missions with a wide variety of things, 
 such as running and gunning, getting hit with friendly fire, driving cars and driving tanks make 
 single player mode very interesting.
  there are a wide variety of guns and vehicles to use.
  For a luanch game call of duty has good 
 graphics and great sound. In my opinion, its certainly worth the 50 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_White_Rose
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Gernans stealing donuts and coffee, French running around like pansies, and maneuvers that mimic 
 a drunk ice skater. Your either in a European version of Detroit, or you playing Call of Duty 3. 
 Its an amazing game, story wise, even though there's countless other WWII shooters like this one. 
 The singleplayer campaign is amazingly satisfying, though the gameplay and wii over-sensitivity 
 cuts it down a few notches, I absolutely hate the fact that CoDIII cant go multiplayer or online 
 multiplayer like the some other version, which really cuts it down more. The graphics aren't that 
 good, but considering it's a practically seamless enviroment they are good. It's sounds great, 
 and with the wii mote controlling your rifle, it almost feels like your in World War II, until 
 you smack yourself with your wii mote in the gut, trying to take back your BAR from a German soldier. 
 Even with all its dissapointments, when you get in one of those, 'must kill Nazi moods, then this 
 is a great game. ITS VERY GOOD but all those little and big problems need to be fixed for this 
 franchise to jump into the blank in I'm sorry were sold out of ___ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  CoD3 for the Wii is a game that the wii needed, it is a game thatonly intensifies the fantasies 
 of what the wii can do, its not great, but its damn good on the wii.
  
  The first thing i noticed when reading some profesional opinions is the lack of Multyplayer caused 
 the lowering of almost half of what it was worth, its sad that a game this fun gets shot down.......
 
  
  The graphics on the Wii version are an exact port of the PS2 version, only the processing of the 
 Destructible inviroments seem to have been upgraded to the Wii... THATS IT..... that is sad, considering 
 the wii has enough power to be better then the Xbox 1 version, yet the sound is still increadible, 
 the Wiimote Speaker is unused, so that second depth is non Existant, BUT the soul of the game is 
 the Wiimotes useage.. it is utterly increadible to use the wiimote as a gun it just feel so right 
 and it just makes me shove off the Mouse keyboard Config.
  
  Overall CoD3 for the Wii is a worthy try, dont let others get in your way of this experiance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii definitely has its downsides, but the game itself is still good enough 
 to enjoy. The storyline is great and very action-filled, just like the previous Call of Duty games. 
 The graphics, though poor compared to the PS3 or X360 versions, are actually not too bad. The game 
 seem solid, except when it comes down to the sometimes awkward controls. Sure, the controls are 
 fun at first, cause you get to experience Call of Duty 3 Wii style. I will even admit that it was 
 fun at first just to play around with them. After you really begin to use the controls, though, 
 you will notice that they sometimes become a bit inresponsive, or they feel weird, or the just 
 don't seem to work out properly at all. Hey, the controls aren't terrible, but they just could've 
 been better and more refined. Here's a quick overview of the game:
  
  The Good: Great, solid, action-packed storyline, some good sound affects-you will literally feel 
 that you yourself are in the middle of the war at certain times
  
  The Bad: The controls are awkward, and sometimes don't seem to work properly, graphics could've 
 probably been better, game is a bit too short
  
  Use of motion: Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddygoombah
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I've been reading the other reviews about COD3, and bunch of people are saying how lousy the controls 
 are. I couldn't disagree more. Yes, at first I had a problem with aiming and pointing, and just 
 plain walking around without walking into walls. But i spent the time to get used to the wii's 
 unique controls, and my work paid dividends. Subtlety is the key, here people. And I had a great 
 time ultimately beating this game in 8 hrs. For you people complaining about the controls, you 
 need to learn patience and calm down and learn the controls. If you don't, I'm afraid the wii will 
 be a waist of money for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haggard_korn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is a great game. The new controls are an awesome new feature to the 
 franchise, they may take a while to get used to but once you do it's a lot of fun. Call of Duty 
 3 uses the Wii controller in the best way possible. You move with the nun-chuck, and aim with the 
 Wii remote. The aiming might not be right where you want it sometimes but it should not bother 
 you that much. And they make sure you are not being lazy by making it to where you have to hold 
 up the controllers to actually run and not walk, but you can still sit down and hold them just 
 right and be able to play. There is also a new way for close quarters combat. Every now and then 
 an enemy will start attacking you in close quarters and the view will change and everything. You 
 have to hold the controllers on there sides and alternately push them towards the screen, this 
 stays cool from beginning to end. There's also a new way to plant charges on takes and anti-air 
 guns. When you get close enough to your target you first hold the - button. Then you have to move 
 the nun-chuck like you were actually planting the explosive. Then after all of that you pull the 
 nun-chuck towards you to take out the pin, then you run and boom. All in all, Call of Duty 3 for 
 the Nintendo Wii will be the perfect game to get you used to the Wii controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZERO201
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  everyone is talking about how bad the graphics are and most of it isn't true. the graphics are 
 a lot better than PS2. the game took me a long time to get the hang of. when i play i have the 
 sensor bar below my TV so this way i can sit in a chair and rest the Wiimote on my legs so my arms 
 don't get tired. makes it easier to keep still. so once you get everything right and you finally 
 start playing the game has great gameplay but bad sound. like when i have to drive the jeep everything 
 gets quiet. and when you are past all that the game really isn't very long. overall it is a fairly 
 good game but it could have been better a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildprivate
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the gameplay was a lot more fun with the new wii remote style gameplay. The thing 
 i did not like was that there was no multiplayer at all, not a even a mini game or anything. The 
 graphics were a lot better than i thought they would be on the wii. The sound was a little aggrivating 
 for instance, when the people started to talk in a cut scene. You would be looking at them but 
 you could not here them you would have to turn in a certain direction sometimes completely the 
 other way of the person to hear what they were saying. The bombs and the shooting was really realistic 
 sounding. Overall this was an good game but some of the bugs in it got annoying and there was no 
 multiplayer so all of that made this game a game that i would rent once or twice but most definately 
 not buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastloth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3. Just the name alone tells you that it is a great game, but how great is it really? 
 To start I have never owned a Call of Duty game before, but I thought it looked good so I bought 
 it, and it is my favorite game. Lets get right to all the things you want to know about this game.
 
  
  Graphics: They said the wii would have the worst graphics out of all of the 3 systems. But the 
 wii's graphics are really shown off in this game. The people look real and the graphics put you 
 back into WWII. I gave this section and 8 because the graphics are great, I mean amazing for a 
 game, but some parts are a little lacking and not as good as xbox360's version, but it is close!
 
  
  Sound: Amazing, makes the game so much more actiony. Every blast and explosion. The background 
 music also adds a great touch to it. The only downfall is that there is no use of the wii-motes 
 integrated speaker. But to make up for it I turn up the volume, and it is truly amazing. The sound 
 alone will get you pumped to shoot some Germans.
  
  Value: This game is a must have for any wii owner. Personally it is the funest game I own; I even 
 think it is funer than Zelda t. p. This game will keep you busy for multiple hours, and you will 
 find yourself playing parts over even if you didnt die just to experience the action again. Controls: 
 I have given this game a learning curve of 30 - 60 minutes for a reason. The game has great controls, 
 better than any other system the game is made for. It is so easy to play after you have learned 
 how to play. Basically you point where you want to shoot. Then the trigger is used to shoot. But 
 there are other actions such as melee, switch guns, smoke grenade, and a normal grenade, crowtch, 
 and jump. To play the game you use the wii-mote and the nunchuck attachment. On the nunchuck you 
 use the analog stick to move. C is to stand or jump (depending on how you are standing or crouching. 
 Z is to crowtch, or lay down if held. That is the easy part. To reload you hit -, and to melee 
 you press down on the d-pad. Grenades are on the left and right d-pad, and switching weapons is 
 by hitting up. When you first play you will find yourself dieing often because you forget how to 
 reload or switch weapons. It takes you till about the 4th chapter to really stick it in your brain. 
 Then you can try some motions instead of pressing the buttons (which arent always as responsive) . 
 The first is melee, which is done by shoving the wii-mote forward, which pretty much always works. 
 Then to reload you flick the nunchuck upwards (works fairly well) and then to switch you swing 
 the nunchuck side to side.
  Overall the controls are amazing and really make the game, what it is, FUN.
  
  Gameplay: This 
 kind of ties in with control. The gameplay is so much more intuitive than any other of the series. 
 It is the funest experience you will ever have and you will keep coming back for more. You may 
 even find yourself ducking or yelling tack it back bi***es when you pick up a live grenade thrown 
 at you, and throw it back at your enemy. All I have to say is that this site under rates the game.
 
  
  Conclusion: Buy it, rent it, borrow it, steal it (not really) . Do anything you can to play this 
 game, and I know you will never put it down. So I give it a 9.2, and am gona play Call of Duty 
 3 until the next one comes out for the wii!!!!
  
  
  
  THANKS FOR READING, I hope you enjoyed. Any questions please pm me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperPlate
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This is the only FPS i own for wii, but after spending some time i would like to remark on the 
 controls.
  With CoD, the reticule doesn't have to go all the way to the edge to turn, meaning a completely 
 stationary target that does not reside in the precise 'dead zone' of movement requires a slow gliding 
 motion toward the center of the screen to continually shoot at. How does this sound good? Maybe 
 i'm crazy, but i would much rather have you take strafe away from me and replace the nunchuk controls 
 with the old style fps like back in the pre turok days for n64 (i am not talking about pc here) . 
 If i wanna strafe, make me hold z, if i don't i won't be holding z then... not hard people. Lock 
 the screen and do not make it move with the cursor, or better yet, make it an option to pick one 
 of 2 control styles for people that like it the way it is now. If wii fps's continue to be controlled 
 this way, with no alternate aiming/turning configuration i'm pretty sure it will be the worst genre 
 for the system, despite it being the highest out of the box potential wise. Graphics- I expected 
 less than what i got, but when you duck behind cover and the textures... not the model, the textures 
 mind you, look like something i remember from ps2 launch titles... i mean something is just wrong 
 there. Shading and light and grass... the little stuff is ALL missing or lackluster.
  
  Sound- This delivers man, no joke best thing i have to say about this game is sound hands down.
 
  
  Value- Did you hear they were making a CoD with multiplayer... oh wait thats a different console, 
 i know i'm QQing here but... i mean, is it THAT hard? Decent single player campaign has a few hours 
 of value, i played zelda, trauma center, and wii sports far far longer.
  
  Tilt- I wanted this game to be great, but when i look at the direction fps are going (not to mention 
 the quirky gun CQ fights, the first one didn't even make sense to me because i couldn't read the 
 wii remote illustration for hitting the guy after wrestling him back *thanks to the awesome composite 
 cables that i had to deal with for a month : (*)
  
  Summary: If the control scheme and lack of lustrous visuals don't bother you, if the lack of multiplayer 
 and generally lazy auxiliary controls don't bother you, then pick it up off gamefly and see if 
 you would really be down 50 bucks to have this thing in your library for good. My money is betting 
 you wouldn't make that decision once you've beaten the single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iselect
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Remember the first ever Call of Duty? Well this is kind of a downgraded version. The smoke is nice 
 and the other soldiers don't look to bad either but the game is full of ugly textures. Take cover 
 behind a wall and you'll see what I mean. Eventhough you can't expect XBOX 360 visuals, Treyarch 
 still should have put more time into this.
  
  Sound
  
  Amazing. The best I've ever heard in a videogame. The Germans sound even more like Germans and 
 the the guns sound great too. You may find that you still hear firing after you've stopped but 
 this is something you'll hardly ever notice.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Good, not great. The controls are what you would expect on a Wii. Shooting happens with the B-trigger 
 and throwing grenades is (optionally) done with the nunchuck. This works good but certain things 
 like planting charges can be a bit frustrating at times. Also during in-game cinematics you have 
 to keep your remote in the air, so you can get a stiff arm eventually. Further, the traditional 
 triggered events are back. This still works great, but if if you're taking heavy fire and your 
 fellow soldiers are still hanging around the corner you can get killed and find out the next time 
 that you just needed 1 more more step to get them to come help you. But most Call of Duty players 
 are used to this and will know how to deal with this stuff.
  
  Value
  
  Unlike Call of Duty 3 on the other consoles, the Wii version doesn't have multiplayer or an online 
 mode. And with 14 missions that in total take about 10 hours, after that you can only play it over 
 on hard mode or whatever. There are 3 veteran interviews, but with between 5-10 minutes per interview, 
 after about a week you might get bored.
  
  COD3 for the Wii isn't what i hoped it would be. Fairly short campaign and no multiplayer. But 
 don't forget, this is the best shooter available on the Wii at the moment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norgus
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  The game is quite fun.. when it works properly (about 70% of the time) .
  During this 70% the controls are snappy and fun (except for the crazy vehicle controls) . The game 
 looks more pretty than I expected.
  
  Now, the other 30% of the time the game can't keep up with what you're doing and so the aiming 
 becomes lagged and worse at points you COMPLETELY lose control and the aim just wonders whichever 
 direction you last pointed untill the game catches up.
  
  This was not a controller battery issue or an issue of pointing outside the edges of the screen.
 
  
  At one point it got so bad the nunchuck analogue did the same thing for a while.
  
  Just have to wonder if they even play tested this game before releasing it....
  
  NOT a reccomended 
 buy, although it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miniconan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The good:
  WWII fps that stood out in the ocean of WWII fps's
  
  Fun controls with the Wii that really help you get into the mayhem (I was actually catching myself 
 screaming ouch when i got shot)
  
  The graphics were actually good. With it on the Wii and everything, i was expecting it to look 
 like a gamecube game, but it actually didnt, it was beautiful.
  
  The Bad:
  Lack of multiplayer- What is the point of making a single-player, first person shooter? with the 
 Wii's online capabilities, that could have really rocked!
  
  Too Short- My Wii told me that I spent less than 9 hours playing it, and that aint good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I think this game got some poor reviews because critics were looking for a revolutionary game. 
 In that respect, it should get lower scores, but based on a standard, non-bias view, it's not too 
 bad of a game. Graphically, it could use a little work, and being on the Wii, you cant expect mind 
 blowing graphics like the 360 and PS3 counter parts. Another flaw would be the sometimes mindless 
 AI. Walking towards a grenade would be less than beneficial if you ask me. This would probably 
 be to counter the new aiming function the Wii offers. The aiming is responsive but still not as 
 precise as one would like it to be. If you've played PC FPSs, you know what i'm talking about. 
 Still, there are options to change cursor sensitivity. All in all, it's a solid game that stays 
 true to its roots and delivers yet another enjoyable 10-15 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-man-23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Another launch title for the wii, but one which promises to use the wiimote in a way that will 
 revolutionize the way we play FPS'. Several wii launch titles promised the same, but none managed 
 to do so aswell as Activision did with their 3rd in the series of Call of Duty.
  
  Set late in World War 2 and based in Nazi-occupied France, Call of Duty 3 sees you fighting with 
 the Polish, Canadian, British, Americans and more! It boasts around 14 lengthy and immersing mission, 
 with each of these carrying on the story of each different nationality advancing on the French 
 town of 'Chambois'. So, as you can imagine, you have to advance in several different ways, from 
 sneaking through the dense forests and picking off Jerry after Jerry, and even getting into the 
 thick of it several times in some of the most greusome and involving battles you will see on any 
 platform.
  
  All of this is accompanied by excellent music that you have come to expect from the ever-improving 
 Call of Duty series. The in-game music really pulls you into the dramatics of the action and pump 
 you full of adrenaline and excitement! Your comraedes will be who you rely for most of the missions 
 as they know where to go and often shout out where and when and how you need to advance! So listening 
 to them is crucial in some of the more vast and longer missions! Also, in battle, the constant 
 sound of bullets rushing by is so effective that it makes you jump at some times, and the big booms 
 of explosions really adds to the already hectic atmosphere!
  
  Graphics now, and although the wii is said to be the least powerful of the next-gen consoles, Call 
 of Duty 3 is exactly bad-looking. Infact, quite the opposite. The vast scenery is well detailed 
 and not over-simplified like we have seen countless times in War games. Detail has been pushed 
 this time out somewhat, with a vast improvement noticeable on the guns, comraedes and buildings 
 - and the new feature of 'blow-upable' scenery works well and looks great when you throw a grenade 
 into a screaming room of Germans and watch as the walls bury them! Of course however, there are 
 some flaws to be found that in some way dull the experience. For example, when in a house, you 
 can quite clearly see the shadows of your comraedes cast onto the ceiling!
  
  Ai wise, the enemy is rather good at detecting you and shooting on sight, but there are a few hick-ups, 
 like when you storm a bunker and the Germans manning the heavy-duty guns don't hear you pummeling 
 their comraedes and you can just pick them off without them even noticing! And sometimes, the Ai 
 is too good - you can be hidden behind a wall and only slightly peeking around the corner not shotting, 
 and the entire enemy squad will start to pummel the living daylights out of you! But these flaws 
 are few and far between and the many mission keep you entertained. But, now onto the best bit... the 
 wiimote! In Call of Duty 3, the game sees you donning the wiimote and nunchuk and brandishing all 
 sorts of firearms from the tactical and stealthy Springfield sniper, and right up to the 'in your 
 face' trenchgun. It's basically a close combat shotgun ( my personal favourite ) !! To wield your 
 trusty firearm, you point at the screen to aim and twiddle with the nunchuk to move left/right, 
 forward and back. By holding down the 'A' button, you can aim most guns and the sensitivity of 
 the wiimote dims down for precise shooting action! When you first get the game, the wiimote's sensity 
 is set to normal, but is rather too sensitive and can see you twirling around and around and you 
 try to look to your left and right. So, with a quick stop at the settings screen and a half hour 
 or so of practise, you'll be gunning down the enemy in no time! With the nunchuk and wiimote's 
 ability to detect movement, there are several actions that you can do through out the game, and 
 the agme also demands you use these actions to perform certain tasks - Throughout the game, you 
 will ahve to plant charges on certain objects, and to do this, you will have to move the nunchuk 
 backwards to insert the charge, then rotate the nunchuk to screw it in and then pull the nunchuk 
 back again to pull out the detonating pin. It's all god fun, but the nunchuk's ability to dect 
 the movements isn't as effective as the wiimote so it can take several actions to correctly pull 
 it off! Another new part to Call of Duty 3 is the hand-to-hand combat where you have to pump both 
 the nunchuk and wiimote to push off the enemy and then move them downwards to strike your foe! 
 And finally, my favourite feature is the ability to change weapons with a slick flick of nunchuk! 
 You feel a pro!
  
  Overall, this game has its fair share of flaws and quirks, but so does every launch title, but 
 it's what's good that sets this game out as an excellent FPS that sts the bar for future shooters! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw that this game was comin to the wii i new i had to have it. And now i finally 
 got it, this game is great, you play as multiple people throughout the game and each one has a 
 unique story all invalving WWII obviously. One of my few complaints is about the graphics, ya there 
 crap. when i first started the game and was watching the first cutscene i was like wow this game 
 has amazing graphics what a fool i was. Ya see the cutscenes have different graphics from the actual 
 gameplay so when your watching a cool cutscene before a mission its like your playing xbox360, 
 but when the action actually starts up the graphics completley switch to gamecube standard, and 
 that annoyed me because throughout the whole game i was thinkin about how pretty somethin wouldeve 
 looked on the 360. but anyway its really no big deal considering the gamplay is brilliant, the 
 sound is amazing (as always) and the game is just alaround fun to play, so fun infact that i didnt 
 even miss the multiplayer!!!!
  
  BOTTOM LINE: if you own a wii, you own this........ period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philomeena
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  COD3 on the Wii is good fun yet at the same time seriously flawed.
  
  The graphics are actually very good. Yes, they're not X360 or PS3 quality.. but they're more than 
 good enough to do the job. Loading times are short and the game certainly zips along. Shooting 
 Germans is as fun as it ever was and there's nice sections like spotting targets for tanks which 
 break away from the usual FPS stuff.
  
  However... the game does seem rushed to the stores and theres quite a few flaws.
  The controls 
 - Largely not that bad. You need to turn the wiimote sensitivity down quite a bit or you just find 
 yourself spinning all the time. Once you have then it controls quite well on the whole. Grenades 
 really need to be thrown using a press of the D-pad as the nunchuck throw is completly inaccurate.
 
  Enemy AI - they're thick. You'll frequently find yourself shooting away at the side of a German 
 who doesn't even notice you're there. SImilarly your allies AI is a bit ropey too (trying to shoot 
 enemies upstairs by firing at the ceiling)
  Shot Accuracy - All over the place. You're 20 feet from an enemy, aimed, and let loose an entire 
 magazine into him - Not a scratch on him.
  Too intense - If you're after a tactical shooter.. this isn't it. There's simply too much going 
 on.. all the time. If you try to stop, take aim and pick some enemies off slowly then your team 
 mates and the game simply moves away and leaves you behind.
  Sound - Great soundtrack but seems to go louder then really quiet then loud again for no real reason. 
 Bizarre.
  
  Quite a few issues then, but even through them the game is fun and well worth a few hours of your 
 playtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Story: You play as 4 Soldiers from 4 Countries [America, Poland, England and Canada] like you always 
 do in Call of Duty. The game takes place during the 1944 Normandy Breakout and the liberation of 
 France. Like always the Soldier's are given a backstory and try to be humorous [meleeing the guy 
 taking a **** was the best one] , it does not really help.
  
  Gameplay: Like always with COD the game goes for a Cinematic feel. You get to drive vehicles, grapple 
 with Germans, blow up Tanks, kill Germans, blow up Missle Launchers and kill Germans. Okay its 
 not that bad but it is executed very well. And the first time you play through the levels it feels 
 like you are in France killing Nazi's. But the problem is that everything is scripted, if a building 
 explodes [unless you are in a tank] then it was going to explode, if you have to grapple a german, 
 it will happen every time. The AI is quite good in COD3 but there are some glitches like them shooting 
 through walls and your alies firing at the celing to hit them [sometimes it works] and that hurts 
 a little bit. But COD is made to replicate WWII and it did a good job at that. Sadly there is no 
 Multiplayer mode.
  
  Controls: This is a mixed blessing for me. First off: The Aiming after you have adjusted to it 
 works so well, and makes using the Analog sticks on the PS3/360 variants look prehistoric. But 
 not all is good, the motions arent recived very well in some parts and it can be just plain evil 
 what happens at times. It may of been that I sat across the room but planting bombs took a few 
 tries to make some things work, and the Crowbar on a door, some things didnt work very well. And 
 Driving the Jeep isn't very good [PS3 does it best] I personaly would of rather turned the Remote 
 while using the Nunchuck to adjust my speed. But the worst part was the Grappling, it was so freaking 
 hard to beat the Germans in there, and there were less than 10 of them so whats the point, but 
 the results were sometimes satisfying [pulling the pin on a gernade and knocking the German through 
 a window] . But the aiming makes up for it and after you get used to everything, the remote handles 
 well.
  
  Graphics: To those of you who have played the 360/PS3 one, looks a lot worse. But you will normaly 
 be too focused on killing the Germans to focus on some bad texturing. That is really the only terrible 
 part, some textures blow. But the Character Models and animations look good and the particle's 
 look amazing, some of the best smoke I have seen was in this game. The good far outweighs the bad 
 and you will only notice some bad textures when you are really close up. And the Weapons look very 
 authentic.
  
  Sound: Like always, the sound is top noch. The voices are bad sometimes but the Weapons and music 
 are perfect sounding. It can be said that how a FPS game sounds can make it good or bad, then this 
 would be an even better game if it was judged that way and even from a normal crappy tv Speeker 
 this game sounds amazing, but play in Dolby Surround sound and it is gorgeous.
  
  Replayability: Like I said before, no Multiplayer and everything is Scriped, that hinders the game, 
 but if you like shooting Germans and looking at the extras that should be enough to keep you there.
 
  
  Overall: Besides some bad graphics, Wii-Controls and the lack of Multiplayer [not evan a damn split-screen] , 
 COD3 replicates WWII in a great way and should entertain war buffs and prove that the Wii-Mote 
 works quite well for aiming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey17
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is a fun game on the wii, theres no doubt about that. Its pretty much a no brainer 
 to argue that call of duty 3 is the wii's best fps. The only downfall to the game that i can see 
 is that the wii motion controls can sometimes get annoying. For example you have to plant many 
 charges in the game and the motion controls dont activate the charge on the first time, so you 
 have to do it again and again. The graphics are more in the relm of the ps2 and the xbox, rather 
 than competing with the 360 or ps3, but the game is an overall great game to play. You use the 
 nunchuck to move the character and the wii- mote to aim. The game isnt very lenghty i beat it in 
 about 10 hours. But I would recommend this game to any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game for the wii. Nice Level design. The controls are so beautiful on this game. 
 It feels more realistic the fact you can't hold your gun COMPLETELY straight. You still can be 
 plenty accurate, it's not perfectly still. Which it shouldn't if your in the middle of gunfire 
 with your life at hand. If I would say things to improve on this game it would be:
  
  1. Online play
  
  If this game had online play it would be funner and higher rated. But for 
 me it doesn't really matter because I don't have the internet. Call of Duty is known for its good 
 online play. The graphics are kinda good i guess , it's hard to describe. Aiming with your wii 
 mote is really fun. The overall control feeling is great.
  Sound is great. Plus, in hte game you do other activities such as rowing a boat, planting charges, 
 driving jeeps, and other stuff. I would have to say I like the controls the best out of graphics, 
 sound value, and tilt.
  
  Whoever on gamespot played Call of Duty 3 and said some of the motions mess up your aim was wrong 
 and must not of been very coordinated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likemanlikedude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  When I picked it up at my local gamestation there was alredy a pre-owned copy of it so I though 
 oh no its going to be rubbish, but i was WRONG.
  This game is way better than red steel even if the graphics can be rough the cutscenes look awsome 
 and setting a bomb or fighting off a crazed natzi feels great.
  shooting feels as slick as ever and there is a great selection of guns. the good: uses the nunchuk 
 and controller well, sounds great and has a gripping storyline.
  
  the bad: graphics arnt much better than ps2. there is no multiplayer aaaaargh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluedog007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Synopsis
  Call of Duty 3 takes you through the Normandy Breakout campaign during WWII. Over the course of 
 the game you fight with the Americans, Brits, Poles, and Canadians. You'll play through 14 different 
 missions throughout France, trying to liberate Paris from Nazi Germany. There are plenty of weapons 
 to choose from and there are also some vehicle missions where you drive a jeep or tank.
  
  My Opinion
  This is just your standard FPS game with integrated wii controls. While the action 
 never gets dull and the battles are intense there is no originality here. Although it's fun to 
 use the wii remote to aim your weapon, it doesn't add that much to the experience to warrant a 
 purchase unless you are an FPS fan. The levels are quite long though, for an FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 is an awsome game to play. it's full of action and adventure. there is lots of gun 
 fighting, explosions and lot's more. Too bad there is no multiplayer or co-op to have as a little 
 bonus. I wish the graphics were a bit better, but this is a very fun game to play. Most of my friends 
 come over to play wii sports with me, but we always play call of duty as long as we possibly can 
 until they have to leave. All of my friends think this game is so good that they even bought a 
 wii for themselves just to play call of duty because they love it so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTNAPALM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  call of duty 3 is a great choice for you who cant decide what shooting game you want to get. and, 
 you shoot nazi's! BONUS!
  
  you play as several diffrent soldiers throughout the game. my personal favorit is nichols, an american 
 private (i think)
  
  you get several weapons, like the m1 garand, a m40 sub machine gun (my personal favorit) thomphson 
 sub machine gun, and so many more.
  
  the controls are weird at first, but you get used to it. i still cant get throwing the grenade 
 down. you aim with the wiimote, shoot with the b button, and you use the numchuck atachment to 
 select and reload weapons.
  
  you also use the controllers to do oddball task like row, drive, get into close quater fights with 
 enemys, and aim mortars. you drive by holding the wiimote and numchuck like a sterring wheel. if 
 right handed, wiimote at 3:00, and numchuck at 9:00.
  
  the tank is alot harder to control. you drive with the numchuck, and shoot with the wiimote. it 
 is a duel handed job and may require a bit of practice
  
  now people say the graphics suck on the wii. BULL. the are the best graphicson a system i own. 
 the are xbox quality. easy.
  
  so if you have a ps3, 360, and a wii, by the wii version. it is the best by a looong shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skablade
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 was always going to be a hit or miss on the next gen interactive Wii console. It 
 might not look half as good as the PS3 or Xbox360 versions but what it offers is a more enjoyable, 
 more accomplished game. If you were hoping to play online or have a multiplayer match with your 
 mates than this game really isn't for you.
  
  The game follows several characters including an American soldier called Nichols and several other 
 armies likle the British, and Polish. You follow all of these but not one at a time. One mission 
 you might be playing as the Americans and the next you might be playing as the Polish.
  
  The story line of the game is about after D-Day and the allies attempt to re-capture France, forcing 
 the Nazis into the Falaise gap. You'll sabotage, destroy and do everything you'd expect in a WW2 
 shooter.
  
  The graphics aren't ground breaking or impressive. There are a few nasty textures about but if 
 you're not shallow enough to not buy a game because of it's visual prowess, you won't mind.
  
  The sound is pretty atmospheric but the music where a blood thirsty Nazi is pushing a gun against 
 you gets annyoing, especially when you can't do it.
  
  But the best bit about this game how you play it. you actually feel as if you're improving as a 
 soldier becoming a skilled marksmen. Punching the Wii remote towards the screen will do a melee 
 attack. B is to shoot and holding A will look down the barrel of your weapon, for more precise 
 shooting. You get to plant charges which takes 3 different movements with the Nunchuk controller. 
 At first you will need to turn down the sensitivity as it takes a while to train a steady, accurate 
 hand. You get to drive a car, row a boat all using the Wii's unique interactive gameplay. It really 
 is great.
  
  This game is pretty big and you can knock up a good 15 hours on the campaign. The game, sadly has 
 little to no extras. But what you get is a fantastic package of what the Wii canr eally do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbafest
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  From my redvsblue. com profile
  I have never played a game with such annoying controls in my life, I seen games with bad controls 
 but nothing like this.. My god. Before yesterday I hated the wii becaues im anti nintendo biased. But 
 now I have a reason. I almost cried when I seen what they did to the call of duty series.
  Everything form aiming rifles to simple running is harder then it sould ever be.
  Simply aiming 
 with the iron sights its incredibly glitchy. when rotating with dynamic aim on your iron sights 
 go off into the far left or right so your FOV (Field of view) its total screwed over he could he 
 a foot from where your sight is aiming and you would not know it. Many Wii fanboys like to call 
 aiming with the Wii remote in COD3 the best thing since sliced bread aiming with the Wii remote. 
 they call it realistic. And at close range and when your not effected by a screwed over FOV it 
 can be fun. I love to blast away germans with my thompson at close range. But aiming a rifle at 
 targets 100 feet away holding it like a handgun? Not that realistic to me. Its the hardest time 
 I have ever had trying to hit a target. Im shure a few setting adjustments could fix this but I 
 had to aim above the TV to aim at my target . Also my arm gets tired fast but thats due to the 
 fact Im lazy.
  And my god throwing grenades!!! I sould have not used the nunchuck controller becaues you have 
 to flick your wrist to throw a greanade. But I assumed they wanted you to throw over-hand. the 
 real way to throw a grenade. I died about 10 times becaues I did not flick my wrist [/ANGER] Plus 
 throwing grenades is inexcusably inaccurate. its far easyer to throw something in real life. Now 
 on to movment For the first hour of play I could not get my character to run consistently. Sometimes 
 he would but most of the time he would walk slowly. Now being shot at my a squad of enemys with 
 machineguns and rifles when im out in the open is not fun. infact it sucks. I soon realised that 
 I had to rotate the remote to the right or something. It still was not totaly working sometimes. 
 Apparently using a pressure sensitive thumb stick to determine what speed the player wants to run 
 at like every other game for the last decade or so isn't a good idea anymore. I almost forgot to 
 mention the strange habit of the game to randomly cycle throught all controllers the Wii can detected, 
 wile surfing the menu in the game. There where 4 remotes in the room. 3 on the shelf and the last 
 was the one im using. Just after a loading screen it decided to stop recognizing my controller. 
 I had to go get another one. As soon I attached the nunchuck to the new controller. It started 
 again. I had to get the third controller. It finally worked so I can gon on almost enjoying the 
 game.
  
  In conclusion the wii's controller is unexplainable poorly designed and is not suited to to Any 
 FPS game. The controller is just not easy to use. Totaly inaccurate pointer. No dead zone. Having 
 to pause the game and reposition my hand to use some buttons.
  The Wii remote killed COD3 But. All hope is not lost for me. Im going to try red steel later this 
 week. If I like it I MAY Stop hating the Wii.
  -Nando
  [/END] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Looks great. Buildings look real. People as well. Sound: Awesome effects. The music is 
 amazing as well. Controls: Take some getting used to but good once you get it. I think the nunchuk 
 and wiimote could have been used a bit better (like when throwing grenades) , but aiming is easy 
 with the wiimote.
  
  Replay Value: I passed the game on easy and it was decently tough. I can't imagine how much harder 
 it will be on normal and then hard. I could see myself playing this game for a while... but I really 
 wish it came with multiplayer and/or online play. I recommend it if you want a FPS on your Wii, 
 but if you are not into the genre then you might not enjoy the game as much as you chould. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkWeasel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  CoD2 on the 360 was the difinative FPS launch game for that platform, and responsible for its success 
 in its early months. It filled the empty spot for First Person Shooters after both Quake 4 and 
 PDZ failed miserably to bring intense action to gamers with stable framerates and tried-and-true 
 gameplay. Now the third Call of Duty has arrived, this time, for the Wii, and it truly fills the 
 gap for FPS's in the crucial early monthes. CoD3 faces a big challenge on the Wii, after its other 
 versions already prospered on the PS3 and Xbox 360, consoles that can give it its full graphical 
 beauty, and stellar online play. And I'll admit, the Wii version does look shabby compared to its 
 siblings on the other consoles. It looks like the Xbox version, perhaps a little better, especially 
 when in 480p mode. It stills sound great though, with spectacular symphonies and epic war sounds. 
 My only gripe is how many voices are recycled from CoD2, this is especially true for the Canadians, 
 who actually re-use voice clips from CoD2. Another gripe is how the Canadians and Polish sound 
 way too American, and I really wish the Pols spoke Polish, but then again, the Russians in CoD2 
 never spoke Russian. Speaking of Russians, another gripe of mine is the lack of variety on the 
 battlefields, all of which encompassing a small area of France. CoD2 had frozen Russian tundras 
 and scorching North African deserts, all of which are missed greatly. But lets get down to the 
 good parts shall we? The Wii version, I must say sports the most fluid FPS controls ever on a console. 
 The precision of aiming with the remote rivals that of the PC mouse. The controls do take a bit 
 getting used to, but they work great. CoD3 is a bit short, but I would say the replay value is 
 fair if you play it through on hard mode. I'm a big weapons person, and I love to see such a variety 
 of firearms in CoD3. The fan-favorite FG42 makes an appearance after an odd exclusion in CoD2. 
 Treyarch weapons and IW weapons look very different though, some of each work well, like Treyarchs 
 MP40 and FG42 and IW's K98 and Thompson. The gbame seems to lack the quality of IW games, and feels 
 a bit rushed and recycled from past CoD's.
  This game resembles CoD1 a lot, with all the nations fighting for a goal-Berlin, or in CoD3's case, 
 Paris. The weapons and levels feel the same too. The Enfield and MP40 are exactly like the ones 
 in CoD. Also, all the missions felt connected, like in this one. CoD2, had a random assortment 
 of missions, focussing on variety rather than a set goal. That is why I believe CoD2 is the best 
 game in the series. Saying that doesn't mean this is a bad game though. It's definatly a title 
 worth picking up, and should be overlooked just because it's in the PS3's and 360's shadow. Anyone 
 looking for a more mature title in the Wii's plethra of kiddy games owes it to themselves to check 
 this game out. Besides Zelda, this stands out as one of the Wii's defining launch titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conman_93
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Wii version of Call of Duty 3 has the same champain as the other versions you play as an american 
 soldiar, a british comando, a canadian soldiar, and a polish tank driver and gunner.
  
  Unlike previos Call of Duty games you switch between the four nations constantly rather then just 
 having four champains in a row and since the game circles around one event plus never going backwords 
 in time the game has much more story to it.
  
  The controls are solid you use the Wii remote to aim you gun and the nunchucks analog stick to 
 move turning may take some getting used to but in no time you will be blasting gerry all over the 
 walls.
  
  The graphics look good but not nearly as good as the other versions there is debree, ragdoll physics, 
 and other nice touches it just looks better on the 360 and PS3 versions.
  
  The champain is a bit short only lasting about 10 hours and unfortunetly the wii version has no 
 online mode so that takes away alot of lasting value.
  
  overall I would reccomend the PS3, 360, or any other version over this one but if dont own any 
 other systems this game is on then it is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whtddusy517
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was a very good attempt as a launch title. Now, the graphics ain't perfect, but I assumed 
 that when I bought the Wii, the controls though take care of that. While the controls arn't perfect 
 eitehr, I give them credit since they had the least amount of time to work with the stuff. The 
 only problem I've found is when I zoom in and peak around corners, i sometimes forget to tilt it 
 back so you move VERY slow [my fault] , and sometimes using a melee attack just gives you a headache 
 with teh motion sensing, and its easier to just press a button..
  
  Overall, very good game, could use some multiplayer though.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamnedude64
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Worst game ever made. i just hate the controlling. i just get so pissed withe the remote i just 
 want to throw it at my tv. the graphics are amazing compared to PS 1. it hardly uses the gester 
 feature at all for anything good. I just get so pissed when i just want to rest my hand my guy 
 gets shot up and i try to throw a grenade with the chuck and it blows up in my hand. it would be 
 better controling if you could use the classic controller. If you love getting soooooooooooo pissed 
 off when playing a game then you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArnoldAnvil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  With the release of the Wii, many avenues of shooting has been made possible and this certainly 
 goes right up onto the pedastal. With controls made to closely resemble a real gun. You actually 
 get really into the game after several minutes with the easy-to-control buttons and maneuvers. 
 The shooting system handles with perfect excellency although it kind of starts to stumble from 
 there. When I started playing it the first time, I turned on the control for real grenade throwing 
 (hold the button, cook, throw maneuver) , but then it got unresponsive especially when I really 
 needed it (call of duty, you need to use stuff fast) . The other controls don't hold any problems 
 whatsoever though. The reload and switch weapons moves are also fun and easy to pull off. To reload, 
 flick the nunchuk up; to switch weapons, flick nunchuk to the left or right, and to melee, thrust 
 the Wiimote forward. I especially give my regards to the melee move because when you execute it, 
 you aim goes off and you have to readjust it again, just like in real life should you have ever 
 try to hit someone with your weapon physically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T33N_W01F
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Look there is nothing wrong with COD3 other than a few small problems. i feel as thogh its best 
 to get through with these little nigles first, so please bare with me. When the going gets tough 
 the wii can have trouble going ,with a few small lag problems, its nothing big but it may give 
 you a little more trouble than necessary when clearing large groups of enemies who are heavily 
 equiped. It will only really happen at moments with about 20 enemies armed with turrets grenads 
 and smoke.
  The only other problem is getting used to the controls, i played it along with red steel, and cod3 
 goes with the more realistic side and as such you dont get a crosshair on the run, however once 
 you get used to knowing the center of the screen, this serves only to enheance the gameplay.
  Speaking of advanced gameplay, thats what the wii offers, other than great accuracy there's driving, 
 rowing, fighting and tanks, yes tanks are now actually controlable thanks to the wii. Essentially 
 its good old COD3 with a few small niggles that are far outweiged by the wii's unique controls. 
 Oh and by the way if you want multiplayer, get red stell too, not instead, as well, they are both 
 great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0520426177
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  My first impression was that is was really hard to aim and stuff like that. But after 1hour it 
 felt SO amazing. It absolutely feels like your in WW2 shooting the NAZI SCUMS feels great!. Even 
 though the graphics ain't the best. and no multiplayer it's still so fun. aiming works great and 
 fusing a bomb, driving a truck and things like that. In CoD 3 you will be able to play as American, 
 British and Polish. The weapons are cool, but the lack of pistols makes it less fun. You will start 
 in a VERY short training. all you will do is shoot down 4 targets and throw a smoke grenade. The 
 go to WAR! all i can say is everything is soo good but the graphics could be better.
  I though it would be worse then it is. The graphics are better then on the pictures, maybe its 
 cos i have the PAL version. But its surprisingly good.
  
  Merry Christmas!! HO-Ho-HO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbudd0045
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I will never buy a game from activision again after playing this game. The play control is absolutely 
 atrocious. Another greedy publisher pumping out a sequel or port to make money with no concern 
 about quality. Graphically its fine looks like an xbox game, which is pretty indicative of first 
 gen wii games. But the play control blows. They give you no time to get used to playing before 
 guys are shooting at you. Thats fine with a standard set up, but this has wii controls. I did the 
 struggle with the Nazi in the building over 60 times, they tell you how to do it, but it doesnt 
 work, because they dont tell you the tempo so you have no idea. Screw Activision. Dont waste you 
 re money. Red Steel has issues, but its leagues ahead of this game. Gamespot gives it a 7.2 after 
 reading their wii reviews, this is a 7.2 and Zelda is an 8.8, what are you **** nuts, zelda has 
 no control issues, this game on the otherhand stinks.
  
  ***update. Finally, got passed the melee. Which is way too much work on the wii. This game epitomized 
 what everyone was afraid of. Ports. It shows that the controls were just tacked on, this wasnt 
 designed to take advantage of the controlers well at all. Say what you want about Red Steel, a 
 game i personally think is getting too much flak, its a launch game after all, but at least the 
 designers clearly had the wii in mind when they were designing it. This game is a chore to play, 
 its got moments, but then you run into some new awful game mechanic. Driving is a pain in the ass. 
 Ive been driving for 9 years, and they told you to hold the wheel at ten and 2, but you know what, 
 since you cant feel the road, you have no balance. It sucks. Im not going to finish this game, 
 its getting traded in as soons as i can for anything else, Im thinking Rayman.
  ***update. Well just like Mr. Burns Ive had a customary change of heart. This game is playable, 
 albeit with some serious flaws. Some of the controls arent clear even the on screen motions arent 
 completely obvious. Also the game is intense which is nice, but youre controls leave something 
 to be desired meaning you cant always react quickly to such things. Also zooming in aiming should 
 be like red steel, but its not. ***Final Update. Well i drudged through it, and this game is playable 
 after all. Melee combat is awful, and the motion controls arent always quite as obvious as the 
 onscreen instructions would have you believe, but aiming is pretty nice, and tank controls where 
 a breeze. Driving the jeep is not so hot. And once in a while, it will slow down and you have to 
 hit the wii menu button disconnect the nunchuck and reconnect. Still this is your top bet for WWII 
 shooter on the wii, till i get a chance to check out medal of honor, which all reviews dont seem 
 to like... we shall see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blah257
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  In the simplest terms, Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is a great experience. It is also a short, ugly, 
 and repetitive experience. It's hard to review this because it really could be a great game. If 
 it had all of the features that the 360 has (splitscreen and online multiplayer, great visuals) 
 along with the awesome control from the Wii than i would give it at least a 9. The feeling you 
 get from aiming with the Wiimote is amazing. I love the presice aiming and the button configuration 
 (A to aim and trigger to shoot) . Sadly, the great control is also ruined by repetitive gameplay. 
 The game is made up of 15 or so levels. All you need to know is run to the star on your map (usually 
 right in front of you) and mow down Nazis with whatever ammo you have. This really gets old.
  
  I know my classification says Rent it First, but I'd just say rent it. I just hope that future 
 Wii shooters control's feel like this and not like Red Steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaloes
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've been playing Call of Duty since the very first one, and I've always loved 'em. Call 
 of Duty 3 is definaltly no exception. Now, I have played the PS2 version as well as the Wii version, 
 and overall, I like the Wii one more. It can be tougher, but at the same time it is more fun and 
 exciting. I enjoy all of my Wii games, and Call of Duty 3 is my second favorite of them all. If 
 Twilight Princess didn't exist or I didn't own it, this would by far be my favorite. But Definately, 
 If you have a Wii and you like WWII games, I definately recommend Call of Duty 3. It's just a fun 
 and exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flood_go_boom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Story: This is your standard WWII game, full of Nazis, or as your comrades call them, Jerries , 
 or krauts . You play as the British, Americans, French, and the Canadians. I usually say more about 
 the story but hey; its Call of Duty; its not like you don't already know what the story's about!
 
  
  Game-play: Great shooting action, historically accurate guns, and squad mates that follow you. 
 Thats all I need in a shooting game. In addition to this, there are a few new things to the Call 
 of Duty series. Such as the planting of explosives, where you have to move your Wiimote in to place 
 a pin, rotate it clockwise to tighten it, and then pull back to detonate it. Its not really fun, 
 but it does break up the repetitiveness of the game. There's also a driving game, and that's pretty 
 awesome. But sometimes the Wiimote won't work very well. And the nunchuck doesn't do anything, 
 even though they ask you to put it up with your Wiimote like you're holding a steering wheel.
 
  
  Controls: The aiming is right on, but reloading is a chore if you don't want to press the - button. 
 It requires you to shake the nunchuck, and that doesn't even work all the time. But other than 
 that little problem, I really think the controls do it justice. Graphics: Nice graphics, I was 
 expecting less for a game like this on the Wii. I keep hearing how terrible the graphics are, then 
 I play and find them quite present to look at. The only part thats weird is the characters eyes. 
 They're all black. That's creepy.
  
  Sound: I found the music in the game pretty awesome. But the sound effects are weird. They dissapear 
 without warning. And you have to look the other direction that the character is to hear what he's 
 saying. That just doesn't make any sense. Conclusion: Really great shooter for the Wii, its not 
 much new to the COD3 franchise, but its not bad either. Go check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reece_Boosh
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Dynamic aim . Thats what Activision have named the control scheme for looking and turning with 
 the Wii-mote. After the initial 10 minutes of novelty, a few moments wrestling with the sensitivity 
 options and several muffled noises to signify your death yet again you'll be thinking the controls 
 are about as Dynamic as a lame Donkey. With Piles. Point just off centre, and your curser will 
 appear in that place, and the camera will track in that direction. Move the curser towards the 
 edge of the screen, and you viewpoint will move faster. It sounds perfect on paper, just what consoles 
 need to replace the unaccommodating dual analogue system. But in practice, you'll need exceptional 
 patience and wrists of steel to get to grips with COD3. The main problem with the controls isn't 
 hitting your targets, aiming down your sights to pick off a partially hidden Nazi is very satisfying. 
 However, its when you need to turn with any degree of urgency that the game lets you down. You'll 
 either find yourself spinning madly and starring at the muddy brown textures of the floor, or rotating 
 nonchalantly to the sound of heavy breathing and unrelenting gunfire. You may be thinking that 
 this shouldn't happen too often, but it impacts on every aspect of your World War 2 trawl across 
 France. When entering a house and sprinting upstairs, you'll run into the wall and spin yourself 
 downstairs again as you try to shoot your blurry faced foes. Or when trying to navigate the initially 
 impressive plumes of smoke you just erected as cover, you'll stumble about the ugly white haze 
 until you find a helpful German to bash you to the ground faster than any Mp14 ever could. None 
 of this is helped by COD's move to a more linear level set up, where every knee high gate is suddenly 
 un-scaleable, and any flanking manoeuvre is halted by impenetrable bushes or ill placed trucks. 
 Your first 2 hours with Call of Duty 3 will be relentlessly humiliating and stressful, with countless 
 viewings of the death screen. Stick with it however, and you'll gradually start to get used to 
 the controls. They'll never be as precise as mouse controls, but it's a hell of a lot better than 
 dual analogue and oh-so more immersing too. Yet COD3, on the Wii at least, still has its flaws 
 right the way through the game. With the exception of the trench gun and machine gun emplacements, 
 all of the weapons sound weak, and you'll frequently find yourself using inferior German guns when 
 the trigger happy style you'll adopt for the Wii exhausts your ammo supplies. Elsewhere, the sound 
 is also quite weak, and other than aiming, motion controls rarely feel satisfying. Driving is particularly 
 memorable for forcing you into walls, and melee-ing through the same means as camera control? Unacceptable. 
 Overall the presentation is a mixed bag, with muddy textures yet impressive levels of action, detailed 
 shadows and absorbing gun and explosion effects drawing you into the inevitable win of the allies. 
 Ultimately COD3 is a disappointing marriage of motion controls and classic shootery. The involvement 
 you feel when aiming your gun or driving tanks is lost by the linear paths, the frequent motion 
 controlled interruptions and the odd German aiding glitch. Its hard to recommend Call of Duty 3... 
 Unless your desperate for a shooter on your little white box, or fancy getting a sneak peak on 
 how future titles may operate its best to avoid this particular WW2 romp on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailz100
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Well for all you Call of Duty fans out there i don't think you'll be dissapointed; but for the 
 new player to the series, they might not be too impressed. Although i rate COD 3 quite highly as 
 I am a fan of the series, there are many glitches, and at points throughout the game i seemed to 
 get lag... yes lag on a console. I thought it may be the disk, but it's brand new, no dust, dirt, stratches 
 etc. I don't get this lag on other games on the Wii so im sure its the game.
  
  The controls for the Wii is tricky at first, I seemed to send myself in circles half the time, 
 but I changed settings and got used to it. The Wii remote is used well, it's kind of like your 
 in the arcade but with good graphics. Then again there are tricky parts while using the Nunchuck. 
 Whereas its easy enough to move  with the nunchuck, when setting 
 a bomb the last action seems to take an age to get right. You sit there waving this remote around 
 for 10 mins or so, until i Just did the action of the last part to set the bomb, in a circular 
 motion, and it worked. Many people have put down the graphics on the Wii. Sure, it's no XBOX 360 
 but i thought they were pretty darn impressive. The FMV's were the quality XBOX 360 type graphics, 
 but at time in gameplay i didnt see TOO much of a difference.
  
  Actual gameplay is excellent. It puts you right in the centre of a realistic type of situation. 
 You won't see any running around jumping to dodge bullets bullets here. Sound is excellent. Theres 
 no multiplayer, which is very dissapointing because i enjoyed multiplayer in the last Call of Duty 
 titles.
  
  So the game itself is pretty darn good, but the glitches and the dodgy aspects of the controls 
 in parts seem to put it down, and just made me get frustrated at times. Also the lack of things 
 to do when you've completed it, I'm thinking about trading it in already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is like a war experience you will enjoy greatly and probably consider 
 this one to be the Duty to play. The Controls work out great and offers the Wii for many developers 
 to take notes how to improve the game or just make it better.
  
  Pros+: Amazing setting and allies that are memorable; New Wii controls are made perfect into the 
 game, gives you the option to throw grenades, drive jeeps and so on; Sound of explosions and nice 
 voice acting.
  
  Cons-: Story mode drags on sometimes, Graphics are nice, but much of the enviroment is dark, Not 
 really much replay value due to lack of multiplayer.
  
  Overall: If you are videogame expert and loves War games, consider checking this one out for a 
 buy. If you don't fit into this category I still recommend a rental since everything is done well 
 and the controls really work out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socem007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning it was pretty hard because i bought it a few days after i purchased my Nintendo 
 Wii system. It takes about a fifteen minutes to a half hour to get used to depending on the person. 
 Some parts in the game are very easy. For example at times in the game you don't even have to go 
 up and lead the computer will just defeat the enemies without you. Then there are other battles 
 which seem very hard for example when you have to get a soldier off f you then hit him with your 
 gun. This takes practice but you will be able to get it after a while. The storyline is really 
 good and done well. Some of the time it just feels as if the people in between levels are just 
 talking for a little too long. There are a variety of guns in the game which is a fun feature. 
 The graphics could be better but are alright due to the game coming out near the launch of the 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexJesus90
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I played called of Duty 3 for about 14 hours striaght. The activity you have to do in the game 
 makes you feel like you are in war. There are plenty of surprises of what the wii remote can do 
 in the game. Smoke grenades are as good as the xbox 360 call of duty 2. I notice myself moving 
 around my room, ducking, and playing with strategy. If there was a multiplayer the game would be 
 higher ranked. Other than the multiplayer, you still feel as you are a soldier. I suggest you go 
 out and buy call of duty 3. You wont stop I promise you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  World War II continues to live on through video games, reminding - and in some cases, teaching 
 - fans of the medium about one of the most significant engagements in the history of our world. 
 Yet, with all the gaming content we've amassed in the past decade, it's easy to greet new World 
 War II first-person shooters with a jaded, cynical eye - one that only sees oversaturation and 
 monotony in the genre. Call of Duty 3, the latest in Activision's successful franchise, changes 
 nothing in this regard - but at the same time, the Nintendo Wii port is one of only two shooters 
 in the console's launch to test its controller's mettle. It successfully showcases how satisfying 
 manipulating a controller to point-and-shoot in real space can be; unfortunately, due to other 
 missteps there is little else to find refreshing after the initial wow wears off.
  
  The campaign in Call of Duty 3 manages to avoid the cliches, thankfully. You won't be storming 
 the beaches of Normandy in yet another rendition of D-Day. Instead, this game picks up after that 
 monumental assault and focuses on a pincer attack by the Americans, Canadians, Poles, British and 
 French to drive the Axis forces out of the French village of Chambois. This sees you shifting protagonists 
 alternately between these five squads throughout the game.
  
  The good news is that this means you'll see yourself with a different set of squad mates from chapter 
 to chapter, starting with a different set of weapons and with focus on different goals. You'll 
 also see yourself interacting with different characters throughout this game's story, in a move 
 by developer Treyarch to put a heavier emphasis on the narrative than in previous games in the 
 series.
  
  The bad news is that the whole story and characterization agenda starts to feel forced. Even with 
 cut scenes that open each chapter, so little is made of these characters during actual firefights 
 or battle scenarios that you start to forget who they are. When some of the characters bite the 
 dust, you may be upset only because other characters call out for them, as if you're being reminded 
 that the unfortunate sap had a name - not because you've actually grown attached to them. In fact, 
 any remorse feels almost obligatory instead of instinctual. With the story being somewhat of a 
 throwaway, then, it's frustrating that none of the cinematics can be skipped - especially when 
 all you're itching to do is point and shoot rabid Nazi soldiers with your Wii remote.
  
  The entire point of this game - with this port, especially - is to shoot mean people in the face. 
 The Call of Duty staple of aiming down the site of your gun is there with a quick press of the 
 A button. It's still a wonderful mechanic that allows you to more effectively draw a bead on your 
 enemy with tactical considerations regarding slower movement speed and more limited peripheral 
 vision. The real change here is in the console's controller. Picking up the Wii remote and handling 
 it like a gun seems like an intuitive and natural action, but in practice this isn't the case. 
 Since the sensing technology is based on relative pointing and not an absolute point at the screen 
 mechanic, the feel resembles that of a laser pointer rather than a gun. As a result, it starts 
 off feeling awkward as your hand tries to adjust its movements to what your eyes see on the screen 
 regardless of the control method you choose.
  
  By default, Call of Duty 3 on the Wii adopts a free aiming reticule in a scheme it calls Dynamic 
 Aim . Your hand movements directly place the reticule at a relative point on the screen. How quickly 
 you turn, look up, or look down depends on how far and fast from the center of the screen you move 
 your reticule. With the sensitivity settings turned all the way up, you almost get mouse-like sensitivity. 
 A potential problem pops up when you consider that you will be aiming at people that aren't in 
 the center of your screen, but once you start firing your viewpoint locks to the location you fire 
 at. This isn't lock-on control, however, so you're spared from the game babysitting you as if you'd 
 never played a shooter before.
  
  The other setting tries to emulate a mouse, and seems like what people have been clamoring for; 
 however, it fails to impress. Long story short, Dynamic Aim is the way to go. It works incredibly 
 well once you get the hang of it, though it can admittedly can take half an hour if not more. What 
 you get is the ability to turn almost as fast as you would with a mouse, while giving you the control 
 to aim and shoot at targets all over the screen without having to change your viewpoint if you 
 don't want to. What this means is that in midrange combat, you can keep an eye on every enemy you 
 plan to hit - but you're also given enough speed with which to turn around and engage enemies at 
 your sides and behind you. Plus, the sensation of moving your hand, looking down the site of your 
 gun on-screen, and pulling the B trigger physically just feels right. 
  
  The motion controls extend beyond aiming with the remote and incorporate the nunchuk attachment 
 for other mechanics. The simple ones work well. Reloading is done with a quick upward snap, and 
 changing weapons is done with a quick shake to the left or right. You can do these same actions 
 with the d-pad and minus button on the remote, but in relation to the more frequently used A button 
 some may find the placement of those buttons awkward. Using the nunchuk for these actions is still 
 very responsive and works as a very adequate substitute. Where it doesn't work quite so well is 
 in grenade-throwing. Regardless of how hard or fast you make a throwing motion with your left hand, 
 the grenade doesn't respond accordingly. Furthermore, you're required to press a button first to 
 activate the grenade. It's easier in this case to shift your hand - no matter how awkward it is 
 - to press the d-pad either left (frag grenade) or right (smoke grenade) and release it when you've 
 cooked the grenade to your desire.
  
  Things get even worse with the additional non-shooting gameplay elements that Treyarch added to 
 this year's game. You'll find yourself getting into tug-of-war fights with enemy soldiers who try 
 to grab your weapon from you. These are all scripted, which means you can never ambush an enemy 
 soldier and try to disarm him if you so choose to. What's worse is that the motion for this involves 
 you jabbing forward alternately with the nunchuk and remote. It's not difficult at all to pull 
 off, but actually figuring out how to do it correctly is a chore because the on-screen cues don't 
 make it clear. (Here's a tip: make sure the buttons on the remote and the analog stick on the nunchuk 
 are facing your chest.) Other non-shooting actions include planting an explosive charge, driving, 
 manipulating a mortar cannon and rowing. The controls for planting aren't sensitive enough, and 
 the controls for driving are way too sensitive. Furthermore, driving and planting are too commonplace 
 for the trouble they cause. The other two functions, however, feel fantastic especially because 
 you need to manage them in the thick of things. Yet, you can count the number of times you do them 
 collectively on one hand.
  
  Given the inconsistent responsiveness with the controllers, Call of Duty 3 seems like the token 
 rushed port. The visuals only pound this notion into your head, with a wobbly mix of somewhat overall 
 detailed environments and decent character models with nasty textures and jarring glitches. Sure, 
 surveying the landscape down the hill from your barricade or looking at that house you've got to 
 storm from a few yards away shows some nice coloring, architecture and landscape design. The volumetric 
 smoke billowing out from explosions and smoke grenades, not to mention the mass destruction going 
 on around you, is impressive. However, it's all overshadowed once you get up close and personal 
 to that smudgy tank or wall texture that would almost look like a holdover from the Nintendo 64 
 era were it not for the 480p presentation. You'll also see enemies' arms clipping through walls, 
 shadows cast on the ceiling by characters who are above you, and geometric popping as you approach 
 complex structures. We're not talking about a super-powered HD console with the Wii, and these 
 types of glitches are likely the result of sloppy work as opposed to hardware - but whatever the 
 reason, what we get is severely unpolished.
  
  It's a good thing that the presentation is bolstered by phenomenal sound work. The voice acting 
 for the cut scenes are average at worst, but more frequently provides plenty of personality to 
 each of the characters you encounter. The sounds of mid-century war arsenals are as varied, loud 
 and fearful as ever, with machine gun fire pattering in the distance and the hurried commands of 
 your Nazi enemies closing in on your squad of soldiers. The orchestral score is once again well 
 done and evokes fear, disaster, courage and victory at appropriate times; the obligatory brass 
 and drums with solid string work mimics the Saving Private Ryan experience.
  
  The sound serves as the only truly bright spot in the game's production values, however; in addition 
 to the hurried visual look that the game sports, the Wii version entirely leaves out multiplayer. 
 Missing online support is somewhat understandable, since Nintendo did not seem to provide sufficient 
 tools for many third party launch title developers. But gamers aren't even offered 2-player split-screen. 
 Once you've spent your eight to ten hours soldiering through the game's fourteen completely linear 
 chapters (save for maybe two or three spots where you can choose one of a few routes to the same 
 result) , you're done. As engaging as the shooting experience is the first time around, it seems 
 to be missing that compelling something that previous developer Infinity Ward was able to inject 
 into its single player campaigns the first two times around for the series. Therefore, you'd be 
 hard pressed to play it again just to play it unless you need World War II shooters hooked up to 
 your veins through an IV.
  
  Call of Duty 3 succeeds as a starting point for first person shooter mechanics on the Nintendo 
 Wii. It's playable, it's fun, and it's fresh - going back to a mouse somehow felt almost boring 
 once in awhile. Yet, that's pretty much all that this port has to offer. The rush to push this 
 out for launch left out several graphical touch-ups and any incentive to play this for more than 
 ten hours, and many of the additional gameplay elements aren't fun and just don't work well with 
 the motion controls. If you're looking for proof that first-person shooting can be done very well 
 on the first try, you really should experience Call of Duty 3 on Wii - but actually purchasing 
 it is an iffy proposition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Although I don't like the loose, PC-like-aiming this game utilizes as much as I like the point-and-shoot 
 aiming you get on Red Steel, the game is thoroughly entertaining as it offers something different 
 than what you're use to from a Call of Duty game.
  
  There's a lot of customizability to the controls on the options menu, but you'll find that when 
 it gets to more hands on things like setting explosives, the in depth motions you have to do are 
 often unresponsive and the directions on what to do next aren't very clear.
  
  Story wise the game is just confusing. Although following real WW2 events after D-Day, you are 
 often hopped around from army to army (American, Canadian, British, and Polish armies) as the forces 
 work together to drive the Germans out of France. You're put in the shoes of a quiet soilder in 
 each squad who, although seems to be miraculously the most talented and fantastic person on the 
 squad, hardly ever gets a pat on the back from his team mates. Which feels kind of crappy, considering 
 you'll often do 10 times more of the work than everyone else in your squad does. And just as crappfully, 
 you're ALWAYS given point, which means you're always the first person to find out what to do next 
 or to get shot at next.
  
  On top of that you often run into dead ends and have to wait around for your squad to come up from 
 behind you, and then wait around some more until one of your team members decides to break down 
 a fence to allow you to proceed. This may be a seemless way of letting the game load the next part 
 of the level, but in reality ... it isn't very seemless at all. In fact, when there's nazi's blazing 
 bullets and lobbing grenades through windows at you, the last thing you want to be doing is watching 
 your squad members stand around waiting for the game to load.
  
  Each gun definitely has its own personality. Unfortunately, you'll have the HARDEST TIME IMAGINABLE 
 remembering which gun is a rifle, which is a machine gun ... which one you want, and which one 
 you want to get rid of. Its nice that there's so many options of guns in the game, but its bad 
 that they don't really run through with you what each gun is and what it can do.
  
  All in all the story mode is really long, in depth, nerve-racking, and everything else you expect 
 from a game dedicated to soilders of WW2. And although you sacrifice online play and the super-polished 
 graphics of the XBOX 360 and PS3 versions, the Wii version makes up for it with some unique, if 
 not slightly fumbled, controls.
  
  What would have made this game better was if it had SOME kind of multiplayer, even if it was split 
 screen, or at least some cheat codes which would allow you to go back through the game doing some 
 bizarre and crazy things. But once you pull your hair out getting through the game's nitty, gritty, 
 and mind bogglingly long compaign mode, you most likely won't want to be putting the game back 
 in anytime soon.
  
  It's definitely worth a rent, but for those looking for a collection of games full of replay value, 
 I'd skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 3 on the Wii is a very fun and interesting game to play and it overcomes its lack 
 of extra features with great control and fast paced action.
  
  Gameplay- The controls are sort of a deal or no deal type thing; you'll either absolutely love 
 them, or you'll absolutely despise them. But, for the most part, they work well and respond quite 
 nicely; the only real hiccup to playing is if you point the remote too far one way (like to see 
 if your brother destroyed your beautiful origami, lol) then the view kinda goes all over the place 
 and you have to re-align the remote with the sensor bar. This is really a minor problem, but as 
 long as you keep the sensor bar at around the same level as the remote, you'll be fine. Also, some 
 of the motion sensing options in the game can be a bit buggy; the grenade gesture option does not 
 work very well and should be avoided and there is a level where you use a crowbar and it does not 
 respond well at all, but there are plenty of motion oriented sequences that are extremely enjoyable 
 and they really accent the Wii's ability (i. e. rapidly moving the remote forward to perform a melee 
 attack or holding the remote and the nunchuk like a steering wheel to drive a car) . The game plays 
 fast and furious, especially on hard mode, and is very true to the call of duty formula, the only 
 real letdown about it is that there isn't any online multi-player, but I'm sure Nintendo will fix 
 that problem within the next few months with the next wave of first person shooters. Still, Call 
 of Duty can hold out on its single-player, based solely on its awesome controls.
  
  Graphics- While it's true the graphics on the Wii are nothing compared to the other next gen systems, 
 this title is definitely one of the better ones. The resolution may be low and the textures a bit 
 blurry but the polygon count is still pretty good, it basically looks like the Xbox version of 
 the game with a few enhancements. Seeing that the Wii is in between Xbox and Xbox 360, there was 
 room for more high-end effects that make it worthwhile. The smoke and explosions look absolutely 
 beautiful and the cutscenes are very detailed as well; the in gameplay runs smoothly and your foes 
 and environments look and act realistically, they just aren't AS REALISTIC as PS3 or 360. This 
 game holds up very well.
  
  Sound- The sound f this game is sweet. The sound effects sound authentic, the music is intense 
 and beautifully orchestrated, and the voice acting is pretty decent. No complaints here.
  
  Value- This game is the first solid FPS for the Wii, but it lacks the extra features of the other 
 versions. The control does hold though and for that it gains some value.
  
  Tilt- I know you've heard me say this before, but this game was great. I played through it twice 
 (on easy and hard mode) and i am very pleased with what fun i got out of it.
  
  This is definitely the better FPS title out right now, pick it up; it's worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykor13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  FPSes in general are a big reason I really took to the Wii as soon as I heard about it, and with 
 the disappointment of Red Steel, I thought I'd take a shot at Call of Duty 3. This game has a great 
 presentation with solid graphics, although its no Gears of War, and some really intense sound. 
 However, a few flaws, like no multiplayer and poor AI really keep it from reaching its best.
  
  The controls, which Gamespot seems to find to be a hassle in general, I found to be fantastic. 
 I would even go as far as saying they are better than the reigning mouse-and-keyboard scheme. (*GASP!*) 
 While its true that it'll take you a while to get used to them, I found that once I did, I was 
 fluidly picking off multiple moving targets from quite a distance with the rifles and such. The 
 training at the beginning does a fine job of introducing the basics to you, and icons at the bottom 
 of the screen teach you new moves as you go along, which I found to be a much better idea than 
 a long and boring boot camp sequence. I didn't die at all in the beginning, even while still getting 
 used to the controls, but I did find that the difficulty towards the middle and end of the game 
 ramps up. The enemy AI isn't really the best I've seen, oftentimes just standing there for me to 
 gun down, but the game makes up for this by throwing masses of them at you sometimes and having 
 some intense scripted sequences.
  
  However, some of these sequences fall short, like some driving parts that are very sensitive and 
 difficult to control, which was disappointing to me since driving on the Wii seemed like a fun 
 time in theory.
  
  Also, I got a little bored with the weapons because while they all sound great and are very effective, 
 they're basically just variations of a semi- or bolt action rifle or some kind of automatic weapon. 
 There's no fun and exotic weapons like in other first person shooters, but I guess you can't blame 
 the developers given the setting.
  
  A lack of multiplayer, online or off, including any kind of co-op, also severely limits the replay 
 value. It's really too bad because at its core this is such a fantastic game. I hope future Wii 
 FPSes reach the system's full potential.
  
  ~krazykor~
  It's really a pity that they didn't put in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee111
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  i started playing call of duty on my pc and i loved it. the graficks were amazing, and it put me 
 right into the middle of world war 2. and gave me a better in game experience then any outher game 
 i have ever played. when i herd 3 was comming out for the wii i was exited, and I could not wait 
 to play it. but now i have played it and its definatly lacking. but i give the wii virshion points 
 because it was more fun playing it on the wii then on the pc.
  
  Gamplay: the wii mote is solid contrals are good. aiming and shoting the gun, driving cars, setting 
 bombs, mele attacks are all very fun in this sence the wii vershion is the better of all the outher 
 ones . but there is no online..... this sux i whish the wii would have had some online suport. 
 Graphics: very bad. the over all grafickis look like some old ps2 game the characters look a bit 
 better tho. but for the most part the land scape looks like **** textures of the ground is horribal 
 and trees and vegetion look like they are from some psp game...... not good at all. some times 
 it makes my eyes hert because the hole screen kinda blends in togeather. the wiis hard where capibilatys 
 are the games bigest let down. you cant exactly feal like you are in the middle of a war if stuff 
 dosent look real. Sound : the wii still contains all the amazing diologe and tracks of the COD 
 series. and the fact that throug the game play aspects it feals like they are really talking to 
 you.
  
  value: its a fun game and every one that likes COD and has a wii should rent it. but with no online 
 it wont keep you comming back for very long unless you want to hone your skills for outher games 
 on the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is the third TRUE iteration of the Call of Duty series, ignoring games like Big 
 Red One and such. Now when images were first released for the Xbox360 and PS3, everyone was jumping 
 for joy: praising the graphical achievement and the powerful gameplay. But then it begged the question... 
 what about the Wii version? How would mechanics run on this game? How good will it play? How good 
 will the damn game be??? When Activision released in-game stills, many were shocked as to how poorly 
 the game looked in comparison with the 2 other ports. Recently, I got a chance to play the game 
 for well more than 10 hours and was happily surprised as to how fun and invigorating the game was.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  I knew the Wii was going to be perfect for FPS shooters, but Call of Duty truly exceeded my expectations. 
 I initally thought the game would be a buggy port of some Red Steel gameplay. But it wasnt. It 
 was so much more. It had very deep gameplay from start to finish. The controls were great and I 
 was easily able to get a hold of the game's movement. Though, one reason might be because of me 
 getting used to Red Steel. But nonetheless, it played better than Red Steel. With a smaller bounding 
 box, you got a truer, more acceptable FPS gameplay. You even had the option for a fixed reticule 
 like every other PC fps... though, it worked better with the free roaming cross hair. The movement 
 is sort of slow even when you're standing up, which is a downer, and the tanks controls haven't 
 been as fleshed out as on-foot gameplay. I was just so surprised how well this game played and 
 how much fun I had out of it. This is Activision's sign of commitment to gameplay rather than eye 
 candy.
  
  Graphics:
  As we segway into graphics, let me just say that Gameplay beats this game's graphics by a mile 
 and a half. The textures are atrocious on the environments and it's truly pitiful to see Activision 
 taking PS3 FMV sequences and compressing it onto a Wii game. It's sort of that accidental backslap 
 to the face. However, I must say though... the amount of action and the level of activity going 
 on is just so crazy. Once you first play the game, you're just trying to find a place to hide from 
 gunfire. The game is definitely gameplay oriented because the graphics just plain suck. the only 
 upper is the fact that there is just so much going on.
  
  Sound:
  I think this is the best part of the game. Really. You don't get any better in music than in Call 
 of Duty. The music is a great addition to it and you can tell what style Activision was going for 
 when the game was being developed. Rather than your typical Saving Private Ryan or Band of Brothers 
 type music, you get that nostalgic feeling from back in the 40s and 50s and 60s type music. And 
 the voice acting, while a bit weird sounding, is played well. With bullets flying by... through 
 the walls... or your chest, you hear every bit of detail going on. You hear based on distance and 
 direction and that's a major upper. It adds more to the realism, regardless of its lack of realistic 
 visuals. Sound on Call of Duty 3 is the most riveting of all Wii games so far.
  
  Value: I rented this game, thinking it was going to be somehwat mediocre because of the lacking 
 visuals. But man, I will never again judge a book by its cover in terms with the Wii. It never 
 ceases to surprise me! I suggest those who like WW2 games should definitely buy this. You cannot 
 miss such a great and deep game. Those who are just into FPS shooters, still buy this. It reinvents 
 how we play Call of Duty forever. And for those who are not into FPS games, but want to have fun, 
 please rent this. This is a fun game, but it definitely will leave you with a bittertaste if you 
 don't appreciate the Call of Duty series.
  
  Overall:
  Call of Duty 3 is not without it's flaws. It has some major problems with the graphical aspect 
 of the game. And it's not without its glitches such as unresponsive melee and graphical glitches 
 such as floating guns and characters and some nasty framerate drawback with the amount of particles 
 and such.... Regardless of these problems, Call of Duty 3 definitely exceeded my expectations in 
 the fun factor, regardless of the lack of visual prowess. I also want to give some final feedback 
 on the visuals. The game really doesn't look BAD BAD. It only looks bad when you pay way too much 
 attention to what the game looks like. The fact is, is that there are nice parts and there are 
 bad parts. But the game definitely proves that gameplay succeeds over it's graphical downfall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushidroid
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  First things first, Call of Duty 3 does live up to what appears to be the greatest of its challenges: 
 the game is indeed playable with the Wiimote (and is more fun with the additional and optional 
 motion-sensor interactivity such as using the nunchuck to toss grenades, an option mysteriously 
 disabled by default) .
  
  However, some simple design aspects (missing multiplayer aside) feel less solid, and while Call 
 of Duty 3 is certainly functional, it wasn't something I found particularly engaging or fun.
  
  On a stereo sound system, I the left and right audio channels were inverted (this was remedied 
 by re-wiring the Wii, but a bit of a pain to do every time for one specific game) , but oddly enough 
 during in-game cutscenes, it felt as if the channels had reverted to normal orientation. The FMV 
 sequences look crude and unpolished, but my issue with them is that they suffer from an incorrect 
 aspect ratio: they appear vertically stretched on a normal 4:3 television. This is fairly superficial, 
 but speaks for the average level of quality, and lack of polish, on the title. There are some hit 
 detection issues, especially with enemies hiding behind cover (at times too generous, at times 
 invisible walls around objects will block what is obviously a clear shot) . The game is meant to 
 be more narrative-driven than Call of Duty 2, and as a result your support typically consists of 
 3 or so characters, and several anonymous soldiers. However, your character allies are invincible, 
 and the game pushes suspension of disbelief a little too far when they are often bailing you out 
 of 6-men ambushes, and taking several grenades to the face. The missions feel repetitive, and the 
 heavy-handed scripting leads an artificial feel to the proceedings, though this may be a bias I 
 have in general against the series (I'm not a Call of Duty fan, but these problems still feel more 
 persistent than they did in Call of Duty 2 for the PC) . The scripting can also lend to the game 
 being difficult, but rarely in a straight shoot-out. I found myself being killed consistently, 
 but only in situations where the scripting required me to reach an arbitrary location, or avoid 
 a particular ambush (with spawning enemies) . While the game is for the most part presentably done 
 in terms of game balance, the mission events are sometimes difficult to understand, and can on 
 occasion cause the game to feel difficult and punishing for the wrong reasons.
  
  The game mixes things up with small pseudo-minigames, such as using the Wiimote (held in various 
 positions) for tasks such as assembling a bomb, operating a crane, driving a jeep, and rowing a 
 boat. These are a bit whimsical in execution, but certainly some of the better moments of the game, 
 if not due to their sheer silliness (I greatly enjoyed them) .
  
  Call of Duty 3 was not my cup of tea, but it's playable, and fairly solid, which at least deserves 
 consideration. It's a good start to the Wii FPS genre, with effective controls (that show a lot 
 of promise) , but not enough substance to make the game experience itself rise above average. I 
 would highly recommend the game as a rental, but I wasn't able to find anything in the game to 
 justify a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 is a solid launch title for the Nintendo Wii. The game showcases what the Wii remote 
 is capable of for the shooter genre in years to come for the Nintendo Wii. The overall mechanics 
 of the controller work really well, the aiming and shooting using the Wii remote run smoothly. 
 Although some of the mini tasks that were thrown in by the developers may be a little cheesy. Such 
 as planting a bomb and having to screw the fuse into place, or the oddly timed hand to hand combat 
 mechanics with a waiting Nazi Those moments of the game feel a bit weird, but then again it gives 
 you more interaction with the game.
  
  The Aiming uses a bounding box like Red Steel, a trait uncommon to FPS games outside of the Wii. 
 It works well though it allows you to get a bit more view without having to change direction as 
 often, and by rolling the Wii Remote from left to right to allow your character to lean around 
 corners is a great use of the controller.
  
  Overall the visuals are nice, the textures might be a bit muddy up close but the explosion and 
 smoke effects in the game make up for the visuals. I noticed that at certain points some of the 
 textures would flicker, but nothing to rate the game down on. The visual presentation is good though, 
 the sound is great as well, I noticed that turning up the TV really gave you the sense of being 
 there, the effects were done well.
  
  Despite being a well put together game, the lack of any multi-player at all definitely hurts it. 
 Call of Duty games are known to have short campaigns, and without multi-player, the game seems 
 pretty basic. Although if you are like me, who enjoys playing through a game more than once to 
 test their skill on harder settings then it will definitely extend the time of play. All in all 
 Call of Duty 3 is a solid launch title for the Wii. In the coming year we will see shooters that 
 will out do this 1st generation title but if you are a fan of the series, or shooters in general, 
 and looking for a good shooter to play, and to test out your remotes capabilities then I'd have 
 to recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  if youre not used to playing 360 when you play this game youll be stunned at how good things look, 
 looks and sound are important in this game as the whole fun and importance of a call of duty game 
 is the atmosphere. luckily it did these awesomely well. thinking you can breath a sigh of relief 
 in this game is the dumbest thing you can do because just when youre not expecting it thats when 
 something happens. in its unpredictability lies depth as ambushes wether orchestrated by you or 
 the enemy turn into vicious firefights for your life. lack of multiplayer and a short campaign 
 though relegate this game to a rent. also the controls are not very well setup as reaching for 
 a grenade is a dangerous proposition due to your inability to reach the appropriate button without 
 shifting your hand. over all an excellent...... rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun single player experience with aged graphics (closer to gamecube than 360 or PS3) , 
 great sound, and- thanks to the Wiimote: revolutionary gameplay. The huge downside is that, just 
 like every other COD for a Nintendo console, there's no multiplayer to speak of! Not even a lousy 
 split-screen for cryin' out loud. This lack of MP is sincerely inexcusable on a current-gen console; 
 especially when it supports online capability. It's a good thing that the single player mode is 
 good or I'd have wanted my money back! While this game does have last-gen graphics and sometimes 
 shaky controls (of course-it did get better after I gained Wiimote experience) if you have a Wii 
 and love FPS it beats Red Steel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The5thAvacado
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  If you bought the Wii, more than likely you got Zelda with it. And if you're like me and not a 
 fanboy, but looked at the game from a neutral standpoint, you'd probably notice that it didn't 
 do the Wii's unique control system much justice. Whereas your movement is quite limited, Call of 
 Duty 3 puts Zelda and many other Wii games in their place.
  
  Call of Duty 3 plays exactly like Call of Duty 1 and 2; you play as several different ground soldiers 
 in various campaigns of World War II. This particular game puts you in France, leading the battle 
 against Hitler's Nazi army on the European front.
  
  The game's main feature that differs it from the PS3 and 360 is the motion sensing control. This 
 game does a much better job of utilizing the Wii's features by giving you a full range of motion. 
 Your crosshairs and weapons are moved by movement of the Wiimote. Your character's movement is 
 controlled by the Nunchuck. Other gameplay features are covered by buttons on both sides. The controls 
 are touchy at first, and you may need to turn the sensitivity down. The buttons are also hard to 
 reach on the Wiimote, but I blame that on Nintendo. After an hour or two, you should be comfortable 
 with the gameplay. Gameplay is fun and exciting because you're actually moving your control, shooting 
 Germans as you see them. This makes aiming easier and more natural feeling than a traditional control. 
 Grenade throwing is done with the left and right D-pad buttons, and the grenades are aimed by moving 
 the Wiimote. It takes a long time to be able to throw grenades effectively because the ridiculous 
 stretch from the A button to the D-pad often causes you to stop what you're doing and thus be shot. 
 It also takes awhile to learn to turn around easily. To turn, you simply bring your gun to the 
 side of the screen and hold it there. But common nature would tell you to just turn your control 
 all the way. This often causes the pointer to go off the screen, resulting in little movement and 
 your gun being jerked up and down. Once you overcome this problem, the game becomes much easier.
 
  
  You are also given other features that can be done via movement. The Nunchuck can be moved right 
 to switch weapons, and moved up to reload. This can also be done with the D-pad, but like I said, 
 it's hard to hit that thing right. The Wiimote can be tilted to the side to duck in and out of 
 cover. It is also used as the melee function. Simply swing both sides of the control to perform 
 a melee attack. However, the game sometimes has trouble picking this movement up, and your game 
 will go much more unaffected if you just press D-pad down. There are several other features that 
 are only used at certain points. Sometimes you are overthrown and forced to fight your way out 
 by moving the controls back and forth. This feels somewhat redundant, but you'll have to put up 
 with it. Not all motions are stupid, though. There are some parts where you can hold the controls 
 like a steering wheel and drive a jeep.
  
  This game is particularly unforgiving on left-handed people like me, as it forces you to learn 
 to play with the Wiimote in your right hand. Still, I learned to shoot real guns right-handed, 
 I can do this. In fact, you're going to want to make playing right-handed a priority, because I 
 would imagine most games would require this. Even Link, who is naturally left-handed, has been 
 changed to a righty in the newest Zelda game.
  
  It's graphics are hardly amazing. While the cutscenes do look nice, that's about all that can be 
 said. Basically everyone looks the same. There's just one model for each different type of soldier. 
 Even with one model, all character models look quite drab. Certain effects like smoke and fire 
 look fit for the N64, no joke. Luckily, the worst thing that can happen because of this problem 
 is that it may make you shoot your allies. But that really doesn't matter. Your allies are either 
 invincible or no help at all.
  
  The game's AI is also nothing to speak highly of. Enemy troops do a good job of shooting at you, 
 but they really don't know how to use cover or common sense. They rarely run from grenades, even 
 less do they pick them up and throw them back. Their basic means of cover are hiding around corners, 
 in which case you can easily rush in and shoot them. Their difficulty comes in their high numbers 
 and the virtually nonexistent help from your allies.
  
  For some reason, the Wii games have all had one major letdown, and in this game, it's the lack 
 of multiplayer. You'd think that Activision would try to capitalize on the Wii's online mode, something 
 new for a Nintendo console, but for some reason, this game has none. Neither local, nor online. 
 It's a major letdown because not only do the 360 and PS3 ports have multiplayer, but every other 
 Call of Duty game has unless on the GameCube. This was because the GameCube had no online features. 
 Yet even now with the Wii's online gaming, it's still only playable by one person.
  
  CoD 3 is a good game, better than most for the Wii right now, Zelda included. So if you're getting 
 a Wii at its next shipment, and plan on picking up a game with it (I hope you will because WiiSports 
 is not much fun) , don't pick up Red Steel or Twilight Princess, pick up Call of Duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluelesspunk
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Nintendo Wii is essentially the same game as is on every other console, 
 with two differences: one, there's no multiplayer at all, and two, obviously, the Wii's crazy control 
 scheme.
  
  When you first start playing (since presumably this is one of your first FPS experiences on the 
 new system) , the first thing you'll notice is how you can't control anything. The controls will 
 seem spazzy and hard to use, but after about ten minutes (and turning down the look sensitivity 
 a little) , the controls work fine. It will still take a while to get good at the controls, but 
 now that I've experienced this control scheme, I'd never go back to standard dual-analog.
  
  The problem is that people don't realize how much they unconsciously move the controller around 
 when they play games, and this game requires a steady hand. But after you master this (it's definitely 
 all in the wrist) , the controls are more precise and easier to use than regular ones.
  
  However, besides aiming, many of the other motion sensing features in this game are just frustrating. 
 Thrusting the Wiimote forward for melee attacks and making a throwing motion with the nunchuk to 
 throw grenades work okay after you get used to them (the grenade gesture is turned off by default) , 
 but it's still easier to just press the buttons for these actions (down on the D-pad for melee 
 attacks and left and right on the D-pad for frags and smoke grenades, respectively) . Some motion 
 sensing controls work great and become second nature (like moving up with the nunchuk to reload, 
 and moving right with the nunchuk to switch weapons) , but many of the contextual motion sensing 
 controls are just aggrevating. Setting charges is okay once you figure it out, but making spinning 
 motions with the controllers to control mortars and artillery seem tacked-on. Driving is what you'd 
 expect (hold the controllers like a steering wheel) , but gets very tiring since you have to suspend 
 your arms in the air for extended periods of time. And fighting over your gun with a Nazi soldier 
 is just plain unsatisfying. These moments are sparse though, so this isn't much of a problem.
 
  
  The cutscenes in the Wii version of Call of Duty 3 look great, but the in-game graphics aren't 
 nearly up to par. This system is supposed to have TWICE the power of the GameCube, the system which 
 spawned the Metroid Prime games and Resident Evil 4, which look better than this game. Everything 
 looks fine from far away, but getting close, you can see the pixelization (this is especially the 
 case for surfaces on which you have to zoom in and set charges) . Smoke looks pretty sweet though.
 
  
  Oh, and there's no multiplayer. Nintendo hasn't set up its online gaming service yet, so there's 
 nothing Treyarch could've done about that, but there's not even any split-screen multiplayer. And 
 if you've ever played the multiplayer in a previous Call of Duty game, Call of Duty multiplayer 
 is GREAT. I'm more of a single-player person (I have no friends, obviously) , but in Call of Duty 
 2, multiplayer may have been as much or even more of an incentive to buy the game than the single-player 
 campaign.
  
  So why does this game get an 8? Pretty much the same reason the Wii has been such a success: it's 
 just plain fun. The level design in CoD 3 is great, as is the pacing. A frequent checkpoint system 
 keeps the pace of the game up, as dying doesn't mean starting the entire mission over. Your NPC 
 squadmates actually aren't braindead, which is a problem with many games. There's always action 
 going on everywhere, making the player feel as if they're part of a bigger war. The levels don't 
 seem linear at all, even though they are, to a certain extent. There are no invisible walls, just 
 carnage everywhere. Guns sound very powerful, and the music is beautiful (too bad we don't hear 
 more of it) . In the gameplay category, Treyarch nails it. I'd even go so far as to give the gameplay 
 a 10, except for the whole no-multiplayer thing. The storyline works well enough, and had a strangely 
 well-written cohesive ending cutscene that makes the entire Normandy Breakout seem worthwhile.
 
  
  All in all, I could heartily recommend Call of Duty 3 to any Wii owners out there. While it is 
 definitely lacking in the graphics and multiplayer departments, it makes up for in spades in the 
 gameplay department, as well as the one that matters most, FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The amazing series brings its third title to the Wii just in time for its launch and well, it doesn't 
 hold up with the rest of the series. Call of Duty 3 is pretty good in some departments, but in 
 most is done extremely poorly.
  
  The gameplay in Call of Duty is very flawed. The controls are ultimatley what ruins it. Throwing 
 a grenade is nearly impossible and trying to aim is very hard as well. When some of the most important 
 actions in a shooter are extremely hard to do, then that makes for a very poor experience. There 
 is also a lack of the great multiplayer that Call of Duty 3 has on the Xbox 360.
  
  The graphics in Call of Duty 3 are done pretty well. The models and textures look great from afar, 
 but upclose the look grainy and very low resolution. Call of Duty 3 lacks a good lighting system 
 and the bump mapping/normal mapping affects that are featured on the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 
 versions of the game.
  
  The sound in Call of Duty 3 is still very well done. You'll hear tons of very well done sound effects 
 on the battlefield and characters will always being yelling telling you where grenades are, what 
 your objective is, and where enemies are. Along with the Wii Remote sound effects this game sounds 
 amazing.
  
  There's really not much to do with Call of Duty 3 after you beat it. There's no multiplayer and 
 pretty much no replay value.
  
  This game is done very poorly and is a huge letdown compared to other games in the series. While 
 the production values may still be good, the controls and the lack of multiplayer ruins the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekrotaunter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  haven't bought the game yet, just borrowing it from a friend. the controls are well placed and 
 the graphics and sound are decent as long as they're not directly compared to the other versions. 
 the one spot that this game fails is some of the close up actions. melee attacks can be performed 
 by either pressing down on the D pad or by jabbing the controller forward. the jab when you retract 
 to where your arm was, leaves you looking straight down or up so you end up taking damage from 
 other shots. planting explosives doesn't react to the controllers' movement too well and it leaves 
 you wondering what the hell you could do to make it go by faster. as far as basic actions and shooting, 
 it only takes a slight learning curve to catch on to the sensitivity and learn your should just 
 run in instead of wasting your time in the back popping off shots. it still stands as a good beginning 
 for first person shooters on wii, and i'm sure medal of honor and especially metroid will be making 
 up for the flaws found in this title. i still can enjoy the game, and i'll be buying it sooner 
 or later, maybe when i can get a decent price on a used copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is by far the coolest first person shooter you cn pick up. The way it 
 all works makes it one of the coolest games on any console, but that doesn't mean it doesn't ave 
 problems. The gamesplay for Call of Duty 3 is great. While at first it seems very awkward, you 
 can change the sensitivity to match your needs. The graphics are good, but nothing better than 
 something on the Xbox. Thes sound is just perfect in every way. The only problem is it doesn't 
 last long. There are 14 missions each clocking around 20 minutes. This means you can blow through 
 it in 7 to 8 hours. With no multiplayer, its hard to decide if you should buy it. Overall, Call 
 of Duty 3 is a great game that you need to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  There was several games I was looking at for Wii launch, but by far I wanted Call of Duty 3. First 
 thing you will notice, Wii call of duty has no multiplayer. Kind of depressing when you think about 
 how the wii has perfect online capabilities. Next thing you will notice is the cool control. Do 
 not listen to all of these people complaining about control of the two Wii launch fps. Controlling 
 is fast, efficient, and fun. Remember dynamic aim in your old timesplitters games? Sucked with 
 a controller didn't it? On the wii, dynamic aim is the standard setting and makes shooting nazis 
 a breeze. And finally there is a first person shooter where you can turn as quick as you can in 
 real life. Turning was best of sensitivity of 3, but I had a small controller malfunction on that 
 setting so I switched to 2 and although it is abit slower it works great. Sound was good most of 
 the time, but I noticed that here and there it missed some gunfire or grenade explosions. AI is 
 pretty good, and like all Call of Duty games it seems like a game version of saving private ryan. 
 If you are able to drag alot out of your video games like me, you will find more than one play 
 out of this game. Others will probably beat it and be very disappointed. In a short sum-up, simply 
 this game is a great introduction to wii fps. In many parts you will find yourself tweaking the 
 nunchuk to set a bomb or drive a car or move a pak gun or mortar. It is a solid game with great 
 substance, yet not alot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lone_wolf911
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game is intense, immersive, but the stench of rush job is all over this game. 
 Treyarch should have delayed this game to polish it, and give it some online or something, obviously 
 it was rushed.
  
  Major flaws include these so called, battle actions , when you struggle and fight off a german. 
 Treyarch makes a big deal about these in interviews, but they are not. The flaw is that when you 
 are using the wiimote to fight off the german, sometimes the wiimote movements won't get sensed.
 
  And this goes for planting charges too. When it asked you to pull back on the nunchuk, I personally 
 thought you had to pull it once, but I ended up pulling it back like 8 times to get the charge 
 on.
  
  Aiming wise, I find it a lot better than red steel, since the invisible square is smaller for easier 
 aiming. You have the option of adjusting your vertical and horizonal spead as well.
  
  Sound-wise, COD games always have great gun sounds, and voice acting, nothing wrong in that department
 
  
  Story wise, Treyarch says the story will jump from American, Canadian, British, and Polish campaigns. 
 But it can be a little too jumpy. You see the characters develop around you, but not enough of 
 your own character (silent protagonist, like always) .
  
  The graphics in this game are last generation quality, but you still get amazing particle, explosion, 
 and smoke effects.
  
  Concluding comments: The game is really intense. However, the lack of multiplayer and no online 
 hurts it. This game could have been so much more than it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoesTheory
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Really? One dont belive the commercials, they make it look so easy, its not. It is so impossible 
 to mauever sometimes its like playing red steel all over again. Sometimes the Wii doesnt detect 
 the movements which causes youto get shot and killed. If you reallt want to play then use a controller 
 or buy the 360. Your arms begin to tire after a while from holding the Wii mote up and i dont know 
 if there is a multiplayer i have been informed there is not any which is the only good thing about 
 it, thing of the chaos one must endure if there would be multiplayer besides the fact that the 
 campiagn sucks. This game was truly all flash and no sunstance. Also, the flicking of the hand 
 also begins to hurt but then again it should after playing red steel which recieved terrible reviews. 
 Want more info then contact me. Ok guys, i didnt have fun playing this on the Wii it was much better 
 for the xbox
  i bellieve the Wii should have way better graphics and its ashamed that they dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablo1391
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Well I bought this game tonight looking for somethin amazing. Its not what I got. It is still a 
 fun game but I think the controlling is too complicated with the Wii mote on this game. The graphics 
 arent as good as I hoped, but this game should still hold me off until Far Cry comes (which I hope 
 is good) . This game is still good, Its just not as special as Call of Duty for PC. It will never 
 be. So I am just hoping for some better FPS game to come soon. Because Red Steel was also a let 
 down so lets just hope that game developers put more effort into the Wii and the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechGuruGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 3 for the Wii is a great game probably one of the top 5 release games. It's like your 
 actually there because of the WiiMote its' like your actually firing the gun but then again its 
 like your middle aged with so vision issues.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics to me felt like PS2 graphics they could have down better there are a lot 
 of choppy areas in the game. But for the price of the Game console its alright.
  
  Sound: Sound in the game is just like any other Good World War II game it has the right sounds 
 for every effect. Maybe one or two skips in the sound but so far its great.
  
  Game Play: Game play is great it does take a while to get used to the controls but once you do 
 its like your actually there and you get to use it like a gun and snipe people. I did find that 
 it is hard sometime to aim because of the sensitivity of the controller.
  
  Overall i think it is a great game and it is a must have for launch. 8.0 score 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
