-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty: World at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/callofduty5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gritty, exciting story.
 Engaging online multiplayer.
 Well-mapped control system.
 Detailed, immersive environments.
 Novel two-player cooperative mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some control hang-ups.
 Limited online multiplayer modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,405 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 10, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Impressive controls, exciting multiplayer, and a dramatic campaign make Call of Duty: World at War 
 a great success. 

  After getting passed over by 2007's stellar Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare, Wii owners get their 
 first shot at the revitalized series with Call of Duty: World at War. Though World at War treads 
 the familiar ground of World War II, the detailed, realistic locations and dramatic story elements 
 make this trip to the past feel fresh. The remote and Nunchuk perform admirably in combat, despite 
 a few missteps, and the well-tuned weapons make firefights intense and satisfying. Add in the engaging 
 multiplayer system that made Modern Warfare a smash hit, and you've got one of the best shooters 
 available for the Wii.  

           Spewing fire with the Wii Remote is particularly enjoyable.      

  There are a number 
 of great components in Call of Duty: World at War, but none of them would work without the fully 
 capable control scheme. You move with the analog stick and aim by pointing the remote. As a handy 
 aid to newcomers and veterans alike, there are plenty of options to tweak various sensitivities 
 and movement speeds. In the default control scheme, you pull the B trigger to fire and use the 
 Z button to look down your sights, which is a crucially important ability, especially in multiplayer. 
 The C button toggles your stance, and the A button lets you sprint or, when stationary or strafing, 
 lock the camera for steadier aiming. There are a number of slightly tweaked alternate control schemes, 
 including a Wii Zapper mode that, if you can endure the frequent twisting it requires, is actually 
 pretty fun.  

  The default controls feel balanced and well-mapped, but there are a few hang-ups. The fast and 
 deadly melee attack is performed by shaking the Wii Remote or hitting down on the D pad. Unfortunately, 
 shaking will shift your aim abruptly, often causing you to miss your target. The D pad is the better 
 option, but melee attacks will still tend to go astray more often than they should. The D pad is 
 also used for switching weapons, so resting your thumb in the A-button/D-pad area is generally 
 advisable. Unfortunately, grenades are mapped to the + button, and shifting your thumb halfway 
 down the remote can be awkward. It's a minor inconvenience, though, and all things considered, 
 World at War's control scheme is well-suited for the rigors of war.  

  In the campaign, you split time between two soldiers in two offensive theaters: the Russian push 
 out of their homeland and into the heart of Germany, and the American struggle to wrest Pacific 
 islands from the Japanese. Though you'll alternate between them every few levels, the campaign 
 feels like one solid progression thanks to the adept pacing. Each soldier's journey begins at a 
 low point. Weaponless and surrounded by the enemy, you get a taste of the despair that many soldiers 
 are never rescued from. Though the emotional tone eventually rises toward triumph, you never quite 
 forget the fate you nearly met. The first few levels are a hard scrabble as you and your fellow 
 soldiers try to gain a foothold for your country, whereas later levels are suffused with a sense 
 of hard-won momentum as you fight bigger battles and push closer to your enemies' capitals. On 
 your journey, you'll traverse a number of diverse, well-detailed environments that set an impressive 
 and immersive backdrop for the action.  

           You'll be happy to follow your commanding officers into burning buildings.      

  
 Throughout each level, you are accompanied by a superior officer who sets the emotional tone through 
 well-acted dialogue. The vengeful, spitfire Russian pumps up your adrenaline to intoxicating levels, 
 whereas the grim, determined American provides a sobering influence. This grim sobriety is further 
 enforced by the actual WWII videos, photos, and statistics presented in stylish interchapter cutscenes. 
 The message is, by nature, a conflicted one: Though you may feel like an action hero, you are actually 
 participating in the most horrid of human endeavors. How you ultimately feel about this message 
 will depend on your personal disposition, but suffice it to say that the elevated emotional timbre 
 makes for an exciting campaign.  

  Also exciting? Bayonets and flamethrowers, the two standout weapons in World at War. You wield 
 both in the American campaign, using them to enthusiastically dispatch enemies in trenches and 
 fend off the aggressive banzai raiders. These raiders snipe from the treetops, or pop out of holes 
 and charge you with merciless determination, and this aggression makes the American campaign feel 
 uniquely tense. The Russian campaign is slightly more predictable, but it remains vigorous throughout 
 and ends in a spectacularly satisfying way. Though you'll spend a good amount of time hiding behind 
 cover and picking off enemies, you'll find it somewhat tricky to snipe far-off foes. You may have 
 the patience to become an ace sniper, or you may resort to bold charges shielded by smoke grenades; 
 either way, the campaign is so exciting and well-paced that you're bound to have a blast.  

  Playing with other folks is a blast as well, and Call of Duty: World at War offers two ways to 
 do this. The first is to play the campaign in cooperative mode. Instead of splitting the screen 
 for two players, World at War relegates the second player to piggyback status. The first player 
 does everything he or she would normally do: move, crouch, aim, shoot, throw grenades, melee attack, 
 and so on. The second player is merely a second target reticle: He or she can shoot, reload, and 
 switch between two guns, but can't control camera or movement. This offers a fun, casual way for 
 a friend to join in the action (with the ability to drop in or out at any time) , but it can be 
 a bit disorienting to have your view controlled by someone else.  

           Online opponents can be particularly deadly, despite what you may read on WebMD.      
 

  The other option is to take your skills online and dive into World at War's excellent and engaging 
 multiplayer system. The hook here is experience points, which you gain by winning matches or completing 
 one of the many in-game challenges (such as getting a certain amount of headshots with a certain 
 weapon) . As you earn these points, you'll rank up and earn access to new weapons, new accessories 
 (such as sights and suppressors) , and new perks. Perks are special abilities that grant you a wide 
 variety of bonuses, but you can choose only three. This introduces an engaging element of customization: 
 Will you choose to toughen up by increasing your health and bullet damage, or will you go the stealth 
 route and increase your sprint speed while becoming invisible to enemy recon planes? Perks are 
 well balanced, and you have multiple save slots that enable you to easily switch between your various 
 pretweaked loadouts and fully take advantage of this deep, engaging system. There are eight maps, 
 but only two game types: Free for All and Team Deathmatch. There are different lobbies based on 
 player skill, and you can travel around from game to game in a party if you exchange friend codes 
 with another player. Matches are fast-paced and rarely hindered by lag, and despite the limited 
 mode options, this is one of the best online multiplayer experiences available to Wii owners.  
 

  All told, Call of Duty: World at War is a great first-person shooter and undoubtedly among the 
 best that the Wii has to offer. The controls are smooth, responsive, and immersive, despite a few 
 sundry hang-ups. The lengthy campaign is dramatic and exciting, and it's fun to replay levels with 
 a friend along for the ride. The icing on the cake, the online multiplayer, is a great success 
 despite its somewhat limited scope. So if you're looking for a reason to try a first-person shooter 
 on the Wii, or you're a veteran remote-wielder looking for a new battlefield, look no further than 
 Call of Duty: World at War.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (96 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  Call of duty was always a good game. World at war is a great improvement.
  
  The story AKA campaign
  You play as two slodiers but not at the same time.
  You play as private 
 miller with the americans aganst Japan or you play as private dimitri wth the red army against 
 the germans.
  Of course you just have to complete the objectives and battle your way trough the second world 
 war.
  
  The graphics are great.
  Easy controls but I have troubles with trowing smoke grenades.
  You can choose the difficulty.
 
  There is an online multiplayer mode which is completely awsome and i never had problems with it. 
 It never goes slow. You can complete challenges with multiplayer mode and unlock other weapons.
 
  
  It is too bad there is no offline multiplayer.
  Why didn't they added it?
  
  The great graphics, story and online mode made this game really recommandable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifeminuser
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  call of duty world at war may not have the best single or multiplayer campaign but it definetely 
 makes up for it in multiplayer online its amazingly addictive and is extremely fun
  even when you get to the highest possible level you can use prestige and go back to level 1 and 
 start again but you still have the same stats and kills.
  if you have finished the campaign without playing back a different mission or starting a new profile 
 you will unlock a game mode called nazi zombies where you must fight off hordes of zombies from 
 a house.
  this may be played online with freinds
  i personally have had it on my wii for 5 months and have not stopped playing it on wifi since
 
  its still great and no matter what there will always be something to do.
  there are about 7 maps online and 8 game modes
  some including
  
  team deathmatch - where 
 you will be paired up with up to 3 other players against up to four others and fight it out in 
 teams until time runs out or one team gets to a score limit of 750.
  
  free-for-all - where you will fight alone with other players on no teams, the score limit is 350.
 
  
  boot camp - where only players up to level 5 can play for practice against other new players (this 
 will not be available once you have gone through prestige)
  
  team survival - where a team of four people wil fight another team of four people all with one 
 life. last man or team standing wins.
  
  veteran - a team deathmatch where only experenced players can fight, exactly the same as teamdeathmatch 
 otherwise. 
  
  
  all and all its a great game and is very worth getting even if you do not have internet it is still 
 a very entertaining storyline with some great levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirk_anam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  First thing I would like to say is that I like the WWII setting better than the modern setting. 
 Which is why this game demolishes MW. This game is loaded with all different kinds of guns to rape 
 with. The story mode is pretty good, but forgettable. Where everything lies is in the online multiplayer. 
 It's so addicting to play, especially if your good. For those who arent real great, then playing 
 online is going to be super frustrating. The perks and leveling system adds to te already sweet 
 multiplayer. Getting dogs in online, (7 kill streak) , will really help you out. Things that grind 
 my gears include: no online chat, no real co-op, no tanks online, no zombie mode, and no DLC (come 
 on!!) And is it me, or is like everybody online using the MP40. Aside from that, this game is awsome 
 in many ways, and the multiplayer is addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieran-o
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  Call of duty world at war is one amazing game. The campaign mode is fairly good and its extremely 
 fun sniping Japanese out of trees. The graphics are great for what the wii's got and if you have 
 a wii zapper it makes the game all the more fun.
  
  But the real fun lies in the online play. You start as a level 1 and can only enter boot camp mode. 
 By killing other players, assisting in kills and getting match bonuses you earn experience (XP) . 
 The experience adds up and eventually you level up. By levelling up you can unlock different weapons, 
 perks, and game modes. If you get a certain amount of kills or head shots with a weapon you earn 
 XP bonuses and even attachments for that weapon. Also once you reach level 65 you get the chance 
 to enter prestige mode. Prestige mode resets nearly everything but you get a funky looking badge 
 and an extra custom class slot. You can go through prestige mode up to ten times each time earning 
 you a new badge.
  
  I recommend that anyone who owns a wii should buy this game and if you have it connected to wi-fi 
 then there's even more reason to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a game that took me by surprise on the Wii. What it lacks from it's 
 counter parts is makes up with what the Wii can do, making it one of the best shooters, and online 
 multi-player games on the console. The motion sensitive controllers of Wii are used here too. Your 
 WiiMote is tour gun and your nuncuck your left hand which trows grenades. Cod 5 is a must-have 
 games for your console.
  
  
  
  Good:
  
  -Near flawless control
  -Detailed environments
  -Great dialogue and voice acting
  -Good stories to keep you devoted 
 to the campaign
  -Completely lag free multi-player.
  -Missions = Blow stuff up, and that's always a good thing.
  -Campaign is lengthy compared to 
 other First Person Shooters.
  -Decent variety of weapons
  -Finding random players online happens very quickly
  -Good multi-player perks.
  -Presents World 
 War II in a different perspective.
  -Good graphics, but not amazing
  
  Bad:
  
  -Limited online modes
  -Grenades are still annoying. Even more now because sometimes it doesn't 
 show the warning, and it always showed the grenade warning in Call of Duty 2 (And assuming all 
 the other versions) .
  -No zombie nazis.
  -You are stiil at World War 2...
  -It could be longer.
  -It is similar to PS3 and PC version, so there is no additional missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is the next iteration of the long running Call of Duty franchise. This 
 time placing you in the shoes of a soldier fighting in the Pacific and A Russian fighting from 
 Russia and into Germany.
  
  The gameplay is fairly standard COD. But that's isn't a bad thing is it? The game keeps it fresh 
 with the unrelenting brutality and the addition of several cool new weapons, like the flamethrower, 
 which are incredibly satisfying to use with the Wii Remote. There is also a great multiplayer aspect 
 to World at War on the Wii. The multiplayer isn't as robust as the 360/PS3 versions but you do 
 have Deathmatch and Team Deatmatch with up to 8 players. This is a great step to bringing Multiplayer 
 to the Wii.
  
  The graphics are also quite magnificent. Although they are not as good as the 360/PS3 version (obviously) 
 they do a fantastic job. The smoke effects are particularly cool. The jungles of the Pacific are 
 also quite well done.
  
  The Audio is standard COD greatness with bullets whizzing by creating that cool effect, and explosions 
 being appropriately loud. 
  
  COD: WAW is a great showcase of what the Wii can produce FPS-wise and should be played by anybody 
 who has a wii and likes the genre, even a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War is one cool game to play. It offers many controls functions and the ability 
 to use a wii zapper, which I don't use for this game because I think it's easier to just do it 
 normal way. The single player campaign for world at war has a slower control rate so; you cannot 
 mess up your kills. The weird thing in single player is that it can be co op, so if you have a 
 buddy around, you both can be playing single player. The weird thing is with the co op, is that 
 second player is like an invisible turret that covers your back and has unlimited ammo, it seems 
 when I was playing with my friend. The one thing that I used allot in single player is the flamethrougher 
 which I pretty much killed all the cp's with, (also knifed them to death) . the multiplayer aspect 
 of the game is always changing because you'll never know what's going to happen next, except the 
 prestige wacko's which always seem to cheat by getting 200 kills in one minute and walk through 
 walls. After each level you unlock in multiplayer you may get a new weapon or perk which may help 
 you in the game. Also if you use a certain weapon allot and get allot of kills with it, you may 
 unlock extras for that weapon like extra ammo, rifle grenades, weapon knifes and more xp. Once 
 in awhile online there will be a new message of the day which alerts you to new game types which 
 entice you to play some more. Also some messages of the day may say that some weekends is double 
 xp for kills, which is exciting.
  Overall call of duty world at war is the best game for the wii I have ever played the longest. 
 It has you playing for hours and burning up a lot of battery power.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregdawg08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Story:9.75. The story in this game deeply imerses you in the life of two allied soldiers, one U. S. 
 and one Russian. Both of which are stunning and deep. You begin each soldiers journey in a place 
 where you are pretty much down and out. As a US soldier, you are trapped in a Japanese camp where 
 you and your friend are being tortured to death. With only you left, you are saved just in time 
 by a search and rescue team which becomes your squad for the majority of the US half of the campaign. 
 The other is similar, but takes place in Stalingrad, Russia, where you are among the dead soldiers. 
 A squad of Nazis kills all survivors but luckly misses you and another soldier, Sgt. Reznov, who 
 become your leader and closest friend during the Russian half of the campaign. After both soldiers 
 are rescued, your forces push closer and closer to your goal. While both soldiers live through 
 then entire campaign, almost every single one of your friends dies except for a select few. The 
 deep emotion presented by the voice actors is excellent, and presents the entire feeling of everything 
 happening around you. You'll really be able to put yourself in their shoes during their hardships. 
 All in all, the story is excellent.
  You can also play co-op with a friend and play through the campaign together. Instead of split 
 screen though, the second player is just a rectile on the 1st player's screen, and you both die 
 when he dies. Though it could be more complete, the co-op is still pretty fun however.
  
  Multiplayer:9.5. Though the story tides you over, the multiplayer is what makes the game great. 
 It's addicting, well constructed, and great if you have friends who have the game. As you climb 
 up the ranks, you'll unlock new weapons and awesome perks which help you eventually perfect your 
 game. As for me, I find the MP40 submachine gun effective, along with the colt pistol as firearms. 
 Bouncing betties are perfect for protecting yourself when outnumbered and trapped as well.
  Anyways, the scoreboard is also a great feature. You can track kills, wins, scores, and streaks 
 and compare yourself to fellow gamers. There is 65 levels you can climb up, but prestige mode adds 
 a new twist. Instead of staying a 65, you can go back to level one. Your leaderboard stats stay 
 intact, and you get a new emblem for each time you go into prestige.
  The only complaints I have is that there is no capture the flag, which could be utilized very well. 
 Also, there is only infantry modes too, no veichles. Also, the online can occaisionally have bad 
 connection issues. You may bounce around just hitting walls if you have a poor connection. My only 
 other complaint would be the lack of stages as well, as 8 is too little. Each stage does have a 
 cool atmosphere to it though, and there are many places to start huge firefights or to have a sniper 
 shootout.
  
  Controls:9.5. The Wii definately has the best controls of any console for this game. Instead of 
 using a joystick to aim, the Wii utilizes it's motion controls. You point at the sensor bar and 
 hold the Wii remote like a gun. You also fire like a gun too by pressing the b button like a trigger. 
 Compared to other versions, this has the most natural control feel for the game.
  
  Music:9.5. Though you may not notice it when in battle, the music in this game is awesome. If you 
 don't press a button for a while on the game's title screen, you're shown awesome clips from the 
 game along with an awesome song. The song appears later in the game as you send Nazi forces retreating, 
 and makes it a very sureal moment and shouts that you're gonna win the war. There are also many 
 other songs that are great in the game as well too.
  
  Graphics:9.0. It's on the Wii, so you have to give it a break on this. The graphics for this game 
 aren't anywhere close to a masterpiece, but they aren't bad. For a Wii game they're decent, but 
 compared to other consoles they are below average. But still, they are decent and half the time 
 you'll be to busy kicking butt to notice the graphics.
  
  Added Content:9.5. Yes, added content to a Wii game! For free! In February 2009 Hardcore DM and 
 Team Survival were added as online modes. Hardcore Deathmatch is just Hardcore TDM and Deathmatch 
 combined. The mode that I love is Team Survival, where you have one life, decreased health, little 
 help from perks, and fight in a 4 v 4 battle. Matches go about 5 mins. on average, so it's easy 
 to rack up wins fast. Experience points are quadrupled, but the maximum number of people you can 
 kill is 4. You do get great match bonuses if you get kills though. Anyway, this mode is very strategic, 
 as you need to decide whether to hide or hunt, and if so, where? It can get very nerveracking, 
 especially when you hear footsteps coming. In conclusion, TS is maybe my favorite mode of all due 
 to it's realisticness. 
  
  Overall:9.5. Call of Duty: World at War for Wii finally produces an awesome online for the Wii, 
 makes great use of the WIi's motion controls, and has an awesome storyline. This is what we hoped 
 that an FPS would be like on the Wii. The online is finally good for a Wii game as well. The game 
 is truly brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixbaby44
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought a used copy of this game for $25, and I would have paid more if I had to. The game is 
 just that fun. I hope Infinity Ward does this good with CoD Modern Warfare 2
  
  
  Good: Intense, exciting campaign and multiplayer that's every bit as good as CoD4. The leveling 
 system is better than anything else out there, even Halo 3. Many short bursts of new gameplay thrills 
 like using a flamethrower to clear a tree or fending of banzai attackers.
  
  
  Bad: There are some controls mapped in weird ways, but this isn't a major problem since there are 
 at least 10 different control setups you can chose. You can even chose a custom control setup designed 
 just for the Zapper
  
  
  Bottom Line: WAW is an excellent shooter capable of overcoming the tragedy many Wii FPS games have 
 faced because of poor controls and/or graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiphoneMan2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics need improvement, however, the gameplay is incredible! Nothing compares to this game setup. 
 Great Online Play! They gave us new modes online right? Sooooooooooooo Why is there not more updates? 
 I mean come on the wii inst the greatest system technologically but there is way more players on 
 this game then expected. I recommend this game to anyone who loves the war it accurately portrays 
 the feel and emotions of true warfare and is packed with an amazing online multiplayer! If you 
 want to play friends its the game to get, you can have up to 4 in a online party and more than 
 8 in your own private match! You can set the rules how you like them double health, time limit, 
 the maps anything your heart desires! Then there are bad things like the fact that x-box and PS3 
 have many many more modes than wii and maps! Plus who can forget they have Nazi Zombie mode as 
 well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suffering-evil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Had the game 3 days and this game is just amazing, so dramatic and pulse rating rating action through 
 out. One of the games best features is the suporting casts help. Finally when your in a group they 
 actually help you and are accurate. Theres been a good amont of times that computer controlled 
 soldiers have thrown grenades away from me. Love the melee feature to fight back when your being 
 attacked up close. Enviroments are gritty and great looking. This is the first time i've played 
 the campaign for Call of duty, I normally go to a friends house just to play multi-player, but 
 this game is worth the buy 100%!!!!! Take pride in having this in your video-game library. Definetley 
 the best shooter I've ever played, until Conduit and Dead Space come out there's no other shooter 
 for the Wii that can touch this game.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about the rest of you, but I have been longing for a decent FPS for the Wii for quite 
 some time now. "Medal of Honor - Heroes 2" Proved to be quite an appetizer, but at the end of the 
 day, "Call Of Duty - World At War", bring home the bacon.
  
  "Call of Duty - World at War" is the second "Call of Duty" to make its way to the Wii, and the 
 5th "Call of Duty" in the series. The World-War-Two Shooter has been done to death, but is still 
 enjoyed among many. The new installment is no different.
  
  Let's talk basics. The title screen is simple to maneuver around, Using the Wii's pointer to make 
 a selection, or the analogue on the nunchuk. I personally find the analogue to be easier, as sometimes 
 after selecting an option, the cursor will disappear and a button will have to be pressed to reveal 
 the pointer again. This is not a major drawback, just a relatively small setback. The game plays 
 well, to say the least. The pointer is used to aim, while the analogue on the nunchuk is used to 
 move your character around the battlefield. 
  
  Single-player is a fun, relatively short (about six to eight hours) and quite immersive. You start 
 out being yelled at by god-knows-who, being told to do god-knows-what, with all sorts of foul language 
 being tossed about in between. the language isn't THAT big of a deal, it is used in moderation, 
 considering the situation. 
  
  Once you gain control of your character, after a few minutes of briefing, you walk around, and 
 you guessed it, kill people. This is where this game truly excels (sarcasm intended) . There are 
 two variations of gunning your enemy down in this game. you may fire from your hip, aiming solely 
 with the Wii-remote pointer, or you may lock-onto your target with the simple press of a button. 
 With the lock-on feature, the camera zooms in on your sights, and automatically follows your target, 
 wherever he may go. both methods are and can be effective, but at the end of the day its a matter 
 of personal preference. 
  
  The story is basic, its not anything special, but who really plays a war game for the story anyways? 
 You play as two separate soldiers, from two separate countries, from two different stories. one 
 side an ambitious, new go-getter, fighting for what his country believes, and the other fighting 
 to regain the honor of his fallen country. both sides play exactly the same, as to be assumed, 
 just different weapons and scenery.
  
  The Multi-player is, by far, the pinnacle of this game, and the pinnacle of online first person 
 shooters on the wii to date (sorry Medal of Honor) . There are a few modes to choose from, but its 
 all basically just death match, and Team death match. The extra modes are for those who have higher 
 levels. Now i'm sure some of you are thinking "wait a minute... medal of honor has 3 modes! how 
 can this be better?" and i have one thing to tell you people. unlockables. 
  
  When you first create your account to play online (which is completely painless, barely worth THIS 
 mention) you have a few weapons to choose from, and virtually no accessories for your guns. As 
 you gain your bearings and begin to kill those around you from the safety of your couch, you will 
 gain experience points per kill. these experience points are used to level up your character, like 
 an RPG, and you gain abilities and weapons!
  
  but wait, there's more! if you kill enough people with the same weapon, not only will you get a 
 nice little experience boost, but you also have a chance at getting a new accessory for the gun 
 you've just killed oh so many people with. Not all of these pseudo-achievements bear accessory 
 rewards though. The bottom line is, is that the multi-player is the best of any Wii shooter, maybe 
 even any Wii game, to date. 
  
  The graphics of this game are smooth, and it runs relatively smoothly. There's not a whole lot 
 to say about them, its pretty generic stuff. nothing to brag about, but they are good. Up to par 
 would be a good phrase to describe the graphical situation.
  
  Overall, this is a solid first-person shooting game with the best online seen in a wii game to 
 date. This game completely deserves my grade of an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I had some real issues with this game when I first tried to play it. I had to really tweak the 
 wii mote to make shooting decent, and still It is not nearly as good as most of the other shooters. 
 
  
  So I then played the game on single player because I did not have wifi connected on my wii. The 
 game play was ok, but I was really unimpressed. I felt the frame rate was really horrible and I 
 looked over the first page of reviews and nobody else had this problem. I would have assumed this 
 was maybe a problem with my game, but I noticed it on a friends game on his wii also. The sounds 
 are fantastic and really meshes well with the game play. 
  
  I was going to give this game a 5.5 and just accept I am in the minority. However I had a chance 
 to play this game on a friends Wii, and we played online. The game was much better online, getting 
 to play with other people. It was fairly difficult, because most of the guys where going all out 
 killing everyone, and I being the "noob" got punished. That was ok and I can give it some extra 
 points. 
  
  Overall just not my game, 7.5 with wifi but it sure seems like you could play some better games 
 then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Potter104105
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game on the PS3 and the 360 but i think it is best on the wii. it is a different 
 experience on the wii, but in a good way. 
  
  The campane is very satisfying, and the only disapointing thing is that when you try to play co-op 
 with a friend, player 1 plays normaly, but player 2 plays on the same screen as just a target symbol 
 (kind of like house of the dead) . The experience is tosaly different when you are fighting the 
 Japs and when you are fighting the German.
  
  The online gameplay is very impresive and you CAN play co-op normaly online. You can choose from 
 a big variety of different maps and weapons. You can gain experience as you play online and get 
 different rankings.
  
  The last thing i want to talk about is the controls. some people say that they are not very good, 
 but i think they are very easy to catch on to. You wont find your self scanning your controller, 
 trying to find the button you use to throw a grenade. The wii zapper, however is very hard to use 
 and is much eseyer to use when playing metal of honor heroes 2 (Although I would still recomend 
 buying this game instead of metal of honor) .
  
  I would recomend this to any of my friends. If you have a wii and are fond of shooter games then 
 call of duty world at war is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EDX1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  El juego es bueno muy bueno la unica desventaja real que le veo a esta version con las otras son 
 las graficas y el modo de multijugador reducido pero aun asi el multijugador sigue siendo muy bueno...... algo 
 ke si hay que marcar... si tienes un wii definitivamente debes conseguir este juego no te lo puedes 
 perder...... pero tienes la posibilidad de jugarlo en ps3 , 360 o pc mejor consiguelo en uno de 
 esos tres ultimos 
  ...
  
  como dije el juego es realmente bueno las graficas en la version de wii son buenas pero solo son 
 buenas en lo que es el wii este es el mejor juego del genero desde metroid 3........ pero las otras 
 versiones las graficas me asombraron totalmente y si como dije las otras versiones son muy superiores 
 
  
  el juego realmente responde muy bien pero al inicio es muy dificil el acostumbrarse al apuntador... 
 sobre todo cuando juegas en linea en el multijugador , el nivel de dificultad es bueno puedes jugarlo 
 desde un nivel de dificultad demasiado facil asta el modo de juego en el que no puedes levantar 
 la cabeza por que las metrallas te decapitan esto le da muchas cosas buenas de ke hablar al juego. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hu777
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was so excited for all the fun I would have. Well, you see I had a 360 
 with cod 4 but it broke, so when I got this game I was so surprised to see what a let down it was 
 from the last one. Now I'm not saying its not an amazing game, but if you've played the old one 
 or this exact one on a different console then you will probably feel let down. If you only have 
 a wii then its not a bad idea to get it, but like I said, the wii version lacks much stuff that 
 the other platforms have. For instance the wii version doesn't have Nazi zombies, split screen, 
 many modes that the other ones have, and much more. Besides all of those let downs it still a pretty 
 great game. I strongly suggest you get this game for a different console, but if you only have 
 a wii, you might want to rent it first. Also a good advantage to the wii version is the wii zapper, 
 some aren't fond of it but I find it feels more realistic. I hope this review helps you make a 
 decision on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonrider93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Your are a captured American solider at Makin Atoll. With the help of your friends you escape. 
 But that is only the beggining. Later on you must sneak your way through Nazi occupied territory 
 as a Russian solider with Col. Rezmov. From hen on you must fight in World War II and win the war. 
 Along the way you storm beaches, launch air raids, and drive a tank. Using real life guns you taer 
 through the axis powers defence and shoot a lot of people. Multiplayer mode is even more exciting. 
 Rise up thriugh the ranks to Prestige and get awsome weapons as you go along. With friends by your 
 side the war rages on even after story mode has ended. Flamethrowers, rocket launchers and many 
 more weapons are at your disposale. Send out reacon planes to find your enemies, send them to h**l 
 with air raides, and let the dogs run to tear your opponets to win. Let your inner rage take control 
 and dominate places like castles, asylums, and the roof top of the german paralment building. I 
 highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 5:45 am PT
Review:  Last year, i looked for a FPS shooter game since early January and thought of getting Medal of 
 Honour: Heroes 2 for the wii but instead didnt because i heard the multiplayer was left out of the 
 australian version so i gave it a miss. a few weeks later announcment of Call of Duty World at 
 War was announced, so i decided to wait out for that to come out instead. The wait was well worth 
 and i was quite happy with the game.
  
  So far ive spent about a total of 44 hours which in that time i completed the campaign on normal 
 difficulty and also reach lv 65 online. The game has its pros but it also has it's cons which will 
 dissapoint people if they've played another CoD game on another platform.
  
  Pro's
  -best FPS shooter for the wii at time of writing
  -controls take a while to get used to, but 
 its similar to keyboard and mouse point and shoot
  -graphics and design done well for the wii, but didnt reach full potential.
  -online was way 
 better than any other online game i've tried to play on the wii before
  -kiefer sutherland
  
  Con's
  -online is watered down to just enough to make someone play on
  -glitches online
 
  -lag online
  -friend codes
  -only 8 players per game max
  -only a few small maps to play on
  - host lags=everyone lags
  - only Team matches or free for 
 all, no other modes
  -no DLC
  -only get to use vehicles once in campaign, which was a tank
  -one mission less than other platforms
 
  -online maps arent really detailed or have an equal playing field for snipers, run and gun etc.
 
  -no achievements
  -audio and mouth movements dont really go at the right time
  -missions are small
  -mp40 abuse online
  -no voice chat
  
  
  Summary:
  As you can see 
 most con's in the game come from online which you will realise at times it isnt as great as you 
 hoped it to be. But despite these drawbacks, online does and can become addictive like sometimes 
 i could play 7 hours straight online. if you've played this game on another console or played CoD4 
 before this, you can see how it underperforms compared to those games. But if your new to FPS then 
 it will be great.
  
  Final points
  -campaign is short, but last 2 missions are probably the best
  -online not that great like other 
 platforms but is still very enjoyable at the least
  -sets a standard of FPS on the wii for the moment
  -Kiefer Sutherland (that guy from 24) does 
 the voice acting of Sgt. Roebuck who is a US marine, he kinda looks like Mr T.
  -No HDD means no DLC so no chance of more modes or maps or more players online
  -hardware limitations 
 means no co-op campaign
  
  
  now this is the first time ive finished a CoD game so im not sure how they all end but the ending 
 shows the end of the war so unless theres another chapter like australians and the british im not 
 sure, but it would seem the series in WWII has ended. Hopefully Infinity Ward can fix the flaws 
 World at war had and make modern warfare 2 the best it can possibly do. So this is a must buy and 
 play before the conduit comes out otherwise you will see the conduit would absolutely thrash world 
 at war at being the best wii FPS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicMasterEX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:59 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War for Wii is a great game, almost the same as the other version, but as 
 we can see, the Wii version of the game is not as good as the other version. I will tell you what's 
 the difference about the Wii and the other console.
  
  The bad thing that Wii version lacks is:
  - The graphic is not as good as the other version. 
 
  - There's no death cards.
  - No "Black Cats" mission
  - Can't burn the grass on "Blowtorch & Corkscrew"
  
  
  On multiplayer, the Wii version has 
 a limited modes.
  There's only 5 type of game:
  - Boot Camp* (Will be locked at Lv.7)
  - Team Deathmatch
  - Free For All
  - Hardcore Team Deathmatch
  - Veteran
  *Boot Camp will 
 not open on Prestige
  
  While the other version have more than this include:
  - War (Using Vehicles)
  - Capture the Flag
  - Hardcore Free For All
  - etc.
  
  
  For 
 the multiplayer, the location is limited, too.
  Marines vs. Imperial Army
  - Hangar
  - Makin
  - Cliffside
  - Castle
  - Courtyard
  
  Red Army vs. Wehrmacht
  - Asylum
  
 - Upheaval
  - Dome
  
  
  The Number of player on a single game is limited to 8 players.
  
  The Challenge is limited, 
 too.
  
  Beside that, it remains the same as the other versions.
  
  Even though the Campaign and the Multiplayer is limited, this game is still a great game to buy. 
 The Multiplayer is fun to play, even with a limited game. Except for the review I post, It remain 
 unchanged compared to the other version of the game. For FPS fans and Wii fans, you can buy this.
 
  
  Thanks for reading.
  SonicMasterEX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  Single player is, to put it shortly, a lot of shootouts in multiple environments. The enemies will 
 pop up from certain locations and you can only go forward if you kill them all. If a tank appears, 
 you will get a weapon that will kill the tank. You will master espionage and sniping while learning 
 how to kick butt. You can change the difficulty, but don't go too high, the battle can become impossible 
 to finish if all the foes can headshot you. Remember, in 1st player mode, do not kill one of your 
 friends, or you automatically die.
  
  We all heard the rumors of the Nazi Zombie invasions, right? Well tough, it is NOT in the wii version.
 
  
  
  Multiplayer is the main reason why you should buy this game. It is one of the few wi fi games for 
 the wii that people care about. While playing multiplayer, you gain experience points that is given 
 for kills and winning challenges. Each level gives you an increase in ranking in the army and a 
 chance to get a new weapon or special ability.
  
  
  When you kill a certain amount of people, you get a special one time use weapon. 
  
  You start 
 with recon planes, which will find all foes and put their locations on the map. However, there 
 is a special ability called camouflage, which prevents recon planes from locating the player. 
 
  
  Next is the artillery strike, where a barrage of missiles aims at a large section of the map and 
 destroy the place. However, most buildings can protect players from the explosions, so this is 
 better off as a way to force your foes to hide in buildings. 
  
  Finally, there are the attack dogs, which appear in a small pack and attack your opponents. The 
 dogs are deadly and you can not hide from them (dogs have good hearing and sense of smell) but 
 the best way to kill all the dogs is to stay in a corner or a dead end and shoot dogs that go to 
 you so they don't sneak up behind you.
  
  
  Multiplayer has 5 modes of play
  
  Bootcamp is a level for noobs only. Anyone over level 8 can never again go here, so only level 
 1-7 people can train here, away from the pros that will obliterate you.
  
  Team Death Match is considered to be the default mode of the game. It is a match where the players 
 (normally 8 players) are separated evenly into two teams. The first team with 750 points, or with 
 the most points when the clock stops, wins.
  
  Free For All is exactly as it say, a time limited free for all, where everyone is your foe. It 
 is very easy to get killed as you are outnumbered 7-1.
  
  Hardcore Team Death Match is a more realistic fighting mode. Everyone has less health, the map 
 is turned off except when recon plane is called, you don't know how much ammo you have and it is 
 very easy to hide. Most players should hide somewhere because sniping is very useful here since 
 no one can immediately find you.
  
  Veteran is a Team Death Match for experts only. If you are a noob, you will NOT survive here.
 
  
  Multiplayer Stages-
  
  Castle- Two small castles cover half the stage while the rest of the stage is in a valley. Perfect 
 for sniping but also good hiding spots.
  
  Makin- A lot of huts near on the beach. Good for surprise attacks and some sniping.
  
  Cliffside- 
 Bunkers on a hillside. Good for sniping though view is limited.
  
  Asylum- A large donut shaped jail. Good for close combat and surprise attacks.
  
  Hanger- An 
 aircraft hanger surrounded by bunkers. Good for anything.
  
  Outskirts- A lot of buildings in a town. Perfect for hiding.
  
  Dome- A small field on top 
 of a building. Good for surprise attacks.
  
  Courtyard- An area of stone fences. Good for hiding and close range.
  
  
  Some Weapons and 
 Abilities-
  Note- to make a gun stronger, unlock certain challenges
  
  Bolt action rifles- Perfect for sniping. Low rate of fire but high on damage.
  Rifles- Good for 
 sniping. Normal rate of fire (though varies with other rifles) .
  Submachine guns- High rate of fire though slightly weak. Their light weight makes you run faster.
 
  Machine guns- High rate of fire. Good for close combat. Has a lot of ammo.
  Shotguns- Powerful. Terrible at far away but perfect for close range. Inaccurate.
  Grenades- 
 Explode. A grenade can be thrown back at the foe if someone is near the grenade. An indicator tells 
 you how close a grenade is. Most grenades are instant kills.
  Cocktails- Creates fire. Instant kill but slow to fire.
  Grenade launchers- Only for expert snipers. 
 They are rifles that shoot grenades. Instant kills but short ranged.
  Flamethrower- Creates fire. Instant kills but short ranged. Infinite ammo but does overheat.
 
  Bouncy Betty- A mine that explodes when someone walks near it. An instant ko 90% of the time.
 
  Bazooka- Shoots rockets. Instant kill but slow to reload.
  
  Last chance- If you are shot to death (except headshots) you will lie on the ground, but be alive 
 for about 10-5 seconds, so you can shoot the person who tried to kill you.
  Grenade death- If you die, you automatically activate a grenade, killing most foes near your corpse.
 
  Super run- Increases running speed.
  Slight of hand- Decreases reloading time.
  Camouflage- prevents recon planes from locating the player.
  
  Notes-
  Shooting someone in 
 the head is an instant ko.
  You can kill your opponents by throwing an object into their face.
  You automatically regenerate 
 if you take damage but not if you are dead.
  If you run out of ammo, steal a dead man's gun.
  In multiplayer, you can not ride any vehicles.
 
  Team killers can enter a 'time out' phase, which means they are dead for at least 20 seconds with 
 no respawns.
  This is the most serious CoD game yet and has minimal comedy. There's also A LOT of swearing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Showmaster162
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best first-person war game i've ever played. Although you can't get the same graphics 
 as the Xbox-360, their still pretty good, especially for the wii. Also, if you have this game, 
 or are considering getting it, be sure to also buy the wii zapper. The wii zapper is a plastic 
 gun that the wiimote and nunchuk go into that give the game its "real life experiece". Multiplayer 
 is also very great. The ranking system is the same as other Call Of Duty games and it has 10 prestiges 
 that will keep you going. And even though the game manual says that you shouldn't play wireless, 
 it works perfectly for me and I haven't had lag yet. So if you're a war fan, or just love multiplayer 
 games, or heck, even if you just get it to mow down all those enemies with a machine gun, you should 
 buy this game. It'll be the best choice you will ever make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultramalakian
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  After Call of Duty 4, I discovered that the modern combar wasn't such a bad thing for the CoD series... 
 U. In fact, it was excellent... unfortunately, not for the Wii.
  So, when they announced they were returning to de 40's, I was shocked by the idea... at least, 
 now for the Wii.
  
  When my cousin came to my house with the game (Not even open...) it was clear that my duty was 
 to play it ON THE DOUBLE!!!
  
  So, I grabbed my Wii-mote-nunchuck and started to live the "war like never seen before on the Wii".
 
  
  Bloody Hell. They were right. Since the first mission, you really feel like you are in the middle 
 of the battlefield; a dark, cruel and dangerous place. The Japanese are real sons of their loving 
 mothers, jumping out from every corner, bush and palm tree just to stab you and make you a corn 
 dog.
  But as an American soldier, you also have your very personal ways to finish them. When they are 
 over you, about to kill you with their bayonets, you pull out your knife and stab them (yuck...) 
 in the neck.
  Or, (my favorite) you can use the main appeal of the USA Campaign: the flamethrower...
  Perfectly 
 designed, following the real physics, and with a beautiful unlimited ammo, the FT is a visceral, 
 sadistically-satisfying experience.
  
  I'll let you find it out by yourself. There's also a Russian campaign (PPsh-41, YES!!!) which is 
 even more crude than the american. Executions, Genickschuss, and bleeding to death soldiers from 
 both sides are present. You have a fellow sarge that looks like Ivan the Terrible, and runs around 
 the battlefield shooting and slicing Germans with a butcher knife, in some kind of a revenge-rage. 
 Real war, mates. REAL war.
  
  And of course, as any GOOD CoD game, it has a multiplayer portion. Fabuluos, it's just like CoD4, 
 adapted to this specific time. You can modify your profile, in order to be a perfect sniper, or 
 a HW-Guy... Just experiment and see which weapon and bonus work better for you.
  There are many maps, and game rooms which can be accessed depending on your level (Beginner, Normal 
 and even Veterans)
  
  After many, many games of WWII, I'm proud to say that CoD: WaW is perhaps the best Call of Duty 
 to date. Shame that the campaign was a bit short... They should have added a British (Or Australian 
 -why not? They fought against the japs...-) campaign... But hey, that's just me.
  
  I you want a great, visceral single player experience, or a long lasting multiplayer, you know 
 you can trust this jewel. So grab your rifle and start killing japs and krauts. AND THAT'S AN ORDER!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiAdventurer64
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  COD: WaW is no doubt that it is one of the Wii's greatest shooters. This game has an AWESOME campaign 
 and a AWESOME multi-player. Here are some PROS and CONS about the game:
  
  PROS:
  
  -Great campaign and online multi-player
  
  -Online multi-player has a HUGE variety of weapons 
 and accessories
  
  -Acting and voice acting is great
  
  -Variety of controlls lets you pick whatever suits your boot.
  
  -Campaign is long
  
  -TONS 
 AND TONS OF GUNS
  
  -Addicting
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  CONS:
  
  -Squad-Mate mode isn't really good at all
  
  -Graphics are not the best but there OK
  
 
  -The sensor bar can really throw you off at times
  
  
  Overall COD: WaW is a really, really, really, really awesome game. Since this game is super-duper great 
 this game gets and deserves a perfect 10/10. So if you see this game, sitting lonely on a shelf 
 at EB GAMES or GAMESPOT, give it a home and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axle800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  COD world at war, first of all the campaign mode is really fun and it will keep you on your toes 
 with nazis or bonzai attackers waiting around almost every corner. It will also keep you engrossed 
 in the story and will get you pumped for destroying the next panzer tank or burning badies out 
 of the trenches. The only bad part about the campaign is that it has weak co-op, its pretty much 
 just another reticule thrown in, but at least player 2 can get different guns. In my opinion, campaign 
 is great but i think multiplayer is where this game shines, its incredibly addictive and its fun 
 getting new weapons as you progress. I think its so great because of its level up system, thats 
 what keeps me playing online. Its a really good idea because as you level up you gain access to 
 different weapons and such, thus keeping you sucked in. It can get kinda cheap though, mostly everybody 
 carries around MP40s which kill you in about 1 hit unless they hit you in foot or something. The 
 level design i also AMAZING in my opinion, putting holes in the wall so you can jump onto other 
 rooftops, putting a window (perfect for a grenade) by a popular choke point.
  
  This game is great but if you dont have wi-fi i think you'll be missing out on a lot of the greatness.
 
  
  Oh, and if you play online my tag is Axle (NOOB) . so if you c me, good luck. im pretty good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto3336
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  The brand name Call of Duty says a lot of this game. But what it doesn't say is how World at War 
 take that to a whole different level. In 2006 we saw Call of Duty 3 on the Wii. Unfortunately there 
 was no online implementation. Call of Duty: World at War solves all these problems. 
  
  First of all the campaign of this game is true to the scenarios and explain the story with amazing 
 voice acting. You are not online just shooting random people, you are using your brain and skills. 
 You will have to sniper in some missions or ride a tank in others. 
  
  The Controls of this game are tight and responsive. They are definitely not the best on the Wii 
 but they feel just right. The graphics of this game is also a highlight of it. It has highly detailed 
 environments closest to the HD consoles.
  
  The online is the shine of this game and series. The Wii version is definitely not the best but 
 whatever is there is high addicting. 8 Players with a couple of modes. The stages are really big 
 for 8 but you will get around that.
  
  Simply put it, this game is one of the best FPS's on the wii and you have no reason to buy this 
 game. The first thing you should do when you get out of your house is buy this game! DO NOT WAIT 
 A SECOND! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasshopperson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I really enjoy playing this game. Two Thumbs up ACTIVISION!! Pros: Graphics are 
 really good, The sound is very realistic, I like the choice of guns too. The places you can go 
 are very nice, and gameplay is awesome! Cons: I don't like the map, very dangerous! And.... I wish 
 there would be more hiding spaces in levels. That's about it. If you are thinking about buying 
 this game, rent it, or go to you're friends house and play it. You want to make sure this game 
 is rite for you before you buy it. But I highly recommend this game. Go rent it, you will be happy. 
 Btw: The online play is AWESOME!!!! Just like anygame though, It's very tough, because people are 
 very good. Let's just say that. 
  
  And.......... Multiplayer is really good too. I really enjoy playing this game. It is very very 
 very fun to play. FUN to the CORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysrock981
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  COD: W@W is one of the best FPS's for the Wii. It's great graphics, and non-sluggish gameplay make 
 it good. Then add on the great controls with the WiiZapper, and a great campaign and amazing online 
 play, this is a must have for Wii owners who love FPS's. 
  
  The Good-
  WiiZapper makes for a realistic experiance
  Great Graphics, especially for Wii standards
  Never 
 gets old- many difficultys and fun Wi-Fi
  Always people on Wi-Fi to play
  Easy to grasp, but hard to master
  Rewards online if you're doing well (3 kills in a row- recon 
 plane, 5 kills in a row- artilliry, 7 kills in a row- vicious dogs)
  
  The Bad-
  If you're not the one getting the dogs, they can be unfair and annoying, they kill you very easily
 
  Has a multiplayer, but no splitscreen
  Nintendo STILL hasn't made any shooter games compatable with WiiSpeak 
  
  In a nutshell- Amazing 
 game, especially for the Wii. All around greatness.
  
  Bottom Line- A bargin!! Great game!!! GET IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrawya
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Why lie and say that this game is not good. Yeah the PS3 and 360 versions may be better for some 
 of you. Better graphics, game play, or/and better controls. Who cares? A game must not be judge 
 by the console its on or by its graphics, but by its game play. For a Wii game it has successfully 
 achieved in giving us a hardcore shooter. Campaign mode is excellent and really good to familiarize 
 yourself with some of the weapons. Co-op, sry guys theres no co-op, its more like, "Hey you in 
 the couch, get up and grab the other Wii mote (no chuck) and help me out." Online? Good. Lag? Depends 
 on your connection. Having limited online options and only 8 playable stages does make it a bit 
 painful, but for Wii its the best. With the Conduit coming out and if it does have online play 
 then lets hope it learned CoD: WaW mistake in having limited online options and stages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ammon176
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Enjoyed this game on my Wii... ... but where are the nazi zombies? The lack of the final unlockable 
 level on the wii is my only complaint. I beat the game and watched the credits and still see no 
 zombies. I looked at other posts and was disappointed to see others confirm this level was left 
 out of the wii version. If I am wrong, If there is a way to unlock it, please post and enlighten 
 me and my stupidity. Multiplayer is just as good as others I've played in the COD series. The dogs 
 are a nice touch. (Hearing the barking combined with the jingle-jangle noise from the collars makes 
 me almost look foreward to being eaten alive.) Those plus the artilery help switch things up a 
 little for those that have played other games in the series. In the main campaign the mix of weapons 
 and environments is great. Solid game.
  I love the wii-chuck control system. I think it is way more intuitive than other platform's controls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1907
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Duty: World At War is an amazing FPS for wii. It is definitely the best FPS out for wii. 
 The game takes place in WWII in Japan where you are the marines and in Germany where you play as 
 the red army. Each story has its own special character that you play as and has some story to it. 
 The campaign is fun fast and exciting. It's about ten hours but has quite a bit of replay value. 
 The online 8 player multiplayer is fun and addictive with the rank up system which unlocks weapons 
 and perks for you is great and gives it tons of depth. Although it's limited to just deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch its still loads of fun. The graphics are not the best i've seen but are still 
 great. Also the voice acting is terrific. The controls work well and i recomend using the wii mote 
 and the nunchuck other than the wii zapper. So in all Cod WaW is a really great FPS and is worth 
 buying.
  The Good:
  Good gameplay
  Nice Campaign
  Good Control
  Awesome Voice Acting
  Fun Multiplayer
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics aren't the best
  Slimmed 
 Multiplayer
  So in all i give CoD WaW a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfonz111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Sure, the actual game is fantastic and everything, but the Wii version just doesn't compare with 
 the 360 and PS3 versions. No zombie mode, no death cards, no online campaign cooperative play, 
 no really cool stuff that i was hoping that it would have. The good parts is that it has a good 
 online play and the story mode is awesome and the wii mote pointer serves as a good aim. It can 
 get real interesting when you are online because right when you reach level 16, you are forced 
 to play with people who are level 50-60. But i have to say, creating a new account and then killing 
 all of the noobs is awesome. I wish i could have gotten a 360 instead of a Wii so i could have 
 gotten Call of Duty 5 and be awesome at it. A good thing is that the online mode is a lot better 
 than the one on Medal of Honor Heroes 2, its a lot more realistic for the health matter and its 
 a lot more fair. Over all its an OK game but needs some updates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephan6430
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  I have owned the Wii for about 2 months now, and I'll admit I was little disappointed with the 
 game selection. My main question to Nintendo was: "Where's the real shoot-em up games at?!" And 
 eureka! Nintendo has answered my question with COD5: World at War. I've have been an avid PS3 gamer 
 for a while now, and COD4 for the PS3 was simply amazing. The online play was a masterpiece and 
 I'm sure some of you FPS fans can agree, whether it was for Xbox 360 or the PS3. Although I cannot 
 compare the graphics of the PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360 to that of the Wii, I can and I will, compare 
 gameplay. I mean so what the game has PS2 graphics, the gameplay is what it's all about in the 
 end, am I right? The campaign mode on the game is great, the story is enjoyable and the action 
 is intense. There's nothing more exciting than stabbing your attacker in the neck while he's got 
 you on the ground; It's beautiful! Just like all the previous Call of Duties, you're switching 
 off between two sides. In this case it's the Americans and the Russians. And if you thought the 
 campaign mode was great, the Multiplayer is addictive! The multiplayer has all the same great features 
 from COD4, and then some. You still have the ability to pick and customize your own weapons, and 
 pick and choose from a great variety of "Perks" (Or weapon "buffs" if you're new to Call of Duty) . 
 The Multiplayer maps are fairly good, can't complain really. And the multiplayer still has the 
 "Prestige mode" for those of you hardcore players. Either way it's a good time and this game is 
 definitely worth the money! In the end this game still has the edge and substance that the other 
 platforms unveiled. This game is definitely the start of something special for all the Wii FPS 
 fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loganater96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The story behind Call of duty world at war is the fights in World War II between the US and Japan 
 and Russia and Germany. The story mode is medium difficulty and there is a two player co-op, but 
 it's not that great there is just another aimer thrown in, they probably could have made it split 
 screen. In my opinion the best part of the game is the online play. The online play actually feels 
 as good as the versions on Xbox 360 and Ps3. So it's still great for hard core gamers. But it's 
 also great for any gamer, experience or inexperienced because weather you win or lose you still 
 get experience points that allow you to level up and unlock new and stronger weapons and perks 
 (perks are extra weapons or special abilities) . There are five online game modes, four are variations 
 of Team Death Matches and one is called Free For All. It is disappointing that basically there 
 are only two ways to play online, but with others systems there are several. Also the Wii seems 
 to have trouble handling this game, it often freezes or the server times out which is kind of annoying 
 but not enough to ruin your fun. This game is definitely worth it to buy; it is addictive and never 
 gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubelover38
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  lets start by saying this game is a rip online, the wii controls while a little sensitive, make 
 it a great game for multiplayer. i miss domination but was ecstatic to buy this for the wii because 
 quite frankly there are, nt enough games of it's type on the wii i also have it for ps3 so i won't 
 compare graphics but the deathmatch is more fun on the wii i hope it sells well so we may see more 
 adult wii games in the future. i've had the wii since day 1 and have'nt found many games that were'nt 
 of the minigame persuasion which is sad anyway great game for the wii finally some good multiplayer 
 goodness for the wii, which runs quite smooth with little lag and quick game matchups but i wish 
 there were a few more game modes , enough rambling buy it your wii deserves it and so do you i 
 wonder if it possible for some additional content in the future by way of wii ware maybe heres 
 hoping 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corndog30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is easily the best game for the Wii. Very addicting on story mode and online. I like 
 online more there are great guns from a pistol to a sniper also online you get ranked 1-65, 65 
 being the best Im only on 43 I like how you make your on classes for you gun. My favorite guns 
 that I have is MG42 amd the Springfield sniper. You also can unlock Land mines and satchel charges. 
 I love this game It is the best game for the Wii!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You can unlock stuff for 
 your gun the you really like by completeing challanges for that gun like if it says ge 25 headshots 
 and you unlock a bipod, scope and alot more........ GET THIS GAME OR YOU WILL BE  
 I play this game alot. If you friend has the game ask him for his friend code and then you can 
 send game invites to them. Then when you are on the same game it shows you where your friend is 
 on the map by show your friend as a blue arrow then a green arrow. It is very addicting !!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodstock
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  If you love first person shooters, and happen to own a Wii, then this game is your dream come true. 
 As far as the Wii is concerned this is as good as it gets. 
  
  The campaign is challenging and follows the fun of previous Call of Duty games. This alone is worth 
 the price.
  
  Where you really get your money's worth, and endless replay value, is though is the great online 
 play that has finally come to the Wii. 
  
  The maps are just the right size for the 8 player capacity, the weapon classes are a great touch 
 to customize how you take it to the enemy, the challenge system adds an additional layer of interest, 
 and the inclusion of the ranking system allows you to keep track of your stats and challenge yourself 
 to become the best.
  
  This is the best online game to date on the Wii, but there's always room for improvement. My suggestions 
 to EA would be to track more stats, include more battle options, add wii speak, allow more players 
 in an online room, and allow you to join specific rooms. These are just minor things that do not 
 take away from this game and are intended for a follow up Call of Duty (hopefully coming to a Wii 
 near you eventually) . One step at a time though. The fact that Call of Duty 3 to Call of Duty: 
 World at War was this big of a step is amazing.
  
  I was suprised how well the Wii remote works for this game. Once you develope a steady hand and 
 adjust the control options to fit your style you will be well on your way to becoming a killing 
 machine.
  
  If you do not own this game you do not have a complete Will library. This is a must own for any 
 hardcore gamer that owns this system. Just go out and buy it!
  
  
  
  
  Wi-Fi
  
  On a side note, I have read a few people saying they do not have Wi-Fi. If 
  that is the case 
 you can buy a Wii ethernet adapter from Radio Shack for about $25 and directly connect your modem 
 to your Wii to enjoy the online fun. It's cheap and easy to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headcsse
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  If you are desiring a solid multiplayer FPS experience for the Wii, this is and will be your best 
 option for a long time. If you're desiring a on-par single player option to the other versions, 
 keep looking.
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is, for those that haven't played it before, a World War II based first 
 person shooter. You play the part of two privates in the American and Russian armies in the Pacific 
 and European theater of the war, respectively. As an American, you "island-hop" in the pacific 
 fighting the Japanese army. As a Russian, you start in the occupation of Stalingrad and fight into 
 Germany to end the European theater.
  
  Looking at the single-player campaign by itself, it's very well done. The story, because it's based 
 off of real events, is predictable, but the characters really shine. The voice acting by Kiefer 
 Sutherland (mostly known as Jack Bauer) and Gary Oldman give the game a real legitimate feel. The 
 vengeful behavior of Reznov really contrasts to Chernov's less than exciting attitude towards the 
 treatment of the enemy, and makes you actually care about Chernov's untimely demise. The transition 
 of Sutherland's character at the end of the game is similar, and makes the game much more colorful.
 
  
  From a technical standpoint, the game on the other consoles look better, plain and simple. The 
 colors are less vivid, character faces are not detailed... at all, and things are hard to see at 
 long ranges. If you can get past the graphics, the gameplay is solid. You can't go wrong with the 
 CoD4 engine, and the characteristics of the Japanese (bonzai attacks, most notably) really make 
 the game fun.
  
  Once you go online however... everything changes for the better. I was marveled at Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters and its online ranking system at the time, but CoD: W@W makes every other online game for 
 a Nintendo system look genuinely bad. It has all the characteristics of the online play in the 
 other console versions (a Wii first) with a few exceptions. The player cap is maxed at 8, but the 
 game is virtually lagless and the maps work great with smaller players. The only two other noticeable 
 differences are the lack of non-weapon challenges and no voice chat. The first isn't a huge gap, 
 as mostly those were used to gain experience. Instead, you get 20 experience points a kill and 
 heftier match bonuses. If you have played a shooter on the Wii before, you probably will get decent 
 scores and level up as quick (if not quicker) than other consoles. Personally, as I speak, I've 
 spent a solid 40+ hours on a full prestige'd profile and 24+ on a level 57 one. It's comparable. 
 The lack of voice chat does make competitive play futile, however, and requires a computer or something 
 similar to make playing a more serious game with friends any fun. 
  
  My quirks that prevent me from really giving this game a great rating lies in trivial matters. 
 I shall list them:
  
  - The lack of nunchuk aiming support for sniping/turreting online.
  - No online vehicles.
  - The avatars (and the game in general) are obscene and repetitive. ("THEY'VE 
 GOT OUR LOCATION", "$%!@, FIND SOME COVER", and when you win a game on the marines side, you get 
 Kiefer yelling "OUTSTANDING MARINES, OUT-F$#@ING-STANDING" or "WE KICKED @$#") . It's unnecessary.
 
  - Singleplayer is short
  - The lack of any game modes other than FFA and team deathmatch.
  - No local multiplayer.
  - No post-singleplayer gameplay (I WANT MY DARN NAZI ZOMBIE MODE)
 
  - No online co-op.
  
  Other than that, well done Treyarch.
  
  Wow this is long.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  To start off with this game is great. It has awesome graphics and game play. The campaign is very 
 good and long. You also get a lot of weapons throughout the game. The online on the game is great. 
 It is just like the Xbox 360 and PlayStation3 versions. You upgrade your class and weapons determined 
 by how many kills you get per game. There is a whole lot of levels you get on the online. You can 
 also upgrade your weapons and get different skills for the soldier your using. The only thing I 
 found bad about the game is it doesn't have split screen like the other versions, but it does have 
 where a different player is a pointer on the screen so that is pretty cool. This is better then 
 any other shooter on the Wii. If you bought a wii sometime soon. I would recommend this is the 
 first game you pick up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mruta
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  My biggest suprise on reading all of the critic and user reviews is that no one has mentioned the 
 framerate issues that WAW for Wii has. It's pretty persistent throughout the game and is the single-biggest 
 reason I didn't give this game a 10.
  
  I don't own a 360 or a PS3 and haven't seen this game on either of those consoles, so what follows 
 is a comparison to other Wii games. The graphics are pretty lousy. There are some great looking 
 games for Wii (think RE4, Mario Galaxy) and while the Wii isn't capable of putting out anything 
 close to the 360 or PS3, it is capable of putting out graphics better than what you'll see in WAW.
 
  
  There are framerate issues with this game. Noticeable and persistent. Most prevalent in the full-on 
 battlefields and when you use a deployable MG. You can actually hear the firing rate of the MG 
 slow down and then speed up and then slow down again. The framerate issues also make aiming difficult. 
 It's so bad with the deployable MG's that I just stopped using them. 
  
  Controls are very good. IR is not as smooth and sensitive as MOH Heros 2, but it's still pretty 
 decent. The button layout is fantastic and you have like 6 button schemes to choose from so you 
 will find one that works for you.
  
  Sound is fantastic from guns to explosions to music. Cutscenes are very good as well.
  
  So 
 let's compare WAW to MOH Heros 2. Heros looks better and has a rock-solid framerate. IR controls 
 on Heros is better, but button layout on WAW is much better, so we'll give that one a tie. Where 
 WAW kicks some serious butt is in gameplay. All graphic and framerate issues aside, it's much more 
 intense, immersive and fun than Heros 2. Had it not been for the framerate issues and shoddy graphics 
 I'd have given this game a 9.5.
  
  Don't pay $49.99 for this game. Wait a few months until it's $29.99 or $34.99 and get it then........ or 
 just rent it. It is well worth playing, just not worth fifty bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:04 am PT
Review:  There have been so many WW2 WW2 games in the past with the likes of EA's Medal of Honor series 
 and Ubisoft's Brothers in Arms series and most of them are good games but some were not the best. 
 But now Activision has come in with the Call of Duty series which has been a worthly success. The 
 last 3 titles managed to do really well and the 4th game in the series Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 was a superb triumph but I was very disappointed that this title didn't come out on the Wii but 
 came out on the DS only along with the PC, Xbox 360 and PS3. 
  
  Anyway right now Call of Duty: World at War has finally arrived on Wii and it really is awsome. 
 
  
  There are 3 different ways to play Call of Duty: World at War:
  
  1. You can play the game with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk conjunction like on an ordinary FPS game 
 4/5.
  
  2. You can play multiplayer Co-op on Campaign mode with a friend 4/5.
  
  3. You can play on Campaign mode with the Wii Zapper if you have one 5/5. 
  
  Playing on the 
 Campaign mode with the Wii Zapper through the entire game is brilliant because it makes you feel 
 like you're definitly in the game itself and the Controls with the Wii Zapper in the game are superb.
 
  
  There are 2 armys you take part in the game which are:
  
  Playing as Private Miller in the US Army fighting the Japanese in the Pacific Islands under the 
 command of Seargent Roebuck voiced by Keifer Sutherland.
  
  Playing as Private Petrenko in the Russian Army fighting the Germans in Russia and Germany under 
 the command of Seargent Reznov voiced by Gary Oldman.
  
  Every cutscene before the level starts shows you real footage of what really happened during the 
 Second World War and how deadly that conflict really was.
  
  This is truely one of the best FPS games on the Wii since Metroid Prime 3: Corruption and it beats 
 Red Steal to the very top.
  
  This is highly recommended and if you got a Wii Zapper buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johanesjoy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I've played the most perfect version of this game (the PC Version) and still 
 considered the Wii person as the best version.
  
  
  GRAPHICS 
  The best FPS Graphics in Wii. Although it's a downgrade version of the other systems, but the special 
 effects is still the best one I've seen in Wii games  of meats 
 flying when you shoot an enemies) . The textures for this game varies. You'll see good and detail 
 textures of your captain face, yet the japaneese soldiers face looks really bad. But overall, the 
 Graphic is very good for Wii version, it still delivers the war sensation to the Wii.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Intense, addictive, and realistic gameplay. The campaign is so epic and hectic. You 
 will find yourself playing the game over and over. And the Online is so competitive, with lots of 
 skillfull player arround.
  
  CONTROL
  The best part of the Wii version. Yeah, it's the WiiMote. The Wii has lost some key elements from 
 the other systems (Zombie Mode, Catarina Level, Online Mode Vehicle, Downgrade Graphics) , but the 
 control of WiiMote replace them all. It's not the best control, but It delivers. The control makes 
 you feel like a real soldier with a gun, and it's because of the Aim Down Sight weight sense. When 
 you're aiming down using a weapon, you will feel the wheight of the weapon, so you can't easily 
 control it. It gives you the real sensation of holding a gun in an intense war. Maybe some people 
 don't like this since it make aiming harder, but for me, it's a good thing because the sensation 
 I've mentioned before. Also you can fully customize the control and the best part is you can adjust 
 the Bounding Box to adjust when the camera should be moving if you move your crossaire to the side 
 of your screen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMR-Venom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  It was a bleak time for Wii only owners in the holiday season of 2008. However, thanks to Call 
 of Duty: World at War, going through late 2008 has been made much easier. I bring you the review 
 for the most 'hardcore' game for the Wii in Q4 2008 that leaves you licking your plate, or Wiimote 
 if you will.
  
  Call of Duty: World at War, or CoD: WaW for short, is the fifth 'mainstream' game in the 'Call of 
 Duty' franchise. Made by Treyarch, it has made his way on to the Wii with great results. The developers 
 at Treyarch have greatly impressed with this game. Using a modified version of the Call of Duty 
 4 engine, Treyarch brings World War II to the Wii. The result is a rare gem of an FPS, which is 
 pretty hard to find on the little white box.
  
  CoD: WaW brings the story back to World War II with full force. There are 2 campaigns; one for the 
 U. S. Marines in Japan trying to take control. The other is a revengeful Russian campaign in which 
 The Red Army trying to avenge their fallen comrades. You may say that is the same old case as before 
 CoD 4 was released, however the new setting in Japan is very nice and both campaigns are rather 
 fun to go through. Stunning FMV cutscenes that are very historically accurate split the missions. 
 The characters actually have great personalities and you get to really understand their position. 
 The Marines are disheartened by the loss of their sergeant while The Red Army is bloodthirsty for 
 German blood. If you are an 'average' player, you should be able go through the campaign in 6-7 
 hours. 
  
  You may be asking how this game plays, considering the Wii has some pretty intuitive hardware. 
 The controls are typical for a Wii FPS. Wiimote is used to aim, analog stick to move. You crouch/prone 
 with 'C' and aim down the sight with 'Z'. Shoot with 'B' and sprint with 'A'. Throw a grenade with 
 '+' and melee with 'DOWN'. For the most part controls are fantastic. You can set the camera speed, 
 dead zone (how much the Wiimote has to move before the camera changes) , and sensitivity. In normal 
 aiming, the controls are fluid and very responsive. Aiming down the sight makes the controls seem 
 a little slow but it is no big problem. The biggest gripe I have is the placement of the grenade 
 controls. Treyarch should have made '-' the grenade button. Reaching for the '+' every time you 
 need to throw a grenade gets awkward. Overall the controls are good for a Wii FPS, much better 
 than their dual analog counterparts in my opinion. Responsive, intuitive and fun, what more do 
 you want?
  
  Perhaps the most desirable part of the game is the multiplayer. Let me warn you it is limited compared 
 to the HD versions but is an okay start. In single player campaign, there is a 'girlfriend mode' 
 in which a second player gets his/her own crosshair as if it were a light gun game. Second player 
 gets his/her own ammo and weapon, which can be changed any time there is opportunity. It is a fun 
 little mode and may add some replayability if you want to go through the campaign with a buddy. 
 It could possibly called 'Yoda mode' because it seems Yoda is on your back and helping you out. 
 You see what I did there?
  
  The real competitive multiplayer lies in the online mode of the game, which provides immense replayability. 
 The online mode in the Wii version includes Team Deathmatch and Deathmatch. There are 5 modes; 
 Boot camp, Team Deathmatch, Free For All, Hardcore TDM and Veteran TDM. There is no capture the 
 flag or Zombie mode. The online has full-fledged rankings and leader boards. The well-known perk 
 system is also included in which three perks can be set up to enhance your abilities. You can set 
 up your own classes by customizing weapons and grenades. There is also a level up system as you 
 gain experience online. Leveling up unlocks weapons and perks, not to mention bragging rights. 
 The newest weapon introduced in this game is the elusive Flamethrower, which is actually a very 
 nice addition and controls very well. Bayonets are also included and are nice for longer range 
 melee. If you are familiar with CoD 4 online, you will notice you can also prestige. Prestiging 
 resets you back to level 1 and you start leveling up all over again. For some it increases lasting 
 appeal while some people stay at level 65 forever. Prestiging allows you to make more classes and 
 weapon customizations. You do not need Friend Codes to play, you can play anyone much like Mario 
 Kart Wii. However, if you want to add friends, you must add their FC and vice versa. Overall the 
 online is a solid attempt. There is seldom lag but only if the host's or your own connection is 
 faulty.
  
  The less important factors in the game are actually very nice for the Wii. Graphics look very good. 
 Character models and environments are decent while the particle affects, explosions and textures 
 look phenomenal. Geometry is also fantastic. Perhaps the only con is the water, it looks very poor 
 if you ask me. Music is also a great factor in the game. It sets a great mood and helps the game 
 progress at a nice rate. Sometimes the music is stealthy in sneaking operations while in a confrontation 
 it escalates into epic proportions. Sound effects and voice acting are both equally terrific. Sometimes 
 it just gets over the top. An example would be when you stick an N74 grenade on a Marine, he yells 
 out "Get this ******* thing off me." It really brings you into the feel of the moment. You will 
 find The Red Army and Marines to be more vocal as they are the protagonists of the game.
  
  For the individual sections of the game, here are the scores.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 
 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Lasting Appeal: 9/10
  Fun Factor: 9/10
  
  All in all, Call of Duty: World at War is a great addition to the rare collection of Wii FPS's. 
 It is perhaps the best Wii game in Q4 2008 and should not be missed out on. Perhaps improvements 
 in multiplayer and tweaks to the controls will make the next addition of Call of Duty on Wii even 
 better. I dub this game a must buy or at very least a rent. However I warn you, you will be extremely 
 tempted to purchase it after you try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackSunshine59
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  If you want to go straight to the review skip the below paragraph
  
  Thank you Treyarch and Activision for finnaly making a good first person shooter on wii. This game 
 is awsome. I got this game on pc for christmas but my computer couldnt run it so i exchanged it 
 and i thought i would be dissapointed but it was the complete oppisite. THANK YOU BECAUSE WII ONWERS 
 WANT BETTER SHOOTERS THEN RED STEEL AND CALL OF DUTY 3.
  
  
  The Review: Now the reason i gave this game a 10 out of 10 is not because it is the best game ever 
 made but because it broke new ground for wii shooters. Before wii onwers had Red Steel, Call of 
 Duty 3, and Medal of Honor Heros 2.
  Red Steel and Call of Duty 3 were terrible in my opinion (red steel's multiplayer can be fun though) . 
 Call of Duty 3's graphics were terrible and it had no multiplayer and choppy controls. Medal of 
 Honor Heros 2 had terrible AI but it was fun but had that on rails feeling. This game broke new 
 ground because it actullay feels like a good first person shooter. The lengthy campagin is excellent 
 as it takes longer then 5 hours to finish the game. At first the controls feel a little bit wacky 
 but it has many adjustments so you can almost always find a control style that fits you. The only 
 things I am dissapointed about are that the wii zapper controls arent very good and require alot 
 of twisting and also that the graphics could be better. The multiplayer is AWSOME. The whole perk 
 thing coming to wii is awsome and is very addicting. I reccomend this game to anyone with a wii 
 and wifi who is looking for a addicting and fun game!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrupe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Considering it's the wii, the graphics are good but the the fps slow down a bit when you get surrounded 
 by explosions and stuff. The online play is reallllly fun and as long as you have a good wi-fi 
 connection, there's no lag at all! I liked all the guns and attachments and perks too. It's also 
 good that the levels don't mean that a level 4 can't beat a level 39. One thing that bugs me is 
 the first cut screen, with the cigarette guy (a little to brutal even if that's realistic) . Pretty 
 much everything that happens really did happen (minus pvt. Miller and Demitri Petrenco or whatever) . 
 In online kill streaks, I think the dogs should come before the artillery strike or at least make 
 them a bit less powerfull.
  
  Anyway, it's a great game and one of the best for the wii so far (METROID PRIME 3 CORRUPTION IS 
 #1) and I would say it's worth the whole fifty bucks................ -Timmitty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopa_shell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a great addition to the collection of hardcore games for the Wii. 
 The controls are great, with different available control schemes to choose from, and the campaign 
 is impressive and exciting. It has you playing as the Americans against the Japanese in Pacific 
 Islands, and as the Soviets against the Germans in urban areas. The online is great, with it hardly 
 ever lagging. It includes a great option of choosing your own weapons, grenades, and different 
 Perks such as Satchel charges, increased health, and better accuracy. It is exciting, fast-paced, 
 challenging, and competitive. It is way better than Medal of Honor's online mode. The only things 
 that I can complain about are the lack of details in the visuals and the fact that the campaign 
 is somewhat short. Despite, that though, this game is worth buying if you are a fan of shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandyJH
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  And I thought WWII was old hat except for gay men like Tom Cruise!
  
  Whoa, just joking on that one. But really the first thing I noticed about CoD is that it gives 
 a much more realistic and gritty approach to the "big big war." And it keeps it fresh among the 
 450 or so other WWII games. The story carries just as well as CoD 4 did, and it will keep you satisfied 
 that your are playing something with a coherent narrative. 
  
  When it comes down to the game play CoD is just a blast on the Wii. Sure your arm will get sore 
 after a while. Sure there are occasional weird issues I've noticed with the camera not turning 
 correctly. But that's all underwritten by the fact that this game eats dynamite and craps !@#$ing 
 bullets. There hasn't been a shooter on the Wii that has handled itself this well and I feel it 
 finally shows the Wii's potential to be a great arcade shooter console. The single player I found 
 fairly challenging and even better is the multiplayer which I feel deserves bonus points for also 
 being one of the best handled multiplayers for any Wii game. Private rooms, groups for clans, a 
 ton of modes, equipment customization, and quick load and response makes CoD a seriously fun multiplayer 
 experience that can't be missed on the Wii. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War is a game that took me by surprise on the Wii, I honestly thought that 
 it was going to be a shoddy port of the PC/360/PS3 version. But no... It's actually has a lot of 
 great qualities of it. What it lacks from it's counter parts is makes up with what the Wii can 
 do, making it one of the best shooters, and online multi-player games on the console.
  
  I've never been a fan of this series, not that I didn't like it. I only have one other Call of 
 Duty game, and that's Call of Duty 2, a game that I was originally going to get on my PC (Thought 
 it was exclusive to PC) , 'til I got my 360 a month after launch and saw that it was available for 
 it, so.. of course I had gotten it. The console didn't have many other games out yet, and it was 
 a great game. I had skipped out on the superb Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare foolishly, but when 
 I heard that they were making World at War, I planned to get it, this time for the PC, then come 
 Christmas eve, and my friend got me it for the Wii, I was pretty skeptical at first, but now that 
 I've played it, I'm glad because this is the only real first person shooter I have for the Wii 
 now, and no, Metroid isn't a first person shooter, it's a first person adventure (It plays differently) .
 
  
  Good:
  
  -Near flawless control
  -Detailed environments
  -Great dialogue and voice acting
  -Good stories to keep you devoted to the campaign
  -Completely 
 lag free multi-player.
  -Missions = Blow stuff up, and that's always a good thing.
  -Campaign is lengthy compared to other First Person Shooters.
  -Decent variety of weapons
  
 -Finding random players online happens very quickly
  -Good multi-player perks.
  -Presents World War II in a different perspective.
  
  Bad:
  
  -Limited online modes
  
 -The characters' graphics are REALLY, REALLY watered down. (Environments still look okay.)
  -Flamethrower makes you near unstoppable.
  -Controls hang up once in a blue.
  -Grenades are 
 still annoying. Even more now because sometimes it doesn't show the warning, and it always showed 
 the grenade warning in Call of Duty 2 (And assuming all the other versions) .
  -No zombie nazis.
  -No local multiplayer versus. Only co-op, which is a bit mediocre.
  -World 
 War II. Again.
  
  
  
  
  The first thing I tried out in this game was the campaign mode, it starts off pretty cool, don't 
 want to spoil anything, but let's say it gets you into the action in the right mood. You start 
 off as an American marine, Private Miller, fighting against these Japanese Banzi's that I can tell 
 ya, are pretty crazy. The campaign mode also has 4 difficulties. The first two are nearly the same 
 from my understanding, I probably used my knife for 70% of the kills, seriously. The third difficulty 
 feels like the norm. And the last is actually pretty rough, but nothing incredibly hard. I actually 
 have played the other version of World at War's campaign last night, on the 360 at my friends' 
 place, and I'm shocked to be able to say now, that the Wii version is much harder due to the AI, 
 I don't really don't understand why they did that but.. I guess I'd rather have it that way. You'll 
 also play as a russian rebel. Private Dimitri (I dare not spell his last name as I did not pay 
 attention to it) in a group of others fighting back the germans, I say that this side of the campaign 
 was the better side, due to more compelling characters and missions, but both are almost the same 
 in the fun department, but I found the Private Dimitri side to have a better story and inspiration 
 (And I'm American) . In between the stages you get cool little stylized cut scenes showing real 
 footage from World War II, they only last about 30 seconds to one minute though. (Except for the 
 first one) I shouldn't forget to mention, that there is one mission where you control a tank, which 
 is cool, but it feels clumsy to control, at least with the Wii mote, since your marker is so tiny. 
 Luckily, sweet explosion make it all wash away. But then again, explosions make everything better.
 
  
  The music is pretty good, typical stuff you'd hear in a war game or movie though the score sets 
 the tone right, the one for the last level was great though, a fitting end. The guns sounds are 
 as great and realistic as you'd expect, the voice acting is straight up awesome and demanding, 
 and the dialogue for it is perfect, although sometimes if you're wandering, they'll repeat some 
 things over and over again, but that's kind of what you get for wandering around.
  
  The graphics are surely the biggest down side of this game. World at War looks good on the other 
 three platforms, I was expecting it to look worse, but this is just way, way over the top. The 
 textures aren't good at all on the characters, especially up close. Only thing about the characters 
 that looks good are your own hands around a gun on your character up close. I thought they could 
 have done a better job with this, the design is decent on the characters, passable, but the graphic 
 textures themselves could have looked almost as good as the 360 version. Especially since I was 
 coming off Metroid Prime 3 the latest game I played on my Wii to this one. Metroid Prime 3 looks 
 great, and for a Wii game it's stunning, (Let's not even compare Galaxy to this) so there's really 
 no excuse for this. The saving grace in the visuals department are the environments, for the most 
 part they look good, but it's the design of them that really steals the show.
  
  The multi-player is one of the main highlights of this game. The online is completely lag free 
 (Unless your computer itself is lagging really badly at the moment) , and the perks work well. You 
 get experience points per win when you play online, when you get experience points and kills, you 
 can get rank ups and level ups. When you reach a certain level you play at another rank with other 
 players at your level. This keeps the balance pretty well, and along with the experience, you can 
 spend points on either getting your character to take more hits and do more with bullets, or stay 
 undetected from enemy scouters on the map and being able to sprint quicker. When you get a certain 
 amount of kills in a row (Which already makes you feel badass, 'til you get shot down yourself 
 of course) you can call recon ships, hounds, or even drop in rockets. But it only lasts for a short 
 period of time. One thing that the online multi-player is lacking are some of the extra modes that 
 the other versions have, like the zombie nazis that I really wanted to see so badly. It has the 
 team death match and the free for all mode, and the extra challenges that help get you experience 
 points, but that's it. There are eight stages for these modes. The down side of multi player is 
 that there is no local multi-player versus mode. Only online. Local is co op. Which is pretty bad 
 from my perspective. Instead of the usual split screen it has the second player closely to you, 
 with only the ability to aim and fire. You can do everything else like move, but it's rough for 
 the second player to aim with you moving the camera around so much.
  
  This game's ultimate saving grace is the bless control. It's pretty simple, you point your Wii 
 Mote at the screen and the marker comes up, and there ya go, that's how you aim. You shoot with 
 the B button that's on the back of the remote, guessing that's supposed to make it like the trigger 
 in a way. I haven't played this with the Wii zapper but from what I have heard, it works well. 
 But with the remote, I'm sure it's just as fun. It is a little hard to get use to, but after a 
 little while, it feels as natural as anything and precise as ever. You move with the control stick, 
 you sprint by holding the A button, which is also used to hop over small ledges in your path. You 
 throw grenades with the start/+ button. Which is annoying at first but once you have it down, it 
 won't feel awkward anymore. If you turn the Wii mote clock wise, and then hit the start/+ button, 
 you throw a smoke grenade. But in the campaign, as Private Dimitri, you throw bottles that are 
 lit on fire instead, which is actually better than having grenades and smoke grenades since they 
 explodes instantly and kill your enemies instantly just like the grenades. You can shake your remote 
 to use your knife or melee attack, depending on what gun you're using, but I find shaking the remote 
 utterly useless cause that also makes you swing your gun around thus screwing up your camera. I 
 didn't even know you could use another button at first, I was like "Are you serious?" Thankfully 
 you can use down on the D pad instead, way better. Left on the D pad is to use special items you 
 get in the campaign and multi-player (Like the recon planes) . Right is to switch your gun, and 
 up is to do a little jump, which I'm sure the true purpose of the jump is make a fool of yourself 
 in online multi-player... I'm sure of it.
  
  
  
  If you're looking for a solid package and a great first person shooter for your Wii, this is the 
 one. But I say only buy it if you're able to play online, because without online, the game isn't 
 worth your 50$. The online is what makes this game more of a treat than others, as well as the 
 controls. The campaign is great but it's not enough to just buy the game for the campaign.
  
  Overall Call of Duty: World at War is a surprisingly great game for the Wii. Even the back 
 of the box game's box calls it's online multi-player on the Wii "ADDICTIVE AND INTENSE". Yes, in 
 caps. Haven't seen the back of a box to accurate in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-bob-kills
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  As I said before, no good two player, alright game play, but when you have a fps on a console without 
 good graphics you need to get to maximum capabilities to make it a lot of fun. Usually I don't 
 care about graphics but this is just bad, also lots of glitches, if it didn't have a good amount 
 out shootem up blow em' up this game would have STUNK. Any way I did like the campaign even though 
 it was a little predictable, and how the same thing happened every time I would not recommend this 
 game to anyone, endless you were a WW2 veteran who liked to play video games. (All the stuff that 
 happened in the game happened in real life, except for a Russian named demitri, and some USA dude 
 named miller who killed 500+ people during the war) .
  
  this game is not worth 50$ do not by it or the-bob-kills you. DON'T DO IT!!! even if you are a 
 COD fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendofan19
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  In COD WaW you battle alongside numerous American and Russian troops in an Allied attack against 
 German and Japanese troops. A pick up and play adventure, COD 5 is the best fps on the Wii to date. 
 with emersive gameplay and realistic battle grounds, this game draws you into thebloody WWII and 
 doesn't let go. Many misions adorn your path to victory. Also not to be forgotten, the dialoge 
 and voice over acting is trumendously good. All accents and dialects are thrown at you throughout 
 the game. Treyarch and Activision have thrown together a epic masterpiece in the fps category of 
 video games. A gory yet vibrant plot folds in nicely as well. This strikingly good franchises' 
 future looks extremely promising and you know the many fans are already hungry for more! Many cannot 
 wait for next year's release. Even as a novice COD player I find the series very entertaining and 
 am slowly waiting for the new game over the horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rauge
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The Single player's story line is immersive, but the single player it self is only a mere 4-7 hours 
 of gameplay. 
  You start out playing Pvt. Miller in the Pacific Islands, fighting the crazy banzi Jappenese. The 
 reason I say they are crazy is that, they pop out of no-where and charge at you, screaming stuff 
 in Japenese.
  
  After you do about 2-3 missions as Pvt. Miller, you move on to play as Pvt. Dimitri Petrenko, a 
 young Russian rifleman. 
  
  This is where the story really gets interesting.
  When you start out as Pvt. Petrenko, you are in a destroyed fountain in Stalingrad, and there are 
 dead Russian soldiers all around you. Hidden in the mess, there's a man called, Sgt. Resnov. He 
 is a sniper, and has been hunting the man called General Amsel of the German army for 3 days.
 
  
  You have to escape with Resnov, provide sniper support for the Russian Military, and kill Amsel. 
 All from the surrounding buildings of Stalingrad.
  
  This game is the most addicting game for the Wii. I love the multiplayer, and the controls with 
 the Wii Zapper are perfect.
  
  10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty: world at war is the best FPS on the wii to date. It beats medal of honor in every 
 single way. 
  
  1P. The first player experience is pretty short. So if you do not have online i would suggest dont 
 buy it or just give it a rent. The campaign is still better than MoH. there are a lot of great 
 videos and the flame thrower is very fun :) 
  
  Controls. This one i would have to give to MoH: H2. But CoD controls are still very good. it might 
 take awhile to get used to, but eventually they become very easy and natural. 
  
  Online. This is the sole reason that CoD is way better than MoH. 
  
  Yes MoH could have more 
 people per match, but who really cares about that. In CoD you can customize your own weapons, chose 
 your perks, level up, and prestige. 
  
  This is what makes the online addicting. You just have to keep playing to become a higher level, 
 and to unlock cooler weapons and perks. 
  
  The downsides to CoD: WaW on the wii are that the matches can only be 4 Vs. 4. Some levels are 
 really big and you cannot find other people when there are so few of them. Hopefully they get it 
 right for the next one. 
  
  another downside is that there is no offline multiplayer. The only thing you can do with a friend 
 is play co-op (which sucks by the way) . 
  
  The last thing that is disappointing is that wii version was left out on some great features. For 
 example Nazi Zombies and some other online modes. 
  
  If you own another system i would recommend you to get CoD: WaW on that, but if you only have a 
 wii and you love FPS' then this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  If you are one of those shoot'm up video game junkie then this is just another world war two game. 
 But if you've always wanted x-box360 and your mom got you wii cause its cheaper then this is a 
 grate game. Now the graphics SUCK, and the game play is jumpy but I agree with the score that gamespot 
 because I got the game for the fun to for the pretty picture on my tv. Now if you hook up you wii 
 to a 50inch tv with surround sound (like me) you feel as though you're your grate granddaddy back 
 in the war. I also like the controls there easy and realistic. The down side is if you got wii 
 for you and all your buddies the.... No this game is not for you because the multi player sucks 
 unless you have wi-fi. So if you live next door to fashest neo natizi's and just really want to 
 piss them off and prove we won the war please go buy this game. But if you're unsure rent it.... 
 love it.... BUY IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cayner
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  I think this game is pretty great like all the other Call of Duty (COD) games it has multiplayer, 
 has you ordinary story and the graphics are A++ till now i think this game deserved top 5 and you 
 cant say no to a game of this quality ... Its a tops for first person shooting Game (FPS) .. I think 
 this game will keep you occupied and happy for a very long time.. so don't miss this game .. its 
 an unexpected model of COD and i think its one of the best ones out there.. I don't think there 
 are any faults in this game since this game is the 5th game like this they have made till now.. 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalert9r9r
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  If you care to see only the game review, please skip the preface.
  
  Preface:
  I am a fairly hardcore gamer who unfortunately, owns only a Wii and PS2 (and various hand helds) , 
 and as the PS2 assumes its rightful place in history as it goes out with a bang, I, like many others, 
 look to the Wii, and can only look to the Wii, for all my "next gen" gaming. But being able to 
 count the number of the Wii's decent games on just your own two hands poses a problem for people 
 like me that would love to be playing games such as Gears of War, CoD4, Halo 3, Bioshock, Little 
 Big Planet, etc.
  Therefore, you can imagine my joy when i found CoD: WaW. A next gen game being created for the 
 Wii as well. Well Santa obliged to my wish and under the tree i found CoD: WaW. I pluged it into 
 the Wii anticipating all the X360 videos i had seen and drempt of, clearly on a graphically toned 
 down scale. As i clicked the Disk Channel on my Wii menu, I heard the exact same sounds I had heard 
 that past week when selecting CoD3 for the Wii. I looked past it, eagerly awaiting one of the potentially 
 violent war games to date, much less on Nintendo's "family friendly" Wii system. 
  
  Review:
  As the opening cutscene unfolded, i was amazed at the transitions between the classic 
 grainy war footage and the style of art the designers had put into it. However, to my utter dismay, 
 when i began gameplay, was not greeted, but punched in the stomach with awful, run-together, watery 
 graphics, and a control scheme that seemed that the designers had gone with the first scheme they 
 plotted and looked no further than that.
  I attempted to struggle on and did through the first few chapters, but after the last awfully done 
 in-game cutscene where your Sergent is stabbed by a Japanese Banzai soldier, it was all i could 
 bear. To give you an idea, let me run through the cutscene. 
  
  [If you wish to read on with the Review, skip the "reenactment"]
  
  Coming from T rated war 
 games where your commanding officers and fellow squad members bark at you like angry talking dogs, 
 even when your doing something right, after i had stumbled blindly through the level desperately 
 trying to hang on to my sanity as i wrestled with the awful control scheme and struggled to see 
 what was going on because of the blurred graphics (no joke) to hear my Sargent tell me in a relaxed 
 voice "Great Job soldier" then huddle the squad up, was more than a bit shocking. as we huddled 
 in the middle of the bombed out room of an old house (at least, what i think was a bombed out house) , 
 one of my squad mates collapses and says in a childish voice "Sarge, when are we gonna rest?" and 
 he responds in a fatherly tone "Soon, very soon" By this time my camera has wondered over to the 
 door of the room and i see it magically appear open and Serge appear in front of it and he falls 
 down, then beside his body appears the body of a Banzai soldier (so i think he got stabbed) . The 
 two most startling parts were that the Sergent was in the middle of the medium sized room before 
 he teleported halfway across the room, and the fact that out of our approximately 5 man squad, 
 only 2 rushed over to see him.
  
  [Review: Cont.]
  
  All in all:
  Broken down (which the game already is, but broken down further) we have-
  
  Controls - control 
 scheme is awful and none of the five different modes change a noticeable thing, even attempting 
 to use the Zapper is a meaningless effort
  
  Graphics - detailed watercolor painting left in the rain, undetailed textures and identical copy-and-paste 
 enemies makes for one forgettable and frustrating experience
  
  AI - enemies will stand out in the open or run from cover to open spaces while your squad mates 
 stay behind and shoot at walls or rush half a foot in front of an enemy and they take turns shooting 
 around each other
  
  Gameplay - See above, does any of that sound like it would make for a fun game?
  
  ***Online*** 
 - The only thing getting this game a passing grade, the controls still pose a threat, but all in 
 all, a wonderful experience that will keep you from selling the game if you already have it, and 
 possibly will make you buy it if you haven't already.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinguiniSteak
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Although the game might be fine for only wii owners, but the limited online and arguably crappy 
 co-op, where the second person is just a point and click sort of gameplay, the game leaves alot 
 to be desired in certain areas, but is spectuacular in others. And the withdrawl of nazi zombies 
 was dissapointing to me, being the only one of my friends with a 360, i was hoping for some zombie 
 action on the wii. most of all it takes away from seperating itself from cod 4. if this version 
 of the game was put on the 360, it would have done horribly. Editors should have put more effort 
 into this version, even if it meant pushing back the realease date for the 360 version. At times, 
 the wii remote would be pointed away from the telivision as i shot (being not very used to the 
 wii remote being the barrel of the gun) and i would have to restat the level, because even though 
 i pointed it at the screen, the gun would appear at an awkward angle. The second problem with the 
 game mechanics is that if some one would be shooting at me from behind, it would take to long to 
 turn around and i would be shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  It's not an official statistic, but we're fairly certain that there have been more videogames based 
 on World War II than there have been individual bullets manufactured since the turn of the 19th 
 century. As a result there was a collective sigh when it was announced that World At War would 
 also be set during WWII. Impressively though the game manages to feel refreshing and original: 
 partly due to the fact it's based on less well-used campaigns, and partly due to its shocking realism.
 
  
  Hard Corps Gamer
  The former makes a pleasant change (well, as pleasant as war can be) from the usual "play as an 
 American or a Brit and shoot the Nazis" stuff that features in most WWII games. 
  Instead, the game has two main storylines: one which follows a private in the United States Marine 
 Corps (voiced by Keifer Sutherland) as he helps fight the Japanese Army in the Pacific, and another 
 in which you play as a private of the Soviet Red Army who teams up with a sergeant and attempts 
 to get revenge on the Germans who executed the rest of his unit at Stalingrad. These stories are 
 extremely well-told throughout each level, with some truly memorable (and shocking) set-pieces 
 at certain points. Watching one of your teammates get a bullet in his head as he's talking to you 
 is deeply unsettling.
  
  War Is Hell
  Indeed, it's safe to say that this really isn't suitable for younger gamers. The deaths are gory, 
 the mood is grim and the language is so bad that at times there are more F-bombs being dropped 
 than those of the explosive variety. The game's got a BBFC 15 rating for a reason.
  
  Grittiness and harsh realism will only get a game so far of course, so it's a good job that it's 
 also great fun to play. Not only is the enemy AI realistic, but your CPU-controlled squadmates 
 also behave as you'd expect. They stay back when it's a dodgy situation, advance when it's all 
 clear and split up when there are several tasks to complete: all while communicating with you and 
 each other. It's the most involving war game we've played. This makes it all the more upsetting 
 when a partner is shot, but on the upside it makes it more satisfying when you approach an enemy 
 bunker and use the new flamethrower weapon to cook the enemy soldiers inside. Yes, it's a tad violent, 
 but that's war. As we said above, it's not really designed for younger, impressionable gamers.
 
  
  
  War Of The Buttons
  The control system is also absolutely spot on: everything's where it should be and there are loads 
 of sensitivity options so you can make the aiming as loose or tight as you want. We'd also say 
 that World At War makes better use of the Wii Zapper than any other Wii game. While other war games 
 like Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 turn the game into a sort of on-rails arcade lightgun shooter when 
 you use the Zapper, World At War retains the full experience and still allows you to freely move 
 around as if you were just using the Remote and Nunchuk. If you've got a Zapper, this is definitely 
 the way we'd recommend playing.
  
  Anyone who's played Call of Duty 4 will know that while the single player campaign is enjoyable, 
 the online multiplayer is what really makes it special. Thankfully World At War has full online 
 multiplayer for up to eight people, and it's fantastic fun. There's a ranking system which gives 
 you more "perks" and abilities as you play more and gain experience (such as the ability to set 
 dogs on your opponents) , and there are a wide number of multiplayer modes such as War (deathmatch) , 
 team deathmatch and such. There can be some slight lag at times where you'll swear you emptied 
 nine bullets into someone and they didn't die, but if your connection speed's generally top-notch 
 you shouldn't have too many problems.
  
  Any fans of first-person shooting games or war games in general should have no hesitation in picking 
 this up. The single-player campaign is one of the most involving, well-directed we've ever played, 
 and the online multiplayer will have you still playing for months to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpapirri_retur
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  its the best call of duty ever!!!, and if you play with thw wii zapper adds a little more of reality, 
 and the online mod its very great!!!, But i loved whe i began killing some japs!!!, BANSAAAAAAAI!!!!!!!!!!! 
 lol, I bought it last week on Best Buy!!! i cant stop playing, my girlfriend yells me about it, 
 to quit playing, but it is truly adictive. I hope my friends can get it so we can kick some net 
 asses, just like the old time lan parties we had. Now we have to wait to they release the Conduit, 
 the next big promiss of Nintendo Wii, featuring the Quantum 3 GP. Does anybody knows another great 
 shooting game, so i can use the Wii Zapper?, please tell me . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannydude65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Call Of Duty: World At War Review Dannydude65:
  
  After Call Of Duty: Modern Warefare never came to Wii Call of Duty is back with the 5th in the series. 
 It is deffinitly the best FPS on Wii.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics are very detailed and when people it looks great. Unfortunaley the areas are not destrucable 
 enough for a War game!!!! We enjoy meleeing 
  
  Gameplay:
  Wii Zapper is great to use but using wii remote on own is still great. The Non Playing Characters 
 are responsive i. e Grenade Ducking. Also I Like the Japenese and dislike killing in American Missions.
 
  
  Sound:
  The Sound is execellent each each gun has different sound.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Local Multiplayers is absoulotly Crap!! If the second player woul be able to move 
 it would make it alot better. Online Multiplayer Is bloddy addictive.
  
  +Outstanding Single Player
  +Looks and Sound Fantastic
  +Online Multiplayer Works Well
  + 
 Bonzai Attacks Scare 
  + Wii Zapper Controls Are Great
  - The Occasional Online Lag
  - Upsets Friend When You Kill Limbping Soilder
  
  
  Arguably thr best WWII game ever. If 
 you like FPS games, this is absolutley essntial.
  
  9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phroido
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Brutal fun. The multiplayer is great but the campaign is under appreciated. Fighting the enemy 
 is fantastic. The Japanese soldier fight differently than the Germans but both play smart. The 
 enemy takes cover, throws grenades back in your face and flanking them and blowing them away is 
 very satisfying. The graphics are choppy and the colors are muted but the animations and death 
 gurgles make up for the game's other technical short comings. Any fan of 24 should at least check 
 this game out for Sutherlands awesome voice over performance. He makes a convincing grisseld commander 
 and your happy to follow his orders into hell.
  
  The Wii has the most unique gaming experiences of the new consoles. Playing with the remote is 
 intuitive and fun. 
  
  This is with out a doubt one of Wii's best games and certainly its most satisfying shooter.
  
 
  P. S.
  
  I just played an entire level where the the usually smart enemy didn't fire a single shot. To say 
 the least the game can be a little buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoomLazMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game may have crappy visuals but the gameplay is so.. addictive. Even if you've played 
 COD4: MW or COD: WAW on another system.. do yourself some good and buy this on the wii.
  
  OKAY in depth time:
  
  THE SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN:
  
  Nice missions for this WWII shooter 
 do good. I like playing as both the Russians and the Americans in new places it adds a good atmosphere 
 that the WWII games i played haven't executed well. Missions are nice and lengthy but the single 
 player campaign is not the reason I am in love with this game...
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  The multiplayer owns so hard that its not even funny. The visuals make it hard to see but the multiplayer 
 is so good on the inside. Nice maps make this game so fun.. The only map i don't like is Asylum 
 and there's still 7 more available. The Perk system still ticks me off with martyrdom and juggernaut 
 but oh well lol. No vehicles suck and sniping's hard but at least now you can have fun using MGs 
 and SMGs to spray your opponents effectively with the move of your wrist..
  
  10 / 10 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I really missed out on the highly proclaimed CoD4, but man am I satisfied with this game. The Wii 
 needed a competitive first person shooter. There are so many "childlike" games out there that for 
 the longest time, the only game I played was Super Smash Bros. Brawl. I have not tried the single-player 
 mode for COD5 yet, but that just goes to show how fun and engaging the online multiplayer is. 
 
  
  The ranking system and levels give you something to strive for in the multiplayer universe, along 
 with the perks and upgrades available as you level up. The connection speed is almost always very 
 good, and very rarely do you ever get lagg. The multiplayer is very engaging. The variety of weapons 
 and fighting styles allows you to find your preferred range (short, medium, or long) , power, and 
 reload rate. Weapon customization/perks are very diversive and balanced. Three perks can be chosen 
 to upgrade your performance in battle, whether it be extra health, more damage, or protection from 
 grenades. In the actual arena, battles are often intense and challenging, especially when playing 
 against experienced players. The only problem I have with the multiplayer system is that 4-man 
 teams are often unbalanced compared to the other team in terms of level (which usually determines 
 skill level as well) . Personally, I can't put this game down. If you have homework to do, lock 
 your Wii somewhere where you can't see it...
  
  
  Scores:
  
  
  Single player: N/A
  
  Online Multiplayer: 10
  
  Graphics: 9 (when artillery fires, graphics 
 get kind of wierd. I know everything slows on purpose, but sometimes its also a little pixelated) .
 
  
  Regular Multiplayer: 7 (playing co-op is cool, but vs. would be nice instead of just using NWC)
 
  
  Control: 10 (dont use wii zapper, its really hard to handle sometimes) .
  
  
  
  
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markr34
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  War, as Fallout 3 so famously puts it, never changes. While the weapons and tactics may differ, 
 it's still about chaos and fear and the overwhelming of the senses as adrenaline surges through 
 your veins. That's a hard experience to capture on a screen, but the Call of Duty series comes 
 close thanks to its constant redefinition of what "11" is in terms of intensity for first-person 
 shooters. Last year's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare delivered an awesome and varied single-player 
 experience that was matched with an even better multiplayer suite, and it made for some really 
 big shoes for Call of Duty: World at War to fill.
  
  If you've been living in Antarctica the past year and haven't heard, then yes, World at War returns 
 back to the series' World War II roots. This has caused no end of grumbling from fans of Modern 
 Warfare's contemporary setting, as well as the fact that this installment was done by Treyarch, 
 a sister-studio to Call of Duty-creator Infinity Ward. Treyarch did the somewhat-maligned Call 
 of Duty 3, but the studio looks to atone for that by delivering a game with an impressive amount 
 of content. There's a solid single-player campaign, co-op play, a huge multiplayer suite, and even 
 a fun, silly mode featuring zombies.
  
  
  Video Review - Watch or download here (HD available) .
  
  
  It certainly helps that World 
 at War focuses on the less popularized theaters of World War II. Instead of serving up Normandy 
 and D-Day for what would have been the umpteenth time for World War II shooters, the game covers 
 the island hopping campaign in the Pacific as well as the Red Army's reversal of the tide at Stalingrad 
 all the way to the Fall of Berlin. This provides some interesting new battlefields set on sun-bleached 
 coral atolls in the Pacific. You will see some more familiar spots with the bombed-out cities and 
 farmlands ofthe Eastern Front missions, but it's still well done.
  
  War tends to be a savage affair, but the Pacific and the Eastern Front were especially so. In the 
 game, Japanese soldiers swarm out of the brush, erupting out of spider holes to charge straight 
 at you in an attempt to run you through with their bayonets. They'll play dead and wait for you 
 to walk into the middle of a trap. Though set outdoors, it feels like close-quarters combat much 
 of the time. Meanwhile, the Russian Front is full of merciless moments; there's plenty of gunning 
 down of wounded and unarmed soldiers by both sides, and sometimes you're asked to pull the trigger 
 yourself.
  
  War is hell. Again.
  This remains a Call of Duty game through and through. What that means is that the action is fast 
 and fluid, as well as rigidly scripted. The success of the franchise proves that there's a vast 
 audience for that, and this won't change anyone's mind. Enemy soldiers and your computer-controlled 
 teammates respawn endlessly until you advance far enough to hit the triggers to make them stop 
 reappearing. Then you advance to the next firefight and repeat the process over again. The thing 
 is, you're far too busy shooting and ducking and dying to really notice much of the time. The sense 
 of immersion is pretty complete.
  
  There are plenty of deafening, large-scale set-piece battles, but there's also variation to change 
 things up. Case in point is the PBY mission, where you man the guns on a Navy aircraft. At first 
 glance, this seems to be a mirror to the Spectre Gunship mission in Modern Warfare; in both missions 
 you rain fire down from above. But the Spectre Gunship mission has a cold detachment to it; those 
 tiny blips on the screen that are human beings die from a foe that they cannot see and fight back 
 against. In World at War's PBY mission, you're in the midst of a raging air and sea battle, taking 
 damage and fighting for your life. Or there's a sniper mission to whack a German general that doesn't 
 quite have the cat-and-mouse feeling of Modern Warfare's sniper level.
  
  Good thing that PBYs float.
  The campaign does suffer a bit due to its broad scope; the narrative 
 skips over months at a time, showcasing the major battles of the war. The result is that the sense 
 of story doesn't seem as strong as it did in Modern Warfare. It probably doesn't help that we all 
 know how the war eventually turned out; Modern Warfare had the advantage of a fictionalized story 
 with plenty of shocking twists and turns.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dartadion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The Nazi's are Everywhere. The Japanese are killing your men and friends. Your Job, to make sure 
 they die for a peaceful new world. So COD: WAW for Wii is smply, fun. The Graphics and sound effects 
 are great and even though graphics don't match up to the 360, PC and PS3 that doesn't mean it's 
 one bit less disappointing.
  
  So it's a 15 level campaign with 2 parts. One Part is playing as Pvt. Miller of the American Army 
 trying to stop the Japanese Forces. Though the Japanese Campaign is harder, it can still be the 
 more fun one encouraging a lot of Close-Quarter Fighting and is the more heated combat related 
 one with this part of the campaign only using the Flamethrower. The other part is the Russian Campaign 
 set mostly in Germany. You play as Pvt. Dimitri Petrenko and this campaign focusses more on Sniping, 
 Long ranged combat and is also the more explosive one using many different rocketlaunchers throughout 
 each mission. The Story line is emotional and does let you get a feel for the Characters and their 
 goals.
  
  The enemies of each part of the campaign are different. The Japanese like to use Rifles with and 
 without Bayonets throughout most of the campaign and also spam grenades, a lot. Though at first 
 their hiding tactics seem new and cool, after a while it does get a little repetitive. Though their 
 fighting techniques don't and that's were it gets difficult. The Japanese also love running up 
 to you and stabbing you with their bayonets. The Nazi's however use Sub and Heavy Machineguns throughout 
 most of the Campaign. They also use Tanks in a few of the early levels. The Nazi's are the easier 
 enemies to figure out as they mostly use the same strategies. Though the Russian Campaign is better 
 enjoyed with a Sniper as the Nazi's are indeed very good snipers. 
  
  The controls on the Wii are great and very effective. At first they seem confusing, but you get 
 a hang of it very quickly. The Turrets can also be either controlled with the Wii remote or the 
 Nunchuck. Also driving is easy so no need to worry and yes you do use vehicles in the Wii version. Multiplayer 
 is the same as always and can be explained in others reviews. It also doesn't have the Nazi Zombie 
 mode which is disappointing.
  
  So Call of Duty: World at War is fun with a few missing modes. But it is still a fun game for all 
 who love the Shooter Category. Now get to the war and stop them. URA!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathattack
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War
  Wii
  
  I got this game on Black Friday. I was hoping for a fun FPS and that's what I got. Some of the 
 best graphics on the Wii are held on this game and also the sound is relatively good too. There 
 are only 15 missions including:
  
  1) SEMPER FI
  2) Little Resistance
  3) Hard Landing
  4) Vendetta
  5) Their land, Their Blood
  6) Burn 'em out
  7) Relentless
 
  8) Blood & Iron
  9) Ring Of Steel
  10) Eviction
  11) Black Cats
  12) Blow Torch & Cork Screw
  13) Breaking point
  14) Heart of the Reich
  15) Downfall
  
 
  You are playing as Private Miller for the United States and absoultely abrilterating the annoying, 
 loud, and somewhat weird Japanese guys. I am saying this because when they ambush you they yell 
 some type of Japanese words that are extremely irratating and funny.
  
  Another person you play as is Dimitri for the Russians, America's allies. You fight against the 
 "cowardly" Germans (as Reznov puts it) .
  
  I have finished all of these missions and boy, it is fun! All the missions have a different type 
 of scenery and my favorite mission is probably the last one. It is about the Russians pushing and 
 pushing the Germans back until Berlin and the Parliament Building. You fight inside that building 
 and once you complete it, you put the Russian flag where the German flag used to be.
  
  There are two set-backs in this game and that keeps it away from a perfect 10. The first one is 
 that there is no zombie mode. This is a huge downfall for the game and I would have deeply enjoyed 
 it! If you don't know what I am talking about then... it is about you keeping the German zombies 
 back from coming into the building you are guarding. They are defenitely stronger than the "regular" 
 alive Germans, but it looks quite fun. The other set-back this game has is that it only has 15 
 regular off-line missions. I would've loved more missions and so would other fan gamers of this 
 series for the Wii.
  
  One question I have about this masterpeice is about the missions online. I've heard sceptics about 
 65 missions online, but I am confused about where the missions are and how you complete them.
 
  
  Multiplayer online is an average game experience and it feels like it is missing something. I am 
 still debating what it is missing, but it is still an excellent experience playing as different 
 forces.
  
  Two players on this game feels like a quick add-on to this game because it is just another little 
 target on the screen your using to shoot at. It makes all the missions way easier because two people 
 are shooting for you. The developers of this game called it the "girlfriend mode" and I agree with 
 that title because any girlfriend who doesn't know what she was doing could get it because it is 
 so easy playing as the second player.
  
  Overall, this game is the best shooter I think I've ever played on a video game console. I've had 
 a fun time shooting Nazis and Japanese guys with my friends and I hope you do too if you get this 
 game. If you are a fan of first person shooters for the Wii or on any console this is a great recomendation 
 for you to get this masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent-83422
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Like I said before this the best 1st person game for Wii so far. I was surpised when I found out 
 this game was Wii Zapper compatible. But when I used the Wii Zapper to play, it took me awhile 
 to get used to all the motion actions. Like thrusting the Zapper foward to melee attack, turning 
 the Zapper clock wise/counterclock wise to reload and throw gernades. But what surpised me the 
 most was that this game was Wifi compatible. I think thats why most people are buying this game, 
 because of its online gameplay. The campain mode is good and has a good storyline, with the U. S 
 vs Japan and Russia vs Germany. You can also play with another person in campain mode. Even though 
 this game is missing some features from the PS3/Xbox 360/PC versions, its still a good game. If 
 you're a Wii owner, then I definitly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTpcwarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  ok, I've played a lot of great/good wii games but this one is the BEST EVER!!!!!!!!! I have never 
 played a wii game with such a great multiplayer. sure the graphics aren't as good as a PS3 and 
 Xbox BUT! if you're like me who has a low income and doesn't have the money to buy a PS3 or Xbox, 
 This is the first game you should consider buying! Here, I'll break it up for you.
  
  Graphics: 100000000000000000000000 (10)
  
  Story: 10 (brutal)
  
  Multiplayer: 9 ( the light 
 gun multiplayer is unbelievable! My dad is a RPG type of guy, so he's not good at playing split 
 screen. especially if it's AGAINST me. so this is very smart. [the 9 is because there are no mission 
 online modes. ex. search and destroy, CTF] )
  
  
  So if you have a wii and you want a great online multiplayer BUY THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RulekingPat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay runs just as smooth as in cod4 and really deserves lots of credit. The gameplay really 
 shows that the Call of Duty 4 engine works wonder not only on 360 or ps3, but also on the wii. 
 It's really smooth and you won't get any insane spazzes like in cod3 for wii.
  
  Multiplayer 9/10
  This is the reason why this game is so good. An good play so good and a ranking 
 system so addictive you will never stop playing until you reach the 10th prestige. Although it's 
 missing some game modes that are seen on the other consoles like Search and Destroy and Headquarters, 
 there still is the main ones like FFA and TDM.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Well, let's face it, wii doesn't have wonderful graphics but these ones aren't that far of from 
 the xbox and ps3 versions. The detail is mainly the same but the lighting is rather shabby. You 
 basically don't buy this game for the graphics.
  
  Single-Player campaign: 8/10
  This one is truly fun because you get to face the japanese as the americans and face the nazis 
 as the russians. This campaign is much better then the campaign seen in Call of Duty 4 due to its 
 longer length. The story is about what you'd expect from a WWII game. 
  
  Controls: 10/10
  These controls work great. They're much more responsive than then the ones in 
 call of duty 3. I prefer these to the ones in Medal of Honor Heroes 2. Your pointer will not go 
 spinning into madness like in the previous version of call of duty on the wii.
  
  Overall Review:
  
  Pros:
  -Addictive online multiplayer
  -Lengthy Campaign
  -Excellent 
 weapon selection online
  -Great controls
  -Great variety of weapon attachments
  
  Cons
  -Out-dated graphics
  -Missing objective game modes
  -Some challenges are missing
 
  -Story-line is bland
  
  I highly recommend you buy this game if you have been waiting for a good fps on the wii. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I admit it, when I first heard about Call of Duty: World at War coming to Wii, Iwasnt excited.
 
  I didn't like Call of Duty 3 for Wii because of the fact that the game had no online. And also, 
 since World at War goes back to WW2 after Modern Warfare was so good, I thought it would be terrible.
 
  I was very, very, very wrong. Call of Duty: World at War is an absolutely fantastic game and one 
 of the best Wii games I've ever played, right up there with Smash Bros, Mario Galaxy, Pes 2008, 
 Mario Kart and Red Steel.
  And for one of the first times ever, A Wii game is as good as the Ps3 and 360 versions. 
  Developer 
 Treyarch ( who also made the next-gen versions) do a fantastic job of porting the game down to 
 the Wii and giving it pretty solid controls.
  These are the controls. You use the Remote to aim your gun and shot with B. You sprint with A, 
 throw grenades with plus, reload with minus, pause the game with 1and switch between primary and 
 secondary weapons with the directional buttons. You use the Nunchuk's joystick to move, C to crouch 
 and Z to aim.
  The game has two main game modes, both of witch are extremely good.
  The first is Campaign which can be played in single player or multiplayer co-op mode. In campaign 
 you play two different storys, in the first you play as the Americans against the Japanese and 
 in the second you play as the Russians against the Nazis. Both story are very entertaining and 
 should keep you busy for a while.
  But once you're finished Campaign you can switch to the fantastic 8 player online mode.
  The 
 aim of online is to test your skills against others players from around the world and move up levels. 
 There are 65 levels in online mode and it's very challenging to reach 65.
  For the first time ever there are all-new perks. These are extrs you can unlock that allow you 
 bonuses like not being able to be spotted by and enemy recon plane and loads others.
  The online mode is probably the game's best but even if you don't have a Wi-Fi connection you'll 
 still have loads of fun with this.
  Cal of Duty: World at War is almost the perfect game but is let down a bit by the occasional lags 
 in Online mode. These don't happen often but when they do It's extremely annoying. 
  Overall, World at War is a fantastic game and the best shooter on Wii, If not the console's best 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  CODWAW on the Wii is hard to describe. Even though it's missing some multiplayer and online features 
 from the other versions, World at War on the Wii still rocks. The single player campaign is enjoyable, 
 and the difficulty settings are just right. The Wii controls suit this game perfectly, plus there 
 are lots of settings to suit your needs. The online multiplayer is awesome, although there aren't 
 any vehicles to play around with in this version. The graphics in this game vary. While most of 
 the animations look stiff, some of the environments look good, while others don't. The music is 
 epic, and although the squadmate mode isn't "revolutionary", it still is fun. The weapons are great, 
 and using the flamethrower is a blast. In all, CODWAW on the Wii is a fun and addictive experience 
 that you'll be pleased with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  You might remember that Call of Duty 3 is somewhat a good game but does suffer slightly from its 
 controls and a handful of bugs. Then the Medal of Honor Vanguard and Heroes 2 are both mediocre 
 and great, but it's at a loss of no online play. Now World at War has landed its mark as the first 
 Nintendo Wii game in Australia to having a Counter Strike style WW2 online battle on par with the 
 other consoles at the expense that you can't chat to each other but will experience the dark side 
 of war.
  
  A quick reference that this game and Quantum of Solace has similar game controls with the Wii Zapper. 
 The controls are well tightened and the bugs which could ruin the game is no longer there anymore. 
 Still, as a choice of console, the Wii is the best since you have free movement with the controls.
 
  
  The graphics if you add 480p and widescreen looks at its best since its not as sharp as Xbox360 
 and the PS3 with the size of the area reduced to meet the requirements of the Wii console. Its 
 a little more detailed than the Quantum of Solace so it shouldn't be an eyesore.
  
  The sound is enjoyable with newer sound effects similar to Medal of Honor Heroes 2 and if you have 
 a surround sound setup than the Dolby Pro Logic 2 support will enhance your enjoyment. The voices 
 are more authentic, the guns sounds updated and the music is very dramatic.
  
  The value is much better than Quantum of Solace with a solid story and online play. The co-op is 
 different that on the screen, you can allow a second crosshair to be visible as a helping hand. 
 Although you can't tone it down online, if the story is too brutal, than you can go to the option 
 to restrict it in case you have kids who can't stand the bloodshed. The multiplayer online is pretty 
 standard as Quantum of Solace. The best part when you finish the game, you get to take on nazi 
 zombies (and japanese zombies if they have one) .
  
  Well if you love war or a fan of shooting, than this game will rock your world but you can be put 
 off that the Wii standard is not as high as Xbox360 and PS3 in terms of online play. Sooner or 
 later the Nintendo company can resolve the voice chat issue soon. Since the Wii is left out on 
 Modern Warfare and have to play the two Medal of Honor games on the Wii, than you're in for the 
 challenge of your life. Don't lose your mind like Frank Costanza wrecking the jewish party on Seinfeld 
 in "The Fatigue". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  From the time I first heard off the Wii, I thought of how amazing shooters would be on it. Now, 
 almost too years have passed since the release and not too many shooters available. Metroid Prime 
 3 was a great game, but it lacked what most people want in a shooter, online play. Medal of Honor: 
 Heroes 2, the first to try massive online shooter play, succeeded, but the lag and hackers really 
 made it not fun at all. Then comes Call of Duty: World at war. When I first bought the game, I 
 figured that it wouldn't be as good as all the hype. I was actually very wrong. The game is amazing. 
 Simple as that. The campaign is very good, and last a while. But, where the game really stars is 
 in it's online play mode. The online mode blew me away. I had played Call of Duty: 4 as friends 
 houses and such, but I never really had the full affect till I owned the game. I must say, the 
 game is really addicting. There are two main modes, Free-for-all: which is every man for himself 
 in a timed match, and Team Deathmatch, which is two teams of four that compete in a limited time 
 period for the most points. Both modes are very fun, and challenging at that. The rank system is 
 addicting and makes you play game after game to get a new rank. The higher level you get, the more 
 weapons and attachments that are available. Making for a great deal of character customization. 
 So the players that work hard to climb the ranks will be rewarded with new weapons. Your success 
 does not completely depend on your rank. While you can be a level 14, and defeat a level 44. It 
 all depends on your skill and weapon choice. There are three techniques that you will need to master 
 to be successful online. They are sprinting, knifing, and shooting. When your close to an enemy 
 your choice of weapon would be a knife, while it is a one hit kill and does not use up any ammo 
 at the least. If you can get this skill mastered, you can then use your ammo to shoot far away 
 targets that you may not be able to knife. The controls works very well on the wii, you can use 
 either the Nunchuck and Wii-mote, or you can use the wii zapper, both work well. They only take 
 about 1 hour to get the hang of. The only bad thing about the game is that there is no local multi-player, 
 apart the squad mate mode, which isn't really worth even being in the game. This means you can't 
 play online, or even offline with friends on the same wii. A feature that really needed to be in 
 the game. But apart that, everything in the game runs smoothly and it is successful. If I had a 
 360, this game would be just another shooter, but for the Wii this is revolutionary. Because it's 
 really the first of it's kind. If your a Wii owner and want a good online shooter, make sure that 
 you pick up Call of Duty: World at War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are the Russians and the Americans. The war is around the pacific so most of the 
 wars are at Russia and in Japan. The game is mostly about stopping the Germans and Japanese from 
 all of this. The game is hard to play and the controls are a little hard to get use to but this 
 game is a World War 2 expirence. In the campaign mode there are about 32 levels. The game has wifi 
 which is amazing to play. In wifi you will have levels that are just like ranks that deosn't matter. 
 The game also has co-op which make it easier for you to beat the game. The graphics are really 
 nice for a wii game. All though there is not that much gameplay in the game it is a really awesome 
 game to play espically for the Wii. 
  
  The good of the game is that there is alot of levels to the story mode. The game feels like a World 
 War 2 expirence. The graphics for a wii game is really nice.
  
  The bad of the game is that it is alittle to hard. The controls are terrible.
  
  Overall this 
 game is awesome and long. If you love World War 2 stuff then you should get this game. I rate this 
 game 9.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scar-hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, first of all this game is set in WWII. You are playing as either an American, German, or 
 Russian. The single player is pretty hard even on the easier difficulties. Unlike other versions 
 of Call of Duty: World at War, you aren't rewarded for completing the single player campaign. That's 
 right no Zombie Nazi Mode in this one which really is a shame. 
  
  But the multiplayer aspect is where the game really shines. Up to 8 players can join an online 
 multiplayer match at any given time. 8 players might sound like a big drop to those MoH: H2 fans. 
 But 8 is truely enough people. Anymore would make the game feel tedious. 
  
  The online modes consist of Free-For-All (Deathmatch) , Team Deathmatch, and Hardcore Team Deathmatch. 
 In free for all, your goal is to kill any player that crosses your path. In Team Deathmatch, you 
 are to kill any members of the opposing team you may find. Hardcore Team Deathmatch on the other 
 hand, is Team Deathmatch with a twist. Friendly fire is enabled, but not encouraged. Excessively 
 killing your team-mates may result in a penalty such as being temporarily kicked for the game for 
 about 20 seconds or so. You are also forced to watch the person you killed last before recieving 
 the penalty playing. So whenever you want to get a little laugh, head on out to Hardcore Team Deathmatch 
 and give your team mates a whooping.
  
  Closing Comments:
  The graphics also aren't the best. But they are decent. Enough so that you can get a clear image. 
 The online is rarely laggy. But I have got a few disconnects but they aren't very common. This 
 game is amongst the best online wii games and as of now, the best shooter. So if you have some 
 cash laying around and are wondering what to buy, you should seriously consider Call of Duty: World 
 at War. I reccomend you get the wii version of the game if you care for controls more so than extra 
 bonus features such as the Zombie Nazi mode.
  
  Presentation 7.0
  The game's single player campaign may be difficult to newcomers to the Call of Duty series or First 
 Person Shooters as a whole. The multiplayer however provides some of the best online play yet to 
 be found on the wii. The 8 player online however may not provide as much as intensity as some would 
 hope for.
  
  Sound 7.5
  Gunshots aren't as loud as some found in Call of Duty 4. Reloads sound well. The music goes in 
 tune with the maps which range from almost peaceful to downright creepy.
  
  Graphics 8.0
  Not as crisp as the other versions. But they do provide with a clear image and they are some of 
 the greatest that the Wii has to offer.
  
  Lasting Appeal 9.0
  The game's single player might not be welcoming enough for you to desire to play it more than once. 
 But the online multiplayer keeps you coming back with rankings, prestige mode, and online leaderboards 
 I wouldn't blame you for waking up at 3 A. M. to shoot up some guys online. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh4qpr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is a piece of art work!! Online is superb.. but something that i think would improve the 
 game would definatly be to add more online maps.. the campaign mode has a great story behind it.. and 
 the graphics arent particully bad them selves.. i paid 30 for this game.. but a game with this much 
 quality.. i would be williing to pay 50.. the controls are easy to get used to.. online this game 
 is just like COD4 for the PS3 and XBOX 360... you go up the ranks.. unlocking weapons, attachment 
 and many different perks.. it is in my eyes the best game that i have on the wii and probably the 
 best game out on the wii.. this is a must have  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iammaster12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  call of duty wii is probably one of the best multiplatform games for wii. The controls are very 
 good and the motion sense is perfect. Sometimes the controls get confusing and when zooming in 
 with a sniper the aiming is off. The controls take 5 minutes to get used to. There is very little 
 motion sense used you shake the wii mote for a melee attack ,you aim with the wii-mote and you 
 shake the nunchuck to reload. In campaign mode it is very realistic how the chief will give you 
 commands in game. The graphics arent the best (especially compared to other systems) but there 
 not so bad that it actaully bugs you. The online multiplayer is very fun on the wii and massively 
 addictive. The wii connects very fast but online gameplay may sometimes lag. There is a very fun 
 and solid level system, the more you play and the more points you get the higher your level gets. 
 Raising your levels unlocks different game modes, weapons and bonus material.
  overall this a must buy for wii owners who want good online play and "hardcore" gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Well I did not play COD 4 because I do not own a PS3 or a Xbox360 but I knew how much of a great 
 game it was. I heard COD WaW was going to be on the Wii I was so happy and I was going to buy it 
 regardless because of the features I heard for this game.
  
  However most of the feautres spoken about are no included in the Wii mainly because I think the 
 Wii disc is too small to fit everything. If your looking to ALL the feautres like Nazi zombies 
 mode (the main reason I brought it) , Vehicles, more challenges, larger maps enabling more players 
 like 8 vs 8 and capture the flag (another reason why I brought it) .
  
  Although, apart from all that the game is still soild for a Wii game. Single player mode is good 
 and intense and your thrown straight into a daughting battlefield. It even makes me wonder if the 
 soldiers Im playing as well ever survive. But we all know that is not the main reason you brought 
 the game! Online is very good with what it has to offer. A good amount of maps to get used to. 
 Lag is to a minimum. Addictive and makes you come back for more and more with its leveling up system, 
 perks to gain and challenges to complete.
  
  Graphics are good but obviously nothing compared to the PS3 and 360 systems.
  Sounds are good, 
 voice acting is realistic and funny. Everything like guns and grenades sound on point.
  This game has some lastiabity to it but not as long as the other more powerful systems.
  
  
 Overall it is a good game for the Wii but for EVERYTHING buy it for the PS3 Xbox360 and PC (If you 
 have a broadband internet connection and good graphics card) . I do not know why you would buy for 
 the Wii if you had those other consoles tho lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taouin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Same good old COD: fast action , incredible Video sequence, many control scheme available for the 
 wii mote. If all wii game could be that good and well done...
  
  Medal of honor heroes two showed us that the wii was capable of good FPS gaming , that wii version 
 of COD confirms it. this is what BIA double time should have been. 
  
  Graphics are comparable to the first COD that came out years ago but hey this is a Wii and Wii 
 owner knows the limit of their machine. I felt a little lag at one point, but that could happen 
 on any system I guess. 
  
  Sound is always good in this serie and WAW makes no exception by delivering a rich environment 
 that make you feel all the stress and dangers of war.
  
  Gameplay is the same old straight forward fast shoot at everything kinda game , of course it's 
 call of duty so it's a "corridor game", but the fact the the scenario is heavily scripted and the 
 constant new objectives makes you forget about that. 
  
  I which all developers would spend the time to polish their game like that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15aaronl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty World at War was pretty much just call of duty 4, with a few differences. Its WW2 
 again and the nice addition on vehicles and flamethrowers. The more I played the game the more 
 I realized how much I enjoyed it. The game really makes you feel like your in the war when you 
 have to bee pointing at the screen like you are actually holding a gun. It also makes you feel 
 as if your actually there because when you lock onto an enemy there is no little box that comes 
 up around him it really forces you to actually aim. The different story's and locations are also 
 a good addition. Fighting Japs your kept on your toes because they will charge you fast and kill 
 you before you even know what happened. When your the Russians yo do more of sniping and feels 
 more like an Fps with out all the stabbing, flamethrowers, and tanks. Where World at War falls, 
 well in several place that are very noticeable. One the graphics are decent but are clearly poor, 
 especial noticed when you fall over and die and you see the grass, it looks very pixely. Also the 
 "co-op" is just simply pathetic, the second player just points shoots, reloads, and picks up weapons 
 that your staying on. They don't actually control there own person, so its basically for the second 
 player like an arcade game that is confusing because its actually your friend running around trying 
 not to get stabbed by Japs. But over all I must say this is an good solid FPS game for the wii 
 (which we need more of) that surprised me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smetloos
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty: World at War for Wii is one of few releases that I have been waiting for. I have 
 played Call of Duty: Modern Warfare on PS3, but honestly I did not like the setting. I have played 
 Call of Duty I and II, the PC-versions. Call of duty II is still one of my all time favourite games 
 ever released, so when this title was going to be released for the Wii, I was excited... and it 
 is amazing!
  
  Putting the disc into the machine left me with a choice: single or multiplayer mode. I started 
 playing the multiplayer mode and it is a lot of action, fun and very addictive. The eight areas 
 are not that big, but there are enough places to hide and to get hit, that is for sure. Upheaval, 
 Castle and The Courtyard are my favourite maps. You can play modes like "Free-for-all" or "Team 
 Deathmatch". For me at first it took a bit of a practice, because you will have to hit accurate. 
 You can choose guns in order of lite or heavy and create your own classes. By killing and winning 
 matches you will gain XP's for unlocking new guns and perks.
  
  With the single player mode you will get two story lines. Before each level starts, there is a 
 movie and a short story told what is about to happen. I have finished the single player mode playing 
 with the Wii Zapper and it is awesome. Swinging it from left to right, having an automatic fire 
 weapon in your hands killing all Germans screaming for help. And by the way: the single player 
 mode is not too short.
  
  The graphics are really good, maybe the best I have seen so far on Wii and the movement with the 
 nunchuck and remote is great (playing the multiplayer that is) . It is very smooth and you can choose 
 your own customizing for every button and swing. There are also options how fast or steep the camera 
 moves when swinging the remote from left to right and up and down.
  
  I have got no comment on the sound, but it is fun to hear some of the same samples from Call of 
 Duty II.
  
  Call of Duty: World at War is for me the best game of 2008. The graphics, the movement, the sound 
 and of course the multiplayer mode do make this game absolutely great.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 9,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makedonijo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  If you can get it on Xbox360 or PS3 otherwise a great game... At first playing this game I though 
 wow a perfect emulation of the Xbox360, PS3, and PC versions but, I was wrong. After playing this 
 game for a while you realize how much of the game is actually taken out to make it possible on 
 the Wii... Tons of Challenges are gone, the only maps left are the smallest maps, only 5 different 
 game modes all either deathmatch or team deathmatch, and a full team deathmatch room is only 4v4. 
 
  
  If these things don't matter to you you should buy the game. Graphics are not bad at all... great 
 for the Wii. Easy to aim around, pretty fun online, but, the thing that ticked me off the most 
 was the fact that it is so watered-down like the lack of challenges, game modes, and 8v8 play. 
 But, like I said get it on the Xbox 360 or PS3 if you can before you get it on Wii there is a big 
 difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmdjmdjm
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  While Call of duty: WAW is not as flashy on the Wii as the other console versions this does not 
 take from the fact that this version is still fun and engaging.
  
  Now lets take a look at the different aspects of the game.
  
  Campaign 8/10 the campaign stats 
 with you and a fellow Marine captured by the Japanese
  your friend is killed and you are rescued.
  Then of course you kill alot of japanese soldiers.
 
  
  then the game switches between the Pacific and european campaigns.
  the game is long and is a blast to play also there is several difficulty levels to choose from.
 
  
  Controls 7/10: Well the controls styles can be changed depending on the players preferance
  but 
 is somewhat sluggish compared to other FPS games on the wii such as Medal of honor Heros 2.
  
  Graphics 9/10: Well for me graphics don't really matter as long as I can tell what is what 
 in a level.
  The polygon count on the characters is very good and the environment effects are also very good.
 
  
  Multi-player 9/10 : The multi-player aspect of the game is a key selling point,
  it has up to 8 players online and has death-match and team death-match.
  
  There is a challenge 
 mode as well that rewards players for playing well.
  Also perks and unlockable weapons is avalible online.
  
  Overal this game rocks and is one 
 of the few top third-party games on the Wii that really shines.
  
  Final score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fan211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  It could be undescribable of what Call of Duty: World at War is. At first, I thought CoD: WaW could 
 suck because it is on the Wii but ActiVision did their best to make it get and I am sure proud 
 to be a Wii player. 
  
  Graphics-8/10
  
  The Graphics aren't what you call, the "meat" of the game nor is it the best. It is noticable and 
 doesn't look amazing but its the Wii, what do you expect? The Graphics are good in some parts like 
 in the final cutscene of the Russian campaign as the designers put time into that scene but that 
 is one scene. I need more. As I said earlier, some parts are good while others are just "meh". 
 This gets an 8 out of 10.
  
  Sound 9.2/10
  
  Just like all the other Call of Duty games, the soundtrack is amazing as the sounds of everything 
 you hear just relates to war even the littest things. I could imagine why but this is just the 
 best. The voice-acting is good as Kiefer (Guy from 24) does good as a Sgt. but I think there was 
 better. The sound puts you in the mood of the game as it was an enjoyable experience. This gets 
 a 9.2 out of 10.
  
  Story 10/10
  
  One of the best stories is in this game and it isn't the American Campaign but the Soviet Campaign. 
 My thoughts wanted the Soviets to win more than the Americans because it had a lot of amazing ideas 
 to it. Death, drama, and even force. It goes to show you what the Russian wanted to do. The American 
 Campaign is also great and both campaigns have superb ending to them but I seem to like the Soviet 
 Campaign better espically the last two levels of the Soviets as those are the best in the game. 
 This is the good part of the game but it isn't the meat of the game. This gets a 10 out of a 10.
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The meat of the game. The gameplay is one of the best, although we done it before, killing Nazis 
 and Japanese has never been so new before. The sight of them rushing to you know that you need 
 a plan and you need it quick. Very quick. I would like it if they put the Nazi Zombie game in the 
 Wii Version or probably 4 player online co-op. Something great but still, I would like this game 
 very much. A Outstanding 10 out of 10.
  
  Control-9/10
  
  The Wii Remote is useful but sometimes it doesn't work as usual, you sometimes get pissed off when 
 it doesn't work but it's still good as you can move in your own flow. The Wii Zapper is good as 
 the motions are easy to use in the game. A 9 out of 10.
  
  Multiplayer 10/10
  
  Another good part of the game, I've never played a multiplayer game that left me wanting more and 
 I keep wanting more. Since I beat the campaign, I guess I'm ready to kill those in multiplayer. 
 Its going to be good as you can choose your own classes. So, its something good to play. A 10 out 
 of 10.
  
  Overall-9.5
  
  Overall, this is one of the best FPS game on the Wii market today because it has a lot of positives 
 instead of negatives so I suggest getting this today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMike9699
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, this game is great, only if you have NOT played other consoles. The Wii, in 
 my opinion, is capable of so much more still, I just wish developers would put the time into taking 
 advantage of the graphical capabilities of the Wii. More vibrant colours for one. The jungle is 
 GREEN! GREEN GREEN GREEN!! NOT greyish/green. Even if the graphics were not as realistic (semi-cell 
 shaded etc) , if it was more vibrant and diverse, I would be so much happier. Colours are incredibly 
 washed out, much more than they need to be given the vibrance of colour in other Wii games. For 
 those of you who have travelled to jungles, you know they are not greyish in any respect, but for 
 some reason, even on a bright sunny day, the jungles in Call of Duty World At War are washed out 
 and unimpressive. The city scapes that you experience at various parts in the game on the Russian 
 front are disgusting to look at, and feel like I am look at a PS2 shooter, not a Wii shooter. The 
 Wii is leagues beyond the PS2, and despite what people say, not as far behind the 360 as the Wii 
 Call of Duty makes it appear. 
  
  Controls are ok, but as reviewers say, you really have to tweak them to get them right. You shouldnt 
 have to spend an entire mission tweaking the controls to get them right. The Wii is two years old 
 now, there is NO reason why the controls for this type of game should not be dialed. 
  
  Sound is not nearly as good as it could be either. Washed out, and unimpressive. Explosions dont 
 rock the world like they should, and gun shots are washed out and not intimidating like they are 
 in other games. 
  
  Overall, I am just really disapointed in this game. A waste of my money, but at least I can sell 
 it for what I paid, minus the taxes, so its more like a rental. 
  
  While I know they're not everything, colourful graphics (not necessarily ultra-realistic, but colourful 
 and vibrant) are key for me, and in this game, its a deal-breaker. This game just does not deliver 
 like people are making it out to be. While I love my Wii more than I do my 360, this game makes 
 me want to box up my Wii and stick to the 360 for these types of games. I was willing to give a 
 Wii shooter a chance, and this one looked promising, but I am incredibly disappointed in this offering. 
 My advice, rent this game before you buy it, because you might find it not worth your money if 
 you're looking for the intense, charismatic delivering the developers claim it to be. 
  
  -Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richie894
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game and played the first level, I thought that it wasn't that good. I 
 found the controls difficult and hard to aim with the Wii remote. However by the time I was on 
 the 2nd and 3rd levels I had mastered the controls.
  
  My inital feelings changed as I got into the game. It turned into a masterpiece. The story is great 
 and it is nice to mix the Japanese levels with the German ones. Some great levels with variety, 
 one of the best being the "Enemy at the Gates" style sniper mission.
  
  I haven't even played the online yet, but the campaign mode is excellent. I feel that this is the 
 best game which I have played on the Wii. Graphics are good (for Wii) , but the gameplay and story 
 is really the best aspect on this game.
  
  The campaign mode took me about 15 hours on normal mode. If you have played COD before and used 
 to the controls, you can probably crack it in about 12 hours.
  
  I really hope they produce a more modern Vietnam or Middle East based story next. As we have had 
 our fair share of WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  i dont know where to start well first of all this game totally rapes medal of honor's online play, 
 and also its campaign which makes it the best game on wii as far as shooters. i havent played alot 
 of it but i can tell its better mohh2 because the campaign only took a few days at most, and the 
 graphics were horrible compared to this. i also would like to say the online is amazing if you 
 have ever played cod 4 it plays exactly the same but with wii controls (which makes it better) 
 i've had no lag time, and there are plenty of weapons unlike mohh2 which had like 7 this has about 
 that many rifles. and for wii the graphics are totally stepped up from any other wii game i have 
 played. i think the makers of cod4 are thinking about how dumb they are for not making it for wii. 
 everyone says the graphics on the wii suck. but tell me why the graphics on this are so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Since the system's release in 2006, Wii owners have been hard-pressed to find the definitive first 
 person shooter experience that PS3 and Xbox360 owners enjoy in abundance. Treyarch's first effort 
 on the Wii (Call of Duty 3) was by no means a bad game, but the motion controls felt underdeveloped, 
 and the lack of multilayer ultimately caused the game to fall short of its potential. In 2007, 
 EA's Medal of Honor 2 Heroes gave seemed to fill the void, offering a game with arguably the tightest 
 controls for a Wii first-person shooter, and a massive 32 player online mode. Treyarch is back 
 2 years later, with Call of Duty World at War, which on the Wii, feels like a solid attempt to 
 emulate the experience found on next-gen consoles. 
  
  The background of the game hardly needs any detailed description; it's a World War II based game, 
 and you're put in the role of the allied powers, fighting against the axis. However, instead of 
 planting you entirely in Europe, World at War puts you in the middle of the Eastern and Pacific 
 Theaters of operations. The campaign has 2 story lines, the battles fought by the Russians from 
 Stalingrad, up to the siege of Berlin, and the other has you fighting in Japan, taking the role 
 of a Marine Raider. While not a new concept, and much to the disappointment of die-hard CoD 4 fans, 
 it is a refreshing experience for Wii owners who haven't played many WWII shooters, or spent time 
 with last year's CoD 4. 
  
  Each of your missions is introduced by a cinematic, and narrated by either a Russian or an American 
 character, putting things into perspective. On the surface, World at War is simply objective based, 
 having you move from point A to point B while scattering some firefights in between. But what Treyarch 
 managed to do so well is provide you with a frantic battlefield setting. While probably not as 
 cinematic as on the next-gen consoles, the Wii version still holds up with some battle intensity. 
 Whereas Medal of Honor Heroes 2 had you shooting Nazis in closed skirmishes, World at War throws 
 you onto the open battlefield where you fend off literally hordes of Germans or Japanese enemies. 
 You will notice the difference in enemy tactics when fighting the Nazis as opposed to fighting 
 the Japanese; for example, the Germans will tend to cluster in groups of two or 3 behind walls 
 or corners, while the Japanese will pop out of spider holes, patches of grass, or hide in trees. 
 Your combat techniques will also differ depending on which campaign you're in. During the American 
 campaign, you'll have a much more squad-based feel, as you have to navigate through open terrain 
 with opportunities to snipe, whereas the Russian campaign is almost entirely close quarters. While 
 this isn't obvious at first, it's nice to see that the developers put some effort into differentiating 
 the style of fighting rather than have you go through the same point-and-shoot situations repeatedly.
 
  
  Each of the 4 sides has their own specific armory, and whether you stick with your default weapons, 
 or pick up the weapons of your slain foes, you are guaranteed to find something you like. The weapons 
 all feel balanced, each having their own strengths and weaknesses. Unlike in EA's MoH, where there 
 was generally a dominance to be found with Axis weapons, World at War carries the balance of the 
 weapons found in the campaign over to the online modes, which ensures that everyone will have a 
 fair chance of racking up a few kills, regardless of what weapon type they choose. 
  
  (At this point in the review, I feel that I should address the issue of the flamethrower, which 
 is very satisfying to use, but is better described in an unprofessional manner-simply put, the 
 flamethrower is badass.)
  
  Unlike MoH: H2, World at War's control scheme will not force you into using the motions for certain 
 actions. Reloading and melee attacks are functional with the simple shake of the Wii remote or 
 nun chuck, but are also mapped to the (-) and down buttons respectively. And while you can't customize 
 the aiming to the same degree as EA's game, aiming in World at War is not at all complicated, and 
 works just as well, if not better in some instances, especially when sniping and throwing grenades, 
 which is noticeably less clunky. However, aiming sensitivity is almost entirely subjective, and 
 some may be disappointed with the lack of a customizable "dead-zone", but what you still have is 
 a very functional scheme.
  
  World at War is the first CoD on the Wii to feature a functional online component, which again 
 is by no means perfect, but is generally a step in the right direction. The ranking system, along 
 with unlockable perks, weapons and attachments has been carried over from CoD 4, and is a fresh 
 experience for Wii owners who never played last year's game. However, the multilayer component 
 is noticeably stripped down, and generally lacks the same features found in the 360 and PS3 versions, 
 and is limited to 8 players, no online co op modes (the only co-op is a 2nd player light gun option) 
 and has no vehicle support. But perhaps the biggest disappointment-especially for those who have 
 spent time playing MoH Heroes 2-is the limitations of the friend code system, which means that 
 once again you will have to build your friends list from the ground up, 12 digits at a time. Treyarch 
 definitely should have made the effort to implement the same friends list system that EA used for 
 Medal of Honor. While all of these would have been great to see, it's understandable that the developers 
 are limited by the Wii's technology (or lack thereof) , but again what you have is still a very 
 enjoyable multilayer experience. 
  
  The graphics for World at War again are nowhere near as good as they would look on the 360 or PS3, 
 but they are definitely some of the best on the Wii. In a nutshell, the overall game is far better 
 looking than EA's Medal of Honor, and definitely an improvement from Call of Duty 3. It still has 
 a very intense cinematic flair to it, as the game world and characters generally look detailed, 
 and are complemented by some solid special effects. The game's audio was well designed, with each 
 front sounding entirely different. The Marine campaign will have you hearing enemies screaming 
 "BONZAI!" whereas taking the fight to the Nazis will have them spewing German curse words at you 
 (which oddly enough sound just as they were in CoD 3.) The explosions and the gunfire all sound 
 just like they should (with the exception of the Thompson sub machine gun, which sounds like a 
 paintball marker.) The dialogue was put-together well, and so was the voice acting; Keifer Sutherland 
 as both a narrator and an in-game character was a welcome and fitting surprise.
  
  The question "Is this game the defining first-person shooter experience on the Wii?" must still 
 be asked. The answer unfortunately is still a "no". However, the game comes very close, and serves 
 as a "role model" for future releases on the Wii-if this game is any sign of things to come, then 
 Wii owners have a lot to be excited for. Treyarch should be commended for their effort; they did 
 a lot of things well in World at War, and still have room for improvement in their next game. But 
 for the meantime, the experience they've crafted on the Wii stands up very well beside the 360, 
 PS3, and PC versions, which is nothing to be ashamed of.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconboarder153
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  i dont know where to start well first of all this game totally rapes medal of honor's online play, 
 and also its campaign which makes it the best game on wii as far as shooters. i havent played alot 
 of it but i can tell its better mohh2 because the campaign only took a few days at most, and the 
 graphics were horrible compared to this. i also would like to say the online is amazing if you 
 have ever played cod 4 it plays exactly the same but with wii controls (which makes it better) 
 i've had no lag time, and there are plenty of weapons unlike mohh2 which had like 7 this has about 
 that many rifles. and for wii the graphics are totally stepped up from any other wii game i have 
 played. i think the makers of cod4 are thinking about how dumb they are for not making it for wii. 
 everyone says the graphics on the wii suck. but tell me why the graphics on this are so good.
 
  
  main points
  1. amazing graphics
  2. controls work awesome
  3. no lag online and plenty of perks make it amazing
  4. screw ps3 and xbox since they think 
 they are so great this game is as good or better than cod 4
  5. flamethrower is totally amazing
  6. game makers for wii will realize the wii has the most 
 potential out of any game system and make for sick games like this hopefully re-make cod 4 for 
 wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccer4life7r10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i'd like to draw your attention to the fact of how big the build-up to this game 
 was. I personally think many fans were disappointed about WW2 having seen COD 4 work brilliantly. 
 I for one however think that with a new publisher, treyarch, you must start a clean slate. I also 
 think that this was a very very good effort for a WW2 game. The reason for me that COD 4 was brilliant 
 was the fact that we know a lot more about modern warfare than 60 years back. It was perfect timing 
 for a game like COD to come out, back competing with the war industy.
  Starting with the game review, the graphics are good. Even though they arent as clear and crisp 
 as COD 4, (not on wii) but its a reasonable effort once again. The figures are good, the guns OK, 
 but the scenery could be better. The human figures are detailed and well executed but the scenery 
 is blurred but OK in places. The guns are a little blurred but i guess they are also pretty good. 
 You may think i'm being picky, but i review games truly.
  The gameplay is fantastic. Starting with the campaign, its fun all the way. Just the right difficulty 
 and combined with the graphics, it makes for a brilliant game. I havn't been on multiplayer a lot 
 but from what I have seen its very good. Using the 4 player co-op, it is very fun and once again 
 with the graphics, its a good feature.
  The controls are different to COD 3 (on wii) but take some getting used to. They are not necessarily 
 difficult, but when you have played COD 3 for ages, it does take getting used to.
  Overall the game is all its lived up to be and a game I look forward to playing and definitely 
 the best WW2 game in the series. I also think it is better than COD 4.
  In a bombshell its a brilliant game and a pleasure to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olifisher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  First of all, i'd like to draw your attention to the fact of how big the build-up to this game 
 was. I personally think many fans were disappointed about WW2 having seen COD 4 work brilliantly. 
 I for one however think that with a new publisher, treyarch, you must start a clean slate. I also 
 think that this was a very very good effort for a WW2 game. The reason for me that COD 4 was brilliant 
 was the fact that we know a lot more about modern warfare than 60 years back. It was perfect timing 
 for a game like COD to come out, back competing with the war industy. 
  Starting with the game review, the graphics are good. Even though they arent as clear and crisp 
 as COD 4, (not on wii) but its a reasonable effort once again. The figures are good, the guns OK, 
 but the scenery could be better. The human figures are detailed and well executed but the scenery 
 is blurred but OK in places. The guns are a little blurred but i guess they are also pretty good. 
 You may think i'm being picky, but i review games truly. 
  The gameplay is fantastic. Starting with the campaign, its fun all the way. Just the right difficulty 
 and combined with the graphics, it makes for a brilliant game. I havn't been on multiplayer a lot 
 but from what I have seen its very good. Using the 4 player co-op, it is very fun and once again 
 with the graphics, its a good feature. 
  The controls are different to COD 3 (on wii) but take some getting used to. They are not necessarily 
 difficult, but when you have played COD 3 for ages, it does take getting used to.
  Overall the game is all its lived up to be and a game I look forward to playing and definitely 
 the best WW2 game in the series. I also think it is better than COD 4.
  In a bombshell its a brilliant game and a pleasure to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachv1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty is back, redefining war like you've never experienced before. Building on the Call 
 of Duty 4: Modern Warfare engine, Call of Duty: World at War immerses players into the most gritty 
 and chaotic WWII combat ever experienced. Players band together to survive the most harrowing and 
 climactic battles of WWII that led to the demise of the Axis powers on the European and Pacific 
 fronts. The title offers an uncensored experience with unique enemies and combat variety, including 
 Kamikaze fighters, ambush attacks, Banzai charges and cunning cover tactics. Experience Call of 
 Duty's intense and addictive action designed specifically for the Wii with new features like Squadmate 
 Mode and Combat-Look technology, all with full Wii Zapper support. Squadmate Mode: This single-screen 
 cooperative mode lets players team up to play alongside friends and family. At any moment, a second 
 Wii Remote can be activated, giving the second player their own aiming crosshair to provide cover 
 and added firepower while fighting alongside their Squadmate. 
  Wii Zapper Support: Fully supports Nintendo's innovative and unique Zapper controller through a 
 customized game setting that allows the entire game, including multiplayer and Squadmate Mode, 
 to be played with the Zapper. This customized setting adds a new way to play by incorporating unique 
 gestures and button layouts that add to the Call of Duty experience. 
  Combat-Look: Includes "Combat-Look" technology  as the player runs through the game's diverse 
 environments and topographies, the vertical line of sight discreetly adapts to keep players focused 
 on the battlefield without having to radically adjust for uphill/downhill grade variations in the 
 terrain. This system still allows complete freedom and mobility for targeting and results in a 
 smoother and more playable Wii experience than ever before. This is the best shooter I played on 
 the wii.
  Okay here's the thing I just updated this reveiw today to tell you that if you are going to get 
 the game you are up for a bad game, because the wii version does not feature zombie mode and in 
 sqaudmate mode player 2 is only a little icon that moves and shoots. This game is a not buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the series, and works really well with the wii controls. They 
 take some getting used to though, they can be very different from normal wii FPS games. Maye it's 
 just me, but they felt a little stiff at first. The graphics look great, for the wii i mean.. The 
 other versions have much better graphics, as usual, but they pulled it off quite nicely here. The 
 campaign is nice and really gets you involved with the story, and when your Sargent is Jack Bauer 
 (well the voice anyway) it can e very entertaining. They added this weird co op sort of thing to 
 the campaign, where a second player can pick up a controller anytime, and help you. Personally, 
 i didn't like that one.. if you are going to add a co-op campaign, then just add a proper one, 
 like online or something, don't make this weird yellow crossair controlled by another player. It 
 can get very confusing and doesn't provide a lot of help.
  One big thing they tried to emphasize in this game, is the addition of a few new weapons, like 
 the smoke grenade, M1 with grenade launcher, and the flamethrower (almighty flamethrower) not to 
 mention all the different Japanese weapons (they are not that great) . The smoke grenade is really 
 useful, for flanking, attacking MG42's etc, the grenade launcher on the M1 is not so useful, but 
 when you can use it, it just looks really cool. And the flamethrower, well it's one of the best 
 weapons in the game if used wisely, and the funnest/funniest one too. it's weird how it's everywhere 
 in the game though, it's like they created it and were so damn proud that they want to show it 
 off haha.
  Let's talk about cutscenes, they are great in this game. They did a sort of mix between, mission 
 briefing, historic films of the war, and fast moving images to sort of pump you up for the missions. 
 They are not perfect, but they are alright. It's nice to watch them.
  Online play is good, but could be better. There are only 4 modes, and only up to 8 players i think.. 
 kind of annoying.
  The missions, they are all really fun and challenging in their own way. Lot's of different weapons 
 laying around, with their own ups and downs. One mission, right at the begining i really enjoyed, 
 was the russian sniper mission. It was so fun, and it's amazing how realistic it feels.
  So overall, this is a pretty good Wii FPS. If you played any other WWII shooters on the wii, you 
 will know what to expect, but also get a little more than that. If you decide to get this, you 
 won't regret it. Have fun, and watch out for those Banzai warriors... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blastermaster77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played the game and I was amazed at how the detail to this game has made it to the 
 wii, I did play the xbox360 version and what is missing is not that bad, the special effects that 
 make the xbox360 version look realistic does not hurt the game play experience that wii owners 
 are looking for, the game play and controls are better on the wii than in the 360 version (opinion) 
 one thing that I notice was that on some areas the frame rate drops quite much, but this is occasional, 
 the particle effects are there and the online experience is rock solid, it has the stats ect., 
 one thing that is does not have is online campain that is a bummer but since it does not have voice 
 chat well i get the point, but I have found a solution to voice chat is to use ventrilo or teamspeak, 
 organize a clan with your friends and have fun that is if you have a computer. Over all excellent 
 game I give it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpmrad321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Many of you will look at the game and say..."Oh great Treyarch." let me tell you, they did a great 
 job this time around. 
  
  The game is just shy of perfect. These are the best graphix ive seen on Wii. (yes even better then 
 the screen shots ive seen for the conduit.) The particle trails are orgasmic. When ur walking through 
 the forest and its on fire, ash is actually falling. the fire looks amazingly real. same with the 
 smoke. Treyarch deff suceeded in giving us a great looking game on what many think is a graphically 
 retarded system. the story line and cutscenes are awsome. they put you in a feeling that your the 
 soldier.
  
  Gameplay is great. it feels just like the game of COD4 we all came to love. the one thing that 
 caught me was the controls. they were almost perfect but if ur looking for a better handling game 
 go with MOHH2. the other thing that tended to catch my eye was the framerate. you can tell that 
 its not a locked 30 frames per sec. its not like a terrible frame rate. but every once and a while 
 u can tell theres a missing frame i guess u could say. 
  
  the online experience is great although unlike PS3/360, there are only for game modes. deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, hardcore deathmatch, and hardcore team deathmatch. the perk system and leveling 
 is exactly the same minus one thing. VEHICLES. cmon Treyarch, give us them vehicles. you can still 
 reach ur level 65 and unlock the weapons. along with the prestige mode. 
  
  ingame you'll find urself begging for more even though theyve given us so much. yes its that addicting. 
 with 2 diff stories and each with a great storyline, ull find urself replaying this game all the 
 way through many times. 
  
  the added gore is amazing. allthough u cant sever limbs and decapitate like in the other 2 console 
 versions, u can still see things flinging from the body. alot of blood... :)
  
  THE GOOD
  1. amazing visuals
  2. nice sound
  3. great gameplay
  4. amazing story line
  5. GORE
 
  6. online play is very entertaining
  
  THE BAD
  1. slower framerate at times
  2. no vehicles.... : (
  3. NO VEHICLES 
  4. STILL NO VEHICLES.... lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theGanado
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this the day it came out and it more darker than before. not to mention the nice touch of 
 a flamethrower. burn baby burn and i mean every thing from trees to flag and you gussed it people. 
 the japanese offer a brand new experince with guns and a first in call of duty in a WW II a knife 
 as a close combat weapon. plus it is funny to watch them die instead of germans. somtimes i use 
 a rock for a quarintine incase of a gernade. i do because in cheap. this a keepsake for this series. 
 you need to get this game for the wii as soon as possible and in need as soon as possible no joke 
 o. k. plus the launguage is much much much worse and i wil never never never never never never never 
 never never never never never never never never never never never never never never never never 
 never never never never never never never never never never never never stop playing this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rami_keyblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok i played the game for some time now
  this review is based on the SP missions. 
  Fist the most important controls. At first i thought they were bad playing it after MOH2. But after 
 you play the game for a while it feels better then MOH2 controls. You re-load by moving the nunchuk, 
 aim with IR, melee with wiiremote, sprint with A, fire with B, c to crouch, pick up is with -,+ 
 for grenades. Next the graphics over all it looks really good for a wii game, looks better then 
 COD3 on the wii. At some points you'll really be amazed at the 3rd party effort. THE CUTSCENES 
 are AMAZING!!!! very good, not like COD3, it makes it look like a documentary, its really good. 
 I give it a 9.5 even without the online its that fun!!!!
  
  When you play in asia, the japs climb up trees hide in bushes ambush u, its really good!
  
 
  When your in Russia its a sniper hunt, its really good
  When you play in Germany its chaotic. Your rushing past tanks, dodging bullets, burning trenches, 
 its really good. The SP is a lot better then MOH2's.
  
  overall 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazer88888888
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Thi game is even beter than cod4 and trust me that is a hard reputation to hold!! The enviorment 
 is totally destructable, you can light some1 on fire with a flame thrower and they will run around 
 screaming lighting everything else in their way on fire too!!! including people and vehicles It 
 is totally amazing. Plus, the dogs are way more enjoyable than an air strike like in cod4 because 
 you can actually defend against them in stead of being helpless against a semi- atomic bomb. Also 
 the M1A1 Carbine destroys any gun in cod4. If you think that call of duty 4 is any bit better than 
 5 you have no sense of gaming for your  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
