-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carnival Games: Mini-Golf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/carnivalgamesminigolf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good selection of minigolf course themes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy, unresponsive Wii Remote controls.
 Only 27 minigolf holes to play.
 Holes are reliant on trick shots, loaded with gimmicks, or laid out like puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.5, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 50 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Play
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Golf
Date: Oct 20, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor controls and a ton of pointless gimmicks make for one frustrating round of Astroturf golf. 
 

  There are plenty of decent video game adaptations of sport and sport-like hobbies on the Wii, with 
 the notable exception of this rather popular pastime played with mini-putters. Things don't get 
 any better with the release of Carnival Games: Mini-Golf, which isn't anywhere near as fun as a 
 good day on a real kiddie course, due to wonky controls, a dearth of goofy holes to play, and lackluster 
 visuals and sound.  

           Sometimes, to make a hole you have to break some eggs.      

  A lot of design deficiencies 
 underline the game's bargain-basement production values. Just about everything here seems cut-rate, 
 with the biggest problem being unresponsive Wii controls. The game attempts to mimic swinging a 
 putter by having you pull back and push forward with the Wii Remote, but the sensitivity is so 
 dulled down that short movements aren't registered. So instead of applying a fine touch like you 
 would when using a real minigolf putter, you have to yank the remote back and then slam it forward 
 hard like you were driving for distance on a par-five hole at Pebble Beach. Putting is a delicate 
 art, yet here it comes with all the finesse of a two-by-four.  

  Hole design is another shortcoming. Carnival Games: Mini-Golf comes with just nine course themes, 
 and each features only three holes to play. The themes themselves are nicely mixed up, taking in 
 the usual minigolf concepts, such as fairy tales, barnyards, medieval knights, and haunted houses, 
 but even this variety can't compensate for the small number of holes. Even worse, these holes are 
 broken up into three different types that don't play much like real minigolf. Trick holes require 
 you to figure out some kind of trick to score a hole in one, such as bouncing the ball off a wall 
 or triggering an exploding barrel or something equally ridiculous to cause the ball to carom into 
 the hole. You need to get really lucky and hit a precise shot here, which isn't easy to accomplish 
 because of the gawky controls. Challenge holes are somewhat similar, although at least here you're 
 allowed multiple shots to pull off some wacky objective like cracking a bunch of giant chicken 
 eggs. Only the adventure holes play out like real minigolf, and these are so lengthy and convoluted 
 that you have to play them through a few times and learn them like puzzles before you have a chance 
 of beating them in a reasonable number of strokes.  

  All hole types are further loaded down with extra arcade gimmicks that get in the way of playing 
 minigolf. Instead of trying to putt past crazy obstacles, you have to deal with a lot of visual 
 glitz and impossible architecture. Every hole is also strewn with bonus and penalty coins that 
 you can use to buy clothing and other accoutrements for your golfer and to unlock special goodies 
 on the courses. Forget about outfitting your avatar with any funky plaid golfing pants, though, 
 because clothing is insanely priced. You would have to grind a course for hours to come up with 
 the coins necessary to buy something as basic as a T-shirt. A puzzle piece is also earned every 
 time you finish a hole at par or under. If you collect them all on each course, you'll receive 
 a special putter based on the theme.  

           Trick shots require a lot of repetition, a lot of luck, and a lot of annoying wrangling 
 with unresponsive Wii Remote controls.      

  The modes of play are really stripped down. You can play either solo or against your carnival host, 
 Barker, and with up to four people on a single Wii, but golf-game staples such as tournament play 
 are missing in action. Visuals and sound are bargain-bin in quality. Course graphics are nicely 
 cartoony and imaginative, although the big-time jaggies all over the place pretty much wreck the 
 appeal of the eye candy. Sound is limited; characters speak in a gibberish dialect, and the same 
 boings and bangs of the ball rattling around the courses are repeated over and over. Barker himself 
 is one of the most obnoxious characters you'll encounter in a game. He speaks with an over-the-top 
 cadence about as pleasing to the ear as fingernails on a blackboard and taunts you in matches after 
 pulling off shots that the lousy controls render impossible for you to match. So play solo or risk 
 the temptation of throwing your Will Remote at the TV.  

  Carnival Games: Mini-Golf just whets your appetite for a real minigolf game that makes proper use 
 of the motion-sensing controls of the Wii Remote. The Wii needs a better and more competent treatment 
 of minigolf that deals with the real sport, minus all the gimmicky junk that gets between you and 
 your putter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: littlereaper10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this game and wasn't sure about everything. Then, when I figured out the things I needed 
 to figure out, it was lot's of fun! It was fun to play all the holes and get coins for new stuff. 
 Unlocking clubs and dressing up my character was great! I was surprised at how big the choice of 
 clothes was! The difficulty was fine. It wasn't too hard, wasn't too easy. The themes were fun 
 and discovering the mini games was fun too. The mini games were challenging enough that I had fun 
 playing them. I agree that character noises and actions DID get annoying. You also didn't get that 
 feel and thrill of REAL mini golf. BUT it was still very fun and my family loves it. 3 types of 
 holes made it interesting. Facing off against Barker was okay but he was annoying sometimes. For 
 example, just when you think you've beat him, he miraculously makes the shot and you end up tying. 
 He also knew HOW much he needed for a shot which was also annoying. Some items were overpriced, 
 but once you get good at the game, you can make holes in less shots which gives you better coin 
 multipliers. You should probably rent this game first though, to see what you think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wishkid90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Some of the holes are fun, like there is one that has eggs all over and you must find the hole. 
 There are other holes that have some interesting feathers. There is a spooky hole that you have 
 to get through a grave yard into a spiderweb that you have to chase off the spiders from taking 
 your ball. these are unique holes not like ones you would see in real life. It is different, but 
 you can customize your person and every time you change your putter your persons winning theme 
 changes each time you change the ball or putter. each ball has something different that it dose. 
 Each set of holes has something different to offer. There is one that you must jump across the 
 sky line to get to the hole. There are upsides and downsides to this game. The downside is the 
 graphics. The upside is that each hole has something different. There is one hole that all you 
 have to do it will jump across a lake and go strait into the hole after hitting it twice. there 
 are also little games in each of the holes if you aim for them. I have a friend that has this game 
 and he loves it and so do I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoit
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Thats right Foulks
  You'll can turn a party into a Horror house
  Just buy this game and pop into you're healthy wii and it puts a virus to invade it and delete 
 every thing and put the game as the only thing on the console
  WOW!!!
  you're party guestes will be screaming with pain and misuory.
  You'll have a great time phunishing 
 them with this awful game and make them wanna kill there selfs.
  Make this game come turn any party into horror and Make them hate you for life
  
  but don wait 
 call now!!!
  so call 1-800-HORROR!!!
  so that's 1-800-HORROR!!!
  
  off air:
  beeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
 
  eeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeee
  eeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
  eeeeeeeeep
  
  as you can 
 see this game is pretty bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mruta
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I pre-paid for this game a few months before its release in eager anticipation of a mini-golf game 
 for the Wii that me and my wife could play. We both love mini-golf and don't get out as much as 
 we'd like to play in "real-life." Solution: Carnival Games Mini-Golf. Release kept getting pushed 
 back but alas the day finally came when I brought it home.
  
  After about an hour of playing she completely lost interest due to the tedious mini-games spattered 
 throughout the game and the fact that the game only comes with 9 holes unlocked to begin with. 
 All she wanted to do was play mini golf (you know, like putting and stuff?) which this game has 
 very little of.
  
  Having forked out $40 for this piece-of-junk I decided I'd try it on single player mode, unlock 
 all the courses and possibly redeem this title. It never happened. All of the unlocked courses 
 proved to be just as or even more annoying and overwhelmingly dominated by mini-games and very 
 little actual mini-golf.
  
  All in all this game just stinks. The graphics -while extremely colorful- are overpowered by jaggies 
 everywhere making the game look just awful. The very few times you actually get to putt the ball 
 you're subjected to lousy wiimote physics and your putter acts like it's possessed, doing pretty 
 much whatever it wants. Mini-games are annoying, cause all you want is for them to be over so you 
 can get back to playing golf. Single player mode is ridiculous, with VERY inconsistent performance 
 from Barker and the amount of gameplay needed to buy ANY wardrobe upgrades is ridiculous.
  
  Add to the fact that you can't play with your Mii's and are stuck using one of four generic 
 characters and the same annoying, generic cutscenes after you complete each and every hole you'll 
 just want to turn this game off and play something......... ANYTHING else! I traded it in a few 
 weeks later, after having played it for maybe 7-8 hours in total.
  
  If you don't believe the Gamespot review, IGN review or any of the user reviews and still want 
 to check it out do yourself a big favor and...... RENT IT FIRST! That way you'll have only wasted 
 like $6 instead of $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudhudshut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Being in my late 20's and playing this game definitely puts me in a fun mode with the bright color 
 and sound effects. My friend and I jumped in with both putters and worked through the first couple 
 holes of golf together. Getting used to the putting stroke had the same frustration as trying to 
 master the putting in Tiger Woods 09 but after you get the hang of it you can make shots more consistently. 
 After playing through the singles mode I was delighted with the idea that there was more to the 
 game then just getting a hole-in-one. You are given the task of picking up as many coins along 
 the way as you can that you can cash in for basically more accessories and cool putters that you 
 can play with. It gives someone like me something to shoot for in a game and that is to the credit 
 of the game. I did however find myself playing some holes over and over again to rack up the coin 
 count as some other holes proved too difficult for me to gain a lot of coins at one time. There 
 is also the added challenge of beating the carnival master in each of the 27 holes that you can 
 unlock along the way. Every time you are able to beat him at each hole you receive a carnival coin 
 that allows you to shop at the carnival store in the pro shop. With multi-player you can play against 
 your friends in either a 3,6, or 9 hole challenge moving from theme to theme that have been unlocked 
 in the single player mode. It does not take long for the average player to unlock all of the themes 
 and you are left with the task of building up your coin count and beating the carnival man at every 
 hole as your major tasks of the game. I do want to point out that they have tried hard to give 
 variety to the holes and there are even added mini-games hidden throughout the holes that if completed 
 successfully will give you a big advantage with the hole. Some are easier then others but all follow 
 in the theme of the hole they are found. After playing for several hours after being obsessed with 
 getting coins and unlocking all the themes I have to say that I was pretty impressed for this being 
 a game geared towards the younger generation of gamers and of course family play. The only other 
 beef I have with the game is that it seems to be pretty unforgiving throughout where precise power 
 on any given shot is a must and failure to hit the ball just right will usually lead to completing 
 holes multiple times. I figured a game meant for young gamers would be a little more forgiving, 
 but alas it even stumped me at times. I would like to see someone come out with a more realistic 
 mini-golf game that was not so cartoony but actually had simpler but more refined obstacles and 
 character models. Anyway, the carnival franchise has stepped it up a notch with this game and anyone 
 who loves to mini-golf will find this game enjoyable, although I probably will not be buying it 
 anytime soon and save my money for some better games like Mario Kart and Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barusa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  As you can guess from having the word 'Carnival' in the title, the game is more about fun than 
 being realistic. The ball roles and reacts with a reasonable amount of realism. The putting requires 
 input similar to real life, but simplified to make the game easily playable by a range of players 
 with different skill levels. The realism stops at the course design.
  
  In real life the degree of variability in most minigolf courses is determined in changes of elevation, 
 layout, and hazards. The "Carnival Games Minigolf" has arcade elements that take the courses beyond 
 what could be done in real life. Some of the courses have elaborate layouts that would be difficult 
 to physically recreate. Some of the courses have puzzle elements that must be solved to finish. 
 These additions to the courses make each course truly unique to play.
  
  Of all the minigolfs holes available to play, they are divided into different themes. A single 
 game can be up to nine holes consisting of a combination of themes chosen by the player. Each theme 
 has a mini-game that is triggered if the player putts the golf ball in to the correct area. The 
 mini-game does not directly affect the minigolf score, but does usually lie along the shortest 
 path to the hole.
  
  A character is created by the player that can be customized by a collection of faces, hairstyles, 
 clothes, and accessories. Each theme has associated coins that are collected during regular play. 
 The mini-games provide chances to collect bonus coins. The coins are spent to unlock theme specific 
 accessories and clothes. 
  
  The desire to collect coins to purchase special items adds an element of replayability that goes 
 beyond simply trying to improve your minigolf score on a given theme course. The harder course 
 themes are unlocked by playing single player challenges. This feature also adds replayability, 
 because you can practice each course theme before trying the challenge.
  
  Up to four players can play during a single game. The game allows for shared WII remotes, so there 
 is no need to buy four remotes just for this game. The game has an in-game feature that allows 
 the character to be stored in the WII remote's memory (so the character can be taken to play on 
 someone else's WII) .
  
  In summary this minigolf game is all about fun. The arcade features available on the WII game console 
 allows the game to go beyond the limitations of physical minigolf courses. Play the games with 
 friends, family, and anybody else you would allow to play minigolf on your WII.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
