-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Carnival Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/carnivalgames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 25 different games, with some unlockable bonus games as well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the games are either too easy to be fun, or suffer from wonky controls.
 Unpleasant graphics.
 Winning virtual Kewpie dolls is just kind of stupid.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 670 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Action
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless fumbling your way through half-baked minigames to win some virtual stuffed animals sounds 
 like fun, you should leave this overpriced collection on the shelf. 

  Step right up and get your money taken in Carnival Games, a scattershot minigame collection that 
 offers 25 interpretations of real-life carnival competitions. In real life, most of these games 
 are scams. Carnies hoot and holler at would-be suckers to get them to try to win a prize -- all it'll 
 cost is a couple of bucks. In the case of Carnival Games, the shady carnie is publisher Global 
 Star Software, and for $40, you can play a variety of games that are typically either too easy 
 or too broken, and rarely anywhere in-between. And your prize for playing? A bunch of virtual toys 
 and a few more mediocre minigames to play. If that isn't a classic carnie scam, nothing is.  

 
  The game initially offers up 25 different minigames to play. These challenges run the gamut from 
 skeeball, to target shooting, to knocking over milk containers with a baseball, to the classic 
 test-of-strength game. All of these games use the Wii Remote in one fashion or another. Skeeball 
 is mechanically just like the bowling game from Wii Sports, the ring-toss game has you flicking 
 the Wii Remote as if you were actually tossing a ring, and anything that involves throwing a ball 
 requires you to fling the remote forward in an overhand motion, sort of like passing the football 
 in Madden.  

           This guy looks pretty trustworthy.      

  The trouble with all of these games is that none of them are much fun beyond a couple of plays. 
 Some, such as the milk toss and the shooting gallery, are so easy that you would have to have some 
 seriously diminished motor skills to fail. Others, such as the football toss and the "nerves-o-steel" 
 game (which has you moving a metal ring over an electrified wire, while trying to avoid getting 
 shocked) , just don't feel right at all. They're not impossible, but the controls feel too dodgy 
 to allow for any level of consistent success. Others still, such as the lucky cups game, are utterly 
 strategy-free in that they completely rely on fateful bounces in order to win. A few of the games 
 are just amusing enough to be worth playing multiple times, but most simply aren't.  

  Your prizes for completing these games are goofy stuffed animals and trinkets that come in small, 
 medium, or large varieties. Getting the better prizes eventually unlocks more variations on some 
 of the existing minigames, but that's about it. You also earn tickets that can be used to play 
 some goofy side-games, such as a love tester or a fortune teller, though the novelty of these runs 
 out almost immediately.  

  Everything about Carnival Games simply feels lackluster, from the gameplay to the presentation -- though 
  especially  the presentation. Maybe it's an homage to the ramshackle nature of the carnival itself, 
 or maybe the game just had a teensy budget, but whatever the case, the game looks pretty lousy. 
 At the outset, you can create an avatar to represent yourself. You get the impression that the 
 game was at one time going to use Miis, or was at least heavily inspired by them, because you build 
 the same sort of limbless people. The problem here is that customization is extremely limited, 
 and everyone you make looks either stoned out of their minds or like some kind of mild psychopath. 
 You can give them hard hats, funny shoes, and other bric-a-brac to try to wacky them up, but it 
 doesn't really do the trick. All the in-game graphics are grainy and bland, with artwork and textures 
 that barely compete with some of the GameCube's ugliest games. There isn't much audio in the game 
 at all, save for a few jaunty carnival tunes and a bit of narration from a helpful carnie. What's 
 there is functional, if not impressive.  

  The Nintendo Wii is chock-full of minigame collections, almost all of them of higher quality than 
 Carnival Games. Sure, it's got variety, and four-player multiplayer, but so does literally every 
 other minigame collection on the system. So why would you pay $40 for a game that would be a stretch 
 to call worthwhile even at a budget price tag? You wouldn't. It's half the fun at twice the price. 
 That's a lousy deal any way you slice it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HelpMe454
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is very poorly and cheaply made. The games featured seem like good ideas likes test your 
 strength, duck tank and other carnival games but what you get is very disappointing. The graphics 
 are poor as well as the animation. One of the games features is that your able to create your own 
 characters well not really, what u can do is start with a ready made character chose their hair 
 colour and clothes that's it. At the start of a game your show how to play but no matter how hard 
 you try your character will never do it. This game also has a lot of technical issues like at the 
 start of a game the bottom of the screen will moves faster than the other giving some weird split 
 screen effect. In away this game is like a real carnival meaning that it's a total fix and a rip 
 off. Do your self a favour save the money and buy a pet rock or something trust me it'll be more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Southern05Belle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 4.5 out of 10. I thought this was going to be an okay game. I played with a 
 few people and it was alright. I wanted to play alone, so I changed it to one player. I started 
 out with having 75 tickets. I played a few games and got 100 tickets. I wanted to go to the next 
 part, so I bought a ticket for it from the Prize Area for 100 tokens. I got to the next part and 
 could not play ANY of the games because I did not have any tokens. I have no coins and I can not 
 play any of the games with no coins :- ( . They should have a area where you can get tokens for 
 when things like that happen. Not where you can get coins at anytime, just when you have zero tokens. 
 Or they should have some games do not cost anything and that you can play to get more tokens. I 
 do not really like the game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peggykearns
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I received this game as a present from my sister. It was selected by her then 3 and 4 year old 
 children. Appropriate since they are the ones who play it most. I have progressed little past the 
 initial create-your-character phase. My nieces and nephews, however, have unlocked a good portion 
 of the game, mainly "super" versions of some of the games, new items to wear, and of course the 
 various prizes. All of these are greatly rewarding to get, if you're 5, or afflicted with mild 
 obsessive-compulsive disorder and have an unreasonable desire to "complete" the prize collection. 
 I am one of those unfortunate individuals.
  The character building options are limited, but that's not necessarily bad when you put a 5 year 
 old in charge of their avatar. Twelve choices is about all they can handle in a reasonable amount 
 of time. Similarly, the games are well suited for younger players, since very few are skill-based. 
 Even those that are can usually be completed with a bit of luck. The others are either ridiculously 
 easy, or ridiculously hard, such that the 4 year-olds an I often often get similar scores (and 
 these aren't particularly game savvy kids either) .
  All in all, there is a decent array of things to do to keep the kids occupied, and I do find myself 
 playing for a while by myself after they go home. However, unless you play host to a number of 
 young children on a regular basis, this game will probably be a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  This sucks. The value might as well be in the earth's core it's so down. $40? You should be saving 
 $10 more and getting mariokart and playing it for more then 20 hours. Like GS said, the minigames 
 are half-baked and some of them are just plain hard to do! For example, let's take the dunk tank. 
 Instead of in real life where you're bound to hit the target, in this game, the cursor spins eveywhere 
 and you have to throw the ball at exactly the right moment when it's on the target. Stupid. And 
 if you miss the game practically makes fun of you. Some of the stuff the people say is just plain 
 offensive even if it is just to keep you around. The game makes the simplest games the hardest 
 thing you'll do in your life. The game also has to have the exact right motion or swing to beat 
 or do the mini game correctly. Take my and GS's word for it: Leave this game on the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Carnival Games... Now when you think of this name You think party fun! Well thats not the case 
 here. Not at all.
  
  To start off I played the heck out of this game and got nearly every unlockable.
  
  This game 
 just isn't justified for a whopping $40! Just $10 more and you could buy Super Mario Galaxy! Fun 
 for everyone! Well Carnival games just isn't worth the $40! If you're hardcore like me, then just 
 stay away. Even my casual 8 year old sister got bored of this after a few minutes. There are Only 
 25 games. Now compare it to another party game- lets say Mario Party 8. That has around 70 minigames 
 for only $10 more! Collusion! And the minigames range from too easy (throw balls at clowns) to 
 extremely hard (nerves of steel) . You can't even explore the carnival! And the character creation 
 system is so steryotypical! It will NOT look like you. you do unlock prizes by purchasing them 
 with tickets, but you won't know what you unlock until you unlock it! You can at the most win 10 
 tickets from each minigame, and there is a 500 ticket prize!
  
  Overall, avoid at all costs. Even casual players will find it boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I expected a game thats more fun. Why? Because its for Wii. Everyone would. Anyway, choose from 
 lots of classic Carnival games! (I don't know how many) Plus, No lines!
  
  1. Graphics
  It depends. Do you like cartoon games or games that look real. In this case you have to be a cartoon-game 
 lover. If you don't then try not to pay attention to the graphics if you buy it. The graphics aren't 
 dissapointing, there just bad.
  
  Well, you can play multiplayer but that still only makes it fair. I think that using the wii remote 
 as a joy stick when you play the Skill Crane is cool. Oh, and Yes, they do have Ski Ball.
  
  2. Fun?
  Carnival games, I don't know. Considering that the games a to easy to be fun, no, 
 there not fun. Who knows, maybe you'll like them more then me.
  
  So there are bad graphics, and its no fun, whats good about it?
  
  3. The Good
  You decide 
 what you like, but heres what I like:
  Earning prizes, Ski Ball, No lines, Ski Ball, Skill Crane, Ski Ball, and uh... Ski Ball!
  
  
 Yah so, it not the best game you can buy. Anyway, hope you liked my review! Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy15
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  Carnival Games is the worst game I've played on Wii with it's bland presentation, awful graphics, 
 and repetitive gameplay. I wouldn't even recommend renting this game even if you have a friend, 
 your money could go else where like Mario Kart or SSBB. After about an hour you see what the game 
 has to offer which isn't very fun. You go around a carnival to play carnie games with the carnie 
 people who have child molestor faces, and the people you use are not any better, worse you can't 
 use your mii. You play the games win get prizes and trade them for bigger prizes which wasn't exciting 
 at all. The bonus mini-games aren't worth anything, hell one of them you just get a stupid fortune 
 told to you and you do nothing. But I will admit with all this negativity their is one positive 
 being, two of the games are actually fun. But that doesen't make up for poor gameplay. There are 
 twenty five games in all and outfits to unlock. (oh boy) Please I beg you don't make the mistake 
 I did and rent this game, your money is well spent elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamario621
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  too lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo 
 lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazytoo lazy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:32 am PT
Review:  Carnival Games does get some things right, but a lot of things wrong. It is a collection of just 
 about every game you love (or hate) at the real carnivals you have been to. Simply put, some of 
 the games work, and some of them don't. Throwing motions are not always properly detected, and 
 games that require you to gauge your strength are inconsistent at best. You'll probably find that 
 you really enjoy only a handful of them, and those are the ones you'll continue to play, while 
 you avoid the rest of them like a filthy restroom. But really, the only reason to play this game 
 is if you have a friend or two to enjoy it with (as best you can) . Otherwise, you'll feel very 
 silly sitting alone trying to navigate the games and win all the available prizes. Keep in mind, 
 those prizes are inexplicably only available to you in single-player mode. However, the biggest 
 rip-off is that this game isn't even sold at a discounted price. While this game isn't worth $40, 
 look at it as you'll never have to pay for admission to a real carnival ever again, as you'll get 
 the same crummy experience here minus funnel cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMelissaxpopx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  I hate this game so much! Its a collection of pointless carnival games. Possibly good for a younger 
 audience but would probably get boring for them too. I played this game for about 15 minutes and 
 spent most of that time shouting at the wii.
  The instructions aren't clear, so you have to work out what to do. I personally HATE party games. 
 You've played one, you've played them all. Especially on the wii, where about 90% of the available 
 games are party games!
  Its quite fun making your own carnival character, with a lot of random costumes and hats. You collect 
 tickets from around the carnival to buy more items. The ticket thing reminds me of Rugrats in Paris 
 for the ps1. As an RPG fan I cannot stand this game, but I'm sure it's great fun for all of those 
 party game fans out there, better for the younger audience, or for those wonderfully immature adults 
 out there! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipinmy40
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 13, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  OK, this is not a game that most adults are going to love. It will get old pretty quick. But, if 
 you are 4-11 years old this game is a great "intro" into the Wii. Since you only use basic wii 
 remote skills and you do not use the nunchuck the little ones can pick it up quickly and have a 
 ball. Since there are over 25 mini games you will find that some of them can be very annoying and 
 seem thrown together by junior game developers. Yet, some of the games like skee-ball perform really 
 well. I would say this game is better than Wii Play and far superior to Game Party. It should be 
 priced cheaper though so I would strongly consider renting it or buying used. Looking at the number 
 of pathetic games out there for the wii right now this one was a nice little surprise. Hard core 
 gamers should not, and will not like it. But, it's not for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wongsta
Rating: 1
Date: May 10, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Carnival Games is a game that takes more than it gives. What I mean is, it takes your money and 
 gives you nothing but 25 stupid, boring, dodgy games. I'd rather spend my $60AUD on an encyclopedia. 
 At least you get something out of that. So, the lowdown:
  
  Graphics: 1/10 Pathetic
  
  I'm speechless. The graphics of Carnival Games is utterly poor. The screenshots look so good when 
 in fact they're so damn crap. The worst graphics I've seen ever.
  
  
  Storyline: 0/10 Not even included
  
  2k games could've at least made a small storyline. But 
 no, they left us to suffer with crap minigames and virtual stuffed teddy bears.
  
  
  Sound: 1/10: "Step right up and get your eardrums tortured!"
  
  The sound was just as bad as 
 the graphics. Low quality sound clips give WII owners one more reason to leave this game on the 
 shelf. The voices are bad as well as repetitive. Nothing special.
  
  
  Controls: 1/10: A few wild swings does everything
  
  If WII Sports golf was a pain in the a** 
 for you, then Carnival Games' 25 minigames will be hell. Uninteresting controls and bad programming 
 literally make us wonder if 2k games saying that Carnival Games implied "Advanced Physics" was 
 an April Fools Joke.
  
  Multiplayer: Yes
  Wifi: No
  WC24: No
  Control Type: Wii Remote
  
  Overall Conclusion: 1/10
  
  Terrible Game. No features and 
 pointless minigames make this game in my opinion, the worst game ever. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinningDemon19
Rating: 6
Date: May 7, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay with very few Wii games out there that work well with the remote, its okay. I got this because 
 my wife loves these kind of guys because they aren't that hard to understand and are basic. This 
 is one of the games that any one can play, little to old. This game reminds me where all my money 
 goes at the carnival because I get sucked in playing a stupid game trying to get the really big 
 prize and then I realize I spent a lot of time on some little game. But hey it saves me money playing 
 on the wii's version. There really isn't a goal to the game expect to win prizes, and to unlock 
 differnet items your Mii can wear. That's something I wasn't thrilled about like the other games 
 you can import your MII but in Carnival you have to make a new one and you have very limited choices 
 so you can't really get it looking like you. its okay for a party but really I can't get myself 
 to play it just by myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 2
Date: May 5, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Carnival: Funfair and Games is a game featuring a compilation of classic arcade games from Global 
 Star Software and Cat Daddy Games. Customize your own character, and try and win every arcade game 
 you can to win a virtual stuffed teddy bear as your reward.
  
  Carnival: Funfair and Games is another one of those poor forced efforts to make a family game for 
 the Wii, but, really, it's not an effort at all. Carnival is a game that is just a bland and rather 
 generic arcade game, not really adding anything new into the mix, and just is a game with a huge 
 lack of anything fun in it.
  
  The thing that truly prevents Carnival Funfair and Games from being a family classic like Wii Sports 
 is what the game is about in general: going around playing arcade games to win teddys, not very 
 orginial or more importantly engaging to pick up and play.
  
  Overall, Carnival Games is a game that will bore any likely player, due to it's lack of fresh content, 
 and overall, a poor execution that does not make it very fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 3, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  We rented this game back in the day when it first came out because at the time there was nothign 
 else to rent for the Wii, back when games were simply just NOT coming out for the damn system so 
 this was all we could find!
  
  I don't knwo what the deal is with the Wii but the inventors seem to get all hot in the pants over 
 making games with a crapload of stupid MINIGAMES! I mean come on create a full on game and not 
 some cheapy minigames that get old and boring after 2 seconds!
  
  Some of the games are fun, like dart throwing for example and some of the games you can reminisce 
 on old times at your local carnival and nto have to pay out the ass $1-5 per round, you can play 
 them all on this game! But some of the games are extremely stupid and take little to no skill and 
 can become instantly repetitive in nature.
  
  The voiceacting in the game will make you want to shoot yourself in the head when they repeate 
 the same catch-phrases over and over and over and over and over and over again! Sometimes no matter 
 how hard you try the games can be hard as hell to beat and then the voiceactors talk to you like 
 your a freakin idiot and tell you how to do it right when all along you were doing the same thing 
 they are telling you to do!!!!
  
  Avoid this game at all costs on the purchase end, I would recommend this as a rental only tho, 
 because you can enjoy some of the minigames a few times over the course of a week while having 
 the rental, but after a while you will get bored and annoyed, and want to move on, therefore, RENT 
 IT ONLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nd567
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Addictive. Even though people have said this game is rubbish and not worth playing i think it is 
 very good and would appeal to a wide range of audiences. It has 25 carnival games which i have 
 to admit are rather good.
  Some of them are hard and some of them are easy and also some of the games are very addictive such 
 as the coin pusher as if you lose you want to try and win your coins back. 
  
  THE GOOD POINTS:
  
  A wide range of games. Most are very good and easy to play also
  very 
 addictive, good sound track to go along with the games and
  it really does feel as if your in a carnival.
  
  
  THE BAD POINTS:
  
  Some games can 
 be hard to play and master,
  
  
  
  So to some it all up if you want a game for all the family to be able to play and want hours of 
 fun this is the game for you.
  
  
  AND MY FINAL POINT:
  
  YOU CAN BUY THIS GAME IN XTRAVISION FOR 19.99 (WHICH IS CHEAP CONSIDERING THE GAME IS VERY GOOD)
 
  
  YOU CAN ALSO BUY THIS GAME IN GAME STORE FOR 29.99 BUT FOR THE EXTRA 10.00 YOU GET A GAME FREE 
 (SUBJECT TO GAMES IN OFFER)
  
  
  
  DATE OF REVIEW 01/05/08
  
  (price of game was checked on this date but the price might have changed 
  by the time you read 
 this)
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seblyokofan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Carnival Games For Wii: Review
  
  First things first this game is not like anything else on the market it is most probably a bit 
 tame for some gamers, but if you just want a quiet gaming night in then some of games are just 
 what your looking for but other mini games actually get you all hot and sweaty for no reason and 
 also some of the games are a bit stupid like the coin dropping game and the fortune teller both.
 
  
  So if your a hard core gamer then this is not for you its more for kids aged about 7 years - 15 
 years that now and again enjoy
  nice quiet games.
  
  So basically this is not a game for most adults but im sure that some would enjoy it, i suppose 
 that women are more likely to
  enjoy than men.
  
  Last thing to say is that i did actually enjoy this game and it was quite fun in most of the mini 
 games.
  
  So i would say buy the game and see if you like it because some people will and people wont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I've only been to a real fair once (I live in a big city, and so amusement parks are more my thing) , 
 but it was a lot of fun. The rides (although they looked a little flimsy) , the food, and the games. 
 And with the Nintendo's Wii motion control being able to emulate real-life actions, it doesn't 
 come as much surprise that a Wii title recreating the many carnival games would be released within 
 about a year of the system's launch. And aside from the embarrassingly dumb title, there are a 
 lot of problems with this game.
  
  First thing that you'll notice immediately upon powering is the horrendous visuals. Yes, a Wii 
 game will not look as nice as a PS3 game or an XBox 360 game. Still, that is no excuse for the 
 terrible graphics that are present in Carnival Games. They visuals are blocky, simple, and poorly 
 animated. Honestly, it would look bad on the GameCube -- so I have no idea why this was let slide 
 for a title released for the Wii about a year after the system's launch.
  
  Once you delve a little deeper (i. e. decide to actually start playing) , you'll stumble upon even 
 more flaws with this title. To begin with, the minigames are insultingly easy. They usually just 
 involve shaking around the Wii Remote a bit; you honestly don't have to even know what you're doing 
 to "win" a minigame. Additionally, the Wii Remote incorporation in this game is horrendous; it's 
 quite possibly the worst for any game I've played so far on the Wii. For example, when playing 
 the plate breaking game, the cursor moves around automatically on its own, and you've just got 
 jiggle the remote around when you want to throw the ball.
  
  My comment about winning a minigame brings up another issue with this title: there's no real goal 
 in mind for any of the minigames. Yes, it's a minigame collection, and normally, such a gameplay 
 mechanic would be fine. But as discussed above, these just aren't really fun minigames. This title 
 is really just an example of how yes, the Wii Remote can be used to mimic real life actions. But 
 unfortunately, this title just doesn't chronicle how exactly that's at all fun.
  
  The music is nearly as bad as the game's graphics. It's dull and unforgettable, as well as all-too 
 predictable. What the hell -- it's carnival music. There are lots of little bells and whistles, 
 but that's really it. It's seldom that I say something like this, but I do believe that the music 
 may actually detract overall from the quality of Carnival Games. Why? Well, just because I personally 
 spend so much time realizing how bad the sound was in this title that I didn't really pay much 
 attention to the game itself (not that that's a bad thing with a title this bad, mind you) .
  
  To make things even worse, there's very little reason to play this game again, if you can even 
 work your way through playing all the minigames in the first place. There aren't any significant 
 unlockables, and there's no benefit (unless you like being bored out of your mind) to slog through 
 this collection of "games" more than once. Even taking into account the fact that this title costs 
 10 bucks less than most of the Wii games on the market right now, it's still just not at all worth 
 your money.
  
  There is a multiplayer offering here, but it's sloppily and carelessly done. It pretty much just 
 involves going through some of the games that you've already played in single player mode -- but 
 this time, with a friend. I've said this before, and I'll say it again: Some games just work for 
 multiplayer. But unfortunately, for that to be the case, said game has to be fun by itself. And 
 Carnival Games just doesn't manage to achieve that lofty goal. Many games have you trading off 
 a single controller, and there's no real simultaneous competition -- it all involves taking turns.
 
  
  In case you haven't quite gotten the point, let me recapitulate this review for you in four words: 
 Don't buy Carnival Games. I stand firmly by my assertion that you will most likely have absolutely 
 no fun with this title and severely regret your purchase. There may be a caveat to this ultimatum, 
 however: if you're buying for young children, they may manage to have fun with this, just because 
 of the title's simplicity. Still, though, if that's what you're looking for, just let them play 
 around with Wii Sports. It's pathetic, I know, but the pack-in title Wii Sports is infinitely better 
 than this piece of crap that you'd have to spend 40 bucks on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLuv2game23
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When I got this for the Wii in January, I must tell you I was syched. The game seemed to be the 
 perfect party game, especially with the wii's motion sensitive controls, but all in all, this game 
 is dissapointing in its lack of creativity, making it just another party game for the Wii. It's 
 not that I dislike this game, it just seems that everything about it is purely average. The graphics 
 are PS2 worthy, not really showing the true capacity that the Wii has in terms of presentation. 
 The games, although fun at first, are so easy and repetitive that you can be an expert in a matter 
 of seconds on every game that is has. Also, the unlockables, although meaningful at an actually 
 carnival, really don't make any sense when it comes to playing a videogame. I mean, when will I 
 use a picture of a stuffed bear I won from playing knock down the bottles in real life? Bottom 
 line, this game is good for parties with lots of people and a lot of non gamers, but or else is 
 a total bust that will dissapoint you after an hour of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaterTotsYum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I don't know why Carnival Games has gotten such negative scores and feedback... What more can you 
 ask of a Wii mini-game game? For one thing, everyone already knows how the games work, and (at 
 least I) love most of the games offered at carnivals, but no one wants to spend 100 dollars to 
 play these games in real life.. 
  
  I learned the hard way that there is a reason why carnival games cost so much (besides the whole 
 making money part) . It's because if you play them too much, your arms start to hurt - badly! The 
 first night I brought this little gem home, I played the milk-jug toss so many times that I could 
 barely move my right arm. Oops! 
  
  The only negative thing is that you never really "beat" the game... just win a bunch of virtual 
 prizes (which is kind of lame) . Who cares about a stuffed bear, if it's stuck in your Wii. Now, 
 if Nintendo sent me a prize every time I won "the big one", well hey, that would rock.
  
  But they don't. And that's okay. I'm still going to keep playing Carnival Games because it's fun, 
 especially at parties, even if you must practice moderation ;)
  
  I'm not going to keep playing the electric ring game, though, it's just too frustrating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWolf0526
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Oh boy, where to begin. There are so many problems with this game that its hard to count. First 
 lets start with you're character. Rather than let you use you're Mii and play the games with you're 
 character you must make one from there terrible selection. The only choices you have are boy, girl, 
 man, woman. WOO!!! Then, you can change their clothes and face. This is customization at its best. 
 NOT!!! Alright, the games are one of the only things saving this game from being one of the worst 
 of the year. Most of the games are actually kind of fun. They play well and have a good variety. 
 However, the annoying carnies will tic you off from the beginning. When you win though, you get 
 a prize. Not just any prize though, a virtual prize! WOO AGAIN!!! No not really. They don't do 
 anything........ at all. When you get enough tickets from playing games you can buy little stuff 
 to put on your character which is kinda cool. Others are hidden in the games but it's not really 
 worth getting them all. This games other flaws include poor voice acting, difficult controls and 
 a strange mustached guy who seems to follow you and talk all the time. This game could have been 
 great but its just bogged down by too many problems. Definitely a rental rather than a buy kind 
 of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyt999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is very addictive expecially if you want to get every unlockable throughout 
 the game so it will have you playing for hours. The different games are fun (well most of them) 
 and they are even more fun when playing with others. 
  
  I think that the mini games are a good representation of the real life versions of the real game 
 and allow you to enjoy all the games of the carnival in you home, and i think that the wii mote 
 has been put to good use throughout the games allthough it could have been better on some games 
 like the football throw.
  
  Overall i would recommend getting this game because it is relatively cheap and there are lots of 
 unlockable items to gather throughout all of the different games and will have you playing for 
 ages.
  
  BUT if ever they released a carnival 2 (thats a big IF) then they should make it and online game 
 and think of refining the controls a little bit expecially for games where throwing is the key 
 like in football, they could also add a little more variety of game because i think a game like 
 Hook-a-Duck could be quite funny and you dhould have to use tickets to actually play the games 
 because then it wouldnt be as easy to get all the prizes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Review_King
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Step right up to Carnival Games! You start off with picking "Single-Player Mode", or "Multi-Player 
 Mode", or if you wish clicking the sign and see the credits, or poking at the carnival greeting 
 person, and hearing him tell you to stop in various phrases. This game can be played by yourself 
 or with other people, which I consider playing with other people more fun, but single-player's 
 great as well and you may have a different opinion. In multi-player mode you start with picking 
 whether you want to do "Head to head" (you pick the games) , or "Competition" (the computer picks 
 a couple games at random and you see who does the best in all of them at total at the end. There 
 both equally as fun in my opinion. You also pick whether you want to use seperate wii remotes for 
 everyone, or just share one with everyone, which is a pro that it has this as not everyone can 
 afford extra wii remotes. Then you can pick your character! If you don't have any yet you can make 
 one. Then it's time to have some fun! Go pick some games, or have some fun with the games the computer 
 picked at random for you! You earn little carnival prizes in single-player mode. They can either 
 be small, medium, large, or grand prizes. The small prizes are just little blurry images. You earn 
 this prize by earning the small ticket amount. The medium prizes are somewhat larger and less blurry 
 images, and you earn these by earning the medium ticket amounts, or trading in 4 small prizes for 
 one medium prize and all your small prizes dissapear, but you could earn them again. The large 
 prizes are little animated objects which do a repitive animation and noise. You earn these by getting 
 the large ticket amount, or trading in 3 medium prizes. You can also move your cursor at prize 
 and press the "A" button for the prize to spin around. Trade in two large prizes to get the grand 
 prize! This one's basically the same as large prizes except there a bit larger, and once you unlock 
 the grand-prize you should unlock an upgraded version of a carnival game on this game (such as 
 "Super Hoops", or get a completely different carnival game with "Super" at the beginning. I enjoy 
 these "super" games more than the oringinal ones. The problem with these prizes is they there novelty 
 wears out almost instantly once you see it. There's a few prizes which may be funny enought for 
 multiple views, but this a very small minority of all the prizes. It would be a good idea for the 
 prizes to be little games as like riding the police man car with your wii remote, or with the small 
 prizes, being able to poke, hold, squeeze, lift, and throw around the small prizes. There's also a 
 ticket system, in which you earn these tickets by playing the carnival games this game offers you. 
 Once you earn these "tickets", you can use them to unlock stuff your character, or play little 
 mini-games such as fortune teller, claw machine, and love machine, but it would to be able to play 
 these "little mini-games" in multi-player mode as well, in which you can't. The character system 
 is not the best either. It would be much better for you to be able to use your miis, and be allowed 
 to add extra carnival-themed stuff onto your mii. There's also a problem with the graphics as well. 
 They just don't look "Wiiish", and they aren't very great to begin with. Perhaps, making the graphics 
 more Wii Sports, and Mii-themed and making them look better would also make this game better. You 
 can also unlock enchancements for your characters by clicking unusual objects, or doing special 
 things in games such as knocking down three green bottles in "Spilled Milk", or shoot a prescent 
 box in "Shooting Gallery", and even clicking a unidentified flying object (UFO) in the air. Also 
 to mention, in some games in this game, the controls are very poor, and nearly impossible to deal 
 with, or just don't feel right in some games. With all of this, surprisingly for a mini-game collection, 
 this game has quite a long longevity, particulary if you have other people to play this game with 
 frequently. Perhaps it would be a good idea to make an "Enchanced" version of this game called 
 "Enchanced Carnival Games", with all the ideas I mentioned to make this game better. This game 
 is a great idea, which was executed well, but could use some improvements. Overall, this game is 
 a great addition for your collection of Nintendo Wii games, especially if you enjoyed Wii Sports 
 or Wii Play, and if you didn't enjoy them, this game is worth a rent, to see if you want to buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Carnival games, also called Wii Carnival by many is a fun enojoyable mini-games. This can easily 
 be used for a party or just your family, friends, ect.
  The graphics are not that bad there pretty good! The gameplay it self can be a little hard and 
 they don't give you a full explinaton on what the controlls are and how to fully achive or throw 
 it. That does make it annoying when either:
  A) The remote doesn't register your movement.
  Or
  B) The Wiimote registers even when you didn't do it sometimes giving you the lowest score 
 ( 0-1, ect ) even if you didn't do anything.
  There's a ton of mini-games to keep you trying to get prizes.
  There's multi-player which sometimes 
 the carnival master sounds like he says: Monkey-Player Mode. You can either do a just for fun games 
 you pick seeing whom wins. Or a tournament where there's 5 random games and if you win you get 
 tickets and whom ever has the most at the end of the 5 events wins!
  This game isn't that expensive but it would still be worth it. If you want a hardcore game i really 
 wouldn't suggest this. This game is more for kids and some being teens/adults for its difficulty. 
 There's loads of prizes for you too collect and keep playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NESGuy83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I don't seem how this game got bad reviews. I did not buy it for a long time because of that. I 
 bought it before the xmas season and my bro and i loved it. We have a fall festival that is 2nd 
 only to Mardi Gras. It has a bunch of these games there and many love to play them. I am pretty 
 good at this game and some of the games have a trick or skill you must acquire only by practicing. 
 Some of the things that the carnies say are prety hilarious (depending on your mood) as well as 
 the sounds that some of the prizes make. It has quite a few stuff to unlock which makes you practice 
 at each one. My mom kicked my ass at the frog leap one !! Beginner's luck i guess since she has 
 only played my wii 2 times. I recommend buying this game if you wanna play with other people on 
 multiplayer, or take turns in single player. Great game to have fun with !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VicA
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever been to a real carnival, then the games you'll meet in Carnival Games will seem 
 very familiar. Some are not too difficult to win, others will take some practice, and still others 
 will seem nearly impossible to beat... just like the real-world challenges you would run into on 
 an actual carnival midway. With about 25 different games available, most people will probably find 
 something they'll enjoy playing. This is the kind of game that grandparents can play with their 
 grandkids and both enjoy at the same time. I know I had fun and so did my young grandson. The kids 
 also liked earning tickets to buy prizes which gave them a sense of accomplishment. I would definitely 
 recommend Carnival Games for families who like to play together. It's like spending an afternoon 
 at the carnival, but without the crowds. However, if you want cotton candy, you'll have to bring 
 your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This just goes to show you that we are all so different in the games we play. I have also noticed 
 on the games reveiwed by the people for a living are never the same as the game players. This game 
 did not get a very good rating however.... I thought this game was great. I bought it at the store 
 and it was an instant hit in my house! It has a bunch of different games like ski bowl and all 
 the kinds of games that we play at the Carnival and fair. You can play alone or with 4 players. 
 You win prizes that will open new games and also tickets to play little extra games. I think this 
 game is one of a kind and would be fun for anyone who gave it a try. Once again... If you are unsure 
 you can go out and rent it but I just know you will love it so pick it up and give it a try! This 
 game is good for all ages and even small kids can play it, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Carnival Games is easy to digest and fun. It is a game you can play every now and then and challenge 
 some friends as well. 
  
  I particularly enjoyed playing the games to win tickets and then purchasing upgrades for my character. 
 It gave me a reason to come back and play more after I had played each game and won the big prize.
 
  
  The multi-player game is fun too - where you can challenge your friends, unfortunately you can't 
 win prizes or tickets there.
  
  MY +++
  
  Decent amount of games each ranging in it's own difficulty.
  Easy to digest.
  Fun play.
  
 Great for parties.
  
  MY - - -
  
  Can get old fast (had to put down for a couple of nights then come back)
  Can't use your Mii 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoachFlaps
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for my kids and they love it. While the reviewers might care about fancy graphics 
 and doodads, the kids just care about playing games that they normally only see at the carnival 
 or boardwalk. The controls are indeed iffy at some points but guess what, kids are adaptable and 
 they've figured out how to overcome any deficiency, unlike old people. I think games like this 
 should only be reviewed by people with kids or by kids since that's who it is targeted at. While 
 I may be bored by mini-games such as these my kids have been enthralled for hours. I hope they 
 keep making games like these. Most the games I buy are rated M and can only be played when the 
 kids aren't around so it's nice to have something they can play or even I can play when we're all 
 at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfaust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever enjoyed going to the carnival to play those rip-off games, then you'd like Carnival 
 Games for the Wii. Instead of spending $20.00 to win a pathetic Kermit doll, you can spend just 
 your precious time trying to win these things.
  
  It comes with a surprising amount of all of the classics. Darts, skeeball, basketball, basket toss, 
 rings, fishing, football toss, coin drop, and more! The multiplayer can be fun with comparing each 
 other's scores as you go along.
  
  My wife got particularly addicted to playing the Coin Drop game - the one where you drop one coin 
 at a time to knock down many more and so on. Its mechanics were realistic, as were all games.
 
  
  All tickets won can be redeemed for gear or other toys and what not. The title comes off as a little 
 dull, but in the end, you'll realize its playability is everlasting. Definitely an overrated game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  If you have never been to an American Carnival like myself then check this out you may be thinking 
 you know it is for kids well not really. The game features some good games and bad but the control 
 system offers it pretty well.
  You can have all the fun of the Carnival in your home then rather been at one getting mugged by 
 someone as it does happen.
  
  The American title on this game is Carnival Games while in England it is known to us as Carnival 
 Funfair games and was published by 2K Play. 
  
  The game has over 25 games it also features games to unlocked which are the same just a little 
 bit harder. Some games featured are:- 
  
  Alley ball - throw the ball down and hit it in the points section 
  Balloon Darts which the title 
 really says it all, Test your Strength i don't really need to on about that.
  
  The graphics are decent some look clean while others do look a bit of a mess but it is not a major 
 problem. Music sounds like your just in a Carnival and yes i hate that music. For people who want 
 to just play this on their own yes you can it is not just multilayer I play on my own but it is 
 still fun 
  
  The sales for this game here in England has been unbelievable it has been sold out in stores it 
 has got that popular and i see how it has because its a good game which is fun. So to rap this 
 up this is worth checking out it is at budget price of 19.99 and under some stores sell it higher 
 because they want more cash in their pocket. So if you do not get to see much of the Carnival well 
 in England we never get anything like this in real life, then pick this game up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Good game over all, Don't listen to Gamespot. they cant review games at all, this game is good 
 for people to play when they come over. Great fun, and will keep you active for hrs on end, and 
 ur arms will get tired, games that you find at a Carnival now in ur home lol. Some game harder 
 then others, but overall easy to play. So gather around with friends and have a blast. Might be 
 to kiddy for some, but is a game that you might want to rent to see if u like, but if u have kids 
 this will keep them occupied for hrs at a time. So dont hire a babysitter, buy this instead lol. 
 Good Overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Why did you buy a Wii? I can pretty well be certain that it was not for the graphics. I would imagine 
 it was because of the functionality, the "different" kind of console factor that made the Wii so 
 appealing to the masses.
  
  Wii is not the standard type of video game console like the Gamecube or N64 were or the Xbox 360 
 or PS3 are now. It offers its user base a gaming experience that differs from the other consoles.
 
  
  It does have the means to compete with the Halo's and the Mass Effects because it simply does not 
 have the horsepower, but it is so successful because it offers the end users something different.
 
  
  With that in mind I think the reviews simply crushing Carnival Games are simply written with the 
 mentality that Wii games are comparable to the other consoles games and that is simply not the 
 case. 
  
  Overall I found Carnival games to be an excellent showcase for the various uses of the Wii-Mote 
 and generally simple for anyone to pick up and play, another reason why the Wii is so largely successful. 
 There is enough challenge within each of the 25 games to keep you at least interested for a good 
 portion of time, but it should be noted that this is not the type of game you should be running 
 to the check out with if you have a single wii-mote and you are looking for some single player 
 action. 
  
  This is a "group" game plain and simple and it's within that group aspect that the game really 
 does shine. While the 25 games is a rather limited number it was surprising how addictive some 
 of those games were.
  
  The strong man which required you to shake the Wii-Mote to build up strength so your hammer could 
 hit the panel was one that many of my guests enjoyed for a prolonged period. 
  
  While I will agree paying full price for 25 mini-games is a little steep its hardly outside the 
 ordinary with games like Xbox Live Arcade Unplugged Volume 1 retailing for nearly full price when 
 it was released, or a game like Fusion Frenzy all of which for some reason scored more acclaim 
 with the critics.
  
  What really will strike the user as interesting is the accurate feel of doing some of the motions 
 while playing the games, clearly some are completely different then the action taken during the 
 real game, some are very similar. 
  
  While I cannot say this game is a steal at full retail price I can certainly say for those who 
 use their Wii's as an "Alternative" gaming console you will get a wide range of functionality out 
 of your wii-mote, and at the end of the day isn't that why we bought a Wii in the first place? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrserv0n18
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Lots of mini games, some are really fun, some are awful..
  
  I unlocked super ring toss and have YET to ever throw one ring into the play area, I mean comon, 
 similar events suffer the same problem.
  
  Other games like the token machine where you drop the coins, endless fun for me, I love that game 
 in real life and it feels just as rewarding as the real game.
  I liked the claw, the milk bottles, about 10 others, Other than a few duds its a good game, and 
 defiantly worth more than the 4.5 GS gave it.. they claim its not fun to win virtual prizes.. well 
 its a virtual carnival you idiots, you want them to mail you a stuffed animal?
  
  Had 3 friends over to play, all had a good time, loved how the multiplayer can pick 7 random events 
 so you don't know what your in for till it comes up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  No, its not the best game in the world but this review should tap on both it's pros and cons for 
 those considering this game.
  
  The Good:
  
  It's a unique experience, thats a fact. It can be fun for all ages which further enhances it's 
 brilliant use of the wiimote. It's great if you dont want to spend hundreds in a carnival/them 
 park, if you want a decent family game or are throwing a party. All the minigames are categorized 
 and can become quite challenging.
  
  The Bad:
  
  It's not exactly a 1/1 game if you know what i mean... Meh, you might not so what im trying to 
 say is that the wiimote does'nt always respond. Furthermore, the game can be discouraging for example, 
 if you miss a target the carnival hoster will laught at you or if you miss a hoop they'll tell 
 you, "the ball goes in the hoop" or "next time shoot with your eyes open." The visual work should 
 also be touched upon, graphics are mii style, and thats a compliment right there....
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall if you lower the volume, you should'nt hear the spoken complaints/annoying 
 jokes. The minigames are fun so the graphics are cancelled out. Makes for a fun multiplayer.... 
 Eh, 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Since there aren't many reviews on this one I wanted to make one so people could see that there 
 is fun to be had here. Don't expect fall off your couch action or anything but this game definitely 
 has a certain charm to it. A great thing is that pretty much any carnival game you can remember 
 is in this game and both young and old can enjoy it; each group should just approach it differently.
 
  
  There are single player &amp; multiplayer modes though you can only win prizes in single player. 
 This was kind of a disappointment to me in that most of this games value comes from its multiplayer.
 
  
  Up to 4 can play at a time though there is room to save up to 7 characters.
  
  You'll start by making a character and customizing his or her appearance. Not a huge amount of 
 available options here but it looks like there are quite a few to be unlocked.
  
  You can then choose an area to start; each area has 4 or so games within it, as well as a prize 
 machine and a set of unlockable games.
  
  Multiplayer has two modes within it, Head to head in which you can step up to any game you like 
 and play against each other, and Competition where 5 events are selected randomly and you face 
 off to see who wins most. Unfortunately you cannot win prizes or play the machines in each area. 
 It's too bad because I really can't see myself using those if playing single player. Any humor 
 from them would mostly come from being in a group of people who can laugh at each other.
  
  When playing in single player mode, you may win prizes and tickets. Prizes can be small medium 
 or large depending on how well you did in the game. Even if you do horribly you will often win 
 a small prize. Winning at games and getting prizes will allow you to unlock new ways to customize 
 your character, and there are quite a few unlockables that are actually fairly satisfying to receive.
 
  
  You can play a game a bunch of times if you like and if you keep winning prizes there, you can 
 trade them in for larger ones. Each game gives its own set of prizes so you'll have to win at each 
 of them if you want them all. For example if you win 4 smalls at Ring Toss you cannot go and upgrade 
 them at the Hoops booth.
  
  The small and medium prizes appear just as 2d images of toys n things but the large and extra large 
 are move 3d and rotate able when youre checking them out. These ones also often have a cute or 
 funny sound bite accompanying them.
  
  If you want to admire the prizes youve won you can go to an area called Prize Alley to check out 
 all the cool stuff you've won.
  
  There is good humor to the game with it poking fun at itself at times where the game is obviously 
 completely random and there were a couple of unlockables that had sound bites that made me chuckle.
 
  
  For me there isn't a tone of value in its single player as there isnt a tone of depth to this 
 game, sure it's ok but just doesn't have enough to it to keep you interested for extended periods 
 of time. Multiplayer is where this game makes up for it as it can be fun for the kids and when 
 the adults get a hold of it, it can make for a very effective drinking game.
  
  Graphics are descent with a kiddy feel to them, pretty much what you would expect from a title 
 like this. Theres not a whole lot of jaggies and you can get your character looking pretty goofy.
 
  
  Sound is good and is just what you'd expect from a Carnival. There is a nice voice introduction 
 made by the game keeper before each game which is a nice touch.
  
  Controls are good and fairly responsive to your gestures. There is a couple game where it seems 
 it could have been tweeked a bit but for the most part it isnt a problem. The nunchuck is not 
 used for this game.
  
  Read below for a rundown of each game.
  
  Fortune Way
  
  Alley Ball - Swing the remote to roll the ball down the lane and up into the holes to try and score 
 the most points. The game responds to how quickly you swing the remote. You can also adjust your 
 body position with respect to the lane and twist your character on his/her spot to try and aim 
 for that 100 pointer. This game is challenging and can be fun.
  
  Test Your Strength - Shake the remote to power up your hit and then when your ready, swing the 
 remote like a hammer and tap the appropriate button while trying to time it when you see a green 
 dot on the target. You will most likely then be called a weakling. Another challenging game that 
 can be funny (when you watch other people try it)
  
  Hoops - One of my favorites. Use an overhand throwing motion to try and sink as many baskets as 
 you can in the given time frame. The in-game instructions tell you to twist the remote to aim but 
 this seems unnecessary as I was able to make baskets no matter which way I had my remote twisted. 
 It seemed to be more important to throw with the right amount of power. This game I really like 
 and it will have you and your friends throwing frantically to get the most baskets.
  
  Collection Plate - Move left or right and lock yourself a target by aiming the remote at the screen 
 and hitting the appropriate button. Then use a disc throwing motion to try and land a coin on one 
 of the plates. Be careful not to throw too hard or too soft or you'll miss the play area entirely! 
 This is one of those random ones just like at real Carnivals where you kind of just hope that you 
 score a point. (but it seemed so easy, right?!)
  
  The Great Swami - This is a little booth you can go to where there is a fortune teller. For 15 
 tickets it will answer a yes or no question. All you have to do is hold the remote to your head 
 and ask it a question... how could I resist? I'll let you check this one out for yourself.
  
  There are also two locked Super Games at Fortune Way.
  
  Claw Alley
  
  Clown Splash 
 - Shake your remote to build up pressure in your water gun. Now aim at the clowns mouth and be 
 the first to fill up and pop the balloon on his head! This one is difficult because it can be difficult 
 to tell where your squirt is actually going. A crosshair or better graphics for the water would 
 have been welcome here. Hole in One - Line up your shot with the control pad and step up to it 
 with the appropriate button, swing the remote golf club style and release said button to try and 
 sink the putt. The controls respond reasonably well though it can be quite difficult to get jut 
 the right weight to your putt, but hey what do you expect from them Carnies!! If you sink a putt 
 the next try will be more difficult and trust me it aint easy. Don't expect realistic golf here.
 
  
  Ring Toss - Move left or right to aim yourself and then use a disc throwing motion to try and get 
 your ring on the neck of a bottle. The amount of weight you put on it will determine where it goes 
 but this is another one of those that is largely random but very fun as part of a drinking game.
 
  
  Ka-Pow - Another one of my favorites. Remember those clown heads with fuzzy hair you always see 
 people whipping softballs at as hard as they can that were made mostly hair? Well this is those 
 and they have just as much hair if not more. When the game starts there will be a green icon that 
 moves on its own past the clown heads. Your job is to use an overhand throwing motion and try and 
 time it so that when you throw, the green icon is on one of the clownheads. Do this and you score 
 a hit!
  
  The Claw - Just like you see at Denny's more often than you care to admit. Pump 25 tickets into 
 this machine and tilt your remote like a joystick as you attempt to get the claw to hover over 
 the prize you want. When ready hit the appropriate button and hope it grabs something for you!
 
  
  There are also two locked Super Games at Claw Alley. I was able to unlock one of them but I won't 
 spoil it other than to say it is a fun game.
  
  Love Lane
  
  Spilled Milk - Try and knock down the 3 stacked milk bottles by using an overhand throwing motion 
 to throw a ball at them. There will be a targeting icon moving around in front of the bottles and 
 your job is to time your throw just right so the green icon is at the right spot. This is one of 
 those ones that get you hooked because you get so close every time!
  
  Frog Leap  This is only 1 of 2 games that I've never seen at a Carnival. Basically there is a 
 bunch of lily pads rotating on water around one stationary lily and you have to catapult a frog 
 onto any one of them by first aiming your catapult and then use the overhand motion to smack the 
 catapult and launch the frog. This one is quite difficult other than the one stationary lily.
 
  
  Balloon Darts - Yet another favorite. Aim the remote at the screen just like you would a real dart, 
 when ready use a sharp forward motion to release it. Be mindful though that if your forward motion 
 isn't fast enough, your dart will fall short. Hit the smaller Balloons for more points and better 
 prizes!!
  
  Bowler Coaster - Your goal is to get the bowling ball to roll along the track and have enough power 
 to get over the hump and sit in the safe zone. The catch is that too much or too little power the 
 ball will either not make it over the hump, or make it over and roll right back to you. You control 
 how much power you roll the ball with by using a sort of chopping motion over the ball to spin 
 it in place, once you have it spinning as fast as you want it, hit the appropriate button to let 
 the ball go and hope it sits in that special zone!
  
  Meter O Love - I had a good chuckle at this one as its instructions are Hold Wii Remote on heart. 
 Strike a pose. Prepare to be judged. I won't reveal which pose I did strike but suffice it to 
 say, they were pretty much right on the money when I got the wild rank. This one'll cost ya 15 
 tickets.
  
  Again there are 2 super games locked here at Love Lane, and again I was able to unlock one of them 
 and just like last time; it's a good game worth unlocking. Lucky Pass
  
  Nerves-o-Steel - You have to move a ring along a fixed bar without having it touch. The curves 
 on the bar get more elaborate as you succeed. First you grab the ring on the end of a stick sort 
 of thing with the appropriate button, then you move the remote horizontally while twisting the 
 remote in such a way that the ring on the end doesn't come in contact with the metal bar. This 
 one can be frustrating.
  
  Lucky Cups - Another one of those random ones. Aim by pointing the remote at the screen and lock 
 your target by pressing the appropriate button. You then use an underhand throwing motion and hope 
 your ball lands in a colored cup.
  
  Day at the Races - Roll as many balls into the holes as possible to get your horse to advance along 
 the track. You hold the remote sideways in front of you like it is a disc you are about to throw 
 and tilt it to aim, then flick your wrist in a throwing motion to roll the ball. The aiming can 
 be tricky here but this game can be a lot of fun.
  
  Dunk Tank - Try to dunk the hillbilly in the tank by using the overhand throwing motion and timing 
 your throw for when the spiraling green icon is on the target. Dunk him thrice for da big prize.
 
  
  Push A Prize - This one is hard to describe, but for 25 tickets you can try to drop coins onto 
 moving slats to get them to pile up enough to fall into the receptacle. You'll be lucky if you 
 break even.
  
  Like the other areas, there are two other locked super Games here at Lucky Pass.
  
  Rodent 
 Row Shooting Gallery - A Favorite. Aim the remote at the screen and take out as many ducks as possible 
 without touching the red ones. Hit the tiny bulls eyes for more points.
  
  Pigskin Pass - The only other game I haven't seen in a real Carnival. Use your remote just like 
 you were throwing a dart. Try and time it so your throw makes it through the moving tire and on 
 to the receiver.
  
  Shoot for the Stars - It's that game your parents wouldn't let you play when you were young. Aim 
 the remote at the screen and use your gun to make as much of the star on the paper target disappear 
 as you can with the amount of ammo given.
  
  Buckets of Fun - Use an underhand throwing motion and try and toss the ball into the angled basket 
 with the bouncy backing. Just as hard in this game as it is in real life, maybe harder since the 
 baskets get more difficult as you score.
  
  Going Nuts - Pay 25 tickets to hold the remote much like a steering wheel only with the buttons 
 facing up. You then tilt back and forth to try and get your squirrel to catch nuts as they fall 
 down a grid in a Plinko-like fashion. There are also 2 unlockable Super Games at Rodent Row, 1 
 of which I was able to unlock. Again I was happy to find a descent game here.
  
  So overall most games are pretty fun. I couldnt see myself spending too much time on this one 
 in single player, which is unfortunate since there are a gaggle of unlocks. I really wish you could 
 win tickets and prizes in multiplayer mode. It would have made a significant difference in my scoring.
 
  
  This is a child friendly title and Im sure the kids would have a great time playing it. But for 
 those of us without children this game can be really fun if you incorporate it into a party drinking 
 game. If you use my rules youd have a good twist on by the time we ran through the games.
  
  The price tag may be a little steep for what you get, but if you find this game at a reduced 
 pricegrab it for sure. There are some fun times to be had here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z0ot
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Each mini-game is very easy. The controls are extremely simple. For some people this will equate 
 to a terrible game. However, these traits probably make Carnival Games one of the most accessible 
 games available for the Wii.
  
  If you have very young children who are struggling with Wii Sports controls, if you want to include 
 grandma in the party, or if you are very drunk, this game can be great.
  
  An overly-clever interface, poor textures, and a few serious bugs mar the experience (ironic since 
 half the credits are QA personnel) . Still, my 3-year old loves playing, and I love the fact that 
 I've found a video game we can play together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uaretofu
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the worst game I have ever played. I think I would enjoy using the disc as 
 a Frisbee before playing it again. The graphics were horrible. I have played some NES games which 
 had better graphical abilities The re-playability was non-existent. How may times can you really 
 deal with throwing a ball that has a lag time of 0.5 seconds. Take Gamespot's rating for what it 
 is. I would even go so far as to say Gamespot over-rated this game by about 10 points. I would 
 rather wax the floor than play this game. Go waste $40 on the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bers316
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from this game but it surprised me. This game is fun, especially playing 
 it multi player.
  
  Yes its shallow, but really what would you expect from a game about Carnival games? I did not really 
 have any gripes about the controls and I have played all the different games a fair number of times. 
 Some are harder then others, but this game would be far less fun if they were all a cakewalk. Its 
 addicting trying to get perfect scores on the different games so you can unlock all the goofy prizes.
 
  
  Playing this game with friends is definitely where this game shines. The games go quickly, with 
 very little waiting around (unlike mario party) , so people dont get bored waiting for their turn. 
 You can also play head to head so everyone plays at once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superlemons
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  A pretty good buy, this game is surprisingly really fun, especially when you have a couple of friends. 
 Beats Mario Party 8 by a mile, this game contains all the classic games that you find in a carnival.
 
  
  Absolutely worth it if u like mini games.
  
  I have to agree that a few of the minigames may not be very responsive and are based on luck, the 
 majority of them are really enjoyable. I had a party with my friends and we had a great time with 
 4 players playing. I highly recommend well worth the price. I disagree with the gamspot review. 
 This games deserves at least a solid 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbongo22
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  My son loves this game. For adults, it is VERY repetive. They did take advantage of the Wii controller 
 and lot of the interaction mimics the movements you would do to actually play the games were you 
 at a carnaval. You win prizes just like you would at a real carnival staring from the coveted spider 
 ring up though a bullhorn. I can see this being fun for a large group of people, drunk people, 
 or for youngins, but if you are over 10, dont waste the $ $ $. If they wanted to give a dose of 
 reality, they would have made you spend 300$ to walk out with a tiny stuffed ALF doll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triplehelixcs
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I haven't taken the time to play through every mod in this game, but the multiplayer mod is all 
 I've been doing with my friends. It's fun to play the games with other people, and I live in a 
 college dorm so I always have people around who want to try their luck at a game that has a learning 
 curve of about 5 minutes. Decent selection of games, would have been even better if they added 
 more. Singleplayer doesn't have the spark to make you want to play it over any other games in your 
 collection. And the fact that it doesn't even use the Mii system of the wii is just odd. Character 
 creation is dumb and very lacking, considering the Mii's would have been very sufficient.
  Sometimes it can be a bit confusing about who's turn it is, as the characters aren't customizable 
 that they all look almost the same. The controls are good, a some of the minigame's controls are 
 mostly random (ring toss, and coin toss are a tossup) . But of a lot of the game has to do with 
 timing, and they all effectively use the motion controls of the Wii in some way or another.
  If released at a budget price I'd say this game is a definite choice of a new game to add to your 
 collection, but it's not really worth picking up unless you see it on sale and have lots of friends 
 willing to play it with you. If you play mostly by yourself, put your money toward Metroid Prime 
 3 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I hate when some reveiwer says things like Leave it on the shelf it is over priced, and wonky controls. 
 Carnival games is just that when you go to a Carnival you throw a dart it costs a buck or two and 
 thats the game it's over in a second that's it you either win or you don't!
  
  Why cant people except the game as it really is Carnival games is a fantastic collection of the 
 games we all stupidly pay for when we go to a Carnival or Bazar. We pay for them to win the You 
 guessed it dumb little plastic toy or the stuffed animal we just cant' go home without, That will 
 remain in the corner collecting dust until we decide why did it in the first place. Carnival games 
 is a fun collection of great old time money pinchers that brings back the fun of competition and 
 really shines with some great ideas and mechanics. I don't care what the critics say I was a carney 
 for over 5 years so I appreciate what went into this game and so should you after playing a few 
 hours of it with your friends. Go get it and test your strenghth or just lay back and shoot out 
 a star with the 300 shot BB air powerd BB gun it's a Blast !!
  
  You reveiwers a ruining the WII Games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boo111
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I feel pain in my hand because of this game. control is very bad specially for kids. Boring cause 
 u can't use the other wii remote only one wii remote will work and u have to share it with other.
 
  
  Also to unlock everything, u need to play each character in single player to unlock everything 
 in the game. each player must play to unlock for himself thats mean you will not get anything unlocked 
 in player one profile if u unlocked everything in player two profile. Bad Idea!!!!!
  
  The characters are boring. sound is normal and the gameplay is just pain. I found no fun in this 
 game and non of my kids like it. there are three types of control. u can apply them on the all 
 games.
  
  try Mario party. its better a lot than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  At first glance Carnival Games looks like a fun title that brings all the great games you see at 
 a carnival in to your home. Thats exactly what it does.
  
  There are 35 carnival games total and lots of prizes to be won. You win unlockables like new games 
 and more customizing options for your character.
  
  The Wiimote has been implemented very appropriately for this game. The test your strength game 
 is done by shaking the wiimote until your power goes up then swing the wiimote downwards to try 
 to make the bell ring. Another fun game (my favorite) is the game where you have to shoot the red 
 star out using the pellet gun. It works the same way in this game. Aim and start shooting that 
 star. My best is 88%. Its just as hard as it is in real life. Another one is the dart throwing. 
 You know the game where you have a wall of balloons and you have to pop 3 of the same color to 
 win? Well on the Wii you have to hold the Wiimote just like a dart and then aim and throw! Make 
 sure your strap is on tight lol.
  
  These are just a couple ways the Nintendo Wii has made these great carnival games fun in your home. 
 Here is more of the lowdown.
  
  Graphics
  You dont own the Wii for the graphics obviously though all the games are nicely done and look pretty 
 darn good.
  
  Sound
  I guess it does sound like you are at the carnival lol.
  
  Gameplay
  There is a single player mode but it is nothing like playing with another person or 
 persons. I played with 3 other people and we had a great time! Include some alcohol and you have 
 a fantastic drinking game!!!!!!!!
  
  Overall
  
  Singleplayer score = 7
  
  Multiplayer score = 8.5
  
  Multiplayer score with alcohol = 9.75 ********* Drinking should 
 only be done by those 21 and older. This review does not mean those under the age should go buy 
 some beer and start playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, what is this game not- a serious affair with tons of depth and story telling. What this game 
 is- an addictive light hearted game with TONS of replayability. The first thing I thought of when 
 I popped this disk in was WII Play. This game uses the WII Mote in a very interesting fashion. 
 Some of the games are downright frustraiting, others are so easy you will have all the prizes in 
 no time! This game just keeps bringing you back in time and time again. Of the MANY carnival games 
 in the game I keep coming back to Alleyball (SKIBALL) , and Duck Shoot. The Frog splash made me 
 want to scream at the screen and so did the football toss. The Milk Jug game was great and I could 
 spend an hour on each individual game's strengths and weeknesses, but I wont. Overall the game 
 does have some glitchy controls but as a whole it will keep you entertained for hours! Multiplayer 
 is just downright fun as well (be sure to have lots of WIIMOTES!) . Biggest complaint that I have 
 with the game is that it does not use your MII (why the heck did I spend so much time creating 
 the darn thing if not to use it!!!) and would it not be totally cool if it would add to your MII 
 outside of the game (like an achievement on the 360) . Like if you win a prize your MII is wearing 
 it on the MII channel.) That would add a little something but its not there and there is no use 
 worrying with that. Overall this is a definate buy if you own a WII, If you hated WII Sports and 
 WII Play look for something else though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  The overall gameplay is great even though it is very simple and 100% anti-hard core gaming but 
 it is a great game to play for like 10 to 30 minutes, maybe after lunch and before piano lessons, 
 when you and your family groups up in the living room after dinner. Everything seems to be in place 
 but there are SOME things that could have made this game a bit better. First off, some of the available 
 player look too wierd, wacky, and random to fit the theme of the game even THOUGH it is a carnival 
 game. It probably wouldn't attract Sometimes you just have to stop yourself from going overboard. 
 One thing to replace this would be miis with customizable features, such as clown affros, etc. 
 This would make this a LOT more flexible because you can't hate yourself even when your funky. 
 Just like in disneyland where everyone wears mouse ears. But other than the negatives lets get 
 with the POSITIVES... The controls are great, every minigame has it's own spark of uniqueness to 
 it so you won't exactly feel like you are doing the same thing over and over again. This is definitely 
 a flaw in mario party 8 where they reuse controls untill the completely wash out the fun. I would 
 exactly say another minigame collection would be the something you HAVE to get for the wii but 
 it IS a game to get if they lower the prices a bit. I think everyone is done with these two words: 
 Wii + Minigames. And what does that result in? this: Wii + Minigames = another played out game. 
 But just because it's played out doesn't mean its not fun. Unless your that kind of goofy carefree 
 person, Carnival Games is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank242
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  its a fantastic and well done game i think its the best non nintendo game on the sistem for all 
 ages and peoples with all games skills can play and have fun the motion control works perfect, i 
 think the wii its all about this clever games fun games im 33 years old i play videogames for mor 
 than 25 years ind i starting to have some fun again with the wii if more conpanys start to make 
 good games not bad ports they are going to make some cash couse the wii its on the run but need 
 some more exciting games like this one sorry for my bad english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethsesh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for anyone looking for something to play on their wii with friends. It has 
 alot of carnival games, about 20 with some more unlockable games and various games that are in 
 arcades. With the exception of a few games with terrible controls, they are pretty straightforward 
 and fun to play for anyone. The game has a singleplayer mode where you try and win the carnival 
 games to get prizes, tickets, and unlock new games and character costumes. The multiplayer has 
 up to 4 people competing in 5 randomly selected games to see who is the best at the carnival. The 
 games are plentiful, from darts, skee ball, basketball, ring toss, water gun, to the best game, 
 test of strength. I was skeptical about first purchasing this game because it is not made by nintendo, 
 but this game didnt disappoint. It doesnt use Miis unfortunately, as it has you create separate 
 carnival characters for use in the game. But other than that the motion control is great and responsive 
 in most games, and will offer a fun and challenging mini game experience for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richie894
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  For me this is the best game which I have played on the Wii. It is fun and suitable for all ages. 
 The game uses the Wii Remote superbly. All motions are smooth and life like.
  
  Each mini game has a nice intro and tutorial of how to play it. You can skip this when you play 
 the games again at a later time.
  
  All of the favorites are on there - from Skeeball to ring toss. You win prizes just like at a real 
 carnival - but you dont have to pay out $3-5 a game like in real life. You can upgrade prizes to 
 unlock new games and items of clothing for your character.
  
  This is a true sleeper hit and I rate it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nateduke
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Im a 27 year old guy who plays wii games for fun with friends and family. This is the best collection 
 of mini games out there and I've played them all. I hope this gets more attention because it deserves 
 to be sold!!! If your looking for the best casual game out there, you can't go wrong with this 
 one... and there's tons of stuff to do, unlock, and find. The controls are perfect. Really feels 
 like I'm playing the real games! This is the most realistic wii game to date. 25 carnival games 
 to play and you'll recognize every one of them GREAT GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spokes33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Great Game... My only complaint is that on the head to head mode there should be more split screen 
 action... not turn based...
  
  You can smell the cotton candy!
  
  Great for the Family, it's a pick up and go game that has a lot of variety. The unlocks are easy 
 to do, but seem to be achieved relatively quickly.
  
  The load refresh times are fairly lengthy, but not tedious.
  
  The wii is the perfect platform 
 for this genre of game... a party pleaser!
  
  This might have been a good opportunity to use our own Mii's, I wonder why NOA chose not to employ 
 them in this particular game.
  
  gameplay is smooth, and the wiimote moves imitate the natural gameplay very well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcarlso111
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for an outstanding action game look somewhere else. If you're looking for a simple 
 fun game that you can enjoy with your kids, then this is a great game! I have two 6-year olds and 
 we all have a blast together playing these mini games, winning tickets and prizes, winning different 
 pieces of clothing and dressing your character. This is the perfect game to enjoy with your famliy. 
 It's not too complicated, not too deep but very enjoyable. I recommend it especially with the $40 
 price tag. There aren't many games out there that you can enjoy with your kids... this is the one 
 to get! Boogie sucked, Carnival Games rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  lot of games to chose from. i like the horse racing darts at the balloons . the strongman ring 
 that bell. duck shoot. skeeball. lot here and you can unlock new games win prizes. ring toss seems 
 hard maybe i need to get the controlls down with the game so far it comes off hard ring toss. the 
 sounds are ok the graphics look good. makes me think of the days when a kid in the summer going 
 to the carnival and having fun. only thing the game dont have is that great carnival food. so for 
 that friday night fun with the family carnival games is great family fun. and the price is right 
 as well, the wii pulls off these games very well, so go out and buy carnival games its worth the 
 price for the fun. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was a new try at the whole carnival idea. It worked for me and my family!
  
  You get to play lots of classic carnival mini-games like throw-the-ball-in-the-hole horse races 
 that are very enjoyable. While some minigames are not as good, some are amazingly detailed and 
 addicting. The sound is good but the voice-acting animations are horrid and look like they were 
 made 6 years ago.
  
  I love the prizes... the animations are funny and a creative way to keep you playing! I in my own 
 way ended up playing to keep getting prizes!
  
  Fun for anyone with a wii looking to go to the carnival... virtually! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karmaxdust
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this based on about 5 hours of game play. Some games are more fun than others. A 
 coupleof my favorites are alleyball and day at the races. If you have friends or family playing 
 with you this game is a lot of fun. I can see the potential of this game getting boring if you 
 play by yourself. The animations are done pretty well and most of the games are fun. I still have 
 a lot of games I have yet to unlock but so far so good!
  I found this game to be more fun than Mario Party 8, Wario Ware, and Wii play. If you're still 
 hesistant, I guess you can always rent it first, but I'd recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a good party game for my Wii when I happened upon this little gem the day my 
 store recieved, the last copy too. I didn't want the standard Mario Party 8, WarioWare or even 
 Raving Rabbids. I was looking for an oddball, and Carnival Games kind of appealed to me. So I bought, 
 and boy, am I lucky I did. This game has a decent customisation screen (right now my character 
 is a monkey sheriff) , a great sense of humor, making fun of carnies every chance they get and most 
 importantly, a great set of minigames. The one flaw I can find is lazy, blurry graphics but the 
 game feels overall great, all the games have awesome responsiveness and I don't see why not to 
 get this game over Mario Party. If your looking for a party game, carnival games is not a ripoff 
 like its real-life counterpart. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
