-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Castlevania Judgment
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/castlevaniajudgment/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unlocking new gear in Castle mode is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unwieldy controls.
 Devoid of character balance.
 Intolerable camera.
 Annoying characters, combat, and stories.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 276 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Eighting
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Castlevania's switch from 2D side-scrolling to 3D fighting is an endless stream of missteps that 
 will frustrate even series devotees. 

  To its credit, Castlevania Judgment has high ambitions. Rather than cloning a classic one-vs. one 
 brawler and shoehorning Castlevania characters into it, Judgment fuses multiple fighting game philosophies 
 in an effort to separate itself from its side-scrolling heritage. Unfortunately, it takes the borrowed 
 ideas two steps back without pushing them forward. What you're left with is a mishmash of dull 
 gameplay made up of disparate bits and pieces of various games, strung together with tragically 
 applied motion-controlled attacks. The poor execution on such a high-potential premise will frustrate 
 you from your very first fight until the moment you throw in the towel.  

           Awkward camera angles and clutter are not conducive to having fun.      

  Judgment's 
 influences are obvious from the start. Uniting weapons-based combat and big-chested babes reaks 
 of Soul Calibur, while the gameplay is reminiscent of Power Stone at times. Even the menus and 
 prefight banter between armor-clad characters feel familiar. But because it ditches deep combos, 
 strategic fighting, and a balanced cast of characters, Judgment isn't the solid fighter it could 
 have been. Once you and your opponent put up your dukes, you're free to roam around the 3D arenas 
 and scour for ranged weapon pickups stashed in breakable boxes. Using throwing knives, hungry bats, 
 and other Castlevania-themed goodies isn't very useful, though. Simply flicking the analog stick 
 lets you easily evade the ranged attacks, which don't deal significant damage to begin with. If 
 you opt to avoid using them, however, the A button loses its functionality. This is particularly 
 onerous when you consider that mapping an attack to the A button could have decreased the amount 
 of spastic waggling you'll have to endure.  

  Your gestures don't really resemble the onscreen action, and the painfully unresponsive controls 
 involve a lot of wildly waggling your Wii Remote. Regardless of which direction you swing your 
 controller in or how quickly you swing it, your character's combo never changes from the standard 
 set of sword swings and whip lashes, so there's very little in the way of dynamic combat. The tutorial 
 even goes so far as to point out that there's only one set of attacks for each character, so fights 
 are rarely exciting. Alternatively, you can plug in your Gamecube or Classic controller to alleviate 
 the woes of the clunky gesture-based combat in exchange for equally awkward button mashing. Regardless 
 of which controller you use, you'll still be stuck with bland brawling. The only variety stems 
 from tapping the A or B button to modify your standard combo, dealing more damage at the cost of 
 vulnerability. This risk-vs.-reward choice is the sole technical aspect of the game. Fights otherwise 
 boil down to one-round bouts wherein the better character -- not player -- wins the match. Judgment 
 ditches the traditional concept of pitting balanced brawlers against each other in favor of overpowering 
 fan favorites like Alucard, Maria Renard, and Simon Belmont. Meanwhile, third-rate characters like 
 Eric Lecarde, Cornell, and the Golem are cripplingly weak and easily disposed of by the faster 
 and stronger collective of famous faces.  

  New fighters are unlocked by completing each of the thinly laid-out storylines, but your efforts 
 feel wasted since each awarded brawler feels weaker and slower than the last. If you decide to 
 play through everyone's campaign, you'll find yourself struggling with these underpowered wimps 
 who continually lose to superior enemies. This is annoying if you want to open up the entire roster, 
 which takes more than 12 career completions. To make matters worse, the storytelling is downright 
 maddening. Nothing hurts more than seeing your favorite characters reduced from menacing vampire 
 hunters to a pack of blithering idiots. For example, an immature obsession with gigantic breasts 
 sparks a number of Maria's jealousy-fueled fights. Each character has a quirk, but it's never interesting 
 or suitable.  

  But even poor characters and story take a backseat to Judgment's insufferable camera. Instead of 
 remaining stationary while the one-on-one fight plays out, it zooms out as you approach the front 
 of the screen and tunnels inward as you retreat. Complicating things further are item caches and 
 opponents that obscure the already problematic perspective, so it's nearly impossible to keep tabs 
 on the action. As if things couldn't get any worse, each arena is riddled with bothersome traps 
 that interrupt the flow of the fast-paced fights: poison pits, lava lakes, laser beams, springing 
 spikes, kraken tentacles, and oscillating axes don't benefit the battleground in any capacity. 
 More often they're the cause of reproducible glitches wherein AI fighters remain frozen in the 
 trap until their health depletes to zero. The added clutter keeps you on your toes, but it takes 
 away from the admirable detail of each arena. The breakable stained-glass windows of a church, 
 rotting trees in a dying forest, and the lavish layout of Dracula's regal palace outshine the disappointing 
 characters. The whole cast sports horrible costume redesigns featuring plenty of belts, chains 
 and pointy armor that make characters like Simon, Sypha, Eric and Maria wholly unrecognizable. 
 On top of that, the poorly rendered anime-influenced art suffers from jagged edges and crummy, 
 single-color textures. They look out of place among the pretty, more realistic environments.  

 
           The stages look cool, but the characters are less impressive.      

  If you're just looking to fight, Judgment is full of game modes. On top of the expected Story mode 
 and local multiplayer, online fighting adds longevity for anyone determined enough to stick out 
 the frustrations of finding an opponent. Sadly, the community is totally barren as of this writing. 
 Survival mode proves to be too repetitive with its fight-until-you-die mentality, and Arcade mode 
 is just a series of battles with a time ticker. So the Castle mode is left to carry the weight. 
 Similar to Soul Calibur II's Conquest game variant, you'll fend off hordes of minor enemies like 
 monsters and zombies (as well as the occasional giant boss character) in a series of challenges 
 as you unlock new gear to equip. It's addictive to earn goofy items like top hats and sunglasses, 
 since the approach is so dissimilar to that of the two-man bouts, and a tolerable new camera angle 
 makes for fun God of War-like arena battles.  

  Unfortunately, one worthwhile mode and new equipment can't save Castlevania Judgment from its mountainous 
 pile of problems. The unforgivable flaws drain nearly every ounce of enjoyment from the fighter, 
 and whatever aspiration it had falls flat on its face. The abhorrent camera, dreadful art, and 
 cumbersome controls are for masochistic applicants only; fans of the franchise, fighting, or fun 
 will find nothing of value in this sloppy cash-in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: beny_pimpster
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 1:33 am PT
Review:  Castlevania fans everywhere are pissed about this game, whilst a select few are not. I am one of 
 this few.
  
  Fanboys of the CV games will automatically shoot Judgment down with the facts that one: it's a 
 Fighter, not RPG, and two: the character designs are horrid.
  
  Their words mean nothing. Zip. Zilch. Nada. The character designs are beautiful. The CV Fans probably 
 are used to the character looks they know and love. Change is good. And to support this, Carmilla 
 has a stunning new look. It's better than her "naked, blue haired, flying skull-riding" look. XD
 
  
  This is definitely a good game for people new to the Castvania game collection. It introduces a 
 generous amount of characters and a few of their storylines.
  
  The music for this game is awesome. Much of it are remakes from previous titles, and they're better 
 than ever. The music makes up 10% of the loveableness of the game.
  
  Graphics: mixed feelings. The character models are perfect. Sadly, their English translation lip-syncing 
 is terrible. In the story mode cutscenes, the main character shows as much emotion as Keanu Reeves. 
 The camera angles can also be aggrivating. For 10 seconds whilst playing myself, I found myself 
 looking at a huge zombie's back while trying to hit my opponent. Not pretty.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely a masterpiece. You non-Wii owners have a good reason to be jealous 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Playing Castlevania Judgment has been one of the worst gaming related experiences I've had in a 
 long time. This breakdown should explain it,
  
  Gameplay: The formula that judgment follows has been done countless times before. Ordinarily that 
 would be fine, but the developers have done the impossible and actually ruined a fighting game! 
 How is this possible you ask? Well, the characters are way too unbalanced. Everyone can just pick 
 Dracula and easily win the match instead of picking any other character in the entire game! Another 
 thing that ruins the seemingly un-ruin able formula is that every character has a really cheap 
 attack that brings the other player's health meter to a half, and it is not even difficult to use 
 this move. You only need to press one button! Let's go over that again, if you press just one button 
 the other player loses half of their health! What's the point in even playing the game when you 
 can end it that easily? Let's move on to the roster. There are only 14 playable characters in this 
 game. I've seen N64 games with bigger rosters than that. In summary, Castlevania Judgment is just 
 the same old fighting game; except broken and with a roster than only would have been good if it 
 was the 1990's.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics, unlike everything else in the game, are actually really good. The graphics 
 in this game are the only thing preventing me from giving this game a complete 1 out of 10.
  
  
  Sound: Wow. And I thought the gameplay was bad. Playing this game with the sound on is 
 like listening to a brutal murdering while a metal fork is stuck in a running garbage disposal. 
 That's just the soundtrack. The acting is so bad that I can't even begin to explain it. I'll put 
 it this way: the acting is bad enough to make person physically sick. The sound is the worst aspect 
 of the game.
  
  
  Control: Oh this game just gets worse and worse. On top of the broken gameplay mechanics, the controls 
 don't even respond half of the Time! All that you can do is wave the remote around like an idiot 
 and hope that your character does something. Every aspect of Castlevania judgment is broken.
  
  
  Replay value: The unlockables might keep you playing for a day or two, and I use the term 
 "playing" loosely. At maximum, the replay value is a week, and if you play it any longer than that, 
 I feel very sorry for you.
  
  Overall: I don't recommend this too anyone. Nothing is done right and to play it is just too painful. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Ah the Fighting Game, the very mention of the words conjurs up images of the greatness that is 
 Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter, SoulCaliber, and Killer Instinct. However it also conjurs up images 
 of some games that are better left in the gutter, games such as Rise of the Robots, 3D Ballz, Kasumi 
 Ninja and the mother of all disasters Shaq Fu. Castlevania Judgement, falls into the latter catagory. 
 
  
  Over all the game itself isn't that bad, and is a very interesting concept that adds some much 
 needed variety to the Castlevania seires. The graphics are probably some of the best that the Wii 
 can produce, and containes many fan favorite characters from the Castlevania seires including: 
 Simon and Trever Belmont, Alucard, and of course primary villian extrodinar: Dracula. The special 
 movies, once executed are actually very well done. However the graphics are the only thing that 
 this game has going for it, and say it with me: Amazing Graphics does not a good game make. 
  
  The gameplay is where Castlevania Judgement fall apart. As a series, Castlevania has built 
 itself on excellent platformers and RPG style gameplay mixed in with a strong Gothic Atmosphere. 
 Judgement however, does all it can to distrance itself from it's roots. Once you start playing 
 you can't help but notice that the game play bares a striking resemblence to SoulCaliber, complete 
 with flashy special moves, weapons that are so blunt they probably couldn't cut paper. Another 
 problem is that the bright colorful graphics take away a lot of the dark gothic atmosphere, created 
 in the previous Castlevania games. But the gameplay itself isn't this game's achillies heel, that 
 would be it's controls.
  
  When it comes to a fighting game, the controls are by far the most important aspect of the gameplay, 
 and Castlevania Judgement's controls can be summed up like this: dear god what a train wreck. Using 
 the Wii Mote essentually makes the game all but unplayable, as even basic moves will only work 
 if they feel like it, and special moves are impossible to pull off. The Game Cube and Classic Controllers 
 do work better for this particular game, but not by much, even with the Classic Controllers the 
 moves still feel delayed, and the out of control camera makes the difficulty even worse. 
  
  All in all this is a game that could have been great, had it stuck with the traditional Castlevania 
 formula, of platforming/RPG style gameplay. When it comes to playing the game I would highly recomend 
 using a Game Cube or Classic Controller unless you want Mr. Wii Mote to meet Mr. TV head on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:59 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Judgement is a 3d fighting game, exclusively for the nintendo wii. It's also the first 
 Castlevania game in the series that's a fighting game.
  Now this game has gotten some pretty harsh reviews, most notably the 3.0 from the site you're now 
 on.
  This must be an awful game then, or maybe there's something else going on?
  I myself really enjoyed the 3d castlevania's on the nintendo 64 and a lot of stuff in judgement 
 reminds me of those games, especially the boss-battles in those games.
  In Castlevania 64 when you encountered a boss there also was a bit of dialogue at the start and 
 end of the battle, same here. Also in those games you could use primary and secondary weapons, 
 same here. 
  Also when castlevania was released, there were people saying that 3d castlevania's are stupid and 
 that it should always remain a 2d sidescrolling platform game and they never stop to praise symphony 
 of the night.
  Those are the people that work at gamespot. They are basicly saying: we don't like your games and 
 we don't like you.
  When you play Castlevania Judgement, with the wii-mote or the classic controller, you are playing 
 a very colourful, action-packed and often funny fighter. It's a joy to play and the controls work 
 fine. I think the characters look great. The characters are from 20 years of castlevania history 
 and it's great to have 'em in 3d. The music is also great, with remixes from a lot of classic tracks 
 that made gaming-history like Simon's theme and bloody tears.
  The only thing is that the online-gameplay suffers from lag-issues.
  If you are looking for a 
 fighting game on the wii or consider yourself a Castlevania-fan you should play this. It isn't 
 too expensive either.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud1152
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  You need to play with a classic controller to like this game.
  When I have spend 50$ for that game, I was praying God the review (3/10) was wrong. To tell you 
 the truth, when I've tried Judgment for the first time, I was crying cause I was unable to have 
 good control with my game (It was horrible) and seriously I think this is the reason why the game 
 is so bad rated on all game sites. Since the problem was the control I've figured that it would 
 be better with a classic controller and It was true.
  I am a huge fan of Castlevania games and It's really nice to see all the characters reunited for 
 one game. The graphics and the characters are beautiful. Simon Belmont in 3D is really nice. Alucard 
 is cool as we remembered and all the cast is nice to play with it. 
  It's a great game but you have to play it with the CLASSIC CONTROLLER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adriande2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Why just under-rate a game just because it steps out of line from the series?
  It is a good fighting game with a style between Naruto: Clash of Ninja and Soul Calibur. although 
 it could have had some improvements, low scores shouldn't be given for a new style added to the 
 series.
  Well, it's the first fighing game I've played with free movement. But the style of fighting is 
 very repetitive, especially Dracula. They could have added every button combination up to a certain 
 number to reduce this
  Character design isn't too bad, but their looks were changed too far.
  But I mostly look for 
 gameplay, which is the main factor in my rating, but it too, could have had some improvements.
 
  though story mode could have been different for each character or having each start where the 
 last left off. Also, "Right on time, welcome to the time rift" did get annoying after a while.
 
  Though I am hoping for a second game with all of these problems patched up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthechosenone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  try it. its worth a try. good animation. again, simple but fun. and the finishing move movies are 
 great. the characters have, yes, good character. the time guys so cool. my choice
  
  . , . , . ,. ,. , ., . , ., . , . , ., . , . , . , . , , . , .. , . , , , , , .. . . . .. , , . 
 , . ,. , . ,. . , . ,. . , , . , . . , . ,, . . , . ,., . . .. . , . . ,, . ,. ,. . , .. , ., .,.,,.. 
 , ,, . .,. . ,. ,.,., .,. . . , .,. , , , .,. ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. . , ,. ,. ., ., .,. . ,. ,. ,. ,. 
 ,. ,. . ,.,. .,.,. , ,. . , ,. . . . . . , .., .. . . ., ., .  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxFanatic1995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  So I saw the previews for Castlevania Judgement, and I'm thinking," Castlevania + One-on-One Fighter 
 + Wii = ?"
  
  I had my doubts about it. I read that all the characters generally had only two combos. It probably 
 just wouldn't keep my interest long enough to be worth the price tag.
  
  Then, I play a friend's copy one day and he kicks me into the ground with these huge combos that 
 took off massive portions of my health bar, while I don't have any idea how to pull off more than 
 a four hit combo.
  
  So I borrow it from said friend, and I realized," Hey, this ain't too bad!"
  
  First off, the 
 controls. By the default Wii Remote and Nunchuk controls, you generally have to waggle the remote 
 to pull off regular attacks. Seriously, either switch to Control Set B, or use a different controller.
 
  
  So, to attack regularly, you just press the B button. You can use special attacks (some of which 
 require time to charge) by pressing A then B together. You can jump (and with most characters double-jump) 
 with the C button, Z will guard, and shaking the Nunchuk will have you roll away from attacks. 
 By pressing down on the D-Pad, you can use various subweapons, and with a shake of the Wii Remote, 
 you can pull off your Hyper Attack, a cinematic scene where your character pulls off massive damage 
 upon your opponent.
  
  These Hyper Attacks are unique to each character, and most are interesting to watch the first few 
 times, but after that you'll probably just think that you're about to die. Still, some are humorous 
 and may become a target of Internet fads eventually.
  
  I'm looking at you, Maria and Golem.
  
  The story mode is slightly different for all the characters, 
 but only in the scenes that take place before every few fights. At first, you start with only Simon 
 and Alucard available, but as you complete their story, you gradually unlock the rest of the roster.
 
  
  Unfortunately, to unlock four of the characters for regular play, you have to complete their stories 
 twice (With the exception of one of them) .
  
  There's an arcade mode, where you rush to beat multiple opponents as quickly as possible. Then 
 there's also a survival mode, where you try to beat up to 100 opponents consecutively. Finally, 
 castle mode has you going through rooms completing certain objectives, such as defeating an enemy 
 without guarding. The incentive to completing castle mode is that you can obtain accessories to 
 ridicule all your characters with, if you choose to do so.
  
  Putting a (second) eyepatch and a fruit pie on Trevor is a great way to make fun of the man of 
 legend.
  
  There is Wi-Fi, and you can battle pretty much anyone whose on at the same time as you. At the 
 end of a random battle, you can request to be rivals with your opponent, and you could enter a 
 friend code to play with someone you know.
  
  It does suffer from moderate lag and long times looking for foes, sometimes.
  
  Most of the 
 stages have hazards, such as the ruin's respawning zombies, or the torture chamber's pendulum, 
 poison water, and spikes. You can turn these off before the battle, though.
  
  The camera can be a little awful at times, but often enough you'll still be able to play to some 
 extent. But other than that, it's fine.
  
  The killer soundtrack is a collection of some of the series's best, such as Bloody Tears. The voice 
 acting for some of the characters, though, isn't very good in some cases, but you can opt to listen 
 to the Japanese voices if you so wish.
  
  Overall, most of Castlevania Judgement's pros balance out most of the game's cons, and I generally 
 liked the game a lot. So, give the game a try. Or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  It's clear that Castlevania Judgment had a lot of potential going out of the gate. There's a decently 
 sized roster of characters available from the start in Versus Mode, including favorites like vampire-hunting 
 forefather Simon Belmont, rebellious half-vampire Alucard, and the series' newest female lead Shanoa. 
 Each fighter has a distinct set of moves that takes advantage of their canon abilities, topped 
 off with two stock super moves that can drain up to half an opponent's life. In the various battlefields, 
 you can also use famous sub-weapons like axes and holy crosses by picking them up from random spawn 
 points in the field. It's really a shame -- all of these things would work so well in the game's 
 favor if the gameplay and character design wasn't so shoddy.
  
  Trying to hit your opponent in Castlevania Judgment is like pulling teeth, thanks in equal portions 
 to the utter lack of a targeting system and a camera that absolutely refuses to give you a decent 
 angle on the action. Even a simple auto-aim system would have been helpful, but you'll have to 
 manually line up the narrow range of your attack weapon to strike anything. Even worse, while you'll 
 have trouble trying to connect on basic attacks, the enemy A. I. will have no problem pelting you 
 with every sub-weapon on the map. The frustrating combat system doesn't improve, even after hours 
 and hours in the story mode, which requires you to play 12 times through in order to unlock all 
 the character and beat the final boss.
  
  Good Effort, Poor Judgment
  
  One thing that Konami wanted to accomplish with Castlevania Judgment was the feeling of wielding 
 a whip in combat, but you'll realistically spend more time furiously shaking your Wii Remote in 
 a vain attempt to turn the tide of battle. Personally, using the classic controller is the best 
 way to go, even if you're handy with a Wii Remote anyway. The button layout is much friendlier 
 than the motion control, and it's infinitely easier to pull off combos that way.
  
  Even the character design in this game lacks polish, and it ultimately detracts from the Castlevania 
 feel as much as the fighting system does. Whereas Symphony of the Night and Order of Ecclesia had 
 excellent art design, Castlevania Judgment is a step down from Portrait of Ruin in terms of quality. 
 Characters like Simon, Maria and Shanoa look nothing like any of their previous incarnations, ultimately 
 making the roster look generic and ill-planned.
  
  While I want to give Konami credit for trying something new with the series, the obvious missteps 
 and overlooked elements of Castlevania Judgment makes the game look and feel like a cheap cash-in. 
 Moreover, the omission of simple things like decent targeting is inexcusable. For seasoned fighters 
 and Castlevania fans, this game will be frustrating. For casual gamers, it's an exercise in masochism. 
 If you're considering playing this game, I highly recommend renting it before adding it to your 
 permanent Wii collection.
  
  Overall
  The Good: Decent amount of characters, sub-weapons add depth to the gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Horrible 
 camera, utter lack of a targeting system, poor character design, repetitive story mode; awful motion 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizN64
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, the memories. It's good to have a fighting game where you can play some of the most memorable 
 characters in Castlevania history. Gotta love the old classic music too! The graphics are really 
 cool. I only wish they added more characters like Frankenstein, The Succubus, Medusa, Richter Belmont, 
 Carrie Fernandez, and Reinhardt Schneider. The only few things I didn't like about the game is 
 the annoying camera angle and it's annoying to hear the same quotes at the beginning and the end 
 of the fight scenes. It was cool at first but after awhile it gets on your nerves. This game gives 
 you plenty to do and it'll occupy you during your leisure time. There's a story mode, a mode for 
 you to play against the computer/friend, it has online play, and there's other mine games for you 
 to play. I think if there's enough interest in the game there will be a sequel, and I hope that'll 
 be even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco1029
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to point out that the main reason this game is getting bad score sis because 
 of the style change and the fact that it's castlevania but a fighting game, so it immediately gets 
 a negative bias because it doesn't go with what the reviewers expect. As it is, they're idiots 
 and don't know how to properly review games.
  
  Gameplay: A good way to explain the basic fighting mechanics is a combination of Soul Calibur and 
 Super Smash Brothers, as odd as that may sound. It's free-roaming, but no a mostly flat stage, 
 with only basic, easily linked attacks, making the game about strategy, not button memorizing. 
 It may sound odd, but it works quite well except for the occasional camera misalignment. If one 
 character is towards the front and the other the back, for instance, the latter becomes completely 
 blocked off from sight making it difficult for either to target and attack the other. This can 
 get in the way but isn't a terribly huge issue.
  
  The characters are fairly balanced, but some definitely have the advantage or disadvantage. Golem, 
 for instance, is difficult to play with, his slow speed and moves being nearly impossible to land 
 against an experienced player, compared to Simon who can unleash a flurry of attacks without ever 
 letting the opponent get a move in. Overall though, it isn't too bad and if you avoid unbalanced 
 match-ups you'll be fine.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite good, at least on par with the soul calibur series, and use good 
 lighting, bump-mapping and basically all of the minimal shader effects the wii can perform. Nothing 
 too spectacular, but quite good considering how bad some wii games look.
  
  Audio: The taunts can get annoying, but the music is good and the sound effects work (Except for 
 the random bubbly sound Alyard's unblockable attack makes)
  
  Longevity: With story, versus, online, and a castle venturing mode, the game will last you quite 
 a while, especially if you have friends to play with.
  
  All in all, this is an overly criticized game and is much better than gamespot or anyone else claims 
 it to be. They need to get the stick out of their rears and judge the game based on its gameplay, 
 not its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafans1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  In ways Castlevania Judgement isnt a total failure like many reviewers are saying. Its actually 
 a decent 3D fighter. Sure the graphics are lacking even for a wii game and the the fighting is 
 a little bit clunky its still has alot of fun when beating up your friends as Simon Belmont. waving 
 the wii remote mindlessly will give your arms quite the workout. Good thing your aloud to use a 
 gamecube or classic controller or i probably would have give the game a 6.5. They are many modes 
 in this fighter. You got story mode, arcade mode, survival mode and my favorite the castle mode. 
 Then you a bunch of online opitons making quite the beefy game. the graphics need a complete makeover 
 for sure. It is quite the bad looking game. Castlevania judgement could have been alot better of 
 a game if they tightened the graphics and the fighting system up. Still, these game can be respectable 
 fighter to play with friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game is not bad at all! It's really fun after you take a little time to learn how to play 
 it, and the multiplayer works great. The controls are not as bad as gamespot makes them either, 
 there are plenty of options that don't require insane wii remote waggling and you can even use 
 classic and gamecube controllers. Honestly i don't know what made gamespot rate this game so low, 
 i mean, let's have a look. The gameplay is not bad, i haven't played any other fighting game like 
 it (and the one that it is normally compared to i have never played) , it's sort of a 3D free roaming 
 thing, where you fight your enemy and you are free to move around the stage to break objects and 
 stuff. The camera angle CAN be kind of annoying, but honestly not enough to make it bad. I mean, 
 it's a fighting game, for most of the time the characters playing will be close to each other, 
 so no bad angles. Controls work awesome in my opinion.. they could have put in a lot more attacks, 
 which would have made it more interesting, but honestly by keeping it this way it just shortens 
 the learning curve. But it's important to say here that learning to play this game is not only 
 learning attacks, because if you don't master dodging and blocking you won't get far. When it comes 
 to the game modes, it's pretty standard. Reminds me a lot of Soul Calibur 2.. with the story modes, 
 arcade, survival, and a sort of adventure mode (castle mode) where you can unlock things. The main 
 difference is the Castle mode unlocks accessories to dress your characters instead of new weapons, 
 which is pretty cool too since some items are ridiculously funny. I have a few complaints about 
 the story and castle mode though... i mean the story mode is funny with some ridiculous concepts, 
 but you have to finish it with every single character twice, which gets kind of boring. Castle 
 mode has the same problem, you have to finish it so many times. The missions are different, but 
 it sucks that they didn't do something more like the weapon master mode on Soul Calibur 2.. Also 
 in castle mode, some missions are ridiculous, and extremely annoying, such as braking objects, 
 and there are enemy ambushes all the time, which instead of being a challenge are just annoying. 
 The characters in this game are just.. weird. I haven't played many of the castlevania games, but 
 i can tell if you are a fan, you won't enjoy them too much. Most just look (or sound in the case 
 of Eric) completely gay and the dressing up part makes them even more so.. The girls all seem to 
 have extremely huge bosoms (reminds me of soul calibur yet again) , which is not such a big problem, 
 but it can get weird sometimes.. The graphics look great in this game, and the hyper attacks are 
 all awesome! It kind of sucks that some of the hyper moves are harder to use, like Aeon's move, 
 and others are just so extremely easy, like simon's and Trevor's.. But i guarantee that if you 
 learn to properly block and dodge, it really doesn't matter what character you use. So in closing, 
 this game is really not bad, give it a chance if you like fighting games similar to soul calibur. 
 It's fun and addicting enough to overcome its own flaws.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g1rldraco7
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I've never played any of the Castlevania games, but this one is a gem in my eyes. The graphics 
 are flawless with no sign of little squares or grainy. The camera is a okay, but sometimes you 
 can't even see yourself or hit your opponent. The AI is ridiculous because most of the time you 
 can't land one hit on your opponent and they kill you in 16 seconds. The voices for most of the 
 characters are cool. Alucard is voiced by the guy who does Saske's on Naruto. Maria is Mimi from 
 Digimon Season 1 and 2. Cornell is Yami rom Yugioh. I was shocked and surprised by this also from 
 the different stages.
  This game is going to be underappreciated since it not up to Castlevania Standards, but it is a 
 fun game that'll keep you coming.
  I know everyone has an opinion, but why flame a game harshly because it wasn't up to their standards. 
 Well I'm sticking to my review and if anyone has a problem with that. Well I'll get in trouble 
 if I typed what I was going to do. Just kidding I'm not a violent person until a full moon. LOL! 
 Anyway this is my review on Castlevania Judgement which came out better than Soul Caliber Legends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Putting Castlevania and "fighting game" in the same sentence can be construed as unheard-of amongst 
 its fanbase. I told my friends about this one, and they couldn't stop laughing. They thought it 
 was absolutely ridiculous. But I've been a fan of Castlevania long enough to have some nominal 
 degree of interest in how the series could invent itself in one form or another. So, I decided 
 to give the game a shot. Ironically, I'm also a sucker for fighting games. Castlevania Judgment 
 is, in my personal opinion, the most pleasant surprise of the year.
  
  Make no mistake -- Judgment is a bare-bones one-on-one fighter which happens to feature characters 
 from the Castlevania mythos. From the legendary Simon Belmont to the perky Maria Renard and the 
 always-uber cool Alucard, you can finally have those  
 questions answered. Death Note manga artist Takeshi Obata's designs are pretty cool; some of the 
 Castlevania characters I almost didn't recognize because his interpretations are vastly different 
 from how I'm used to seeing them -- for instance, Grant Danasty looks more like a cross between Soul 
 Calibur's Voldo and a mummy. Still, that's not saying it's a bad thing -- far from it, actually. 
 If anything, they give the time-honored Castlevania heroes an edgier look. The music is composed 
 of remixes from the Castlevania songlist -- each character you face in a fight has their own theme 
 from the game in which they come from. 
  
  The core fighting system has players use the analog stick to run around a field and whip the beejezus 
 out of each other with one of three different control schemes. You can use the Wii Remote and the 
 Nunchuk, the Classic Controller and even the good old GameCube controller if you've got it. It 
 all depends on your preference and, no matter which you decide to use, they work well to your standards. 
 While the fighting is somewhat basic, there's quite a bit of fun to be had -- especially when some 
 of the stages have "hazards" that will prove just as much a danger as your whip-brandishing opponent; 
 like giant tentacles that crash on the deck of the Ghost Ship, a swinging guillotine in the Torture 
 Chamber, and even a few of those classic Castlevania zombies that will get in your face. 
  
  Of course, each character has a bevy of different combo attacks that are easily performed with 
 simple button presses and combinations thereof. Characters can collect items from the field like 
 hearts and life replenishing chickens (you know what I'm talking about!) , and even use sub-items 
 like knives, holy water and other familiar objects from the franchise. They also have powerful 
 Special Attacks that deal massive damage and can be unleashed with a full gauge, a simple press 
 of a button and getting it to land on your opponent before he or she blocks it or knocks the wind 
 out of you. When Specials are pulled, you're treated to a nice cutscene that shows your character 
 doing their thing against their unfortunate opponent on the receiving end.
  
  Like most other console fighting games, Castlevania Judgment has an interesting number of game 
 modes. For example, there's the Story mode, in which you learn how and why these Castlevania heroes 
 from different time periods of history are fighting each other. (Maria's story is..... let's just 
 say, it's quite interesting.) Arcade mode is pretty self-explanatory -- beat a certain number of 
 characters as fast as possible for a high score in the rankings. Castle Mode is a series of challenges 
 that take place in Dracula's Castle and provide an opportunity to earn cool accessories for your 
 characters and some other rewards as well. You can even play locally with a friend nearby, or take 
 the fight online using Wi-Fi and Friend Codes. And if you've got Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia, 
 you can link the DS to Judgment and earn some neat surprises for both games such as ..... well, 
 I'll let you discover those for yourself!
  
  My only disappointments with Judgment are some surprising omissions of other well-known Castlevania 
 characters like Richter Belmont and Soma Cruz. However, the current cast as is are a nice bunch -- especially 
 Alucard. His inclusion was inevitable. Plus, Cornell and Trevor are excellent additions to name 
 a few. 
  
  Overall, Castlevania Judgment really surprised me with what it had to offer as a fighting game. 
 Even though it's simplistic, it can be a lot of fun if given the chance. For Castlevania fans who 
 decide not to take my word for it and are still unsure, my suggestion would be to rent it first 
 before you decide to invest it in your library. But do take it from me -- it's a pretty fun experience 
 in its own merit.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovehunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  I don't get what the naysayers are telling everybody. This game is good. The graphics are top notch. 
 Music is classic. The stages are cool. Voice acting is superb. Action is quick paced and fun. All 
 the charcters are unique, maybe with the exception of Simon and Trevor. Combos and move sets are 
 satisfactory and fun to perform. Supers are pleasant to look at. This game also offers different 
 modes such as story, survival, castle and versus with a host of unlockable accessories for character 
 customization and artwork. There are also cool sub-weapons and upgrades for them. Also, the character 
 designs are neat. I was a little skeptical at first, from the pictures I saw beforehand, but I've 
 been proven wrong. Playing with friends is awesome and so is single player. Matches offer some 
 customizations and you can choose and unlock harder difficulties. 
  
  All these crappy reviews for this game, from so called "experts" in the industry from their crappy 
 websites, magazines, and TV shows, are clueless, self defeating, and have never given this game 
 a chance from when it was first announced that this would be a fighter. Their loss. 
  
  Maybe the only drawback in this game is the camera. It isn't nearly as bad as people claim it to 
 be. The only problem is when the camera focuses on your backside and it is hard to see your opponent 
 and what they are doing and attempting to do. But that can be easily remedied. 
  
  No game is perfect, especially fighters.
  
  Online play is good but as usual it depends on 
 connection between the opponents and how well their personal connection system is. That goes for 
 most games for this console and any other system out there. 
  
  This game is fun, challenging, not perfect, but well worth the wait from the esteemed castlevania 
 franchise. Try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norgavue
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I will jump right to the bad points of this game. I wanted to give it a ten but a few things just 
 kept me a bit angry. The camera angle is something that pains me to see in a game like this. It 
 kinda does whatever it wants to do rather then just stay where you need it. This doesn't occur 
 in every battle but the ones it does are the ones you lose the most. The difficulty reminds me 
 of those battles in the Soul Caliber series where all the sudden the computer can't stop from kicking 
 your ass. Some battles require you to block almost every attack and then counter only when it is 
 safe, and sometimes this takes a bit of practice. On the good side of this game is the Character 
 design. Most will whine about the fact that the characters look different than previous incarnations 
 but since this game has a time rift bringing together characters that would never be together normally 
 I figure it probably isn't canon within the series. I think they look good and despite being a 
 different take still stay true to the series. The attacks and combos all look good and go with 
 the characters they represent. Place Order of Eclesia on the DS and then play shanoa in this game 
 and you will see what I mean. Course if you can do this then go ahead and connect your DS to the 
 Wii and unlock shanoa and some extra content. The stages are great and some have hazards that add 
 to the experience (though they can be turned off and on accordingly) . The music for the most part 
 are different takes on different classic and contemporary tracks from among the series so you know 
 what to expect. The different modes give you a little variety in how you wanna fight and you can 
 go online if you prefer. The castle mode in particular requires you to pass certain criteria to 
 advance that isn't just kill the enemies. This breaks up some of the game so it doesn't get tired. 
 I don't really view this game as a fighter but as a Castlevania game. So if you like Castlevania 
 games then give it a try; you may just learn to like it if you can get past the camera angles and 
 differing difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ALUCARD13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  with another nintendo ds release its about time we see a console release..... and what better way 
 to do so then use the wii to its full potentiel.... and thats what they delivered with castlevania 
 judgment.
  
  first off they have alot of caractors from good guys to bad guys like dracula himself and death 
 the caractor design was great but looks a lil too much like some kind of anime.... is it just me 
 or does ALUCARD look like sephiroth from final fantasy... and as a bonus theirs different outfits 
 for the caractors.... kinda sounds like super smash brothers brawl
  
  story in this game is devided for each caractor kinda explain everyones past and unique ways of 
 fighting very fun but yeah gets annoying cause you have to collect soul keys who makes a guy named 
 aeon puts it in some random clock...... no idea. and you have to unlock most caractors cause all 
 the only caractors you have is simon belmont and alucard at the begining and when you finish a 
 story mode with one of them it unlocks another caractor and so on..... its a long chain
  
  audio is great tho sounded a lil different from other games buit still gives you the chills it 
 had voice over wich sounds superb i couldnt of though of a better voice over
  
  graphics could of been worked on more cause it still have problem seeying the game some times but 
 still for a nintendo fighting game mixed with castlevania...... they did a superb job 
  
  overall this game is super fun has minor problems but fans of castlevania or fans of fighting games 
 with deffinetly have a superb time with this game im giving it 9 out of 10
  
  great stuff KONAMI keep up the great work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombraider20057
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Well here it is, Castlevania judgment is it the best game series? of course not we all knew that. 
 But it's definitly worth atleast some of your time. With some hints to past games when characters 
 meet or evan just some flashy effects this game had me playing for 10 hours straight the day i 
 got it. now about the game by modes and features
  
  Story mode: Alright, voice acting is good but the animations... hardly any beyond battle stuff there 
 just standing there talking but it's good. the voice acting does help it and it's not going to 
 get you into a deep story seeing as all but Aeons, last for a short time depending if your good 
 with the character or not. the moves are great but each battle in story mode is only 1 round. Slighty 
 repetative but it's alwas good to beat the crap out of littler girls and werewolves of awesomeness. 
 Though it's a bit annoying that to unlock anyone you have to beat The true ending which means... beat 
 story mode Twice with the same Unlockible character.
  
  Aarcad: Classic... nothing but that like any other arcade mode in fighting games
  
  Castle mode: 
 Ah, whats a castlevania game without going through Dracula's castle and killing everything. well 
 this is of course diffrenet by haveing you select doors with challenges beating the challenge get 
 you to contuine the path and iteams for cusimization are earnd here after beating a boss and after 
 each boss fight a heal refill/save is replaceing it. It's short but sometimes tricky. But's playible 
 with all characters and fun to test your skills.
  
  Custamize mode: Ever want to see Alucard with Sunglasses or Simon in a pirate hate... here is your 
 place to be, but intill you play castle mode... no iteams for you inless you have the DS bonuses.
 
  
  Training: Beat the crap out of a non or moveing NPC
  
  Tutorial: Good to check this out to learn all the moves and just fun beating people up again XD
 
  
  WIFI: it's good fast connection no lags and good for a challenge or if you just want to be an ass 
 and use Dracula
  
  Theres more modes but i cant think of them right now
  
  the characters themselves i wish there were more and there not incredibly well blanced like Golam... hes 
 very hard to use but you have to in story mode. but easy to unlock people and somewhat epic final 
 "true" story boss fight and castlevania judgment gets a B for some need improvments when sound 
 is out and some better motion sensing but in all.. check it out and see if you like it. well my 
 Gamespot friends till next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child_of_lileth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  So as everyone knows, I've been a huge fan of this series since I was a kid. When I first heard 
 about a CV fighter, I really didn't know what to expect. I was kind of happy about the idea, but 
 at the same time I had that feeling of "Please don't mess this up". The end result is something 
 that has a ton of fan service, but has a decent game hidden within it too. 
  
  First off, the music in this game is nothing new. Its just the same remixes you'd expect to hear 
 from the same games that you've heard a thousand times in every recent game. Nothing special. The 
 music does sound good and all, don't get me wrong, but its been done to death at this point. This 
 goes under the fan service category. They put in specific themes for each character you might have 
 to face and the themes always match who you fight. Playing against Simon or Trevor? Then get ready 
 to hear Vampire Killer. Playing against Shanoa? Get ready to hear the Ecclesia theme. This will 
 happen every single time you encounter the characters. 
  
  The graphics in the CG scenes looks amazing. Then the game starts, and the graphics are about half 
 as good. I know every game in the world does this trick, so I don't really blame it for doing the 
 same thing. The good news is, the characters' animations, poses, and everything about the movement 
 looks great. It all flows very well, and there hasn't been any problems with it. Every character 
 also has their own unique move set which makes playing all the modes as every character way more 
 fun. 
  
  The game only offers 14 playable characters, and a 15th that only shows up as a final boss once 
 you beat story mode as every one of the first 13 characters. The 15th character being Time Reaper. 
 Just to get it out of the way, this guy is super easy even on hard mode. I got a perfect on my 
 second try. If you've played Castlevania: LoI you'll recognize the boss pattern pretty much immediately. 
 He has 3 bars of health, but gives you more than enough time between attacks to take all of that 
 away within a few minutes. 
  
  Characters are unlocked by playing through the story mode, and / or by connecting to Castlevania: 
 Order of Ecclesia. If you do connect, you unlock Shanoa in all modes, and Aeon in everything but 
 story. Also you will get 2 equip items. It will also unlock a few things in OoE for you too. All 
 characters fight by weight class and if they use magic or not. For example, Dracula is way too 
 heavy to move, so he can teleport around and uses magic for all his attacks. Golem, on the other 
 hand, is very heavy and has to be almost right next to you to attack, but can roll around to move 
 quickly. Most mid-weight and Light-weight characters move pretty quickly though. There is also 
 a nice mix of who can use distance attacks, and who has to be up close to do their best. 
  
  The characters themselves also come from different time periods even if they are from the same 
 game. In the Castlevania III time line, Trevor and Sypha got married after the events of the game. 
 But in Judgment, Grant and Trevor are the only ones who know about this since Sypha came from before 
 the year that game took place. Grant will even play with this concept and try to convince Sypha 
 that he is actually her future husband. Things like this are all through the game in the story 
 modes. 
  
  The combat itself works pretty well. You can use the nunchuck, the classic controller, or the GCN 
 controller. I personally have been using the classic and nothing else. You can use a variety of 
 sub weapons, and each one available varies depending on who you play as. You can also charge these 
 and charge some regular moves. They also added in an "unblock able" attack for when someone is 
 just holding the block button the whole time. It does alot of damage, but it leaves you completely 
 open, so if you are smart you can dodge that and take advantage of the opening. Everything seems 
 pretty balanced with the fighting moves. They also have super moves that can only be used once 
 a gauge is full. This too can be blocked, or can be dodged. If it does connect, it does half a 
 bar of health no matter what. 
  
  The only complaint I do have with the gameplay is that some characters like to pose and waste time 
 after attacks instead of responding to me smashing down the block button. If you play as Alucard 
 for example, he will usually be too busy shwoing off and taking his time to actually let you block 
 attacks in time. You can also pick up and throw objects liek the barrels and candles in the stages. 
 
  
  The stages themselves are modeled after many of the familiar places from the series. The gate, 
 the torture chamber, the throne room, the ghost ship, you get the idea. The levels look great and 
 some even have their own enviormental damages. Some places have poison water, some have magma, 
 some just have large drops. If you get knocked out of these drops, you lose the match from a ring 
 out. 
  
  They also included castle mode in this game. You pick a character, and start your way through the 
 castle. You unlock prizes along the way. The only catch is that you can only save in specific rooms. 
 these will be available after a boss room is cleared and it transforms. You can move o nthe map 
 back to rooms already passed, but you might face random encounters and lose even more health or 
 not survive at all. The castle mode also has seperate files for each character. So say alucard 
 makes it to the end and you wanna use Sypha. Sypha will have to start at the gate and work her 
 way back to the end just like alucard did when he started. The same goes for everyone else. This 
 helps add to the total time it will take to finish, but it also gets very frustrating since some 
 characters are more suited for some challenges than others. You can not even pass the room unless 
 you do the specific challenge. For exampledefeat the enemies" orfinish the enemy with a sub 
 weapon". Things even more challenging than that await later in the castle. 
  
  This game does barrow alot from other fighters, but it adds enough Castlevania fan service and 
 a few CV exclusive things into the mix to keep it fun and entertaining. As a long time fan of the 
 series, I am personally very pleased with how well this turned out. I'm not the bigest fan of fighting 
 games ever, but from the tons I have played, this one does everything very well, while keeping 
 in the theme it was given. 
  
  Overall, if you are a ture CV fan, you'll probably already have it, or are saving up for it. If 
 you are just looking for a non-anime based fighter on the Wii, rent this first, and you might actually 
 enjoy all the game modes including the online battles. If not, it was only a rent and you didn't 
 really lose much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necro_Skeletal
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  I love Castlevania, and was excited about playing this new fighting game. It was an interesting 
 new concept for the series, but playing Castlevania Judgment almost feels like you're playing a 
 less awesome version of Soul Calibur II, and it looks like a cliche anime game. Believe me, I WANTED 
 to like this game, but living in denial just isn't my thing.
  
  The game has a few game modes like tutorial, versus, training, survival, castle and story mode. 
 I only played TUTORIAL, STORY, and CASTLE mode which I will cover later. I was too disappointed 
 to play any further. The controls aren't too difficult (at least not for me) but there's not really 
 many things you can do with each character, and their move lists are surprisingly short. In combat 
 you can jump, guard, evade, attack, use classic sub-weapons, special attacks and finishers. Certain 
 characters interact differently with the destructable boxes, crates, or candles. Some set traps, 
 others throw them, and others power up upon destroying them. One good point is that you at least 
 get the option of using nearly any control scheme, and choosing from a few presets. You can use 
 Nunchuck, Classic or Gamecube controllers for this game, and choose button presets accordingly. 
 The general downfall is the redundancy of this game. The fighting gets stale after a few hours 
 of playing, which hurts this game because fighting is all you do. The voice acting wasn't too great, 
 but I wasn't so concerned with that. You can choose english or japanese voices but I left it in 
 english.
  
  -Tutorial mode is alright, it gives you a run down of the controls and it's pretty easy to play 
 the game after playing through it. It should take no more than 15 minutes.
  
  -The story mode is vague, and all you do is fight nearly every character in the game with your 
 chosen character. After beating it (about 10 stages) you unlock another character so it's pretty 
 standard but redundant. I played with Simon and Alucard and was getting bored so I moved on to 
 Castle mode.
  
  -Castle mode was kinda neat at first, but is kind of like the dungeons you encounter in Soul Calibur 
 II's Weapon Master Mode except you can get "ambushed" by enemies while scrolling through different 
 paths. 
  
  If there's anything from the Castlevania series aside from the music that I've loved, it's the 
 art style. This game detached itself from me with the character design. All of the characters in 
 this game seemed like they were completely different. Sure the Belmont's had their trademark whip, 
 but they looked horrendous. 
  The characters all look like they were outfitted AND rendered by the designers from Square Enix 
 and feel nothing like the original gothic warriors of the classic Castlevania series. The names 
 are there, but the characters look and feel completely different. Trevor Belmont doesn't look like 
 Trevor, not even the Trevor from Curse of Darkness. He looks like a barbarian from an overdone 
 and overrated RPG/Anime. And Alucard looks like Sephiroth. If I wanted to see Sephiroth I'd play 
 Final Fantasy, not Castlevania. Eric LaCarde's character is a child and looks nothing like what 
 he was in Bloodlines. Maria arrives as a child from her Rondo of Blood appearance, but she looks 
 like a standard little cutesy anime loli girl. Death is a stylized skeleton without a robe of any 
 kind. Oh, and remember how awesome Dracula looked in Symphony of the Night and Curse of Darkness? 
 Well he looks nothing like that anymore. He's just your standard dark wizard variant. I'm not saying 
 that taking a new direction is bad, but this was just horrible. It was too bright for the Castlevania 
 series. And the worst part of all this is that there are no alternate costumes, just alternate 
 colors. The game offers customizable items to add onto your characters, but that's about it and 
 I never unlocked anything of note.
  
  All in all I think this could've been a lot better if they had focused more on combat and characters 
 instead of inventing a new version of 14 characters. It seems that with this installment of the 
 Castlevania series they were trying to draw in more fans by using a cliche anime scheme. As a fan 
 of Castlevania, the characters in their new outfits seemed foreign to me, and it just felt like 
 I was playing some cliche anime game that all the teenagers were raving about. In fact the only 
 thing that made it feel like Castlevania was the music, some of the stages, and the sub-weapon 
 usage. If you're a die-hard fan of Castlevania, rent this game before buying it.
  
  RE-CAP
  
  Plus side:
  Decent gameplay
  Great music (as always)
  Visually stunning for 
 the Wii
  Nice controls
  
  Negative side:
  Redundancy
  Limited move sets
  Cliche anime cartoon style
  Doesn't feel like Castlevania
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraCell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for 8 hours... and I have unlocked several characters in Story mode. This 
 game is not as simple as it looks! There is a good amount of attacks each character does.. and 
 knowing what attack does what helps in fighting your opponent. Every character feels different. 
 There is good balance in the game.. so whether you win or lose is entirely up to you! I have foughten 
 a couple of Online battles... yes you can play online. So far I have foughten 14 battles online.. 
 and they were awesome! You can set your online battles to your country only or world wide. I had 
 set mine to worldwide for all my online battles.. and it was very good. They were some lag.. but 
 it depends I guess on how far away your opponent is. I had one battle that had some lag, but the 
 other battles played great.
  
  They is fan service to this game.. the music... if you played previous castlevania games, you will 
 recongize many of the music that plays during the battles. The stages are from castlevania games... 
 so it's a nice setting. You may not like the design to the characters.. but the way this game plays 
 the music.. and the fun you will have.. you will over look it. This may not be the greatest fighter 
 out there.. but it certainly ain't the worst... far from it! This is a very decent fighting game.. 
 and Konami pulled it off! You will have your fun with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Believe it or not, this game is some sort a failed attempt, like konami didn't learned from yesterday's 
 mistakes like that japanese game from gamecube that you can use snake & simon belmont, a rip off 
 of another POPULAR GAME.. called super smash brothers, it spelled FAILURE before they thought they 
 could win with this.
  
  Well, the camera angles are horrible, also the game mechanics are not well executed, it's al flawed.
 
  
  Personally i knew this game would blow since "death note" character designer grabbed a pencil & 
 began to make concepts for the characters of this game, which it was a screw up by the way, it 
 was just a manner of copy & paste or some redesign... not turning it into an emo manga concept 
 like most mainstream anime is nowadays (aghh... the old days of anime, good days) .
  
  Try a rental first though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
