-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chicken Shoot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/chickenshoot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Not applicable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 One-note gameplay, and it's a really lousy note.
 Most of the modes are the same thing, and really short.
 Graphics look like they were dug up out of some kind of video game archeological excavation.
 The game is like a comedy black hole.
 Lousy value at $30.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 3.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 2.7, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DSI Games
Developer: Destination Soft.
Genre: Action
Date: Jul 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chicken Shoot is like Duck Hunt for idiots. 

  Certainly the Wii would seem to be an ideal system for light-gun games. Just point the Wii Remote 
 at the screen, fire away at zombies, soldiers, terrorists, or whatever else happens to pop up onscreen, 
 and a good time should be had by all. Unless, of course, you're shooting chickens -- specifically, 
 in Chicken Shoot, a DSI-published release that is actually a Wii update of a PC downloadable game 
 that's nearly five years old. Imagine the old NES classic Duck Hunt, now toss in a couple of poorly 
 implemented bonus weapons, make the ducks a bunch of wacky chickens, and make the action as soul-crushingly 
 boring as possible. That's Chicken Shoot in a nutshell.  

  There are a few different modes to be found in the game, though nearly all of them are essentially 
 the same thing. Arcade and classic mode are identical, except that the criteria for moving on are 
 slightly different (one requires shooting a certain number of chickens to move on, whereas the 
 other is time- and score-based) . In both of these modes, you're plopped down in some slightly zany 
 location, like a farm, or the Nevada desert, or the Himalayas (where the soundtrack consists of 
 a lot of yodeling, for some inexplicable reason) . From there, chickens from all walks of life pop 
 onto the screen at varying intervals. You just point the Wii Remote at them and press B to shoot. 
 That's it. That's the game. These harmless chickens just keep popping up, and you keep popping 
 them off. Occasionally you get weapon power-ups and bonuses like time boosts, but some of them 
 are more like punishments than bonuses. The shotgun is actually way less effective than the standard 
 pistol, and getting a time bonus in this game is sort of like voluntarily extending a torture session. 

           That chicken is just washing her clothes. What the heck did she do to deserve getting 
 shot in the face?      

  If the game were challenging, or actually funny, you might be able to tolerate the insipid gameplay, 
 but it's neither. The only thing that makes the game remotely difficult is the occasional tree-heavy 
 stage that offers some far-away chickens a chance to duck for cover. There's nothing remotely comical 
 about the game. The chickens are all dressed up in various silly characterizations, but there's 
 no punchline to speak of. Hey, there's a chicken reading a newspaper, and there's another one that's 
 some kind of alien just standing around idly. Better shoot 'em! Wait, what? Why?  

  Outside of the crummy primary modes, there's also multiplayer and a really awful minigame to contend 
 with. The minigame consists of you moving the Wii Remote up, down, left, and right to try to catch 
 eggs that are sliding perilously toward the ground. It's about as much fun as actually sorting 
 eggs. Multiplayer is a split-screen version of the main single-player modes, though it's not exactly 
 clear if it's meant to be cooperative or competitive. You're both playing on the same playing field 
 (even though it's split-screen, go figure) , and though it's keeping track of both your scores, 
 it never exactly declares a winner, and you can't progress until you reach the same target goals 
 as the single-player matches. Ultimately, it doesn't really matter. The game is just as bad with 
 two people as it is with one. The only solace in the multiplayer is that someone is suffering right 
 along with you.  

  The list of problems just keeps going. You can beat any of the single-player modes in about 30 
 minutes; there's almost no variety to the enemy chickens; the graphics most definitely look like 
 something out of a five-year-old downloadable casual game; and, worst of all, DSI is charging $30 
 for this heap of crap. That would almost be insulting if it weren't so hilariously absurd. But 
 then, perhaps that's been the game's big joke all along?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: losst4ever
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I truly don't recommend this game. My mother bought the game in a curious drove movement. Well, 
 it was fun for a minute or two. But then I realized every level is the exact same thing. Only a 
 few exotic chickens come into play. Like all you really do is shoot flying/walking/stationary chickens, 
 and that is all. The only fun part is that it is a shooter. The graphics are kiddy, the story is 
 non-existent, gameplay is slow and over-used, and there are many other issues with this game. It 
 might be fun for little kids, but anyone older will be turning it off in a few minutes. My sister, 
 mom, brother, and me took turns in it to we beat it (last level was easier then the rest...) . I 
 don't think any of us will ever play it again...
  
  On a side note. If you want a game for your really young children. Then maybe this game will work 
 for them (not you, except for the bonding) . The controls are simple and easy. The hardness of the 
 game and simplicity do make it a game for little kids to play over and over without having much 
 trouble. So, adults, teenagers, and older kids should stay far from this game. Maybe some will 
 enjoy it's "cuteness" thought... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scringuy
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  When I had the misfortune to get this game, I thought it might be mediochre, since it sort of looked 
 like that kind of game. Then, as I easily (understatement) went through the levels, I realized the 
 full magnitude of what I was dealing with: a full-blown useless piece of @#$%. There are 11 levels, 
 all of which add up to a short shooter game level. There are 2 gameplay modes, classic and arcade. 
 Arcade has no time limit, and there are food power-ups that replenish energy. Classic has a time 
 limit and time bonuses. There's also a catch the egg minigame, which I tried for 5 seconds and didn't 
 get it or care. I suggest the same for you. This game occasionally makes some pathetic attempt 
 at humor (Oh, look. this chicken fell in the water. Whee.) The only thing that made getting this 
 game 5 miles from worthwhile was the fact that it cost 20$ and had a Wii blaster. I guess they 
 realized it was a DISASTER and lowered the price. This game should be sold to insomniacs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  all right this is the most unthought out pathetic lowsey thrown together horible worthless waist 
 of time that I have ever seen and to make it worse it is flat you never make a wii game flat it 
 is the number one rule and also the shooting mini game in raving rabbids one is better than this 
 so why make this even for half the price for a quarter of the price I mean this thing should not 
 even be on wii ware so why make this this is a discrase to nintendos name so being a strate out 
 nintendo fan I hate it nobody out there dare buy this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmacphail
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  This title brought back memories of Duck Hunt on the NES. However there is one main difference 
 duck hunt was fun. The chickens all fly at an unbelievably slow, horizontal pace, and guess what 
 the aim is: shoot them. That's it, no other mini games, no incentive to get to the next level as 
 they are all the same apart from different weather effects and a chance of background. The special 
 weapons only differ the explosion from the shot and don't have any real effect. I got this game 
 free as part of an online deal and even then I feel cheated, don't accept it, even for free. The 
 graphics are cartoon like and very dated, (this could have been done better on the SNES or megadrive) , 
 the sound is almost non existent and the playability is so simple it's an insult. Not even worth 
 borrowing from a mate. If this were a food product I would expect to see the best before date as 
 1990. If you do get this for free as I did, don't break the seal and immediately put it on ebay, 
 you never know you might get something for it. Avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grendal66
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  What to say about chicken shoot really? I got it free as part of a games bundle with the wii console 
 and honestly I don't think I have ever hated a game more. The controls are horrid, the graphics 
 tired and lackluster, the game itself has no difficulty whatsoever. Honestly the only way you should 
 play this game is if someone pays you to do so and even then it's probably not worth it.
  Honestly who exactly thought it was a good idea to make this braindead duck hunt clone? The game 
 is worthless in every sense of the word, please for the love of god do not play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplaydnd35
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is not all bad, the biggest plus to it is that it is easy to learn and after a few levels 
 you really get the idea of what you are supposed to be doing: shooting scene after scene after 
 scene of chickens in ever growing numbers. The fact that you can do some weapon upgrades by shooting 
 some chicken that has an item is a good thing; some of the weapons are rather interesting for a 
 rampaging Farmer to have. Which brings me to a question I have had since I first played the game, 
 why is the Farmer trying to kill all these chickens? The only other plus I can come up with it 
 that it was cheap. I made it to scene 13 and that was after I tried to die for the last three levels, 
 which is another minus: there is a life point system to this game but I still don't know what it 
 is. I know it has something to do with the Farmers shirt but it takes a lot of eggs to be wiped 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokehead2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly stupid. It has no depth, and its graphics show a strong resemblance to 
 poop, but it is amazingly entertaining none the less. I am not ashamed to admit that I spent a 
 solid 9 hours shooting chickens. This game is surprisingly addicteve, and if you and your friends 
 are drunk at 2 in the morning, you will be stunned at the amount of enjoyment you find in this 
 game, I would describe this game as duck-hunt with a touch of Napoleon Dynamite. My friends and 
 I actually enjoyed the multi-player, and the game as a whole. If you approach it with a lighthearted 
 attitude, you will not be disappointed, and most likely, captivated. This game, is Autastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeus-Guy
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Do I even need to discuss this? Gamespot's review hit the nail directly on the head, this is the 
 worst game ever.
  
  
  Gameplay  Shooting chickens using the Wii Remote? Wow, that's so original (sarcasm) . I'd rather 
 see a full 3D Duck Hunt than this crap.
  
  Visuals  It looks like one of those preschool PC game. That's not a good thing for a next gen 
 console like the Wii.
  
  Audio  Warrning, might cause you to go deaf.
  
  Replay  Replay? You wouldn't even want to play it once.
  
  Multiplayer  A perfect game to 
 play with friends... who you want to lose.
  
  Overall  One thing's for sure, the creators should be banned from creating any more games for 
 Nintendo, this is far beyond unacceptable! And Nintendo should stop allowing this crap on their 
 systems, the Wii deserves much, much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TexTM
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is about shooting Chickens!!! I mean I'd rather wait in line at the DMV. (Of course, I 
 am a vegetarian) So I'm expected to disagree witht the content of the game. But still... it's really 
 bad. It's boring and unsatisfying. I reccomend just eliminating the whole existence of the game. 
 Who's odd idea was it anyways?? I spent a little while playing it... I hated it. I got rid of it 
 pretty quickly. It angers me to think that someone can make such a stupid game for such a great 
 system. The Wii is plain AMAZING! This game makes it look bad. All I ask is whyyy? Why and who??? 
 Seriously people. You have to be crazy to play this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
