-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cooking Mama: Cook Off
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/cookingmamacookoff/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fifty-five recipes, each with at least a few minigames.
 Cute art style and audio.
 Multiplayer is reasonably fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Motion controls are unreliable.
 Pacing makes the single-player game almost completely devoid of challenge.
 You'll have seen everything the game offers in just a few hours.
 It's $50, when it clearly should be a budget title.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 654 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: OfficeCreate
Genre: Miscellaneous
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Cook Off is a lot like Cooking Mama on the DS, something significant has been lost in the 
 translation to the Wii. 

  Late last year, Majesco brought us Cooking Mama for the DS. A collection of cooking-themed minigames, 
 Cooking Mama was a game that made great use of the DS's touch-screen technology but, unfortunately, 
 failed to find a way to structure its various cooking games into something compelling over the 
 long haul. Now, Cooking Mama has found its way to the Wii in Cooking Mama: Cook Off, and that same 
 primary criticism holds true here as well. However, far worse an issue is that the added motion-sensing 
 controls aren't nearly as engaging as the control scheme used on the DS, nor are they reliably 
 responsive. And to top it all off, while the game adds a multiplayer component to the package, 
 it hardly justifies a full $50 price tag for a game that is ultimately shallow and kind of boring 
 after a couple of hours of play.  

          Cooking Mama says: 'Eat some meat, hippie!'     

  If you ever got around to playing 
 Cooking Mama on the DS, Cook Off's formula should be immediately familiar. The main mode presents 
 you with a series of unlocked dishes that require a series of quick, simple minigames to put you 
 through the paces of food preparation. One dish, for instance, might require you to chop a variety 
 of vegetables, butter up a frying pan, grind up some meat, and then toss it all together into the 
 pan while you stir, shake, and spice it. All of these actions are controlled with basic motions 
 on the Wii Remote. Chopping vegetables, for instance, requires you to point the remote at a designated 
 icon on the chosen vegetable and make a slicing motion in the direction it signifies. If the veggies 
 need to be minced from there, you simply start making a fast chopping motion with the remote. The 
 pan-buttering game has you tilting the remote around as if it were the pan itself, and the cube 
 of butter slides around slicking up the pan's interior. Meat grinding has you holding the remote 
 sideways like the handle of a meat grinder, and spinning it as quickly and forcefully as you can. 
 It goes on like this with a wide variety of ingredients and tasks spanning 55 different dishes. 
 At the end of each task, Mama, a bright-eyed, Engrish-speaking anime chef, grades you on your performance 
 and assigns a score based on accuracy and how much time you took.  

  Cooking Mama seems like it ought to work just as well on the Wii as it did on the DS, but multiple 
 problems prevent this from being so. For starters, the motion controls just aren't reliable. Some 
 are overly sensitive, as in the egg-cracking minigame that can't quite seem to decide how much 
 remote-tilting force is too much, and some aren't sensitive enough, such as the stirring and rolling 
 pin games that require extremely exaggerated movements to register properly. Even the games that 
 seem the most consistent aren't 100 percent guaranteed to work. As shallow as the DS version of 
 Cooking Mama was, at the very least the controls worked pretty much exactly how you wanted them 
 to. The same can't be said for Cook Off.  

  One thing Cook Off has over the DS game is that the recipes generally include lengthier strings 
 of minigames. Most of the minigames can still be beaten in 30 seconds or less, but these longer 
 recipes do at least make the process of making a dish feel a bit more involved. Unfortunately, 
 Cook Off can't shake the shallow feel of the DS game. Like Cooking Mama on the DS, Cook Off isn't 
 paced very well. Each time you complete a minigame, you're spit back out into the main menu for 
 that dish, and you have to manually click on the next minigame to progress. Half the fun of an 
 oddball minigame collection like this is how the games are presented in terms of challenge, and 
 here there's very little. Unlike something along the lines of WarioWare: Smooth Moves, there's 
 no unpredictable element to Cooking Mama. You pretty much know exactly which minigame is coming 
 up, and odds are you've probably played some form of it already in one of the previous recipes, 
 so you already know what to do. The greatest challenge the game has to offer is getting a grip 
 on the controls. There's no challenge to be found within the recipes themselves.  

  It's to the game's benefit, then, that it includes multiplayer support. You and a friend can compete 
 in split-screen mode to try to complete any of the various dishes by competing to finish each minigame 
 the quickest and with the most accuracy. Like the single-player component, your grades tally up 
 into a final score, and the one with the highest score at the end is the winner. As you might expect, 
 this type of gameplay is considerably better when played against others, as there's actually a 
 legit sense of challenge. The problem is that because the controls aren't fully reliable, there 
 are times where you'll screw up just because the remote wasn't responding the right way, which 
 is more than a little frustrating. There's also a CPU versus mode that provides the same basic 
 multiplayer against a computer opponent, which is OK if you're friendless.  

          Being able to play against a friend is a nice touch. It's just a shame the controls aren't 
 more consistently responsive.     

  Cooking Mama hasn't seen much presentational alteration since its DS days. The graphics are the 
 same brand of cartoony, colorful still shots with little 3D renderings of some of the ingredients 
 and utensils where required. By no means does the game look awful or anything. It's roughly on 
 par with how Trauma Center looked when it made the jump from DS to the Wii, in that the art style 
 is nice enough but the game isn't anything you would call "impressive." There's a bit more audio 
 to be heard in the Wii version of Cooking Mama. Mama herself actually talks now, and though she 
 has only a few key phrases (some of which are practically indecipherable due to an extremely thick 
 Japanese accent) , she's a cheery presence that adds to the game's cute factor. The soundtrack is 
 also exceedingly upbeat, but not in an obnoxious way.  

  It's unfortunate that the developer of Cooking Mama: Cook Off didn't improve upon the original 
 DS game's formula for the Wii release. Instead of actually tweaking or improving the game design, 
 the developer left the same stagnant progression intact. While one might argue that the key focus 
 of this version was to make the Wii controls work, the sad fact is that they don't -- at least, not 
 on a consistent basis. Nothing about Cook Off, save for the inclusion of basic multiplayer, is 
 an improvement over what Cooking Mama offered on the DS. Perhaps if Cook Off were a budget-priced 
 title, it might be worth a look simply for some of its cutesy charm and multiplayer competition; 
 but at a full $50 price, Cooking Mama: Cook Off isn't worth it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the series know to take Cooking Mama's gameplay controls with a grain of salt. This notion 
 is most prevalent on Cooking Mama: Cook Off; Mama's first venture on the Wii console.
  
  The game arguably features the most content out of the 5 Mama games (to date) , with 55 enormous 
 meals to perfect (The meals themselves generally require many more steps in Cook Off, than in CM 
 and CM2) and a complete head-to-head cook-off mode (hence the name) .
  
  The 2-player split-screen mode is where the game soars. You and a friend (real or A. I., in case 
 you have no friends) can see who can cook any of the 55 recipes the best. A complete recipe showdown, 
 if you will, as opposed to the simple-task showdowns featured in the other games.
  
  Bottom line is, if you liked Mama's meals and Japanese accent on the DS, there's no reason why 
 you wouldn't want it for the Wii. Just make sure not to let the iffy controls get the best of you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersean7
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Cooking mama cook off is a game with great animation and some simple dishes that you can have fun 
 with but sadly it has difficulties with the simplest parts of cooking like the egg craking for 
 example, the controls are so loose that if you swing it lightly and you just broken your egg but 
 this is half of the bad stuff but on the other hand it's nice charming half of cooking like the 
 choping, the rolling, and the other hard stuff is challenging and just fun. But a little advice... 
 Get it if you like cooking, get it if your skilled, and get your mom to cook! So it also has a 
 great variety of dishes, but some are fun suckers, and multiplayer makes it look even more harder 
 because the screen is divided up into 2 parts, and the baking don't get me started you have to be 
 really precise and timid to do that for those with expreience like me ( but remember it's hard) . So 
 bon abatete for the half an half failing and simple cooking game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at wal-mart for 20 bucks and I always heard decent things about Cooking Mama 
 games mainly heard the best thing about it is the Multiplayer and they were right the Multiplayer 
 is the only place were the game shines.
  
  Graphics 8/10: Fun little cartoony graphics
  
  Gameplay 7/10: I love the gameplay once you get use to it; its very simple.
  
  Sound 6/10: 
 what you'd expect from a cooking game.
  
  Replay Value 8/10: If you have an extra Wii controller and a friend you'll be playing this for 
 awhile.
  
  REVIEW:
  So Cooking Mama Cook Off isn't as bad as most say I find it enjoyable I mean not the best cooking 
 game but not the worst either when I first seen this I was like "should I really buy this game 
 just so me and my mom (yes I play Wii games with my mom rofl) will have a new game to play for 
 wii?" Also just so you know the Wii is the only system my mom has ever liked or even cared to buy 
 and play. Anyways I ended up buying it (obviously) and me and her played it for a couple of hours 
 its fun, not to hard, so in my opinion its a good game but apparently most other people on Gamespot 
 didn't enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xocandii
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was way to easy, after you did one recipe you unlocked another so that's how I beat it 
 in a day. Spent $50 for it and it was not worth it.
  
  When you are making the food it takes less than a minute to chop the food then go on to the next 
 step which takes the same amount of time. So, the recipes were really quick to make. 
  
  The voices in this game are annoying, Cooking Mama's same catch phrases really make you annoyed 
 to the point you shut the audio off, as well as the music playing in the background, I understand 
 it's a cooking game but the music gave me a headache.
  
  The graphics aren't anything to brag about. The background of the kitchen looks hidieous when you 
 first enter the game. As well, as the objects you use to cook the food (stove, pan, etc)
  
  Highly Dissapointed with this game, wouldn't recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is kinda pointless really all u do is cook can i cook taco bell. nope. can i cook bill 
 murphy. nope
  chokes him. ok u get to make italian meals and pizza and so forth. graphic are pretty deliuos and 
 lame that u see food every 5 seconds no wonder americans are overwieght.
  believe it or not this game is accautally a japanese or chinese game by what i remember. i cant 
 beilieve that this game exists i think i need to call chuck norris.
  the controls contorl are just like swirly swirly weeeeeeeeeeeee cut cut pretty much what the controls 
 are like. question rent or buy not either just try and destroy it not ps i am respondsible for servere 
 injuires. the sound quality isnt that good throught all they say is random words that i dont even 
 know of i think its chinese.
  gameplay 1
  sound 1
  graphic 2 tacos!
  control 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceboxhero_x
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, I have to say that I was SO excited for Cooking Mama on the Wii. I was actually 
 at Nintendo World in NYC at the time, and they got me so hyped up that I just HAD to get the game.
 
  
  The idea of incorporating the Wii-mote into cooking was such a fantastic idea. How disappointed 
 I was, however, when I immediately realized just how unresponsive the Wiimote was. It was never 
 quite right. Cracking eggs was a joke; you either got no crack in the egg or the egg completely 
 exploded. Everything was a workout to get the Wiimote to be responsive. Pointing and clicking on 
 ingredients was about all that didn't take an arm and a leg. 
  
  The unresponsiveness was so bad that it was nearly impossible to enjoy the game. Even still, I 
 got through all the recipes in under 4 or 5 hours, and quickly realized there was zero replay value. 
 I sent it back to Gamefly without a second thought. 
  
  The recipes were fantastic ideas. The motions that were supposed to be executed would have definitely 
 been fun. Mama is cute, although her same-worded praises do get annoying. I'm going to be nice 
 and rate this game a 6, though I wouldn't blame anyone for rating lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Cooking mama for the Wii... Bad day for Nintendo.
  
  The Wii remote is not responsive to the least bit, I can't cut celery, bake a cake, or cook a beef! 
 Simply because my Wii remote won't move in that way! It's like asking your fat Aunt Suzan to be 
 in the middle of sharp shooting dodgeball.
  
  The graphics are cute, but... Nintendo, you need to stop with the cutsey pootsy graphics, and give 
 us some GAMEPLAY! There's really nothing else I can say about this game, it's just simply that 
 bad.
  
  Oh, there is some fun when you and your brother get it for christmas and try it out for the first 
 time, lots of laughing at how mediocre this game is.
  
  Cooking Mama Rama Sama Slama Llama Dama Rama Fama Rama Gama Tama Wama Dama Fama Lama Kama Hama.
 
  
  Now that I'm done rhyming horribly, allow me to summarize my point. The Wii remote wont react, 
 and it's too cute without any real fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama on DS was a great game. It also would have suited the Wii. Something seems to have 
 been lost in the transisition between the two consoles. It loses its appeal very quickly.
  
  The voice acting for the different countries and for commenting on your food sounds stupid. 
 There is little variety in the different stages of cooking different dishes, so you find it far 
 too easy very quickly. You progress through the 55 different dishes very quickly which meens you 
 get very bored. Some of the ingredients are graphicly ugly, looking like green mush or some mutilated 
 stick.
  
  The only vaguely redeeming feature on this game is the multiplayer, where you can cook against 
 a friend. The competition gets very fierce and you get a tiny bit closer to actually enjoying it. 
 The sensor bar sometimes does not pick up one player's movement which sort of ruins it.
  
  In conclusion, don't buy this game, it does little to be worth it. This is another failed transisition 
 between two consoles. Overall a terrible game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The good: Cartoony Graphics, Pianist Music is decent, Using the remote is a wonderful addition, 
 many new recipes, fun for newcomers, fun for a long time, amazing multiplayer, delicious foods
 
  
  The bad: Delayed controls, Too short, many of the recipies barely offer a challenge, Voice Audio 
 is extremely annoying, Game is an expensive $50
  
  Game-play: 8/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 5/10
  Tilt: 7/10
  Average Score: 7.5/10
  
  The Cooking Mama series, 
 although not regardly well recieved by critics, has been welcomed by many Nintendo fans, and has 
 established the Cooking genre. It is definitly shown in Cooking Mama: Cook Off, which is both fun 
 and a lesson in making delicious meals. In this, you'll race against time to make recepies at the 
 perfect cooking at the perfect time. This gets great challenge in you, but there are some minor 
 flaws.
  
  One flaw in the game is the control. Although it's not a huge problem, few times it gets in the 
 game. When you're peeling potatoes, chopping carrots, or scrubbing a pot, it gest delayed, espicially 
 when scrubbing the pot, which easily gets frustrating for gamers young and old. While this gives 
 the game a fair challenge, it's not in a good way.
  
  Graphically, the game looks pretty good. The graphics are detailed and cartoony, and the food looks 
 mouthwatering. The movements are also splendid and fast paced, with no annoyance what so ever.
 
  
  The music is flawless. The piano music is genius, with no single annoyance at all, despite some 
 repetitive moments. For example, the title screens music is amazing, and it's great that Majesco 
 did a wonderful job on the music. The audio, however, is annoying. generally, it's okay, but the 
 voicing is where it gets annoying. You know you'll go insane when you here "Good, good", "Better 
 then mama", and "Keep going" over and over again with a french accent. The french accent isn't 
 bad, but the way it sounds makes it annoying.
  
  The high price of the game also sets it off. The game is $50 too expensive for an experienced gamer. 
 Although this is a Wii game, and most Wii games have high prices, this has the highest out of all 
 the Wii games I have played. Unless you're Bill Gates, you're not really going to feel good giving 
 away $50 you were saving for Ice cream for you and your friends. Neverless, the games flaws aren't 
 enough to clinch the games quality success.
  
  This Cooking Mama is a blast for newcomers and Chefs, and is easily the best cooking game you'll 
 ever find. This is also one of the best Childish games ever made, because although the game is 
 rediculiously short, the game-play isn't seriously repetitive, with the exception of the music. 
 Overall, if you want a new genre game for the Wii, then Cooking Mama: Cook Off is the game you'll 
 want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  The layout for cooking mama is a tedious game but tames the wiimote better than expected. Slight 
 actions define the game such as twisting to minimize oven heat, rocking your pan to flip the burger 
 and the epic cucumber chopping. Cooking Mama: Cook Off in short should basically serve as an introduction 
 to the Wii and the potential it delivers to you.
  
  Cooking Mama works on a minigame basis and is multiplayer oriented, but doesn't produce much more 
 than that. Knowing you are cracking the egg so you can eat it later in the form of an omlette is 
 worlds apart from cracking an egg later on so you can unlock the ability to fry a squid, period.
 
  
  Aside from that, Cooking Mama's directional sensitivity is lacking on top of being unforgiving. 
 If you are 100% sure you peeled the carrot but your shaver instrument is still frozen on screen, 
 it can't be your fault now can it? In short, the game just faces too many dilemas that dastardly 
 lure you out of the excitement of a "new gaming breed" that we so much crave.
  
  In the grand scheme of things, you are what you eat... And you eat what you make. But when you 
 can't make what you eat then you don't eat it. I'd rather eat poop. 8.5/10, and thats being generous. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  When you decide to go get games, it's usually wise to look at a review and how it scored first, 
 but it seems some games aren't for everyone and it's really a matter of opinion, a complete failure 
 could possibly be someone's absolute favorite, and in looking at the rating that Cooking Mama received 
 here, I'd have to say I'd argue differently. I mean it could be worse; you could actually be cooking 
 and burning the bajeezus out of yourself. 
  
  Cooking Mama is actually pretty fun and has addictive game play; utilizing the Wiimote, you're 
 able to take the game solo or play along with a friend in an Iron Chefs sort of challenge, minus 
 the running around and the nosy camera men. Playing by yourself has its merits and it's a really 
 fun way to pass time, just don't ask for it to be highly challenging. You're just basically supposed 
 to cook and enjoy your ending result, which is graded by how well you do in each preparation stage, 
 mini-games that you must do well in to get a good score, which can range from shredding cheese 
 to cutting up tomatoes, which are all accomplished by certain motions with the Wiimote, they are 
 explained clearly before hand so there's not much guess work here; though some people might have 
 a difficult time getting the Wiimote to respond to certain commands. 
  
  There's no real story here, really, it's a game that you can pick up at any time and is fun for 
 your friends to entertain themselves whilst you laugh at their expense as they make wild swinging 
 motions in the air. Personally it's a bit of a friend favorite and its fun watching face offs and 
 the suggestive way that you can catch the meat of a hotdog in a bun (rated E; OR IS IT?) 
  
  Kicking it to the masses,
  
  Cooking mama was pretty successful on the Nintendo DS, utilizing 
 the touch screen quite well, translating these touches into movements was a bit of a leap and was 
 pulled off pretty well; there are moments where it feels like the game isn't responding to your 
 movements as instant as they should but doesn't really hamper the enjoyment. Except for peeling 
 carrots, oh God how I hate carrots. 
  
  Graphics: Cooking Mama is cutesy and seems to be aimed toward the younger audience, but is enjoyable 
 by both children and adults alike, the food looks pretty accurate but doesn't really step into 
 more than a semi-realistic boundary. 
  
  Sound: Mildly enjoyable, at times it feels repetitive but goes mostly unnoticed as your concentration 
 will probably lie more in timing your motions just right while still making good progress. 
  
  Playability: At times the Wiimote does not feel as responsive as it should, but trying different 
 methods to the way you're supposed to move may make it easier, other than that the controls were 
 handled pretty well, sometimes it really feels like you're really dicing that tomato up, well, 
 almost.
  
  Entertainment: Pick up and go any time, this game has its moments especially with the animations 
 of Mama when you mess up in certain occasions or when she appears to be aflame. It doesn't require 
 much thought into it so at times its stress relieving.
  
  Replay: There are a lot of recipes and you can get higher medal scores on them if you try again, 
 playing head to head is a good way to entertain any company you may have but its charm only lasts 
 so long before you get bored and press for something a bit more adventurous. 
  
  All in all: Cooking Mama is pretty underrated, but it makes a good cooking simulation game, if 
 you're into the culinary art you have to take a bite out of this game, though for the rest, you 
 may just want through a few recipes and call it quits. 
  
  -Ri
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what anyone says, this game is a pure stroke of genius. When you hear of a game where 
 all you do is cook, and without even being able to get any food to eat in the process, you can't 
 not feel a bit dubious. But after just a few recipes, this game becomes incredibly addictive.
 
  Now, me and my friend are both incredibly hardcore gamers. We know what we like, and we love this 
 game. It's so incredibly weird that its fun. Making a pizza with some incredibly heavy music blaring 
 out from the nearby stereo is the greatest laugh we've had in absolutely ages. And there wasn't 
 even any alcohol involved.
  And, it's probably the most relaxed game I've ever played. The most stressful thing you come upon 
 is failing to seperate an egg. And even then it doesn't really make much difference to the final 
 product. Only to your score. A great way to calm down should you get slaughtered by everything 
 site on Xbox Live, or on the latest installment in the Fire Emblem series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getchahellyeah
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Who wouldn't want a sexy lady who knows how to cook? I know I'd like to take Mama out to dinner. 
 Her game is pretty fun with so many recipes that I haven't even finished them all yet. The game 
 would be easy but there is a mode where you have to battle Mama's friends which are hard to beat. 
 They are almost perfect cooks. If you are thinking "Are Mama's friends just as hot as Mama?" the 
 awnser is no, sorry boys... and lesbians. Although the Wii gives the game realistic cooking methods, 
 DON'T TRY TO USE THE GAME TO COOK REAL MEALS. My lady friend was sick for a month after eating 
 the Salisbury steak I made using the recipe from Cooking Mama. She is okay now but it was a scary 
 time. In conclusion the game is pretty good and I'll say it again, Mama is sexy, and it is definitely 
 worth 30 to 20 dollars to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Hate it or love it, Cooking Mama, Office Create's cooking sim, is an undeniably cute and shallow 
 (but in a sense, fun) game. And you'll hate it at times when the game doesn't even detect movement 
 like a 360 movement while uhhh, squishing (?) meat or grating ginger.
  
  In the graphics department, the game delivers below-par 3D renderings that look like upscaled DS 
 graphics (kinda like when Trauma Center made the jump to Wii) but it's still decent to look at, 
 but it's something I wouldn't call impressive.
  
  "Good, better than Mama!" is what you'll be aiming for if you want to perfect cuisine... in this 
 game at least. And you'll even be hearing it read in a  manner 
 by its voiceover which kind of contrasts the quirky, cute background music.
  
  But once you get a hang of the controls that are assigned to every different mini-game (that presents 
 itself as one step to making a certain food) , you'll probably want to get to the "Let's cook" mode 
 of every recipe which doesn't give you any help while making one, it also feels more fast-paced 
 this way.
  
  For what it's worth, the Wii version of Cooking Mama doesn't justify a purchase if you're an avid 
 supporter of original games. But for P150 (pirated) , you'll feel much better. Why? There is not 
 even a storyline to follow, not even a stupid big cooking contest held in a stinking arena! But 
 hey, if you're playing with friends/family, it'll be better appreciated, though the experience 
 is once again marred by inconsistently responsive and clunky control method. Making it worse is 
 the bad explanation before each mini-game that doesn't help (do they know how to use the Enter 
 button???!!!!) ! Its developer must've assumed that the game is so easy to pick up and play that 
 there need not any tutorials anymore. Wrong! But maybe Mama's cuteness and quirky background music 
 will pull you in anyway... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baco_Frehley
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  it's too many short. If it have more recipes, from all the world it'll be most funny. The graphics 
 have very beauty colors and are happy. The sound is fun and peaceful and isn't nauseous.
  
  The game have multiplayer mode that makes the game more attractive but if it have an online play 
 will be more interesting. Make a cooking challenge against people from over the world and people 
 who makes the dishes of the game in real life would make the game funniest.
  
  The top of the game is the controls. Wiimote was very well applyed to the game. To chop vegetables, 
 for example, you will have to point the Wiimote to the screen and make the movement like you was 
 chopping in real. To make pizza, you will have to point the Wiimote up and circle it, like you 
 have a dough in your finger. That's the point which makes the game very funny and very interesting, 
 and it's very easy to play, you, your brother, your parents and your dog too can play. If you have 
 some free time and $50 you will be entertained for a day or two and if you would like to beat all 
 the modes it'll take you a week at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chime_17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama Cook Off is an underappreciated game. The first time I played Cooking Mama was when 
 Nintendo World in New York City held a competition for this game a few months back. I remember 
 I had a blast because the game had cool music, interesting controls, a happy theme of cooking and 
 intense battles. I ultimately lost the competition but I had such a great time, nevertheless. At 
 the time I didn't have a Wii but told myself I would get Cooking Mama whenever I'd gotten one. 
 Recently I bought myself a Wii. The first game I bought was, of course, Cooking Mama. I can't be 
 more happier whenever I play this game because I haven't played anything like this before. Yes, 
 the controls take some practice to master but it doesn't take long to do so. I play this game solo 
 because my siblings hate this game but there is still plenty to do with only one player. I can 
 battle against a computer player and win prizes if I do well. Those prizes go directly to my kitchen 
 (within the game) and are displayed. If you have a buddy that likes to cook or give virtual cooking 
 a shot, this game can be extremely fun. Also there are many recipes to complete; so there is always 
 something to do. When all is said and done, Cooking Mama Cook Off is a game that can be appealing 
 for anyone at any age. Why not give it a whirl? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigshow36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Lets be honest here, Im not your average gamer. I happen to have a pre-existing love for cooking, 
 micro games, and Japanese pop culture. Cooking Mama is precisely what I just described. Its a 
 bright and joyous game with a difficulty levels that ranges for all ages.
  
  The main base of the game is cooking up some authentically gourmet cuisine with step-by-step instructions 
 from Cooking Mama herself. When going by the book, each step in the culinary process is conveyed 
 clearly and easily, but takes most of the challenge out of each step. Once youve graduated from 
 the cook book, you can Challenge the cuisine of your choice in a fast-paced micro-game lineup 
 that rivals that of WarioWare games. The Challenges for each dish contain the same steps, in 
 the same order that they were shown in the cook book, but without any instructions or input from 
 Mama.
  
  Not only can you challenge each culinary dish, but you can also challenge a friend or international 
 personality to a cook-off. Each of the dishes in Cooking Mama come from one of 10 countries featured 
 in the game, and a representative of each country will take you on in a head-to-head challenge. 
 Should you defeat one of your international computer players in a cook-off, they will present you 
 with a gift that you can use to spice up you kitchen!
  
  The controls for this game are quite responsive, and require some discipline, but it doesnt take 
 long to learn each of the controls for the various micro games/cooking steps in each recipe. Cooking 
 Mama is a great, laid-back game that you can play for 5 minutes at a time, or hours on end. The 
 recipes are detailed and authentic, and each of the steps are fun and addictive. If you like micro 
 games and/or cooking to any extent, Cooking Mama: Cook Off is most likely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmat_tycoon
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  What is up with this game. I mean, cooking mama, thats pretty strange. A cooking video game, I 
 mean who would of thought of it. Since wii is interactive they can up with a lot of mediocre games 
 and still suceed. Resident Evil 4 is by far the best wii game to date. Better than metroid prime 
 3. Redsteel is ok, it just did well because it is the first sword game. Anyway, Cooking Mama is 
 just weird. It scares me. Could'nt they come up with something more creative. I mean this is just 
 like a simple game that colud have been invented for the n64. Waste of time. (Just so you know, 
 I would rate it a 0.1, but it doesn't go that low) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WitIsWisdom
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Do not buy this game! I really don't see how anybody could like this! My wife and I rented it from 
 a local video rental store, and opted for two days instead of one... Big mistake! This is by far 
 one of the worse games that I have ever played. Beat the whole game in just over an hour and a 
 half, and only on occasion did I have fun! I laughed a few times simply because you can complete 
 some of the challenges by simply flailing the Wii remote around like an idiot, even if you have 
 no idea what it is your exactly supposed to be doing! You don't have to take my word, you may love 
 it, but I would strongly suggest you rent it before ever thinking of buying it! I guess if your 
 a chef it could be a little fun.... maybe..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMattock
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  My daughter chose this game when I asked if she wanted this, or Big Brain Academy. When we got 
 home, we popped it in and started to play. After getting the hang of the controls, the game became 
 a lot of fun. There is a learning curve, so if you are uncoordinated, or have the patience of a 
 4-year-old, this is probably not a good game for you. Anyway, we played a while, and I enjoyed 
 it. I am looking forward to trying some of the recipes in the game in real life! I would recommend 
 renting this game before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  As the second installment of the Cooking Mama series, Cooking Mama: Cook Off has its good moments 
 as well as the bad.
  
  The controls could get in the way in this game. In the game's many recipes, different instructions 
 will be given: written instructions, and inanimate pictures of how to use the Wii Remote. Though 
 many of these instructions are quite easy to understand, some instructions leave significant parts 
 on how to do each step. Like in the recipe for the Japanese Mochi, the second step left out the 
 instruction for pressing the A button when draining the water, as well as which direction you need 
 to TWIST the Wii Remote. Recipes like these may leave the player frustrated with a sore wrist.
 
  
  Though making food in this game can be rather fun at first, the game seems to get boring afterwards. 
 There is always the Challenge mode, Friends and Food of the World, and the multiplayer Friends 
 and Food. But like all games, there is an end.
  
  I think that this game really isn't worth getting... I believe that it is recommended that one 
 should rent the game instead of purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sealightbreeze
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game, at least to me, was a huge disappointment. It was supposedly the sequel to Cooking Mama 
 for the Ds. But sadly, this game was a flop.
  
  You had to use the Wii remote for all of the different cooking utensils. At times, this got extremely 
 annoying. It would show you how to do something, but when you pointed the remote that way, nothing 
 happened. You had to mess around with the remote to find out how to work it. The directions were 
 all backwards.
  
  The music was not that great, and the graphics were not good. I would rather have a sequel with 
 the DS than this one with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaman_Cid
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Cooking mama is a fairly fun game for the interaction protion of the wii format, but as far as 
 the game goes, it aint the greatest.
  Definatley aimed towards younger children; Cooking mama is nothing more than a more childlike, 
 simpler version of warioware smooth moves.
  The interaction of game is good and learning about the different foods of world is fun and the 
 multiplayer modes makes cooking mama an overall okay game. Unfortunatley, there is no story mode 
 so your doing nothing more than cooking. Basically all you're aiming for is more recipies and just 
 having fun with the Wii. Younger kids will enjoy this game much more than teens because it simulates 
 being in the kitchen and making a mistake won't lead to life-threatenin misshaps.
  The cute animation of the game sets the tone of just a jolly game.
  Is tagged at around 50 dollars 
 plus tax. When it should really be tagged at 30 and possibly even in the bargain bins.
  The game itself isn't very good, but the Wii interaction and multiplayer modes make up for it. 
 Over all a mediocre game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Overall this Wii-exclusive game is okay, but it is missing something in the long run. The game 
 seems more fun to play with multiplayer, but when playing alone it seems that you might be breaking 
 some law. A law stating that when one plays a cooking game please do so in the company of another. 
 Yeah it was a bad law. Now to get on with the review. The graphics. Overall the graphics do it 
 some justice for this game there is no need to make it look as real as possible. It is on one hand 
 a little strange while taking apart squid and shrimp to see what looks like a photo-shopped picture 
 of one in a manga-ish style video game. The motions with the hands are pretty fluid and usually 
 look well. And in my experience playing this game I have yet to see a graphical glitch or issue.
 
  
  The sound. The sound in this is a little iffy. Yes the sound effects are overused especially when 
 stirring or the such. But the sound that absolutely kills this game is what my title says, the 
 Cooking Mama . While some of things while I first played were almost inaudible to my sensitive 
 ears especially while saying, Keep-a going! . All that I can muster is a heavy .
  
  The control. This is the main reason why I truly bought this game because i thought that the controls 
 would be fun and interesting to try out on the Wii. Overall my greatest fears were put aside when 
 I began to play it. Yes I knew some of the motions would need some tweaking on my part, but overall 
 I learned them fairly quickly. Cracking an egg is now an easy task, but for some reason the stirring 
 is still a major problem. The controls are many and make this a good game to buy for new controls.
 
  
  The multiplayer. This was a decent part of the game. It pitted best friends against eachother to 
 see who is the better cook. Actually all that it was, was who could do the certain task the best 
 and usually it would stay pretty even having one person better than the other at timing or stirring. 
 The multiplayer is fun to show off to friends as you can make anything from Sushi to Paella. The 
 overall game is a nice quirky gem. But buying it used may be better than buying it new. The graphics 
 are nice, but primitive. Sound is possibly the worst point of the game, but they are somewhat realistic. 
 This game should definitely be only purchased by bored Wii owners or others that are lovers of 
 japanese styled games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama: Cook Off is basically the DS game brought to the Wii, with some added features. In 
 this cartoony cooking simulation, you prepare a variety of dishes by completing a series of mini-games. 
 Each of the mini-games represents a part of the preparation of the whole meal.
  
  The Wii remote is used to imitate real movements such as chopping, slicing, grinding, stirring 
 and kneading. To chop something, you will be moving the Wii-mote quickly up and down; to grind 
 meat, you use it as the grinder handle and move it in circles; to stir, you do exactly what you 
 would do if you were holding a spoon.
  
  The ingredients are fully 3D rendered and look realistic enough, but with a cartoony twist. The 
 realism comes from the actions you perform on the ingredient itself. Whether you gut and prepare 
 a fish, slice a large piece of meat, dice some vegetables or peel a carrot, season your food with 
 salt and pepper, shake a frying pan to stir your food so it won't burn the movement you have to 
 do is indicated on the screen. The game offers five modes to play in. Practice is for you to get 
 used to the controls of a particular recipe and play single preparation steps or the whole thing. 
 Make It means you have to go through all the steps in order to finish the recipe and awards you 
 with a medal at the end, like an average calculated according to your individual scores for each 
 step of the recipe. Challenge mode is like Make It but without the little breaks in between preparation 
 stages.
  
  In Friends and Food of the World you get to cook recipes from ten countries in a cooking duel against 
 the virtual friend from the country of the recipe you chose. They're nearly perfect in their cooking, 
 so you better have some serious control of your Wii-mote and know your recipes before you play 
 this mode. If you win, you get a new kitchen utensil. If you lose, you usually get something to 
 decorate your kitchen with.
  
  The two-player mode in Cooking Mama: Cook Off is the best thing about the game. In Friends and 
 Food you go head to head with a real friend and have your cook-off against each other. Both Friends 
 modes are played in a horizontal split-screen mode, but this is actually the strongest point in 
 the game since you're playing against someone who is not perfect, unlike your nearly impossible 
 to defeat AI friends of the world.
  
  Although at first I was really excited about the game and how it would be so much fun with the 
 Wii-mote, my enthusiasm winded down considerably after about ten recipes. The controls were strangely 
 temperamental, sometimes even unresponsive, especially when stirring and kneading. What I thought 
 was supposed to be a really fun experience became frustrating and annoying a bit too fast. Breaking 
 virtual eggs, shaping make-believe meatballs or making cartoony puddings could have been a much 
 better and fun experience. I think I'd rather be in the real kitchen getting my hands dirty than 
 play Cooking Mama: Cook Off again. At least I know that in there I can do better than Mama.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=cookingmamacookoff 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_623
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama: Cook off is the second game in the series. In this game, all you do is prepare dishes 
 (55 in-total) in a somewhat fun, fast warioware style manner. Instead of using the stylus in the 
 DS version, you use the Wii remote creatively as your cooking utensils. You can slice and dice 
 vegetables, grate with a side to side motion, pointing it downwards and stirring, use it as a pin 
 roller and the list keeps going on. If you've played the DS version, Cook Off is somewhat similar 
 game with different food you can make from different regions of the world. There are 3 modes in 
 Cook Off, they are: Lets Cook which you basically make and prepare dishes by choosing it from a 
 recipe book. There are 55 different recipes, however, in the beginning of the game, there are only 
 a few recipes to choose from but as you progress along the game completing each dish, you will 
 unlock more dishes. In this mode, all there is to it is that you just make the dish as well as 
 you can to achieve medals. The higher the points, the better. The points are calculated by how 
 fast and how well you finish each step. The second mode is called Food and Friends of the World 
 This mode is basically a challenge mode where you face off against Mama's international friends 
 at their own recipes. However, the opponent AI is usually very cheap and does movements faster 
 than any player can hope to do. In the end, You'll get a plate where you can place in your kitchen 
 for display. The last and final mode is Food and Friends This is the multi-player mode and adds 
 a decent replay value if you have some friends over to try to see who can make the dish with the 
 most points. However, Cook Off has many flaws. The mini-games are often repetitive and boring if 
 you've played this for a long time (around 30 minutes) . The game still hasn't improved from it's 
 predecessor, there isn't a story/career mode, there's just a random bunch of recipes. The graphics 
 of the game are quite simple but once again, nowhere pushes the Wii's capabilities and the voice 
 acting of Mama is horrendous and gets annoying sometimes. The game is $50/$60 and that is over 
 priced where it should have been a budget title just like the DS version. Nonetheless, Cook Off 
 delivers with creative and fun use of the Wii remote controls/motions but falls with many flaws 
 but is worth a good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 987654321y
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game is NOT a wimpy game, if it was it would be the best wimpy game ever. the motion/pointing 
 of it is one of the best I experienced on the wii. It even rival's Wii Sports in motion functionality. 
 You crack the eggs for a cake, and actually feel the breaking point, cook rice, catch ingrediences, 
 and decorate the dish how you want it!!! One downside however, is a few of the minigames to cook 
 and prepare the food can be hard, if not impossible, to complete. Overall this game is even better 
 than some of the better ranked games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvuxboix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Now, be warned, I have not played Cooking Mama on the DS, just the Wii version. Anyway, Cooking 
 Mama is an innovative game with many different recipes to try out. That's basically it though. 
 Just some random cooking. The gameplay is rather very simple, just long recipes with the same things. 
 Graphics are, well, not that great, I mean, come on! This is a Wii title, not an Xbox 360 title. 
 Sound is like regular everyday cooking. Sizzle, sizzle, crackle, pound, pound, etc.. This game 
 isn't the best in the gaming database. That's why I'm giving this game a 6.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexorlouise
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is a really fun game. That is, if you like the idea and think it sounds fun. I did 
 before I bought it and I think its great. But you have to like the idea of cooking. It reminds 
 me most about games like Mario party and Wario ware. I think the wii remote is working great and 
 there is no problems in that area. Only learning how to do it, but that is quickly to learn, if 
 you want to. I also have the DS version and that is also a great game, but I almost like the Wii 
 version more. Simply because there a two player mode and that is really fun ! The graphics and 
 the sound isn't the best, but its okay and what does it really matter, when your having fun ! Just 
 like with the old Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama makes excellent use of the Wii-mote each mini-game does something else with the Wii-mote 
 problem is once you mastered a bunch of the mini-games the game becomes quite easy as they throw 
 in repeat mini-games for each recipe rather often and some mini-games can be too short to enjoy 
 them. Some mini-games make absolute no use of the Wii-mote at all there are some mini-games that 
 just require you to press a button when the meter is in the right area. The sound is ok at first 
 but it recycles sound a huge lot so it feels a bit like you've heard it 100 times. The mode where 
 you cook off against AI controlled opponents can be hard as the AI is a little robotronic is rare 
 they make a mistake. And also the motions shown on the screen can be wrong I do mixing and the 
 lever in a totally diffrent manner than the game tells me too. If you can get the hang of the motions 
 then Cooking Mama is a fun and innovative game for those with the attention span. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rubinman
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 20, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Cooking mama is a fun game that will keep you interested for a short while and has a limited lifespan, 
 and the unimaginative gameplay and repetitve levels may well fail to hold your attention for 55 
 dishes. Another major flaw is the difficulty setting, I have constantly found myself failing to 
 prepare dishes properly and failing the level, but still unlocking new recipes. It is mainly because 
 of this that you will finish the game so quickly, apart from boredom, that is. Cooking mama has 
 slightly redeemed itself though, with the addition of two-player cook-offs, and single-player cook-offs, 
 as these will add longevity.
  Overall though, it is a mediocre game, but give it a try. Chances are, if you liked the DS version 
 you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZavierKonz
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 16, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The idea of Cooking Mama: Cook Off for the Wii is great! It is a virtual kitchen with virtual foods 
 and you can make tons of recipes! Unfortunatly, the result is not as good as what I would expect.
 
  
  Using the Wiimote in this game is cool. You gotta chop, stir, shake and bake but at some point 
 you just feel you are doing the same thing over and over again. The good thing is, there is alot 
 of recipes to choose from but it very easy to unlock them all... It just takes alot of time. The 
 graphics are very poor. I am not usually picky about the graphics but it almost looks like a N64 
 game! The sounds... Mama will keep on saying: Wonderhul! Better than Mama! (She can't pronounce 
 the F in wonderful) and her voice is just irritating. Otherwise, the sounds are OK. I suggest you 
 rent this game before you buy it... definitly. It can be fun for a while if you're with friends 
 but solo gaming will become boring really fast. Overall, Cooking Mama: Cook Off can be fun game 
 to rent. The only good things about this game are the gameplay, the multiplayer and all the recipes... 
 but don't expect anything special from the rest. Happy gaming, Chef! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster272
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 12, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome experiences with different recipies that you can make the cool thing is 
 they are real recipies!! I only have unlocked 30 recipies only 20 more to go!!! This game is so 
 fun I actually tried one of the recepies and it looked just like the one on the game. It was so 
 good, I tried the Salsbery Steak it was so good like I said before. SO I RECAMEND THIS GAME TO 
 ANYONE WITH A WII... IT ROCKS GET IT IT IS ONLY $49.99!!!!!!! THIS GAME ROCKS!! THIS GAME ROCKS!! 
 THIS GAME ROCKS!! THIS GAME ROCKS!! THIS GAME ROCKS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeAmNiNjA
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Ok before i start this one i just want to say that its going to be a little short due to i didnt 
 beat it all the way through...
  so anyway
  COOKING MAMA COOK OFF
  .......
  that wasnt very exciting, but trust me, this game is definatally more exciting then so any ways 
 cooking mama is some crazy b**** who beleves in world peace and stopping global hunger (yea like 
 thats ever going to happen....) and she decides to go on some crazy road trip, gathers highly steriotypical 
 food recipes from around the world, and holds a tourtiment (ok well i was lying about the road 
 trip part) and you are one of the half assed combatents in this tourtiment of cooking woo hoo isnt 
 that just great, lets get on with the reveiw Graphics 6/10
  the graphics are pretty nice, their 3d and colored and hhmmmmm well there isnt much to say about 
 the graphics, they do make good gameplay though. The graphics in this game.. they well fit the 
 game, such as if you keep something in the pot to long it will char and get all black (YUMMMMMMMMMMM) 
 and they will also change color if you cook it right. One thing i like about the graphics is that 
 when you chop into something and you look in the inside, it is different from the outside (yea 
 pretty boring sounding lets get off of graphics before i shoot myself) . Ok if i can put the graphics 
 in one sentence it would be that they are good enough to eat 
  Gameplay 9/10
  You will see that this game improves alot in the gameplay. This game is highly addictive, expecially 
 if you have another person to play it with. Before i go into the multiplayer, let me explain what 
 you do in this game, ok well this game you cook (BIG F'IN SUPRISE THERE EH) . But yet again it is 
 better than it sounds. You have to do a series of minigames such as peeling, stir frying, chopping 
 (the best) , and other things you do to prepare food. And thats why this game is so innotive, because 
 it accually feels like your chopping the carrots when your flaling the wiimote around like a dumbass. 
 And the multiplayer, it is very fun, i tryed it with my friend and we kept playing for 3 hours. 
 Trust me when i say this, IT IS FUN.
  Sound7/10
  The sound in this game is very nice and fits the game, you hear the boiling water bubble, the meat 
 sizzle on the pan, popcorn pop, and the knife slam down on carrots. Not much to say here
  Lifespan 7/10
  Just like Sound, really not alot to say here. And the life span of this game would 
 be about a 2 if it didnt have multiplayer.
  
  -Addictive
  -Very fun
  -Chopping things (need is say more?) -Gets boring if you have no friends
  -Not enough material
 
  -only thing america has to offer in this game is popcorn, come on
  
  This game definitally deserves a 7/10 and should not get any higher
  
  if you like cooking 
 or you want a fun party game Buy, but if you just want to try it rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chybby
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This new game appeals more to my 5 years old that myself. As a nintendad I think its real nice 
 and shows the potentiel of the wii as for the non traditionnal gameplay aspect. The style is very 
 nive but the translation from the DS to the wii as really took something out of the game. It get 
 repetive after a while but Its OK overall. The wii needs somehow to refine a bit more its game 
 play and to offer more wii remote based content if it wants to continue on its succes.
  
  It's at lest a rent, but a buy if you have kids!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Redline
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The idea behind the Cooking Mama: Cook Off game was a solid idea, but the combination of poor quality 
 audio, frustrating controls, and dated graphics leave you wondering why you bothered playing this 
 game in the first place. The audio in Cooking Mama is like something you would find in a SNES or 
 even Nintendo DS game. Majesco can't be blamed for that though, it's not their fault Nintendo designed 
 the Wii with too much focus on classic games and not enough focus on present-day technology. The 
 music in the game is very repetitive, meaning the same tune plays during each cooking challenge, 
 and the same tune plays during each rating screen. And I have to say it, Cooking Mama's voice is 
 probably the most annoying voice I have ever heard in any game on any system.
  
  Now to talk about the poor controls. Many tasks in Cooking Mama make you want to pull out your 
 hair simply because the controller is not responsive. For example: When you are stirring a pot 
 full of ingredients, your cursor on the screen disappears and you end up not adding ingredients 
 on cue, causing you to lose points in the challenge. When you are supposed to roll dough by turning 
 the Wii-mote sideways and moving it up and down, the game only registers this action every so often, 
 costing you valuable time and again making you want to pull your hair out! But the most frustrating 
 part of all is when you are kneading dough. All is fine until you have to rotate the wii-mote in 
 a circular motion. For every 3 attempts, you will only do it properly once.
  
  The graphics speak for themselves. They may be on-par with the Gamecube, but if you wanted Gamecube 
 graphics you wouldn't have bought a Wii. Am I right? Of course I am.
  
  In closing, Cooking Mama may be a fun rental, but in 4 hours or less you will have done all there 
 is to do in the game, and the novelty wears off once the tacky controls start to frustrate you. 
 Money would be better spent elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ph0enix314
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  My daughter was so excited when she saw this was coming. We love the DS version of the game. Unfortunately, 
 we weren't nearly excited about the Wii version after playing for five minutes. It has great intentions... but 
 player movement isn't at all realistic, and hard to control. (She had to swing the Wii-mote like 
 a samurai to crack an egg) . And at other times it seems the wii-mote over exagerates your actions.. making 
 it hard to get it right. She lost interest in about 15 minutes, and it's been sitting on her dresser 
 ever since. So I would definitely reccomend grabbing it at your local rental place first, because 
 for $50 bucks, you simply don't get your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact that it's based on a film more than a quarter-century old, very little about Rockstar's 
 The Warriors feels dated or archaic. This stylish, retro brawler takes Walter Hill's cult-classic 
 film of the same name and delves even deeper into the seedy, ultraviolent world of New York City 
 gangs. Backed up by a more-than-competent gameplay engine and significant attention to detail, 
 The Warriors works because it simply gets the concept of massive gang battles right. Everywhere 
 you look, street toughs are battling it out, smashing each other with bricks, tossing each other 
 through windows, and generally wrecking all manner of shop. It doesn't really matter if you're 
 familiar with the film it's based on; The Warriors delivers as a completely stand-alone work, and 
 any fan of beat-'em-up games is certain to enjoy it on some level. But if you have seen the film, 
 all the better. You Warriors are good. Real good. The Warriors documents the trials and tribulations 
 of, well, the Warriors, just one of hundreds of gangs bopping their way around New York City in 
 the late 1970s. The movie from 1979 picked up just as the Warriors were on their way to a huge 
 meeting, held by one of the city's biggest gangs, the Gramercy Riffs, and its enigmatic leader, 
 Cyrus. At this meeting, Cyrus poses a single question to the hundreds of gang representatives in 
 attendance: Can you count, suckas? Pointing out that between their numbers, the various gangs of 
 the city outnumber the police by a three-to-one margin, Cyrus lays out his plans for a unified 
 gang movement; a single 60,000-member gang that could rule New York. But just when it seems like 
 the crowd is behind him, a lone gunman fires, killing Cyrus and sending the crowd scattering as 
 police surround the area. The opening scene of the game shows this exact sequence of events, but 
 shifts dramatically away from the movie from this point forward. From there, we hop into the wayback 
 machine to a few months before this meeting, a time when the Warriors were still working to up 
 their rep on the streets. The film didn't spend much time with things like backstory and narrative 
 beyond the gang's flee from the meeting and subsequent danger-filled trek back to their home turf 
 on Coney Island. But the game goes back and gives these characters, as well as the many other assorted 
 gangs that occupy New York, some context. You get to know the nine primary guys -- Swan, Ajax, Cleon, 
 Vermin, Cochese, Cowboy, Snow, Fox, and Rembrandt -- quite well. Better than you might even expect. 
 Throughout the 20-plus story missions, you'll get to play as each of them at one time or another, 
 and you'll learn how Cleon and Vermin started the gang, how each member came to join, and even 
 learn all about the gang's rivalries, especially against Coney Island's other crew, the Destroyers. 
 What's impressive about this is that it actually feels like you're getting to know more about these 
 characters, rather than just running through some tacked-on motions to stretch a two-hour movie 
 into a 12-hour game. On some level, you start to get attached to these characters, which makes 
 the course of the later game sequences (which are directly tied to the movie) all the more meaningful, 
 as some members are knocked out of the picture, and the Warriors themselves are wrongfully marked 
 for Cyrus's murder. It helps that the script and storyline are both really well written, and the 
 dialogue, though curse-filled and generally blunt, fits brilliantly with the hard-edged atmosphere 
 The Warriors aims for. However, it bears mention that you shouldn't go into this game expecting 
 to play as a bunch of boy scouts out fighting for justice. All the members of the Warriors are 
 morally bankrupt in one way or another, and though they are the main protagonists and are generally 
 likeable guys, they're still street thugs, just like all the other street thugs out there. They 
 vandalize, rob, and fight for a living, trolling for chicks and throwing down just to up their 
 street cred. Throughout the course of the game, you'll be doing all of the above. For the most 
 part, The Warriors is a pure beat-'em-up, which of course means that you'll be doing an awful lot 
 of brawling. Each of the Warriors fights roughly the same. You have weak and strong attacks that 
 can be put together into a reasonable number of different combos, as well as a grab move for grab 
 attacks and throws. Jumping and ground attacks are also thrown into the mix. Different types of 
 weaponry will fall at your feet as you knock fools silly and break apart the scenery, and there's 
 a wide variety of items to bop with, from simple bricks and boards to shivs and bottles. No guns, 
 though. This is old-school gang fighting at its finest, and as such, firearms simply don't enter 
 the picture -- not for you, anyway. The basic fighting engine found in The Warriors is mostly pretty 
 simplistic, but because of the unpredictability of the environments, as well as the sheer number 
 of fighters that can appear on screen at once, things can get very hectic, very fast. It's great, 
 because while you do only have a few attacks to choose from, you still have to be somewhat methodical 
 in your attack methods, or you could suddenly find yourself flailing wildly at air, allowing eight 
 enemies to surround you and subsequently beat the hell out of you. During the biggest brawls, you'll 
 sometimes find yourself doing something or seeing something in the periphery that just strikes 
 as awesome. Be it two of your cohorts ganging up with baseball bats on one guy, or you tossing 
 some punk through a window without even trying, there's a lot of possibility for unpredictable 
 mayhem in this game. Can you count, suckas? Sometimes the mayhem can be made more purposeful, thanks 
 to some tactical commands you can give to your gang members. Titled warchief commands, these quick, 
 easy instructions will cause your team to do anything from scattering from police to simply breaking 
 everything in sight. If you're in a defensive position, you can command them to come in and get 
 your back. If you've absolutely, positively got to get away, just tell them to follow you. All 
 it takes is you clicking down on the left analog stick (on Xbox) or the R2 button (on the PlayStation 
 2) and selecting one of the six available orders via the right stick. Your  
 cohorts seem to react to the commands remarkably well. Sometimes they'll get held up by opposing 
 gang members or cops trying to stop them, but they rarely seem to get hung up of their own volition. 
 The only annoying thing about this mechanic is related specifically to the Xbox version. A lot 
 of other quick, sometimes tough actions are mapped to the left analog stick, and it's really easy 
 to accidentally click it in. Fortunately, the commands won't change unless you press the right 
 stick too, but you will hear the same voice command over and over every time you click it in. That 
 does get rather grating after a time. While many beat-'em-ups tend to get old after a few hours, 
 simply because they rely so heavily on just sending waves and waves of bad guys at you, The Warriors 
 avoids this particular trapping by breaking up the action with plenty of other tasks. Sometimes 
 you'll simply find yourself tasked with collecting protection money from Coney Island businesses, 
 or stealing car stereos and breaking into and looting shops. Other times, you'll find yourself 
 in a heart-pounding chase sequence, running from rival gangs or pursuing some rat who's wronged 
 your crew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storm_lobster
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game offers multiplayer. really theres not much else to say. The only way in this game to 
 unlock new levels is to play single player and complete missions. This game losses something in 
 single player that makes this game worth while with friends.
  i found the uses of the wiimote in this game interesting to say the least. you'll end up doing 
 such odd tasks as cleaning the extra milk off a piece of fish all the way to mundane crack eggs.
 
  i have found the movements to at times be unresponsive or overly sensitive. this game is quite 
 fun for a party game and is a fun rent. but for 50 dollars this games isn't for any one.
  this game is very very easy and offers no challenge, the only real challenge is to be able to d 
 it faster then another person, i'm a little upset that its only a 2 player game i fell this game 
 would do a lot better if it could have up to 4 players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is one of that game don`t would appear on the Nintendo Wii but it did. THis game was 
 first made for the Nintendo Ds but now transfer for Wii and it a pretty unique game since it teah 
 u some Japenese food and some food u may be incomment with got some decent graphic. And it pretty 
 fun but control is pretty good. Let talk at the good thing here the game does have multiplayer and 
 it really fun if u have a friend. That all I have I have so I guess u should rent this game first 
 ifu like cooking u may learn something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I never got to try the DS version of this. I REALLY wanted to! but now ive tryed it and all i can 
 say is its pretty decent but at 50 bucks... ehhh ill rent. Cook off is basiclly the original cooking 
 mama with a few more dishes. Gameplay is a little half and half. Its fun and a idea outside the 
 box, but the bone doesn't have alot of meat so to say. The controls can go from good to bad like 
 that but otherwise its kinda fun. Graphics are kinda trippy if you as me. a poor way to bring 2d 
 into a 3d envirement but its kinda decent. most of the sound is voiceacting from a japanise woman 
 who can barely speak english and don't get me started on the friends voices! All in all its a decent 
 rental but if you want a cooking game than just wait till it goes to 20 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benj_israel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to get Cooking Mama. While I must admit, I was expecting a little more, that 
 doesn't change the fact of its excellent party value.
  
  Gameplay: Cooking Mama makes for a hilarious experience with friends, doing mundane movements and 
 competing for the best time. Like I said, with friends this is a blast, but unlocking things solo 
 isn't nearly as fun. 8/10
  
  Graphics: While I'm not a huge fan of the Anime/Manga style graphics, just like Trauma Center, 
 Cooking Mama has applied this style excellently. The food looks delicious! Since it doesn't possess 
 breathtaking graphics, however, I give it a 9/10.
  
  Sound: Mama's Engrish makes a nice touch to the game, however at some points it can get a bit annoying... 
 usually she's understandable. 9/10.
  
  Value: Here's where I had to drop the points a bit... This game can provide hours on end of multiplayer 
 fun, but single player isn't very amusing. 7/10.
  
  The main problem with the game is that it's too easy.. none of the meals are a challenge once you 
 understand what you're supposed to do for each step. As for bugs, I've only noticed one so far... 
 in the spice shaking game sometimes the shakers freeze making you fail that step. Otherwise a great 
 game, overall. 8.1/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muppetguy21
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I tried it. so glad i rented it first! i was so eager to buy this game. so again waiting for a 
 good wii game 8 )
  I think the game could have been good but the bad japanese voice and the none intuitive controls 
 really make the game sub par. I hope the next cooking mama learns from its mistakes. Trying to 
 fill 100 words so here is some more. So to sum it up. Bored real fast. fun for 5 min. I tried it. 
 so glad i rented it first! i was so eager to buy this game. so again waiting for a good wii game 
 8 )
  I think the game could have been good but the bad japanese voice and the none intuitive controls 
 really make the game sub par. I hope the next cooking mama learns from its mistakes. Trying to 
 fill 100 words so here is some more. So to sum it up. Bored real fast. fun for 5 min. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlsze
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is directly transform from the DS version but not that great at all because of the control 
 interface. I think the control on the DS version is much better than Wii since you don't need to 
 hold your controller on the mid air with those cut and peel action. On the DS version you can hold 
 you pen and point on the touch screen and that really give you a feel that you are doing the chop 
 chop and cut cut action...... On the Wii you just feel kind of strange. Back to the graphic, I think 
 it is kind of ok, since this is a funny game for a group of poeple to play, you don't need much 
 detail in graphic but need to be funny, right? I am sure you will get bore while playing alone. 
 So I will recommend this game to group play instead of single play.....: ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathieu7
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  step it up YOU GUYS REALY NEED TO GET MORE REALAISTC GAMES OUT THERE FOR THE WII try a basketball 
 game or an awsome rpg or you should realy try to make an awsome first person shooter would be awsome 
 please step up ure games or i realy think ure company will crash very fast nice try but this game 
 suck!! hopefully you will get my point dont make a pointless game about cooking no one whants virtual 
 cooking no one has time to even cook a realy meal. come on make a good game and give me call when 
 you do mabey ill go buy one of your games that makes sence!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I have just finished culinary school and I was very interested in a game about cooking. This game 
 would be a lot of fun, if you could eat the food once you were done cooking it in game. But since 
 you can't, I really don't understand why someone would make this game as it is is right now. The 
 game is lacking in many areas, including motion controls, sound, lack of entertainment for more 
 then maybe twenty minutes or so. If you brought this game to a party for multi-player, you would 
 be laughed at. The sound is extremely annoying. YOU RE BETTER THAN MAMA, if I hear that saying 
 again I will start to punch things incoherently out of extreme annoyance. The game lacks in a lot 
 of areas and although the motion control is one of the worst, there are many many areas, where 
 it could have made up for that, but failed to do so. The thing about culinary art is that you should 
 have the choice of what to add to your dish, but its a very strict regiment in this game, which 
 I could probably understand if it wasn't a mess to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I never played the DS version, but I figured that cooking with the Wiimote had to be fun... boy 
 was I mistaken.
  
  The game does not use the Wiimote well. I have only been playing for about 1 hour, but I could 
 not take it anymore, when the Wiimote did not react the way it was supposed to on the screen. The 
 same complaints the GameSpot reviewer had I also have. I broke eggs, ruined by custard, and other 
 recipes because the controls were either too sensitive or not enough.
  
  The game was fun when my wife played with me but we each took turns being frustrated at trying 
 to get the wiimote to have the desired effect on the screen. She quit after few recipes because 
 of this issue with the controls.
  
  The sounds in the game match up with the action going on, but the little girl voice telling you 
 that you are cooking better than mama gets old fast. The graphics are anime-like so they are nothing 
 to scream about, but they fit the game.
  
  I tried the single player campaign, and it was nice to see that I could beat my best time and points, 
 and that by doing well I get new recipes. Unfortunately, there is not much there to keep me wanting 
 to go back to this game. Today is my 1st day of renting it and I wish I had picked up Godfather 
 instead.
  
  I am going to give it another shot to impress me (I have it for 4 more days) but I doubt it will 
 wow me to the point to come back and change my review. Very disappointed! : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyryder34
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game is simple to pick up; Colorful, fun to look at; Multi-player.
  
  The Bad: Much the same; Simply not enough content, It's simple to pick up; $50 price tag.
  
 
  I'll be honest. After playing the DS version of Cooking Mama I was really looking forward to this 
 game. Perhaps I had my expectations set a bit too high, because I REALLY enjoyed this game on a 
 handheld. When I had the opportunity to get this game I jumped at the chance. Gameplay: If you've 
 played the DS version of the game you know what to expect There won't be any surprises here. This 
 game is basically a cooking mini-game-a-thon. You choose one of 55 recipes (which is fewer than 
 the previous) and you are then given a few SIMPLE tasks in order to complete the recipe. Everything 
 from stirring ingredients in a pot, to buttering a pan, and changing the temperature of the stove. 
 Many of these games seem a bit better suited to the Wii as you feel more like you're performing 
 these actions. If you need to chop an onion you perform a chopping motion with the Wii Remote. 
 If you need to stir ingredients in a pan, you use the Wii Remote like a spoon and stir. Most of 
 these motions are very intuitive and they work the way you would expect them to. Where the game 
 is off a bit is when you need a bit of finesse. Cracking eggs or pouring things into a colander 
 are not always easy to do as you just can't tell how much movement you actually need to perform 
 the task. There are only a few of these tasks I would say don't work. More often than not things 
 will work exactly as you expect. Audio/Visual: The Wii installment of Cooking Mama looks like the 
 DS version, but it appears they worked a little bit on the visuals of the game. Things look a bit 
 better defined than they do on the DS. The same cartoon look and feel of the game comes through 
 and it looks really good. The sound will be very familiar to anyone who has played the game before. 
 Most of the audio could have been ripped straight from the DS and added to the Wii, but it works 
 for this game. Mama now has a voice, but many of the phrases can be hard to understand because 
 of her heavy Japanese accent. Her voice though is very cute.
  
  Other: Cooking Mama now has Multi-player. You can play through the single player campaign where 
 you face off against computer opponents from around the world who look just as cute as Mama does 
 and have the voices the match. The characters say phrases from their native country during your 
 encounter with them. They are not overly difficult to beat though and if you can perform the tasks 
 with any skill you should be guaranteed to win every time. Whenever you win you are given a present 
 that goes into your kitchen that you can view from the options menu. The game really is given a 
 boost by the 2 player multi-player Cook Off where you and another human opponent go head to head 
 similar to the single player campaign. The game has a little bit of replay value if you have some 
 one you can cook against. Both players perform the same task and the person with the higher score 
 is declared the winner. There is no virtual pay-off, only the chance to brag to your other friends 
 that you're the better cook. Closing Thoughts: If you've played this game before there really would 
 be no incentive to pick it up unless you want the opportunity to cook against your friends in a 
 local cooking competition. The Wii version does not add much more that you don't already get. If 
 you're a fan of the game or are just really curious to know what it's about I would wait until 
 you see the game come down a bit in price as there's not a whole lot to justify a $50 price tag. 
 You will have fun if you're playing this game by yourself, but only for a couple of hours. Having 
 a friend to compete against is where this game comes up just a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javatar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Pretty easy decision to buy here. If you loved the DS version, you'll likely love the wii version. 
 The controls take a bit of getting used to, but you'll figure out the correct angles and timings 
 within one hour. The game is a bit tiring on the arm, so keep motions short as possible! If you 
 hated the DS version, you will hate this one. I, for one, like it a lot. Two player mode is fun 
 if you can talk someone into playing with you. This is the perfect rental for those that might 
 be on the fence. Oh, the broken english dialog is great. It definately adds to the experience. 
 Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomusicmaker
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama: Cook Off is the game that could have been. it dose an ok job of presenting dishes 
 and the menu is cool. ok on with the bad stuff...
  
  peeling potatoes is the most frustrating thing ever because some times it just cant finish no matter 
 how much you wiggle it around. no vibrating feature, and no mater how much you suck at this game 
 the end result still looks like a 5 star meal. it was how ever better than the ds version witch 
 i didn't like. It is also a vary vary easy game. the price in canada is 60$ and yea totaly not 
 worth it.
  RENT or be dissopointed.
  
  p. s
  
  sound was great compared to most wii games.
  
  keep in mind that this is for 10 - 15 year olds 
 so i may be a bit harsh for the reason that i didnt fully enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotspotz4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Sizzling off the Nintendo DS burner, Mama is back for second helpings with Cooking Mama: Cook-Off 
 for the Wii. What can easily be called an import-with-modification, this kitchen simulation emulates 
 the DS version almost identically and although several key distinctions can be made between the 
 two titles, it's a safe wager that if you enjoyed the portable Mama, you'll love her just the same 
 when grounded to Nintendo's new console.
  
  The premise of the game is ridiculously simple which no doubt enhances the title's adorable flair 
 as well as minimizes its already insignificant learning curve. Mama (a ridiculously excitable Japanese 
 woman) has once again decided to open her cheery country-style kitchen to gamers who, under her 
 unblinking supervision, will cook, slice, and dice their way through fifty-five international entrees 
 and desserts. Each of the missions is further deconstructed into several objectives, all of which 
 can be successfully completed through simple motion-driven minigames. Say, for instance, a gamer 
 chooses to melt and mold chocolate truffles. After confirming his or her selection, a screen will 
 appear detailing the numerous step-by-step activities one must perform in order to properly prepare 
 the cocoa-crunchies. Once briefed, the first minigame will begin with a simple 3-2-1 on-screen 
 countdown. An unwrapped chocolate bar appears on a digital cutting board and the gamer is instructed 
 to flick the Wiimote up and down rapidly to dice the dessert. Once chopped, the chocolate must 
 then be boiled, an activity which requires the gamer to monitor oven settings and be vigilant against 
 charring the mixture.
  
  After each minigame, a results screen appears, chronicling ones numerous successes or failures. 
 From this evidence Mama renders her verdict which is relayed through a series of annoying, mispronounced 
 Engrish phrases (Better than Mama!, No Good!, Thats Okay. Keep Going!) . Upon accepting 
 her analysis, the instructions screen reappears and another minigame launches.
  
  The title features three primary game modes  Lets Cook, Friends and Food of the World, 
 and Friends and Food. In highlighting the first option, Mamas recipe book bursts open, thereby 
 enabling the gamer to access a myriad of single-player entr&eacute; e-selections, all of which can 
 be independently prepared. Friends and Food of the World offers a competitive user-versus-computer 
 challenge during which an exotic e-pal races you to prepare a specialty entr&eacute; e from his 
 or her own unique nation. The human contestant must not only cook quickly but accurately as both 
 time and precision determine your final score. Lastly, Friends and Food allows two human chefs-in-training 
 to compete against one another in a food preparation dual; utilizing a split-screen configuration, 
 both players are given the same tasks to complete but, as expected, their performances can vary 
 greatly.
  
  As for its performance and execution, Cooking Mama: Cook Off provides gamers with a light-hearted, 
 atypical experience, no more, no less. This isnt a game which enthralls its user at the onset 
 and demands his or her undivided attention. You wont have to cancel your social obligations with 
 the excuse that youve just gotta create those virtual creampuffs. In the same breath, dont 
 underestimate this title to be a useless throw-away deserving of dust collection; Cooking Mama 
 can be a delight, in so long as one keeps his or her expectations in check. This game wont significantly 
 impact your worldviews and mindsets nor will it violently augment your real-life culinary abilities; 
 what it will provide is casual amusement and entertaining escapism from the harsh realities of 
 life. When shootem ups get you down and puzzling mysteries confound you, Mamas always there with 
 a gentle smile, sparkling kitchen, and exotic entr&eacute; e to be prepared. Bon appetite!
  
  PROS 
  + Effervescent environments, entrees, and activities.
  + Excellent and innovative 
 use of the Wiimote as an all-in-one kitchen utensil.
  + Guaranteed to charm even the most cynical of gamers.
  + Easy to play but truly difficult to 
 master.
  + Lovely soundtrack and realistic audio effects; battles between global e-pals feature music tracks 
 unique to the given region.
  + Overall, an addictive oddity; how many cooking simulations have this much depth and diligence?
 
  
  CONS 
  -- Entrees and edible ingredients are beautifully rendered; environments and cell-shaded utensils 
 however lack detail and definition. Too many jagged edges and not enough vectors are integrated.
 
  -- Mamas vocalizations are annoying, repetitive, and sometimes incomprehensible.
  -- Literally no options exist within the games options menu; customization is oddly absent.
 
  -- A few Wiimote movements are difficult to perform; mixing becomes exhausting whilst peeling 
 virtual vegetables is actually more challenging than the real thing!
  -- Niche-marketed; some gamers will adore this title but many will unfairly treat it with disdain. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGBBIGBb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  What can I say this game is fun. Chop, slice, peel, and a whole gambet of other things. The music 
 is good but after hours of play it can get annoying. I basicly purchased this game for my kids 
 who are the ages 3 and 1 1/2. Some of the controls are hard for the 3 year old and they are even 
 hard for me. But this is not a game you would take to your friends house if you are older than 
 16. However it is a fun game and its nonoffensive (no hookers or guns) . Its basicly what it looks 
 like a cooking sim for the whole family that you can play for hours and not have to worry about 
 fights or hurt feelings. The single player missions describe what to do for each exercise, however 
 I think Wario ware does a better job of explaining. If you play the same exersise 2 times you will 
 understand it so Its ok at explaning but it could of been better. All in all I thinks its a great 
 game for what it is. If you are reading this reviev you are most likely a parent and yes this game 
 has alot ot offer. Lots of unlockables, lots of chalenges, and a great multiplayer. What more can 
 I say its a cooking game for the family if you are intrested then you should buy it. The graphics 
 are simple but detailed. Yes all the characters have legs but the anamation is 2 dimentional like 
 southpark or paper mario. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
