-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crash of the Titans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/crashofthetitans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Monster-jacking adds some unique flavor to an otherwise vanilla platformer.
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks a real distinct personality.
 Monster-jacking gets old after a while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 255 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a fairly sturdy, combat-heavy platformer with a good hook, but it lacks a real distinct attitude. 
 

  Ever since series creator Naughty Dog said goodbye to Crash Bandicoot on the original PlayStation, 
 the series has floundered. While the reasons for the inconsistent quality are myriad, one of the 
 key problems has been an inability to establish a tone that is consistent and compelling on the 
 part of the short parade of developers who've tried their hand at the series. There's just no signature 
 Crash Bandicoot feel anymore, which has made for a trail of indistinct, forgettable games. Now 
 Radical Entertainment is at the helm for Crash of the Titans, and though it's a solid effort -- arguably 
 better than the past few Crash games -- it still kind of feels like Yet Another Mascot Platformer. 

           Can you imagine how often the word 'edgy' was bandied about during the design of Crash's 
 sweet new arm tattoos?      

  Crash of the Titans doesn't overexert itself with its story, which is pretty boilerplate. After 
 teaming up in 2004's Crash Twinsanity, Crash Bandicoot and his nemesis Dr. Neo Cortex are back 
 at each other's throats at the beginning of Crash of the Titans. The game kicks off with Crash 
 and friends relaxing at home, attempting to recycle butter, when the quaintly insane doctor shows 
 up in a blimp to kidnap Coco and Aku-Aku. It's unclear how the kidnapping figures into his plan 
 to take over the world with hulking, mutated monsters and seems like a force of habit more than 
 anything else. Still, Radical manages to tuck some good humor into the proceedings, which, more 
 often than not, is thanks to some strong readings from a cast of veteran voice actors.  

  A solid but predictable setup gives way to some solid but predictable platforming action. Although 
 it's not as microscopically focused as the first three Crash games, the path you walk in Crash 
 of the Titans is still pretty narrow. In terms of volume, there's not a great deal of actual platforming 
 here nor is it terribly challenging, but a physics system that causes platforms to wobble precariously 
 at least makes it interesting. There are also a number of hoverboard sequences wedged in there, 
 which seem totally random both in terms of placement and length. There's certainly a greater focus 
 on combat, and every level contains several sequences where you have to take out a large group 
 of enemies before you can progress. As you defeat enemies and smash environmental objects, you'll 
 pick up mojo orbs. These orbs can earn you ability upgrades and new moves, though the combat never 
 gets more complicated than three- or four-button combos.  

  The big twist in Crash of the Titans comes from your ability to jack the giant freaks that Cortex 
 has deployed against you. When you start wailing on one of these monstrosities, a star meter will 
 appear over its head and begin to fill up as your attacks connect. Once full, you can hop onto 
 the shoulders of the monster and ride it around, like some kind of fleshy tank. You'll find that 
 there's a good variety to these monsters because they have wildly different suites of attacks, 
 as well as their own sets of strengths and weaknesses. Certain monsters are impossible for Crash 
 to successfully attack on his own, requiring you to jack another monster first. Having to daisy-chain 
 a series of monster-jacks during boss fights represents some of the most satisfying action in Crash 
 of the Titans.  

  The game does a pretty good job of introducing new monsters at regular intervals to keep you guessing, 
 but once you've figured out the basic tactics necessary to jack all the different enemy types, 
 it loses a lot of its steam. Crash of the Titans tries to compensate later on with larger numbers 
 of enemies, though this can lead to frustrating moments where you're being pummeled from all sides 
 and unable to defend yourself or retaliate. It should take about six or seven hours to play through 
 Crash of the Titans on the default difficulty level. The game naturally tries to lure you back 
 with hidden items and secondary goals that can earn you some unlockable extras, as well as a cooperative 
 mode. But you'll probably have had your fill of double-jumping, hoverboarding, and monster-jacking 
 by the time you reach the end the first time through.  

           Here's a fun fact that's totally made up: The working title for this game was 'Crash &amp; 
 Carry'.      

  Crash of the Titans offers pretty much the same experience on the Xbox 360, Wii, and PlayStation 
 2. The Xbox 360 version is naturally the best-looking, with the cleanest textures, as well as the 
 nicest lighting and particle effects. However, the motion-blur effects can get a little carried 
 away on Crash, which have the odd effect of making him look prerendered, like he was in a Donkey 
 Kong Country game. The Wii and PlayStation 2 versions are pretty comparable from a presentation 
 perspective. However, the Wii version's particle effects look nicer, and it also looks better on 
 an HDTV. Crash of the Titans shows some restraint when it comes to the Wii motion controls, which 
 the game only really uses for performing some of the monsters' special attacks.  

  Radical has created a reasonably fun experience here that's frothy, intermittently funny, and a 
 breeze to play. The big underlying problem with Crash of the Titans is that you could swap Crash 
 out for any number of other cartoony platforming heroes and not really know the difference. Without 
 much of a distinct style to call its own, it's hard to get too excited.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Dr Cortex, and his niece are at it once again. This time using collars to mutate Whumpa Island's 
 animals into huge mutants! Fear not, for with Aku Aku's help you can ride and control said mutants 
 and use them to defeat other mutants.
  
  Gameplay 7- the game does its best to maintain a light a humorous mood throughout, and for the 
 most part it succeeds. None of the levels are very difficult, and jacking you way up the mutant 
 chain can be fun, but however later it seems to get a bit old. You cant really use Crash alone, 
 especially on boss fights. The controls work well, better than many games that use gestures and 
 motions as part of the commands. The main drawback is that the camera is pretty much entirely unmovable, 
 so if you missed something in the level its hard to go back to it.
  
  Graphics 7- Colorful, yet the texturing could easily be done on the PS2.
  
  Sound 7- Voice 
 acting is decent, though some of the comments enemies make can quickly get annoying due to grating 
 voices. The music is nothing special and adds little.
  
  Fun Factor 8- I must say im a glutton for punishment here: jacking monsters and using them to beat 
 up other monsters is oddly satisfying. The game is lighthearted and would be a good choice for 
 the younger crowd.
  
  Replay Value 6
  
  My final score- 35/50 -  7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  I liked Crash Twinsanity, it was a fun game. Not a classic by any means, but definitely better 
 than "Wrath of Cortex". So how is the latest Crash game? It's great, classic platform jumping with 
 a couple of new gameplay elements to improve the series. The story is.... well, who cares, right? 
 Crash now has the ability to punch and kick, and there's much more focus on combat in this one. 
 
  
  This would be really bad if you only were able to control Crash, his list of moves is fairly limited. 
 No, the big new aspect in this game is that Crash can take control of various monsters. All you 
 have to do is beat them a little and then jump on their back. Now, you can use them to attack other 
 enemies. And this is a lot of fun, taking control of bigger and badder enemies as you go on. The 
 creatures also have their own unique special attacks. And for the motion controls used to unleash 
 them are spot on and actually add a little to the game. 
  
  You constantly have to switch between monsters, this helps to keep you from getting bored since 
 there's always new freaks for you to use. The boss fights are a bit different from previous games. 
 Now you have to beat them around, then take control of them, and then beat various objects. They're 
 good but they pretty much play the same, some are much better than others though.
  
  The game is not very challenging for experienced players, with the exception of one boss battle, 
 I think you know which one if you've played the game. If you have difficulties, then just have 
 a friend jump right in to help you out. That's right, the game has Co-op. At any time in the game, 
 a second player can jump right in, and leave any time at the press of a button. This is a fantastic 
 new addition, I hope it's present in future games as well.
  
  The graphics are bright and colourful, like any other Crash game, fans will feel at home right 
 away. I was surprised to find out that this title is dubbed in Scandinavian languages. I only listened 
 to the Norwegian audio. Nothing outstanding, so I just went with the English audio. Still, a nice 
 addition for kids here.
  
  Crash of the Titans is a great new game with many fresh new ideas. This is the best Crash game 
 since the "Naughty Dog" ones. Can't wait for "Mind Over Mutant". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  In ways like Spyro, Crash was a big hit during the Playstation era and saw a decline due to developers 
 who didn't take their job seriously in developing good games (In reference to Enter the Dragonfly 
 and A Hero's Tail) . With mediocre spin-offs and sequels to the series that weren't as well received 
 as the previous ones, many saw Crash on his last legs. Such a vision wasn't held by Sierra and 
 Radical Entertainment though, as just like Spyro, companies were hoping to bring this once great 
 icon back to popularity. This was the case with the creation of the new Crash sequel, "Crash of 
 the Titans". Brought across just about every platform under the sun, Crash has come back to offer 
 players a new platforming experience. The version on hand now is the Wii version.
  
  Unlike the Legend of Spyro series, using the series to bring the icon back to its roots and create 
 a deeper story, Crash has a simple story of "Neo Cortex is now attempting to take over the world 
 using his next greatest plot". There's not much to boast in terms of plot for Crash of the Titans 
 (despite the part where Nina usurps her uncle to take control) , but the characters keep the presentation 
 from being boring. Neo Cortex, Nina, Aku-Aku, and the rest of the gang are all here with fitting 
 voice actors and an amount of humor that gives the game a fitting personality.
  In terms of graphics, Crash of the Titans doesn't really have that much to boast, but it doesn't 
 dampen the game on an overall scale. The character models themselves look very well done and express 
 a lot of fluid animations to convey their feelings in the cut scenes and the gameplay in motion. 
 The environments themselves are really nothing to boast about, it all looks like stuff we've seen 
 last gen. Despite the last gen rendition of the stages, they don't cause much of a damper on the 
 gameplay or the eye, and it helps with the presentation values overall.
  
  When it comes to the sound, Crash manages to give a solid presentation for the games feel. The 
 music isn't quite memorable, though it fits in every situation when Crash enters a new area. There 
 are also voiceovers during the cutscenes that may feel a bit overplayed at times, but they fit 
 nonetheless and enhance the humor the game is going for. So the music factor doesn't exactly shine 
 in Crash of the Titans, but the solid voice work will keep you from quickly forgetting much. Crash 
 simply talks in grunts and wild outbursts, Neo Cortex's voice actor is very funny to listen to, 
 Uka-Uka sounds evil and awesome, Greg Eagles gives his talent to Aku-Aku and harkens to his voice 
 role as Grim from the Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy, much of the voice work is just well done 
 and the script helps enhance the atmosphere.
  
  Staying true to the platforming roots, Crash of the Titans makes sure that Crash stays in those 
 noble roots, and good results sure do come out (simply controlled by pressing A, Double A, and 
 moving with the control stick) . The setup gives way to some solid but predictable platforming action. 
 In terms of volume, there's not a humongous deal of actual platforming and it's not all that challenging, 
 though there is a physics system that causes platforms to wobble to make it more interesting. There 
 are also a number of hover board sequences wedged in there, which offer a sense of speed and excitement. 
 There's certainly a greater focus on combat, and every level contains several sequences where you 
 have to take out a large group of enemies before you can progress. As you defeat enemies and smash 
 environmental objects, you'll pick up mojo orbs, which will earn you ability upgrades and new moves, 
 though the combat never gets more complicated. 
  
  The big twist in Crash of the Titans comes from your ability to jack the giant freaks that Cortex 
 has deployed against you. When you start attacking these monstrosities, a star meter will appear 
 over its head and begin to fill up as your attacks connect. Once full, you can hop onto the shoulders 
 of the monster and ride it around, like your own personal tank. You'll find that there's a good 
 variety to these monsters because they have wildly different suites of attacks, as well as their 
 own sets of strengths and weaknesses. Certain monsters are impossible for Crash to successfully 
 attack on his own, requiring you to jack another monster first, especially in boss fights. Going 
 through this process of monster-jacks during boss fights represents some of the most satisfying 
 action in Crash of the Titans. It is cool to jack the bosses, though most of the boss battles follow 
 the jacking process while at the same time using it to destroy some pieces of nearby equipment. 
 
  
  The Wii version of Crash of the Titans also sports a cool control mechanism. The basic control 
 scheme is jumping with A and double jumping with A, A, doing melee attacks with the B button and 
 spin attacking by swinging the wiimote and pressing the B button. The Wii version uses the Wiimote 
 as a pointer for the beasties with ranged attacks. The Wii also sports motion controls for the 
 monsters' special attacks, such as waving the wiimote to have your slime monster spew slime or 
 beating the wiimote and nunchuck on a Scorporilla to cause a massive ground pound. The Wii version 
 also sports the ability to collect mojo with the cursor in game, which makes it easy to collect 
 mojo before it fades away ala Super Mario Galaxy. Another capability of the wiimote cursor allows 
 players to interact with the cut scenes by placing items such as a hat, afro, eye patch, and place 
 them on characters while they talking, which helps entertain players who have to sit through unskipable 
 cut scenes.
  
  The game also does a good job of introducing new monsters at regular intervals to keep you guessing, 
 but once you've figured out the basic tactics necessary to jack all the different enemy types, 
 it loses quite a bit of its steam. Despite a short run-through Crash of the Titans offers on the 
 default difficulty level, the game will often lure you back with hidden items and secondary goals 
 that can earn you some unlockable extras, as well as a cooperative mode.
  
  The few problems that plague Crash of the Titans is the fact that the camera is unmanageable, but 
 it's not as bad as the DS game since it's placed from a decent length to avoid blind jumping. Another 
 is the fact that the game is not particularly all that long, but it does flow at a decent pace 
 and has a good number of levels that keeps the game from feeling too repetitive or feeling too 
 short.
  
  Overall, Crash of the Titans is not able to topple Super Mario Galaxy as the thus far best platformer 
 of this gen. Despite this, it stands as one great platformer that that just about any gamer can 
 pick up, enjoy for 10 or so hours, and have an overall grand time. If you've finished playing the 
 other platformers the Wii has to offer you and you want to play something else, you can't go wrong 
 with Crash of the Titans. The game may not be most remembered for its length, or variety, but the 
 gameplay it does offer is lots of fun, well acted and presented with a high level of quality. Anyone 
 looking for an afternoon riding around on giant beasts and smashing everything they come across 
 will have a good time with Crash of the Titans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Why_God_Why
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  From the moment the game started I was satisfied. Hearing that funky background tune and the cool 
 islandy type background I knew this would be a laugh.
  
  Graphically the game is challenged as with almost all Wii titles, so let's not focus on that too 
 much. As for the controls. Really great! I enjoyed bashing my lungs out as a giant scorporilla. 
 The enemies are great and they are fun to beat up. Minions I am refering to. As for the bigger 
 guns they are also great. I love the fact that you could hijack a burly monster and rip everything 
 to shreds with it. 
  
  The storyline is what I would expect from a crash bandicoot title. So no cons there. The difficulty 
 was a bit of a let down. It was just too easy. They made up for that though by giving you the option 
 of replaying levels to get gold dolls and extra skins. 
  
  Crash has a full arsenal of wicked moves to keep you interested. Which can be executed by a flick 
 of the Wiimote. All and all a great title, fund to play. Cool baddies. Cool easter eggs and all 
 over fun. Not to mention the 2 player function. Great stuff...
  
  I would recommend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  
  The Good: Colorful art style  Charming characters  Best game in the series in five years
  
 
  The Bad: Not enough variety in gameplay and it can get repetitive  Not enough use of the Wii 
 remote 
  
  ________
  
  
  If you owned a Psone you probably have some good memories of Crash Bandicoot, this character was 
 the star in some of the best and funniest games of that generation including Crash Bandicoot 3: 
 Warped and Crash Team Racing, which still is to this day the best Mario Kart rip-off. But then 
 the rights of the series were sold to Universal games and the series went downhill after that, 
 the character appeared in many mediocre platformers last generation. But now Radical Entertainment 
 took over the series and it has done a decent platformer that while is more playable than the previous 
 ones it still doesn't match the quality of the PS originals. 
  
  The story of Crash of the Titans is quite simple, Dr. Neo Cortex, Crash's nemesis kidnaps his sister 
 Coco and his mentor Aku Aku and it's up to Crash to save them; that's about it. There are no plot 
 twist or epic enemies, yet there are many funny moments in the story, that are pretty clique but 
 still provide some good laughs. 
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Crash of the Titans is very straightforward and very combat oriented. 
 You walk on a linear path defeating enemies until you reach the end of the level, there's a bit 
 of platforming to do here but it's not challenging at all. This may sound boring but it can be 
 fun, especially if you're a fan of the early titles. You can also play with a friend, who will 
 take control of another Crash in a different color; the co-op mode is the best thing about the 
 game. Yet there are some weird design choices, for example when you're in one of the hoverboard 
 sequences your partner will not have his own hoverboard, instead he'll be in your backpack and 
 won't be able to play until the sequence is over, though this is disappointing if you're the one 
 who doesn't reach the hoverboard in time it can lead to some competition. 
  
  The main gameplay conceit here is the ability to jack monsters, which adds a bit (though not much) 
 of variety to the gameplay. From time to time a monster will appear and to jack him you only have 
 to hit him four consecutive times and jump on his back, then you will have the ability to ride 
 him, each monster is unique but they all control the same way. The only time you'll use the motion 
 controls of the Wiimote is to perform the monster's special attacks and that's a disappointment. 
 
  
  The graphics are just right for this kind of game, they're not mind blowing or very detailed but 
 the worlds are colourful and the textures and lighting are well done, the character animations 
 are also good. Much like the graphics the music is also decent, yet not great, but the voice acting 
 is fantastic and make the characters more charming and funny. 
  
  There's not much in Crash of the Titans, you can easily beat the game in about six to eight hours 
 depending on the difficulty setting and there's little reason to comeback for more. That's not 
 to say this is a bad game at all and you should at least give it a rental if you're a fan of the 
 genre, but there are many other great platformers on the Wii right now. All in all this game is 
 good and will restore the faith in the fans of the franchise, but it won't give you much a thrill 
 if you're looking for some Mario Galaxy-quality platforming. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donvito138
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I got this on the wii and the game is pretty good the new look was pretty cool and its a funny 
 game the monster hijacking seems cool at first but it gets repetitive and you don't get enough 
 time with just crash, but the game is quite fun maybe not the best crash game no warped the voices 
 are quite funny especially tiny tigers some of the bosses were quite difficult but i managed to 
 get through them. Im looking forward to the next crash game and maybe getting rid of the titans 
 could improve it but it will be okay if there still in it, and i also prefer the way crash fights 
 in this one then he does in the other ones easier. I hope the next crash bandicoot game can be 
 better I just didnt feel like i was playing crash on this game it kinda felt like a different game 
 but still good keep up the good work crash bandicoot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny222
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game it is a must have for any Crash Bandicoot. Its a Brillant game for the wii. I 
 really loved the fact that you can control different titans and use them to help throughout the 
 level.
  
  Me and my friend just love co-op mode games so I adored this game it is pretty good game on co-op 
 mode my friend and I completed the game alot faster by doing it on co-op mode and. The game isint 
 to hard to complete so if your not to good gamer and you prefere easier games this game is the 
 one for you. 
  
  I thougt the game would be a dissapointment because im not that much of a fan of crash bandicoot 
 but after this game i deffnitly am. What you have to do is rescue your sister who has been kidnaped 
 by doctor neo cortex and he froze your friend on the beach so with help from the titans you go 
 througout the levels getting help from them to help get back your friend and rescue your sister 
 and come bac safetly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeyStix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when you're playing Crash of the Titans, is that he doesn't need those 
 apples any more. You may've noticed that in a few games before, but I have to mention it as it 
 just adds to how lost this series has become. Instead he needs those mojo beam-things. Alright. 
 I can deal with that. 
  
  The next thing you notice is that his moves have become a bit more complex, but not better. They're 
 sort of martial artsy, but not that effective, and they're quite clunky and annoying to control. 
 Unresponsive at times.
  
  The third thing is that after a few punches, monsters above a certain size go into a vulnerable 
 daze. That's when Crash is able to climb on top of these things, and control them. This opens up 
 a whole new aspect of the game - but it's not been carried off properly. Yet again, they're clunky 
 to control, and really not that graceful at all.
  
  Co-op mode is nice, but it makes the already confused camera that much more annoying.
  
  The 
 gameplay is alright, a bit samey and run of the mill adventure-type. 
  
  The graphics are solid but just not very pretty. I'm not saying you get any ugly 2D trees, or any 
 glitches, but the shading and gradients don't do the game any favours. It's called Crash of the 
 Titans, and so you expect some giant monster face off, but when it does happen, it just looks boring. 
 The makers of this game clearly forgot how hyped up you can make a fight just by doing the right 
 colour combos and adding the odd flying star here and there. I mean, it already looked cartoony, 
 and Crash has kept it's quirky charm, but I wanna see some moving fur! I wanna see some realistic 
 gravel, some concrete that looks like it hurts you if you fall on it! Is that too much to ask?
 
  
  The lifespan is ridiculously short. I finished it in two months with my little brother in Co-op 
 mode, and I'm a slow gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is very good what happens is that Nina Cortex is back and takes over Neo Cortex's job 
 so then they also turn animals into monsters to destroy Crash Bandicoot so then he uses Aku Aku 
 to posses them and use them to thwart Nina Cortex and Uka Uka and save Coco while this is the first 
 Crash Bandicoot game on the Wii, Playstation 3, and Xbox 360 such amazing graphics though I don't 
 like the new designs and Tiny Tiger sounds like a nerd and though Aku Aku sounds decent in his 
 new voice I always thought he was going to sound like that in the future and Uka Uka sounds not 
 as evil as he used to be sounds rather I don't know but I would never imagine the voice changes 
 and designs happening on a Wii/PS3/XBOX360 game this is so unexpected but a good game so this game 
 overall gets a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahardy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Crash of the Titans is a good looking fun 3d platform game with an optional multiplayer game style. 
 After a nicely rendered introduction film in which your sister gets kidnapped you are dropped into 
 a friendly looking environment with lots of pretty graphics. You (Crash) start off with a tutorial 
 level explaining the (at that point in the game) limited amount of moves you have and quickly understand 
 that you can interact with quite a lot of the environment. But destroying plants to gain health 
 and mojo, which earns you extra skills and moves, is what most interaction is limited to.
  
  Then come the 'bad guys', you start off with nice'n'easy groups of small enemies. Which you 
 quickly dispose of by punching them. But then come the larger enemies, where you learn a new skill; 
 Jacking! These enemies require a number of punches or kicks to knock them silly, once dizzy Crash 
 can 'jack' them by jumping on their shoulders and then controls them with some kind of mind control. 
 Obviously jacking these larger creatures has great advantages as speed or power.
  
  This is also where the game becomes fun, without 'jacking' Crash of the Titans would be good looking, 
 but plain, platformer. There are many different 'jackable' monsters and it's great fun to figure 
 out how to get them 'jackable' and once you have them in control how to do the unique moves each 
 monster has. Especially the giant scorpion / gorilla named scorporilla has a nice special move, 
 you first bang the remote and nunchuck on your chest in true King Kong style and then swing the 
 controllers down to make the beast smash down on the ground and knock out all surrounding enemies. 
 All moves a explained in in game tutorials.
  
  The game also has a number of unlockables in the form of artwork and skins. The skins are well 
 skins. Once you've defeated a number of a certain type of enemy you earn its skin which Crash can 
 wear as a kind of suit in game. A bit weird if you think about it...
  
  You can also play Crash of the Titans with 2 players. But this doesn't seem to work very well, 
 as with many multiplayer games the camera can get rather annoying and you get in the way of each 
 other more than playing cooperatively. The fact that you can hit each other doesn't help either. 
 The game tries to solve this by having the option that each player can ride along in the backpack 
 of the other player; Basically temporarily reverting back to 1 player mode. Interesting, but that 
 doesn't work very well either as the game sometimes decides for you when you've entered a part 
 of the game where multiplayer is impossible and you find yourself popping into your friends backpack 
 involuntarily. Also you can score a bronze, silver or gold rating for each level you complete depending 
 on how well you've done. Playing multiplayer makes it almost impossible to reach gold, unless the 
 other player stands by doing nothing at some points in the game. Taking turns in playing this game 
 is more fun.
  
  So, Crash of the Titans is a fun, good looking, action platformer with lots of enemies and moves 
 to discover. If you're motivated you'll also find yourself replaying levels to reach 'gold' status 
 for each level and get all the unlockables. If you think Super Mario Galaxy was too much puzzles 
 and not enough action, this is your game. But don't expect 120 levels, just 20 and probably less 
 of a challenge. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  In a part of the video- gaming when i was a young, i just want to play crash bandicoot in my playstation 
 1, because i have a real good time with that, but i was so jer -- ... and i never pass the first 
 level (xP) for the controls of that machine. Now, at this time we have on Wii's arsenal this funny 
 game with their weird controls.
  
  Gameplay: This game have the basic, and for me, the best on Wii's games, that, my friend its a 
 game for break boxes and collect mojos and break guy in fight, this game have a good use of the 
 wii controls, because you can shake in the air, punch jack the moinsters.. real fun.
  
  Graphics: There's a good design of crash's body, and there's a great stage design and a mojo, and 
 always good fight system.
  
  Sound: there is the bad sign the terrific sound and the bad voice acting and a crappy fx make this 
 the worst part of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sai_SSS
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  As most of us know, the Crash Bandicoot series has nearly been killed this past couple releases, 
 but in my opinion this is the come back for Sony's-ex mascot.
  
  You play as the oddly altered bandicoot and the plot, which is not very different from the past 
 games, is to stop Dr. Cortex from using this "Jacking" technique to take over the mutated titans 
 of the land. He then destroys the monsters and takes the Mojo, a mysterious but powerful substance, 
 for himself. You'll be jumping, skate boarding, and fighting your way to stop him at any cost.
 
  
  At first glance, you will mistake this for a standard platforming game, but with further exploration 
 you will encounter the "Jacking" mechanism, a new twist on the crash series. After defeating a 
 titan, you will be able to take control of, or "Jacking" as the game crudely says, the titan, having 
 full control of all the titan's abilities.. This mechanism works great and is very essential in 
 the game. Without it, you would die quicker than... well, QUICK.
  
  There is a large diversity of titans to take control of, but there is only a handful of them in 
 each level. The farther you cover the game the more titans are introduced. Titans are split up 
 into types: Normal, brute-force, locomative, captain, and projectile. For example, the Battler, 
 Magmadon, Ratcicle, Sludge, and Spike all belong to the "Brute-force" type. The Titans come in 
 a variety of shapes and sizes, and all have a different strenghths and abilities.
  
  Overall, the game difficulty seems well rounded, but the game itself is slightly too short, which, 
 to me, is surprising because the game developers worked on this for quite awhile now. The games 
 graphics are nothing too special, but they surely do not look dated, even in our time of "Gears 
 of War" or "Halo 3" with their superb visuals. The controls, for the Wii atleast, are nearly flawless. 
 The only problem I have is when you are controlling a titan, you are disabled from jumping, which 
 isn't really a control problem, more along the lines of gameplay. If you're a veteran fan of the 
 Crash series and think the series has gone down hill, you will gladly be proven wrong, and I suggest 
 you go out and buy this game. If you're looking for a better-than-average platformer, ditto to 
 you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardkieran
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  I spent a few hours last night playing Crash of the Titans. What started off as a quick 2 hour 
 gaming session ended up being a 5 hour session, because this game is fun!
  
  Graphics: Well-polished, bright and light, everything you'd expect from a kid-friendly game. Nice 
 environments, smooth textures, slick animations. Granted, its not a game you can match against 
 Gears of War, but its entirely different genre and audience.
  
  Sound: Solid effects, good music. Nothing overall breath-taking, but again for the genre, it fits 
 well and fills it out nicely. Its everything you'd expect from the genre.
  
  Controls: At first I was skeptical, not sure how it would utilize the controls, but I was quickly 
 impressed. Firstly, during the cutscenes, you can press A to change the pointer to an array of 
 silly things to place over the characters as they act out the cutscene, from glasses and moustaches 
 to buck teeth and top hats. This is quite comical when you get bored of the cutscene length. Into 
 the game controls itself, the controls become intuitive and well-thought out. I was at first worried 
 that the pointer served no purpose, but you get the ability to ride different monsters, and the 
 ones that shoot fireballs, you actually aim what to shoot at with the wii-mote, sort of like Resident 
 Evil 4 style. Surfing/sliding through tunnels is also fun and pretty easy to manage too once you 
 understand how to start and stop the process. Overall, the controls burn into memory quickly and 
 you can spend more time playing the game than fumbling with clumsy controls.
  
  Gameplay: The game is fairly straightforward, designed for a younger crowd, but any gamer into 
 3d adventure platformers can get into it. That said, the game plays through pretty easy. You'll 
 lose more lives miscalculating jumps than getting killed by the enemy. The story keeps moving well, 
 the levels aren't overly long nor tedious, and the game autosaves at the end of each level. The 
 game has a co-op mode that I havent tested out yet, so I cant say yay or nay on that.
  
  Conclusion: Definitely a fun game for the kids or the big kid that likes adventure platformers 
 a la Mario 64. If you're on the fence, rent it. I think you'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbsoft
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  We start the game with Crash's sister and some mask-like character being whisked away by the bad 
 guy and another non-participant being frozen in a block of ice. So the scene is set.
  
  With the threat of imminent doom, Crash heads off to basically beat up anyone and any thing in 
 sight, collecting crystals or "Karma" which increases his power. Anyone he comes across he beats 
 up in good ol' button mashing fashion, destroying them and any objects in search of crystals, jumping 
 up and down over obstacles and occasionally pirouetting through the air to glide long distances. 
 
  
  Occasionally Crash dies due to falling off something or taking on too many enemies, but that's 
 ok because he comes straight back to life in almost the same spot - why they bothered even allowing 
 him to die is beyond me as it isn't much of a hindrance. 
  
  After a while Crash rescues the mask character and the game becomes even more boring. From here 
 on, it is a case of - find a bad guy, hit him a few times, jump on his back and take him over with 
 the mask, use him to kill the other bad guys, jump off and kill him.
  
  The boss levels are merely a variation on the above, going through the same tired methods over 
 and over again. It doesn't even try to make decent use of the Wii controls, just a cheap and nasty 
 port of a boring platform game - even my son got bored with it in one day of rental !
  
  Rent it first, or better still, rent something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty555111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  in the latest of the series crash of the titans has been a fun game to play especially because 
 he has a new introduced fighting technique which was different and i quite thouroughly enjoyed 
 even though it differed from the normal crash it was also a lot more fun to be playing it on the 
 Wii as you just seem to basically thrashing your arms about when your using a special ability on 
 a Titan i also liked the drop in drop out 2P feature. Although it was fun to play it was quite 
 easy to complete even on the hardest difficulty and i miss the old warp rooms that have been missing 
 since TwinSanity . a major flaw i thught that was with it even though you can get the spin ability 
 quite quickly u have to get "i think" 2 mojo upgrades before you get the ability and as someone 
 who has played all the games since the original (apart from games on the handhelds) think that 
 it is wrong. that said i had a lot of fun playing it and recomend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogganHardHands
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  It's a great crash game which is more like the originals than any other crash game Sierra have 
 made since they got the licence, but I miss the old crystal grabbing days.
  
  Don't get me wrong I like the way the game works, and it adds good new features to crash, like 
 the titan riding ability which helps keep it a bit fresher. However, I still think the originals 
 were the best, I liked the crystal grabbing mad man cortex was, I liked the bosses after every 
 5 levels, and I liked the boss sequences themselves. Also the old masks were better, Aku-Aku and 
 Uka-Uka looked so much better on the PS1 and early PS2 games. 
  
  I feel that although this version of crash is more like the original versions that I fell in love 
 with, Sierra need to look more at those old Naughty Dog classics and bring back some of the key 
 features of Crash Bandicoot, like the crystals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_aid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  First of all let me say i agree with other reviews that say s it better than they expected, if 
 not i probably wouldn't be giving the game much credit at all. because honestly is not really all 
 that great , but the most addictive thing i can find at this moment. come to think of it thats 
 pretty much what all the crash games have been ( #3 wrath of cortex &amp; CTR both of which i still 
 own) . addiction is a very good thing though (for video game) two words Time Killer with .... some... 
 enjoyment especially if your like me and waiting fo SMG, Umbrella Chronicles, or Rabbids 2. Good 
 artwork, excellent platforming, decent humor, highly addictive, good &amp; fun control scheme, 
 sub par story, and fairly original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Crash of the Titans is the latest game in the long running 'Crash Banditcoot' series and is the 
 first outing of the series on the current-gen consoles. For many Crash fans, the series has been 
 lacking for years, never recapturing the true essence that made the games great in the first place. 
 This iteration proves that Crash games can be great again and with a little more effort, the series 
 could reach out and establish a brand new host of fans for many years to come.
  
  The story line in Crash's latest adventure begins with Dr. Cortex and his neice, Nina, using a 
 ray gun to change innocent animals into slaves. The first use of the ray gun is a failure, since 
 the animals just don't seem to be strong enough to do much work. Nina on the other hand, over-uses 
 this gun, turning the animals into gigantic, powerful freaks. These are what are known as Titans. 
 Dr. Cortex and Nina head over to Crash's island and capture his siter Co Co as well as his trusted 
 mask partner, Aku Aku. Crash manages to save Aku Aku but doesn't have as much luck trying to rescue 
 Co Co. The Dr. promises to create a gigantic robot that will soon take over Crash's home and then 
 the rest of the world. From here, we are taken through over 15 levels filled with fun platforming 
 action, along with some great humor and well-implemented Wii-specific controls.
  
  We all know gameplay is the most important aspect to look at in a game, and Crash's new platforming 
 experince never dissapoints. There is a finely tuned balance in difficulty, titan-hijacking, platforming 
 and combat that overall makes the game great to play. As you progress, you'll fight bigger bosses, 
 bigger titans, more enemies and face off against the games main enemies. You start out with miminal 
 moves, but you collect mojo from just about every enemy and every destructible item throughout 
 the games stages. Once your mojo meter is full, you'll gain a new abbility, or you'll gain an upgrade 
 to a current abbility that you already have. This semi-leveling up system is just another way the 
 game paces itself and you always seem to gain the right move at the right time. Also included in 
 every stage is a mini-game. This mini game might consist of hacking an enemy and taking all other 
 enemies down, or finding five free hacking masks. Once you complete the mini-game, you gain mojo 
 and get closer to getting a new abbility. The combat is one of the games finest moments and is 
 really a gem all in it's own. You have your basic attack with the B button, your stronger attack 
 with the Z button and you'll have a Wii-specific motion to pull off your special move when your 
 special bar is all the way up (when you have a titan) . When playing as just Crash, you move with 
 the nunchunk's control stick, jump with A, ride your board (Aku Aku) with A+C, all the while you'll 
 have combat skills that play out like the titans combat. Hijacking a Titan is simple and only requires 
 taking enough damage on it to knock it un concious. From there you just press the Down button on 
 the D-Pad and you've got him. When you want Crash to spin after a jump, shake the Wii-mote side 
 to side. Pretty much, what you expect the Wii-mote to be able to do, it does. The controls were 
 finely implemented and don't dissapoint and, thank God, don't feel tacked on at the last minute. 
 The titans vary in abbilities, types and sizes and slowly become more intriguing and powerful as 
 you progress. At the start, you have your basic strong one, and your basic weak one. Some of them 
 can shoot, some of them can drive sprikes out of the ground, some can even pound enemies into the 
 dirt. All of them have a unique special abbility that are a blast to pull off, especially with 
 the motion controls. My favorite is the giant Ratcicle titan. You lift your Wii-remote holding 
 arm up, and then slam it down, causing ice to go everywhere. It feels satisfying and has precise 
 movement and results. Many of the titans play out just as well. Sometimes you even get to slide 
 down giant slopes similar to Kya and Sonic Riders boarding elements. This is one factor of the 
 game that I didn't feel worked as well as it should have. There just weren't that many sections 
 that had Crash sliding for very long, and when there were, they just don't feel right. You slow 
 down, speed up and stop out of nowhere too many times. These sections do suprise sometimes, but 
 way too often do they just feel out of place. Thankfully, there aren't that many sections like 
 this. Other than the board sliding, the other problem with the game is it's length. Average game 
 players can beat the game in under ten hours, but there is plenty of replay value throughout the 
 stages such as gaining all the abilites, finding concept art, and the best addition to the game 
 yet, the abbility to play through the entire story with a friend. The co-op mode is perfect and 
 honestly makes the game so much better. When you have a second Wii-mote and nunchuck, the player 
 can press the (+) button and join in at any time. They become a White Banditcoot with all of the 
 same abbilities that Crash has. They can collect Mojo, play mini-games, hi-jack and do absoloutly 
 everything just like you. There are two modes of co-op. Leap Frog and Piggy back. Piggy back is 
 more fun because you two play through the game with eachother like you would expect. Crash and 
 his white buddy both have a backpack. When a situation gets tough or when only one person can advance, 
 or just if you feel like it, you or your friend can enter eachothers back pack and catch a ride. 
 Be careful though, because if one player dies and you are in their back pack, than both of you 
 die. LeapFrog mode can become hectic because through certain situations where only one player can 
 progress, the game will randomly make one of the players go through a challenge and then suddenly 
 switch off to the next person. It can becaome strange and hectic, but at the same time, it can 
 offer some fun challenges. It's just not as great as Piggback.
  
  Graphically, the game is one of the better looking titles on the WII. It comes close to looking 
 like Metroid, but some of the textures don't look as good. Overall though, the graphics do the 
 game justice and never get in the way. A great side note is that the game never suffers from frame-rate 
 issues so you'll always be enjoying a good looking, fluent level. Sometimes levels will look great 
 and look as though none of the last-gen consoles could have pulled it off. Other times, the levels 
 look like middle-late Gamecube games.
  
  The sound track and sound effects are standard and never really blow you away, but overall they've 
 done a great job. All the enemies have voices and none of them sound bad. All them that can talk, 
 will talk and alot of the time you'll hear them having a humorous conversation with one another. 
 The main-characters' voice actors do a fine job as well, and offer a superb experience, never sounding 
 shallow or dull.
  
  Crash of the Titans is a great game to rent because you'll definitly enjoy it's fun and engaging 
 gameplay, but as for owning the game, that's a different story. I clocked in at Six and a half 
 hours after completing the game on it's normal difficulty level by myself. It barely clocked over 
 four hours when I played through with a friend though. Theres plenty to do after the game though, 
 such as playing through the game on a harder difficulty, unlocking all the bonus skins, finding 
 all the concept art or just replaying some of the fun levels that you already went through. If 
 you don't take anything else out of this review, just realize that I have been playing games since 
 the NES days and know what I'm talking about when I say that Crash Of The Titans for the Wii is 
 a high quality, fun platformer that any and all Wii owners should play. Whether you rent or buy 
 the game, you shouldn't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaanic
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Crash Bandicoot. We remember your days on the PS1. The platforming, the comedy, and the ridiculous 
 spin-attack, we miss them all. But since Naughty Dog left the franchise, it just hasnt been the 
 same. The lovable former-Sony mascot has come so close to being driven into the ground for so many 
 people. But surprisingly, after numerous attempts at revitalizing the franchise, developer Radical 
 Entertainment has finally found a formula that works. And boy, does it work. We now have Crash 
 of the Titans. Crash, welcome back!
  
  Right from the get-go, youre given a neat little intro presented in a wonderfully stylized shadow-puppet 
 performance. Basically, the sinister Neo Cortex and his niece, Nina, have perfected the very technology 
 that turned a tiny little bandicoot into Crash, and are using it to create a huge army of dangerous 
 mutants! From this point, Crashs sister, Cocoa, has been captured, and its up to him and the 
 mystical Aku-Aku to get her back. This save your (insert form of emotionally-invested individual) 
 and save the world concept is far from original, but theres more than enough creativity and fun 
 had here that you just dont care. From the start, youll find plenty of moments where youll just 
 break into laughter, whether its due to the 7 000+ lines of pre-recorded dialogue, or the off-the-wall, 
 wacky and colorful cast of characters. Whatever the case, there is an undeniable charm to be found 
 here that is very hard not to enjoy.
  
  Crash of the Titans is, in simplest terms, a fun game. The game sacrifices a bit of the series 
 focus on platforming, and instead, balances itself as a platformer and an action game. The result 
 is quite satisfying. Youll be running, jumping, and sliding through jungles, temples, caves, beaches, 
 and factories, pressing the A-button to jump around, followed up by beating up plenty of evil minions 
 by using combinations of the B and Z-triggers. Crash can also hover while in the air after a jump 
 by simply waggling the Wii-remote. However, for those who dont enjoy waggle, repeatedly tapping 
 B will do the job just as well, if not better. You can also unlock new abilities, including Crashs 
 classic spin-attack, as you progress through the game. Youll also be riding through half-pipes 
 on the back of Aku-Aku like a snowboard. The entire experience comes close to being formulaic, 
 running through levels, beating guys up, all with the occasional snowboard section thrown in. 
 But the game manages to avoid it by keeping the environments fresh, and constantly evolving within 
 each level. One area may have you in a lush, cool tropical paradise, but then transition into a 
 bland, deforested area surrounded by all sorts of machines of destruction. The game keeps moving 
 forward, and progresses quite nicely. You could be in a confined, metallic string of hallways one 
 level, but then the next, find yourself running along a beautiful cliff-side at sunset. Each level 
 feels like a new experience, and one you cant wait to explore.
  
  The game features a fixed camera throughout all the levels. It never really proves to be a problem 
 throughout the game, always managing to follow the action quite well. There are plenty of really 
 cool shots the camera reveals, sometimes trailing behind Crash as he climbs stairs to an enormous 
 and menacing temple, or coming close to help emphasize the claustrophobic feeling as Crash runs 
 along a conveyer belt. It isnt flawless, sometimes now allowing you to see behind a rock if youre 
 being attacked, but thats a very rare occurance. Also, the action stays at a solid 60 frames-per-second, 
 occasionally slowing down to show off a neat little bullet-time moment. The game runs very smoothly 
 for the most part, but there are some rare occasions of unnecessary load times which can slow down 
 the action.
  
  Combat is fun, and simple. The minor opponents never prove to be a real challenge, taking only 
 a couple hits to defeat. However, when it comes to the Titans, fighting proves a bit more of 
 a challenge. These Titans are the very animals that Cortex has mutated, and are where the main 
 hook of the game comes in. After you beat up one of the mutants and manage to leave them stunned, 
 youll be able to jack them by pressing down on the D-pad. This will result in Crash leaping 
 onto back of the creature, and giving you control of the enemy. At this point, you can walk around, 
 defeating other enemies with the strength and abilities of the Titan that youve captured. Each 
 one feels and controls quite differently. The enormous Shellephants (spike-covered elephants) feel 
 slow and extremely powerful, whereas the Parafoxes feel very nimble and fast. There are about 15 
 monsters to be found in this game for you to control, and each time you see a new one, you cant 
 help but be excited to try out their unique abilities. This is another example of where the Wii-remote 
 plays a role. When your purple Titan Meter is filled, by performing a unique motion for each of 
 the monsters, you can unleash each ones special attack. For example, with a swift swing downward 
 on the Ratcicle, you can send ice running along the floor, freezing all the enemies in the path. 
 On the back of the Scorporilla, you have to beat your chest with the Wii-mote and nunchuck, and 
 then pound down, making the behemoth hit the ground, causing a huge shockwave. Sometimes, though, 
 they are nice and simple. Some of the lighter Titans will be able to shoot projectiles, allowing 
 you to aim with the Wii-motes IR and fire with the B-trigger. These attacks prove to be incredibly 
 fun to do, and the attacks themselves make the combat much more engaging and add a bit of strategy. 
 A personal favorite is with the creature, Sludge, who iswellsludge! By crouching with C, he will 
 shrink into a puddle that can move around. When you approach an opponent in this form, pressing 
 B will make Sludge perform an uppercut as a nice little surprise attack.
  
  The game tries to cheat a little bit with the creatures, though. You will notice that while on 
 the back of a Titan, you will be unable to jump. This makes some obstacles impossible to cross 
 while on the back of the creature, forcing you to get off if you want to progress. This is a real 
 shame since you really want these Titan sections to go on for a lot longer than they prove to be. 
 Sometimes you can just end up needing the Titan to break one barrier and youll have to get off 
 his back. This is strange since Crash can hop on the back of a giant bat, but he cant even fly 
 over these obstructions. As a result, the opportunity provided by the Titans feels somewhat wasted.
 
  
  The Wii controls feel good throughout the game. But despite how well they work, they dont do anything 
 absolutely mind-blowing. It feels nice to be more interactive with the experience, and thankfully 
 that experience isnt just tacked-on. The control feels appropriate if anything, doing what it 
 needs to, when it needs to.
  
  The games visuals are nothing short of outstanding. While generally an upgraded PS2 game with 
 plenty of jaggies, the game pulls a Metroid and manages to hide its technical limitations with 
 a fantastic art-style. There are hand-painted backgrounds and textures everywhere, each one sporting 
 enormous attention to detail and magnificent lighting. The lighting is fantastic overall, actually. 
 The overall style is very rounded and alive. Everything feels like something out of a Pixar or 
 Tim Burton film. The characters are very expressive, they look great, and everything has such a 
 wonderful life to it that simply hasnt appeared in past Crash games. Crash has even been redesigned. 
 His new look making him look more animalistic, and at the same time, far cuter. His new design 
 finally allows him to be so much more expressive with his face, as well as his body. And Radical 
 definitely used this to their advantage. Crashs responses (while being all gibberish) are far 
 more effective than they were before. Overall, the game looks very, very nice. Its really hard 
 to find a single low-res texture, and the enemies all look great. This is without-a-doubt, the 
 best looking game in the franchise.
  
  One of the best additions to the game is definitely the two-player drop-in, drop-out co-op play. 
 Simply by pressing +, a second player can drop in as an albino version of Crash. In co-op mode, 
 the games fun factor increases significantly, reminiscent of the old-school Ninja Turtle arcade 
 games. There are two forms of co-op in the game. One will allow you both players to be able to 
 switch between one another while the other sits in a backpack, alternating simply by jumping. The 
 other form is traditional, run alongside each other. Unfortunately, there really is no penalty 
 if one player dies while the other survives, so you only have to worry about both of you dying 
 at the same time. This ends up making the game unfortunately easy at times.
  
  Crash of the Titans is quite possibly the best surprise of the year. With gorgeous visuals, a wonderful 
 comedic charm, brilliant little details in the mechanics, and solid gameplay, this is the first 
 genuinely great Crash game in nearly a decade. However, it isnt perfect. The title misses a few 
 opportunities with the Titans; the entire game can be beaten in only 8 hours, and sometimes, the 
 music can feel inappropriately cheery. Also, during the cutscenes, your Wii cursor will sometimes 
 take the shape of funny-looking lips or something along those lines, unintentionally ruining the 
 experience at times when all you want to do is watch the scene. There isnt a whole lot of replay 
 value other than to go back and collect all the dolls which are awarded for finding concept art, 
 accessing hidden mini-games, and how well you actually perform. Despite these flaws, however, the 
 game still manages to effortlessly pull you and a friend in for a great gaming experience. The 
 game may be short, but Crash of the Titans is a fun game while it lasts, and proves to be a great 
 platformer on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Crash of the titans despite its bad name, has platforming like the previous games, but now you 
 can take control of titans by beating them up until they're stunned. Each big titan has its own 
 way for you to use the wii remote, but you definetley do button mashing at times, like pressing 
 the z and b button to do most of the combat, including when you're controlling the titans. Also, 
 crash can now do a helicopter move by double jumping then shaking the wii remote in any direction 
 at all, and it works very good. All of the things don't sound that fun when you read about it, 
 but the whole game is suprisingly fun. Platforming and combat mix in well to make a very enjoyable 
 experience. There are 20 levels in the game, and each of them are long, with 5 worlds total. The 
 banter and dialogue from the characters can annoy people easily, but if it doesn't then you'll 
 be fine. Overall, if you're a crash fan you should buy this game, if you like platformer games 
 definetley check it out, because this is one of the more fun titles on the wii at the moment 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
