-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cruis'n
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/cruisn/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The Wii Remote controls are responsive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fantastically ugly game.
 Car handling is extremely dodgy.
 Very little content.
 Catch-up artificial intelligence is pretty annoying.
 Sound effects often aren't where they should be.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 2.2, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Midway - San Diego
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless you fancy the idea of paying $30 for a hacked-together port of an old arcade game that wasn't 
 any good to begin with, you can safely ignore Cruis'n. 

  Many a quick and dirty cash-in has trudged its way onto the Wii in the time since publishers began 
 to exclaim, "Holy smokes! People are buying this thing! Get games on system make go money now!" 
 Cruis'n ranks highly amongst the most egregious of these games. Cruis'n is essentially Midway's 
 attempt to unearth the consistently mediocre arcade driving franchise the company used to port 
 to consoles regularly back in the N64 days. A fitting notion, given that Cruis'n actually looks 
 a little bit like an N64 game that's been cranked to a resolution it never should have and plays 
 like something that would have felt like an ancient relic years ago, let alone now.  

           It's well known fact that the novelty of having two-dimensional cutouts of real life people 
 in games was already played out by 1997. In case anyone was keeping track, this is 2007.      

 
  Again, fitting, considering that this is just a fairly straightforward port of The Fast and the 
 Furious arcade game that came out back in 2004. Midway doesn't have the FATF license, so instead, 
 it slapped the Cruis'n name on this puppy and churned it out for Wii owners. It's an OK fit in 
 that regard because FATF had a number of hallmarks of the Cruis'n series already, including the 
 creepy 2D cutouts of real people standing around at the starting line, the variety of wacky-themed 
 US locales to drive around in, and the driving model that gives you a good idea of what it would 
 be like if you were to cut all the good parts out of Burnout.  

  You can choose from one of several different licensed street racing rides, from the Mitsubishi 
 Eclipse to the Nissan Skyline, though which car you choose doesn't really make a ton of difference 
 because every car still feels like a squirrely mess. You steer your car by holding the Wii Remote 
 sideways and tilting it,  la Excite Truck. The steering mechanics are, at the very least, consistent, 
 but also incredibly touchy. Extremely minor movements are required to steer properly, and if you 
 go even a smidge over, your car will spin like crazy then end up wrecking into a wall, or a tree, 
 or whatever other bric-a-brac litters a given stage. You can buy upgrades for your car that help 
 alleviate some of the loose feel, but not so much that it ever quite fixes the problem.  

  The intense grip you have to keep on the Wii Remote is about the only intense thing Cruis'n has 
 going for it. Races are a bore, no matter how many crazy jumps and tight turns you might be taking. 
 The game's sense of speed is OK, but the racing simply feels devoid of skill. You could wreck into 
 a billion objects on the track, hit your nitrous on one decent straightaway, and somehow come out 
 on top. Or you could race a perfect race the whole way through, hit one bump, and somehow come 
 in last. Part of that is likely attributable to the sort of catch-up artificial intelligence prevalent 
 in arcade racers like these, and it's definitely here in spades.  

  It doesn't help that Cruis'n looks like a fetid corpse of a driving game. It wasn't even particularly 
 impressive-looking back in 2004, but seeing it released now in this state is borderline offensive. 
 The environments look dime-store cheap, with painfully ugly textures, blocky set pieces, and destructible 
 elements that don't so much destruct as fly off into a few random pieces (incidentally, they only 
 destruct if you drive through them -- many objects will remain intact while opponent cars just clip 
 right through them) . Car models are similarly blocky and goofy-looking, but giving them upgrades 
 just makes them look even more absurd. There's nothing like putting a gigantic turbo engine on 
 a Skyline! And did we mention that, despite the fact that this thing looks like it should be running 
 off an N64 cartridge, the load times are insanely long? Like, 40 seconds per track. And any time 
 you restart a race, it takes that same amount of time again. Or how about the frame rate that inexplicably 
 can't stay above 15 frames a second any time anyone wrecks into anything? Yikes.  

           Textures!      

  Audio is more comically awful than anything else. Sound effects infrequently 
 exist. You get all the basic tire screeches and bangs of cars hitting one another, but environmental 
 objects are much spottier. Most times, you'll wreck through a whole series of objects and hear 
 no sound at all, which is a bit surreal. The soundtrack consists of precisely the sort of trite 
 arcade driving game jams you'd expect while the announcer sounds a little bit like a soft-core 
 porn actress on her fifth gimlet making a feeble attempt to sound alluring as she gasps through 
 track titles like "L. A. Ghetto" and "Race Wars."  

  Ultimately, Cruis'n offers nothing of any value. It's short on modes, cars, visual fidelity, workable 
 driving mechanics, and most of all, fun. Skip it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Remeber those days where Arcades where popular? Well we got Cruis'n USA, which it was released 
 in 1994 for the Arcades, but it was remebered more by consumers who brought or rented the Nintendo 
 64 version. Also because of it's sucess, they made two sequels for the Arcade and later got ported 
 to the Nintendo 64. Even though there's only two games in the Cruis'n series that is on the handheld. 
 The Nintendo Gamecube release of the Cruis'n series never came, until now for the Nintendo Wii.
 
  
  Well just like in all the other games in the Cruis'n series, You have a selection of cars to choose 
 from. But like in the Arcade Version of Cruis'n Exotica, it has licensed cars and some of the unlockable 
 generic cars and you can change the car's color as well. Also after you have chosen your car, you 
 get to choose your upgrade in the upgrade garage and it's filled with differnet kinds of Engines, 
 Tires, Ground FXs, Decals, Spoilers, and Nirtos. Also if you don't want a upgrade, then you have 
 no choice to choose one, maybe a skip option would've been nice.
  
  Cruis'n contains twelve tracks around parts of the United States. They take place in Los Angeles, 
 San Francisco, New York and other places around the United States. You can unlock theses tracks 
 in the main mode of the game, the Cruis'n Circuit Challenge. You start out with only four levels, 
 then as you go along the Cruis'n Circuit Challenge you can unlock new levels as long that your 
 in the top three.
  
  Cruis'n plays like Cruis'n Exotica, but now Midway Games added elements from their own Rush Series 
 like having the Air System like in the Stunt Arenas of San Francisco Rush 2049, but without the 
 wings. Other than that they changed the names of some of the stunts you can do like the Car Vault, 
 which it was normally the Super Flip. Also you can have your friends on the track, but this game 
 contains only two players.
  
  The graphics for Cruis'n looks better than the other games in the Cruis'n Series. But it looks 
 like a trainwreck when it came on to the Nintendo Wii. The only thing interesting about this game 
 is that this is the very first Nintendo Wii game to feature digitized actors and it looks quite 
 dated.
  
  In the world of Cruis'n you have a button for the radio and able to choose between variety of music. 
 This game still has that, but now there is no variety, it's all techno music. Cruis'n music sounds 
 great, but maybe a little variety could work better like in the previous games.
  
  The sound effects sounds okay, you can barely hear the engine roaring while your driving. Sometimes 
 the car makes some funny sounds whenever you fly through the air or getting hit by another car. 
 
  
  The controls are quite simple for a racing game. You steer with the Wii Remote to move the car, 
 you press two for the gas and one for the brakes. You can also use A for the Nirto and B for the 
 Radio. You can also use the D-pad to control your car. You can also change the controller setting 
 to loose or tight.
  
  Cruis'n is a good purchase for old school gamers and racing fans. But remember Cruis'n isn't for 
 everyone you know, it has some old school fan service inside the game. As soon you beat the Cruis'n 
 Curcuit Challenge, which it might take you an hour, then this game gets repeative and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterspax
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Lots of unlockable cars and levels. Alot of radio stations and tons of cool upgrades. Very good 
 price! will never need another racing game again can play for hours on end and great replay value! 
 None of that over realistic crap in the game either. You can smash through stuff and get points 
 for it plus you get alot of air time. Hopefully they will make another one! It works great with 
 the wii racing wheel as well! A Must Buy! If you do not have this game yet GOOOO GET IT!!! Hurry 
 hurry hurry! Even better than the old classic games. You can get a corvette evven and trick it 
 out like sick nasty rad style! I have not been going to school for weeks since I bought this game 
 and im about to drop out so i can go pro at it and start making money by winning tournaments off 
 of it!
  
  I will leave you with a quote:
  "No I cant come to the party tonight, Im to busy playing CRUSIN!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcarro
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is an exact head on copy of the arcade version of The Fast and the Furious game, except 
 for the upgrade screen. Even if it is a copy, it is a dang good copy of an already dang good arcade 
 game. For anyone who is thinking about buying this game but is not sure, don't listen to the Gamespot 
 rating, this game is awesome, so I am giving this game a rating of 6.5. I mean the cars are highly 
 customizable, you can put Nitrous, upgrade the engines, spoilers, ground FX/neon, tires/wheels, 
 and decals. Some of the cars you can choose from are the Nissan Z, Toyota Supra, Pontiac Firebird, 
 Nissan Skyline, Pontiac GTO, Mitsubishi Eclipse, Mitsubishi Lancer Evo, Toyota MR2, Chevy Corvette, 
 Toyota Celica, and the Dodge Charger. Overall this is a really good game, I reccomend this game 
 highly. Buy it. Buy it NOW.!.!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I hate most racing games. For whatever reason they've never particularly appealed to me, though 
 there have been a couple exceptions (the fantastic Burnout Paradise and the Mario Kart franchise 
 number among these) . But of all the racing games I've played, Cruis'n has got to be the worst. 
 It goes beyond being simply a boring game and crosses into the territory of a downright terrible 
 game. 
  
  Everything about Cruis'n screams "cash-in!". From the terrible visuals to grating music to the 
 dearth of courses, Cruis'n makes no attempt to hide its obvious status as an attempt to rip-off 
 some money from the people foolish enough to be interested. Admittedly, the arcade game was a heck 
 of a lot of fun (or at least it was five years ago when I last played it) . But it doesn't translate 
 well to a console title, largely because of a clear laziness on the part of the developers. 
  
  The bulk of your short time spent with Cruis'n will be wasted in Arcade mode. It's here that 
 you'll select your favorite car and duke it out with 7 other computer-controlled racers on one 
 of a measly 12 tracks. One-lap races, overly-difficult opponents, and instances of significant 
 slowdown and graphical glitching keep these single-player races from being at all fun. Multiplayer 
 is not at all better; it's made up of the same crap as the single-player races, and all the problems 
 are still there. 
  
  As a racing title, Cruis'n stands out only thanks to its severe dearth of content. Twelve tracks 
 and not many more vehicles are all you'll get access to, and aside from two very similar single-player 
 modes and one multiplayer option, there's not a lot to do here. The title's driving mechanics are 
 so incredibly stupid that unlocking new cars holds no appeal whatsoever; bone-crunching crashes 
 with oncoming traffic have no effect aside from sending your car into a spin or two. When you take 
 a jump and don't have enough speed to make it, you'll magically float across the chasm rather than 
 fall as you clearly should. And the physics engine is absolutely stupid: 80% of the environment 
 is destructible, so you don't need to worry about avoiding obstacles when you can just run them 
 down. 
  
  As you work your way through this horrendous excuse for a game, you can't help but become a little 
 ashamed. Cruis'n is, quite literally, a waste of time. It refuses to be fun, by yourself or even 
 with others. It offers no redeeming qualities as a racing title and will be remembered only for 
 offering such a half-baked, empty gaming experience. 
  
  And interestingly enough, while it's clearly geared toward casual gamers who have no idea what's 
 a good game and what's not, Cruis'n is surprisingly difficult to pick up. The controls are tough 
 to get a hang of, the user interface is absolutely horrendous, and the game is surprisingly difficult. 
 Rival racers will take sharp turns at full speed and seem to be going noticeably faster than yourself. 
 The title also has a mean streak and as soon as you get ahead of the pack, all your opponents get 
 an ungodly burst of speed. It's absolutely infuriating -- and at the same time strangely hilarious 
 -- to be using your boost and yet still be going slower than a racer just ahead of you. 
  
  Once you get past these problems and laugh at yourself at being hoodwinked, Cruis'n is absolutely 
 hilarious. Helicopters with searchlights and police cars are the only non-racing vehicles around 
 as you drive through the L. A. Ghetto. The title still contains those photographed women wearing 
 tight, skimpy clothes standing at the starting line and cheering you on as you begin the race. 
 And the visuals go beyond simply "bad" and instead I find myself amused looking at the colored 
 boxes on-screen that are supposed to be considered cars. Cruis'n is entertaining for a short time 
 -- but, embarrassingly enough for the developers, it's enjoyable for all the wrong reasons. 
  
  Get a kick out of Cruis'n and experience how not to make a Wii game, and try and play this 
 title. Please: don't rent it, because Cruis'n is blatantly undeserving of the six bucks or spot 
 on your Queue that it'll require. But if a little kid you babysit owns it and thinks it's the best 
 game ever, entertain him and play it a little while. But when he sees you laughing, be sure to 
 tell him that you just thought of a funny joke. 
  
  Cruis'n is embarrassing. It's an embarassment to Nintendo that they allowed this crap to get a 
 spot on its system. Whatever happened to the Seal of Quality? It seems that in their effort to 
 make the Wii appeal to more people, the Big N has sacrificed it's high standards that were a trademark 
 of its earlier gaming days. It's embarrassing to play as well, because it doesn't take much to 
 realize just how bad the game was made. Suppose you and a multiplayer friend are selecting your 
 vehicle: make sure that you don't switch at the same time, because the game cant' handle that. 
 Instead, you'll have to coordinate making your car, color, and stat selections because if you hit 
 a button at the same time, the game won't register it. 
  
  Cruis'n is an ugly, glitchy, and valueless-game that you should only play if you possess the ability 
 to make fun of it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  First of all, I did not purchase or play this game, because I read this review first. When I wanted 
 to have some laughs. By reading reviews of really bad games. No offense intended, GameSpot.
  
  First of all, this game should never ever have been published. Using 2D sprites of real life 
 people with just several frames of animations is just plain insulting. And actually charging for 
 this game is even worse.
  
  I hope that the other gamers who have reviewed this game were just joking, or are making very poor 
 attempts at spiting GameSpot's volunteer work in spotting the really bad games and warning gamers 
 about them. Calling this game "autastic", i. e. using a perverted combo of phrases "autistic" and 
 "fantastic" suggesting that autistic people would like this game is still an understatement at 
 best, as no one - not even the mentally challenged - will enjoy this crap of a game.
  
  It is kind of sad that video and computer games exist in some legal limbo in the commercial world. 
 There are hardly any laws protecting gamers from really bad games, like how some laws protect consumers 
 from haphazard products. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDRpro239
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I have no clue why people don't like this game. They said it had bad graphics bad controls and 
 looked ugly. All of that is NOT TRUE at all. When i first got this game, it was like a new revelution 
 of racing games.
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics
  Responsive controls
  lots of good racing music
  many cars and tracks
  not that bad loading times
  you can customize 
 your cars.
  
  Cons:
  sound effects
  sort of short
  ------------------
  Trust me don't trust Gamespot on this game at all. They made it sound so horrible but its not bad 
 at all. The longest loading times will be a maximum of 20 seconds. (not long at all) in the game 
 you can customize your cars to your perfection. i like how your can use nitrous. Hit the A button 
 and then a big NITROUS you show in front of the screen quickly. To me thats is just awsome!! This 
 game was definantly worth 30$, go and buy it!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDaMann
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  The series was already kind of crappy on the N64, but thats ok, itwas just an N64, 2 generations 
 later, he series couldnt be worse. The Nintendo 64 could have seriously pushed up this kind of 
 gameplay/graphics with a 72 bit expansion pack if the n64 was still workd on. I guess I got a wii 
 with to high an expectation for it's future games because I have never seen more loads of crap 
 comming out on a system for the sole purose of dishing out a few bucks to regain the 200 bucks 
 spent on development. There's not much more to say about that except for how super slow this game 
 loads for what it is, and for the price i saw it in stores? 40 bucks canadian for that rofl, if 
 u wanna play this, do yourself a favor and download project torque for free and play that "FREE" 
 game and in the short and long runs you will appreciate the fact your playing a visually superior 
 game for zero dollars and zero cents that is fully multiplayer.
  
  
  I give it a 2 cause it still actually works... for N64 -.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game came out a few years ago in the arcades as "The Fast and the Furious". It was a fun game, 
 but it wasn't anything spectacular. Now we have a straight port to Wii, only this time it's not 
 even fun.
  
  The graphics are horrid. The models all look like they are made out of alluminum cans and there 
 is clipping everywhere.
  
  The music is also horrid. It's generic rap beats with some techno.
  
  The gameplay is even 
 worse. Imagine the classic Cruis'n games, but terrible. The controls simply ruin the game, they 
 are either too responsive, or not responsive enough. Oh, and don't bother trying to change to a 
 different sensitivity, both settings are terrible. The loading times are unacceptable for a Wii 
 game, they rival original Playstation loading times. Also, forget about tryign to use Nitrous, 
 because an annoying announcer comes over the speakers and says NITROUSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSs while 
 the whole screen is blocked by the word NITROUS. The framerate is rather solid, until you go into 
 split screen, and don't even think about trying to change the song while in split screen. If the 
 car on the other screen is going off a jump and landing and you change the song, the car will simply 
 fall through the road.
  
  Yeah, I wasted $8. something renting this game. If I wasn't the first person to rent this game from 
 my local store, I would have brought it back and said it didn't work, and switched it for a different 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StSk8ter29
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  So here it is, finally, another cruis'n game, is it worth it?
  
  I have to say right off the bat, it really just depends on your history with the series. If you've 
 never experienced Cruis'n before, you may be a little bit confused, so let me give you a quick 
 overview.
  
  The whole idea of the Cruis'n series is that you race other cars in an arcade style race that usually 
 involves very elaborate locales and beautiful women that hand you trophies. That noted, let me 
 get something out of the way:
  
  Yes, the women in bikinis are back with a vengeance, and yes they still look extremely blocky, 
 but they are there. I have to be honest, I disliked this at first, but thinking about the history 
 of the Cruis'n series I thought it kind of fit in some very odd way. Even more, I felt good knowing 
 that the women were actually images of girls from real life, so I didn't get the very lonely/nerdy 
 feeling that I got when playing Dead or Alive Extreme Beach Volleyball : ) .
  
  Ok, so how about that gameplay? Well, once again Cruis'n has the various locales and the tracks 
 are set up as sprint races (start here, end across town) . It doesn't have any sort of open world 
 adventuring to it, but there are a few nifty shortcuts that can make winning a race a little less 
 of a hassle. This time around, you have a selection of multiple cars from real life like the Supra 
 and Eclipse. These cars are able to be upgraded with new parts like need for speed, but the amount 
 of time that you spend upgrading your car and making it unique makes you think that maybe this 
 game should have had some kind of online mode. 
  
  For sound I was kind of indifferent about it, the menus for the game are very bland, with basic 
 sounds and announcers that sound like they were torn from the previous games in the series. The 
 cars don't sound great but they don't sound awful, and I never seemed to have a problem with sounds 
 that were overused or shoved in my face. The music isn't licensed either, but neither have any 
 of the other Cruis'n games had licensed music.
  
  But see everyone really just wants to know about the graphics. All I have to say about them is 
 that they really aren't as bad as people have made them out to be. Sure the trophy girls are pretty 
 blocky and so are all the other people at the starting line, and the menus are awful, but the game 
 isn't that bad. I wouldn't expect to see crowded streets or a world teeming with life, but for 
 a game that's been resurrected from the grave it's not bad for how fun the game can be.
  
  ... And that's the most important part, the game IS fun. It may not have the online modes of some 
 of the other games on the console, but for 30 dollars the amount of fun that you can have racing 
 through these tracks makes it worth a buy. The controls weren't that bad, and I found myself wanting 
 to come back to Cruis'n just for it's simplistic and addictive arcade style. 
  
  All in all, I wouldn't make it the top game you want for this holiday season, and it doesn't have 
 to go to the top of your Gamefly rental list. But, if you are looking to play a racing game that 
 has a neat style and is fun at it's basic level, then you can't go wrong with checking out Cruis'n 
 for Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
