-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dance Dance Revolution Hottest Party
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/ddrhottestparty/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dancing is always good, and good for you.
 The tracklist isn't bad.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battle mode is frustrating.
 Workout mode is barely even a mode.
 You should be able to do a lot more with your hands.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 351 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Rhythm / Dancing
Date: Sep 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is one party you can probably skip. 

  One of the most timeless questions in the world of dance is: What do you do with your hands? Do 
 you stick up your thumb like a hitchhiker? Flap your arms like a chicken? Wave them in the air 
 like you just don't care? There are lots of options, and that's why Konami's Dance Dance Revolution 
 Hottest Party for the Wii is a little disappointing. Instead of going for grace and gusto, Hottest 
 Party goes for random, nervous twitches. And if you're like us, you do enough of that when you're 
 really dancing.  

  But aside from the lame Wii Remote action, Hottest Party is another DDR game with most of the modes, 
 moves, and crazy arrows seen in previous versions. But unlike later PlayStation 2 releases, Hottest 
 Party isn't completely encumbered with random modes and features. As a result, it's much easier 
 to dive into, even though it doesn't add anything to the series.  

           The diamond means you shake it like a Polaroid picture.      

  In case you're new 
 to DDR, it's a rhythm game that has you stepping all over a mat to hit arrows that match the corresponding 
 arrows flowing up the screen to the caffeinated beat of a popular dance track. If you're new to 
 the series, it's all you can do to keep from tripping over your own feet, whereas veterans lithely 
 skip all over the place, seemingly hitting all the arrows at once. New to Hottest Party are diamonds 
 that correspond to hand movements. If you see one of these coming up the right or left side of 
 the screen, you move your right or left hand. It's not dancing; it's DDR.  

  Of course, you can turn the hand movements off and tweak a few other options, such as freeze arrows 
 and other gimmicks, but none of these preferences are saved if you turn off your system. So, every 
 time you play DDR, you have to reset them.  

  When you begin, you have three play options: free play, groove circuit, and workout mode. In free 
 play, you just pick a song, a venue, and a difficulty, and then dance away. Groove circuit, on 
 the other foot, has you traveling through venues and completing various challenges before battling 
 each area's boss character. This is Hottest Party's single player bread-and-butter, and it should 
 be somewhat entertaining for both novices and veterans alike. If you've played a DDR game before, 
 you pretty much know what to expect. Still, this mode misses a couple steps.  

  Specifically, it doesn't have you progress through its tracks in any particular order. Right off 
 the bat, you have a huge list at your disposal, as well as objectives like "Get a B rating in three 
 songs." Any three songs. Although we appreciate the freedom, we think a guided tour through the 
 tracklist is a better way to go. You're guaranteed to play everything at least once, and you'll 
 probably enjoy something you didn't expect to like. But in groove circuit, you wind up dancing 
 to the same songs over and over again.  

  And that's too bad, because the song list is pretty solid. There's a good version of "Clocks," 
 a solid cover of the Fresh Prince's "Summertime," as well as "Blue Monday," "I Don't Feel Like 
 Dancin'," "Little L," a surprisingly palatable rendition of "Disco Inferno," the absurdly titled 
 "Rhythm is a Dancer," and "99 Red Balloons," which is a total foot-crusher. Of course, for every 
 excellent version of a song such as "Hot Stuff," there's a horrible, slow track such as "Heavens 
 and the Earth," or something so stupid ("We Will Live Together") that it had to be written on ecstasy. 
 However, most of the songs are fun to dance to overall, no matter what your taste in music.  

 
  Unless you're dancing in a boss battle. Basically, you and a computer-controlled dancer step your 
 way through a song while hand or foot missiles float around the screen. The game makes it sound 
 as if they're attacks you inflict on your foe, but neither player has any degree of control over 
 them. They just hover around and try to slip through at inopportune moments. In that regard, these 
 "battles" aren't battles at all. The computer gets the same score every single time, misses the 
 exact same number of notes, and tends to earn a high B. You aren't competing against any sort of 
 artificial intelligence, just a score.  

  If you wind up eating a missile or generally screwing up at the start of a song, you might as well 
 start over -- but how? Once a song has begun in Hottest Party, there is only one way to stop it (aside 
 from shutting off your console) , and it isn't intuitive at all. By holding the plus button, you 
 can autofail. This should be made much more obvious than it is. Now if only there was some way 
 to freeze a song without automatically losing, like some kind of superadvanced pause feature.  
 

  Aside from groove circuit and free play, you can also play workout mode. Here, you enter a few 
 details about yourself and then set a number of calories you'd like to burn. From there, you basically 
 play through a list of songs until you've met your goal. It doesn't feel like Konami put much thought 
 into this, though. It's just regular DDR with a calorie meter.  

           The backup dancers aren't great, but the environments sure are.      

  Whichever way 
 you play, Hottest Party looks pretty good. The colors are bright and vibrant, the environments 
 are trippy, and the characters look good and animate well. The backup dancers are an unnecessary 
 visual touch, and we'd prefer a bigger version of our main avatar like in the Supernova games, 
 but regardless, the game looks fine. And of course, it mostly sounds alright, with a list including 
 about 50 tracks. The only aural annoyance is the announcer, who either extols or heckles you, sometimes 
 both at once. No, really. As soon as you enter the score screen after finishing a song, he compliments 
 you. After that, he says something based on your grade, and if you screwed up, it's an insult. 
 The effect is kind of like "You're great! At sucking!" But less funny.  

  Dance Dance Revolution Hottest Party could stand to be a lot hotter, and a lot cheaper. For 70 
 dollars you get the disc and the dance mat, but you need to shell out at least 20 more dollars 
 for a second mat if you want to go head-to-head with friends. If you're dying for some DDR on your 
 Wii, this game will certainly deliver. And if somehow you have four Wii dance mats at your disposal, 
 it can be a heck of a party game. But you already know all this, because this is the same game 
 you've been dancing to for years.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  the game is very addictive! it's alittle costy but it is worth it! there's like 50 song's and it's 
 hard to find! GO GET IT RIGHT NOW! 
  
   very hard!
  
  Sound: Great!
  
  Control's: Responsive
 
  
  Pro's:50 song's, good character roster, imense addictive!, CPU's hard!
  
  Con's: compared with the PS2 games the song list is poor the other games have like 200 song's!
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  very good game indeed!, Love Shine (my favorite song) is in this game the CPU's challenging, nice song's 
 the game is very good i reccomend it to anyone go get it rigth now! 
  
  Personal comment: this is my first Dance Dance Revolution game and it wont be my last! this game 
 is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wings-and-gills
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I'm a DDR fan with moderate tenure, having picked up the craze with DDR Max 2 for PS2. It was love 
 at first sight. So when I got a Wii, DDR Hottest Party was one of the first games I picked up.
 
  
  I regretted it within ten minutes.
  
  You can choose from quite a few avatars for when you dance, but don't expect them to be cute or 
 interesting. They all look like participants of one of those performance contest TV shows like 
 American Idol or whatever. They also won't dance according to the arrows, but will perform preset 
 dances that don't seem to have anything to do with the song.
  
  The dance stages are probably the most varied and interesting thing in the game. Since they're 
 just backgrounds, there's not much to say about them. There are some cute, flowery ones, some cool 
 sci-fi ones, and some that are just interesting. 
  
  Unfortunately, I can't really review the Gimmicks because I don't use them. Basically, they float 
 through as or with arrows to change how the game works. Sometimes if you don't stop the special 
 arrow, a giant ball will block your screen. Other times, if your foot is on the wrong arrow at 
 the wrong time, you'll get damaged by a mine. They're interesting, but I'm more interested in just 
 dancing.
  
  I'm not going to complain about the Gimmicks and Hand Markers, because they're fine, though I don't 
 use them. They add something more to worry about when dancing which can add a challenge for people 
 who are looking for that. I don't really feel like waving your arms about makes dancing more fun, 
 but some people might. I can understand it.
  
  I AM going to complain about the total lack of music that follows in the DDR spirit. What I got 
 was a lot of mainstream pop-rock when what I wanted was techno and club music. Other DDR games 
 had a variety of music from artists who weren't always super-famous, but playing Hottest Party 
 is like listening to cheap remixes of popular rock radio by a high-schooler. This game had an especially 
 significant lack of Captain Jack, and I like Captain Jack.
  
  I'm also going to complain about the technical failings of this game. Normally when a person chooses 
 to change settings, it's useful when the settings are saved. For instance, every time I play, I 
 turn off Hand Markers and Gimmicks. Every. Time. I. Play. That's at least twice a day. I've gotten 
 so good at it that I don't even have to look at the screen while I do it. That's not good! 
  
  I can maybe see the settings reverting to default for Free Mode or the Groove Circuit. Other 
 people will probably want to play, and maybe not with my settings. But what really made me mad 
 was when I created a personal user in Workout Mode that only I will use (that I can even password-protect) 
 that does not save my settings. The calorie-burning goal is set to something like 30 by default. 
 30 calories? You burn that many calories by taking a big crap.
  
  Which is, essentially, what this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Why_God_Why
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  All and all I guess it is a good game. 
  
  I just cannot stand that annoying announcer that keeps on throwing wise cracks whilst your dancing!
 
  
  As for the fitness aspect. I actually enjoyed jumping around. The training mode is really good. 
 The game characters all suck, but I guess that is just the way they must be. 
  
  I am not sure about other dance titles, I gues most of them are the same... However I am sure that 
 there must be a little more to offer... As for the mat that was bundled it is of good quality and 
 the buttons are laid out nicely. 
  
  The songs are good. Real party hits I'd say. I still feel that there is that Oomph! factor lacking 
 in this title. There must be more out there that they have to offer.
  
  Let us hope following titles will be even better and contain some cool characters and some really 
 good hit songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikimagicjedi
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When you hear : "This game makes you use your feet and hands as wellYou go WOW!, First thing 
 you think is, this gotta be DOUBLE the fun, but it is really dissapointing once you find out the 
 game is pretty much the same except for a couple of hand moves once in a while.
  The game is still the same, lots of fun! New songs, some really good, some not much, some really 
 boring!
  There is a handful of scenarios where some will be not much thouthful and found their way there 
 just to hit a number.
  Graphically the game is the same too. There's nothing new added to the series. Its a shame they 
 didnt include something surprising; They should have used the Mii heads on this version and let 
 people get a lot of laughs seeing friends and family dancing in the floor.
  True is the game delivers some considerable amount of fun specially if you have never being a hardcore 
 player of the previous games. If you never gave a try to a DDR game before, u may even love this 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good in my opinion. The track list is pretty good and the characters are okay. 
 But the graphics, while colorful, just didn't seem right to me. The hand motions are a pretty good 
 addition but I think if they had put more time into it, they could have made them better. The little 
 gimmick things were okay, but I usually turn them off. The screen blockers were the worst idea. 
 Some of the characters scared me, but some of the dance moves they did in the background were okay. 
 The DJ is really annoying sometimes. The career mode is a really good mode because it gets harder 
 as you go along, and the bonus songs that you can unlock are really good. Another thing that would 
 have made this game better is if it had Nintendo WFC. Or at least some online rankings. This game 
 just gets a little boring after awhile.
  
  Gameplay-7/10
  
  Graphics-6/10
  
  Sound-8/10
  
  lasting appeal-6/10
  
  Final score-6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamanRabbids
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Great!!! game, really really good. Lets take a look at the game. Heres what you gotta do. You go 
 to venue mode [or something like that] and do certain things such as beat the venue master, clear 
 3 songs, geta b or better, and other things. Youll eventrally unlock new songs and clothes for 
 your favorite person. It has tons of relay value, gameplay, and GROOVING TO DA BEAT!! But there are 
 some bad things like. There are no good dancers, the mat is good but the hand motions are somtimes 
 not responsive, I mean come on a guy with a afro too 70s. And the songs can move a little too fast 
 or too slow. But it will be fun and you will get fustrated. But that is part of the fun. But 90 
 yrs olds DONT BUY THE GAME!!!! Please we need 90 yrs olds getting heart attacks. do we. DDR HOTTEST 
 PARTY GETS 9 BUST-A-MOVES OUT OF 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo-MSTR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  As I mentioned earlier, a great game but it's just the hand motions that throw you off. Sometimes 
 the sensor doesn't pick up your hand motions.
  
  However, you can't turn off the gimmicks (hand movements) in free play mode and that's a shame 
 because I prefer to play just using my feet. So if I want to play without gimmicks, then I'm obliged 
 to go to Groove circuit (a type of adventure mode) where I can turn them off in 'options'.
  
  But overall, great game and the character select is really neat. Especially since there are 
 background dancers (although some freak me out:) ) and each character has their own dance styles 
 and unlockable outfits. 
  
  I also like the fact that once again, there's multiplayer but this time... compatible with four 
 players.
  
  Overall verdict: 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadsrule626
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
   It has a pretty good song selection.
   The multiplayer is really great, all though an extra mat is pricey
  
  THE BAD:
   The characters 
 are weird! You would think they could've made a better series of people you could play as! Seriously, 
 would you wanna play as a guy with an afro?
   The price is sky-high! Its $80 to buy the game with one mat, and you buy additional mats for 
 like $30+!
   They should make it so you could make your favorite songs really fast, as of what is on In The 
 Groove 2.
   This would've been a great Wi-Fi online game. I don't see how much additional trouble it would've 
 been to add that feature!
  Dance Dance Revolution Hottest Party is a game that is great considering it is the first of it's 
 kind for the Wii. I strongly suggest it, all though it is sort of pricey.
  
  Please agree with my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GENGIBOY
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A NICE GAME AND VERY FUN....... LISTENING TO SONGS
  AND A LOT LIKE: BURIED A LIE, THE SIGN, TOO LONG TOO LATE, GANNA MAKE YOU SWEET, CANDY, FAR AWAY,1.2 
 STEP, CLOCKS, I DON'T FEEL LIKE DANCING, SUPER SAMIRAI, AND TOKYO EVOLVED!!!
  BUT HERE IS THE LINK TO TOKYO 
  AND HERE IS 
 SUPER 
  AND HERE IS PLUTO THE 
  HOPE YOU COPY IT :)
 
  :BUT TO COPY, RIGHT HIGHLIGHT THE LINK, RIGHT CLICK AND COPY, GO TO THE ADRESS BAR, AND RIGHT CLICK, CLICK 
 PASTE, AND ENTER, THEN YOU HAVE IT!!
  BUT I PREFER TURNING OF NUN-CHUCK & WII-MOTE:)
  SONGS MAKE ME CRY; ( (L-o-L) !!
  SO... BUY IT, KISS YOUR ASS..... AND DO SOMETHING ELSE!:)
  LULZ! 
 MAN... LULZ... 300xpx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is like most of the other DDR games out there, with the expection of the Wii-mote and 
 the nun-chuck as extra features. They really add to the game play and give it an extra plain of 
 depth. Some of the songs I wanted to be a little faster on it, and I would have liked a little 
 (just a tad) more use of the Wii-mote and nun-chuck. But other than that, it's awesome! Money well 
 invested. The dance pad (for the one that comes with one) is pretty decent as well. It comes with 
 a mesh bottom so it doesn't slip as easily, especially on carpet. It moves around a very very little. 
 It folds and is really no different that the others. I have yet to try it out with multiple players, 
 but it appears very solid. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcstud
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to hopefully get my 8 year old daughter into playing games with me. What wound 
 up happening is that I became hooked and she is watching from the sidelines. This was my first 
 DDR game and I find that this is a good start for the series on the Wii. I don't find the hand 
 motions difficult, although it doesn't acknowledge when you have a hand motion accurate the same 
 way as the feet motions - that is frustrating. The songs are ok, I do wish that it had a tutorial 
 mode that walked you through all available options and explained how to get the hidden songs -- 
 Of course if the manual had this information it would have been helpful as well. And, it did take 
 quite a bit of time trying to figure out where to turn off the hand markers so that the rest of 
 my family could play and just concentrate on the foot markers. I am looking forward to spending 
 some more time alone with this game, without playing against someone else so that I can get better 
 at it. I do have to say that this gameplay is a far cry from the first person shooters that I normally 
 play, but a very welcome change.
  
  Overall this is a solid game and I am looking forward to new versions for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rickstinater
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  DDR: Hottest Party is just another DDR game. This time its just for the Wii. The added gimmicks 
 and hand movements makes it fun for multiplayer battles, but I just turn them off for the venues 
 since there not required. There is a good playlist but there are also a lot of dumb, slow songs. 
 I feel like I play the same 15 songs cause the other 45 songs are just not upbeat enough. 
  
  In the Venue mode, battle mode with the computer can just be ridiculously hard. Especially 
 if you use those missle gimmicks. I still play DDR to take advantage of the physical activity and 
 battle my friends, Kanomi needs to make a new one quick with way better songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the DDR series for many years, and I picked up this game as soon as I had 
 the chance. While it wasn't the best Dance Dance Revolution game, it's still a fun game. I absolutely 
 love the setlist for this game. It includes many popular North American artists from the past few 
 decades, a nice change from the repetitive Japaneese songs. The graphics are wonderful, too bad 
 you can't focus on them for too long. I had trouble playing the game at first because of the lack 
 of options. Most experienced players set their speed multiplier at 3x or higher. On this game, 
 it's stuck on 1x, making it awkward for someone who's played with other settings for a long time. 
 The mat is okay, it slides a bit but whatever, it does the job. The multiplayer is very fun... 
 up to 4 players can get their groove on (or use a controller... that works too) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnutux
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Dance Dance Revolution was the original series that brought us this exciting genre to many people 
 and eventually to their home. Konami brings DDR to the Wii in a very good way. However here's the 
 breakdown of what I think.
  
  The Good:
  - Great gameplay, really gets you moving
  - Good list of songs, more famous songs should be included.
  - Gimmicks are great to make it 
 more challenging.
  - Workout mode helps you lose weight, if you so choose to use DDR as a exercise utility (highly 
 recommended for couch potatoes)
  The Bad:
  - 50 songs? That's it? Give us more!
  - No online play? WTF?
  - The hand motion is mediocre as it only moves left and right.
  - Wireless 
 pad please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Two for two with the inaugural Dance Dance Revolution games on the new consoles. Both Universe 
 and Hottest Party fail at introducing DDR into a brand new console generation. So where does Hottest 
 Party fail now? Well, for one thing its banner designs are atrocious, someone over at Konami just 
 did some half assed job spending twenty minutes in Photoshop. The proper NAOKI logo for the song 
 will is incorrect which is a HUGE pet peeve of mine. The whole design is based on the SuperNOVA 
 engine, but since the Wii is a bit more powerful than the PS2, I expected Konami to make it look 
 better. Those on screen dancers look super ugly and their choreography is weak. The nanchuk addition 
 is worthwhile though don't expect it to be a series standard. You can play this game without it 
 fine. The soundtrack consists of 50 songs all new to the series. Half of them are fairly decent 
 covers of pop songs from the 70s, 80s, 90s, and today and I like several of them. The half are 
 Konami originals new to the series and I hope to see them appear in future non Wii DDR game. I 
 really wanted to like this game but I ended up unimpressed strictly because of how poor it presented 
 itself. It is the first Nintendo DDR mix to be somewhat decent, but that's not what I'm looking 
 for. Get SuperNOVA 2 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  When I first decided to pick this one up I wasn't sure what to expect. Well obviously I knew dancing 
 was involved, I just wasn't sure how the gameplay and I would mix. Turns out pretty well.
  
  Once you allow yourself to get into it it's quite fun. There are definitely times when It just 
 isn't as fun (ie by yourself) , but if you have a friend to flail around with, DDR and a few beers 
 can be pretty entertaining.
  
  The presentation is a little childish, and would have benefited from a little aging up . GAMEPLAY
 
  The game plays as you would expect, beat a song or a challenge to get to the next venue and so 
 on. As someone who had never played DDR before it took a little while to get used to how you are 
 supposed to actually play it, but once it made sense it started to get more fun. There is even 
 an element of addictiveness as you start to want to get past that one tricky song.
  
  Not only do you have to step on the corresponding arrow in time, but you also have to pay attention 
 to Hand Arrows exclusive to the Wii version. These function the same as the foot ones only, yup 
 you guessed it, you have to move your hands in time. As a beginner you may just want to turn these 
 off (there is an option to do so) ; there is enough to worry about without them.
  
  There are 4 difficulties to the tracks which are beginner, basic, difficult and expert. Beginner 
 just introduces you to the movements and you'll find yourself advancing past that setting pretty 
 quickly. Basic is a little more comfortable as you have a little less time dancing without arrows. 
 Difficult is very challenging while expert is just insane.
  
  You have Groove Circuit mode where you can advance through the stages and unlock songs and more 
 stages. You can work through them solo or cooperatively.
  
  There are several different ways to play multiplayer, though I found the most fun one to be Friendship 
 mode. Here you can work with a friend to try and pass songs. You don't need 2 pads either, one 
 can dance and the other can try and match the arrows with the directional pad on the remote.
  
  You also have Free Play mode where you can just choose whatever song you want and practise 
 or do it with a friend and see who wins.
  
  There is also a Workout mode where you can burn some calories.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are 
 ok but nothing special. On a 37 screen from a few feet away there is quite a bit of ugliness such 
 as jaggies everywhere. It's not a big deal since your dancing anyways though.
  
  Again I'll mention the childish feel, older character models and just a more mature atmosphere 
 would have been preferred.
  
  SOUND
  The track list was alright with a couple of really good ones in there. The covers were mostly descent 
 though there were a couple to cringe at. The slow songs seemed really out of place and could be 
 left out probably.
  
  CONTROLS
  The controls respond well though I didn't really enjoy the whole hand movement thing. It just felt 
 very awkward while trying to time your feet.
  
  The dance mat seems great... it does slide a bit (I used it on shag, yes shag carpeting) , but nothing 
 a slight adjustment between songs doesn't fix.
  
  VALUE
  Well if your up for the challenge you could play this game a long time before beating it on the 
 hardest setting. However I'd guess that you may get sick of the track list before that happened 
 and without downloadable tracks for it yet you'd be left out in the cold.
  
  As a game you could haul out when company comes over, it sure serves as some fun entertainment 
 though.
  
  So to sum up it's a descent game and can say that it was fun enough to at least get me interested 
 in trying a different version. Kids, go out and rent this one you'll have a great time.
  
  My suggestion to the older crowd it to try different versions first before deciding which one to 
 go with, you may find one with a better feel than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Ive played DDR throughout my life, well using a controller. I was little back then and for some 
 reason I had something against the dancing mat, I dont know why but I just did. As I got older 
 I became more comfortable dancing on the actual mat and I ended up buying DDR: Super Nova. (have 
 a review on that) After playing that game I just fell in love with the series all over again. When 
 I saw DDR: Hottest Dance Party for the Nintendo Wii I instantly bought it. Pulling seventy fresh 
 bills out of my wallet I began to wonder if the game was really worth that much money. Was it? 
 Read my review to find out.
  
  (? out of 5) Story: DDR stands for Dance Dance Revolution, not Story Sharing Revolution. (hahaha 
 yeah I know Im soooooo funny) Anyways DDR: Hottest Dance Party doesnt really have a story, it 
 does have a single player mode (which isnt fun at all) but it doesnt really have a story attached 
 to it. (3.5 out of 5) Gameplay: Its a DDR games so you do what? DANCE! (When I say dance I mean 
 moving your feet up, down, left, and right according to the commands on screen) But one word of 
 advice fellow gamers, never trust the back of any video game cover. Its full of lies and crap. 
 On the box it said that I would experience total body interaction when using the Wii remote and 
 nunchuk, bull caca, what a joke. The idea of using the remote and nunchuk felt tacked on and didnt 
 really make the game more fun, just more annoying. They even added gimmicks onto the gameplay to 
 throw you off but who in the world would want those, I turned mine off. Besides I thought the whole 
 point was to get the highest score not mess up very badly. Workout mode is still there and more 
 game modes such as sync mode have been added but they werent that interesting, at least in my 
 opinion. The game supports up to four players so you and your amigos can get your groove on, but 
 the game only comes with one mat which I should mention is STILL NOT WIRELESS! DDR: Hottest Dance 
 Party tried to add some new content to make the game completely different from all the other games 
 in the series but failed to do so, shame, shame, shame. At least you can still get a decent groove 
 on.
  
  (4 out of 5) Graphics: The graphics in the game were actually pretty good. The dancing environments 
 in the game were crazy, colorful, and mesmerizing to watch. Which is good since the character models 
 were the complete opposite, even for a Wii game the character models were downright hideous. Im 
 not sure whether it was the fact that Konami decided to make more characters appear on screen and 
 make then small size or if the characters in the game got whacked by the UGLY stick. I have no 
 clue. Id rather have a HOT enlarged dancing girl then a small ugly one any day. ANY DAY!
  
  (2 out of 5) Sound: This should be DDRs strongest category, but unfortunately this category 
 isnt for Hottest Dance Party. The song selection, I just didnt like it for some reason. There 
 was an onslaught of slow songs, and some very terrible ugly ones like 99 Red Balloons. In my opinion 
 Hottest Dance Party has the worst song selection out of all the DDR games in the world, and that 
 is saying something. *SOB* (9.5 out of 15) Overall: DDR: Hottest Dance Party is.. uhhh.. well 
 a DDR game, just barely. With terrible songs and a couple of tacky content pinned to the game I 
 can just say this. Do NOT waste $70 on this piece of monkey crap. Spend it on something else like 
 hmmm I dont know, some other DDR game OTHER then this one. Thats it Im done, I cant take it 
 anymore, Im gonna go and play a game OTHER then this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiendishMuffin
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm all for innovation, although for someone who is a seasoned DDR player, I enjoyed the gameplay 
 the way it was. I got this game out of necessity due to the fact that I only own a Wii and no longer 
 have any of the older DDR games. I thought, hey, it's good excersise and it's DDR... you can't 
 mess that up right? Apparently, you can.
  
  I never thought the game needed any sort of Wiimote integration, but I can see how some more hardcore 
 DDR fans would appreciate the variety. No biggie, I'll just disable that feature. Wait a second, 
 I can't disable anything. And what's more, I can't alter ANY song features. At least in previous 
 games, you could tweak gameplay by holding down the button when you select a song. Here, there 
 is no such feature as far as I can tell and I need it now more than ever.
  
  In addition to useless, gimmicky hand waiving, you also have to contend with tacked on gameplay 
 twists. These twists change every song, but I can't stand any of them. One involves steps that 
 are encased in ice and must be stepped on twice. These are undoubtedly the result of some genius 
 brainstorming meeting where the developers threw around ideas to mix things up for the series. 
 Here's a clue: Ask the people who play what they think first before you go and force gameplay changes 
 that no one asked for.
  
  The bottom line here is I spent $70 for a game that I immediately hated. I regret that I cannot 
 go back into time and stop myself from buying this game. My only consolation is that I have the 
 pad now which I can use on future dance titles (provided I do more research this time) . Don't waste 
 your money like I did. That said, would anyone like to buy a used copy of the game from me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidou
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Good songlist | Challenging steps.
  
  The Bad: Huge lack of other modes | No online play | No training mode | No edit mode | No modifiers 
 | Horrendous character models.
  
  -------------------------------
  
  Dance Dance Revolution is one of the two latest creations to the DDR series made by Konami. This 
 game was released, sadly, on the same day has Halo 3, completely being overshadowed by 360 fanboys 
 and Halo entusiasts. This game was released as a bundle simultaneously with Dance Dance Revoltuion 
 SuperNOVA2 on the Playstation 2.
  
  What makes this one particularly different that the other ones that have been done is, one, its 
 made for the Nintendo Wii, two, is that they implement the Wii-mote and Nunchuck into the gameplay. 
 So if you thought hitting arrows on a dance pad were hard enough, try adding the fact you have 
 to shake another controller to boot.
  
  The songlist for this game stands out a lot also in comparison to other DDR games also. Although 
 the US incarnations of the has had a couple of licenced songs along with your traditional DDR songs 
 (J-Pop and all that other stuff) , Hottest Party had a completely different outlook by making this 
 whole game filled with licenced songs, covered so theyre DDR esque. I dont kid about the DDR 
 esque thing either It might not appeal to some, but it sold me over.
  
  Anyway, along with a fairly decent songlist and challenging songs to boot, this game also does 
 one thing that many DDRers did not expect on a 7th generation console. They didnt add modifiers 
 to the game. The only reason it is a tragedy to some is that DDR players these days are so adept 
 to playing all their songs on 1.5x speed with Solo arrows on. With the exclusion of modifiers all 
 together, it has returned DDR back to its 5th Mix (Japan) and lower roots to when speed mods werent 
 available at all. From a personal standpoint, I dont mind it. I was always able to read 1x speed 
 since I started play DDR around 3rd Mix. (Either way, it makes you look more impressive since all 
 the arrows are so packed together and you can hit all of them making people wonder, how can this 
 person read all that?!)
  
  As far as the dancing characters go, this one probably has the best. Definitely not in terms of 
 design, because by my standards, they look horrendous, but rather that the choreographed routines 
 that go along with the songs have been executed better than they have in previous versions. Each 
 song has their own unique routine and ends when the song actually ends. Despite they fact the models 
 look like crap, at least Konami took that extra step on making routines for each dance to make 
 up for it. I give them props for that.
  
  On a final note, overall the game is pretty good. Definitely on of the more challenging DDR games 
 in the series since this goes back to its original roots and has even more challenging gameplay 
 elements added on. With the original songlist, its sure to keep everyone guessing how the steps 
 are going to go since this is the first time any of these songs have appeared in a Dance Dance 
 Revolution game. The lack of online play and different modes is disappointing, but you can still 
 enjoy it regardless. If youre willing to spend the $70 needed to get this game, go for it. The 
 game makes it accessible to beginners and veterans alike. But even if you have a pad from Dance 
 Dance Revolution: Mario Mix, unfortunately, the bundle is the only one available since you cannot 
 buy the game as a standalone yet. If you're that desperate for a DDR on the Wii, then this is your 
 calling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgirl20
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Dance Dance Revolution: Hottest Party is a great game, but then again, so is every other game in 
 the series.
  This game is loads of fun, and I play it for hours on end. My whole family is constantly competing, 
 everyone dancing whenever they have a moment to spare. My friends come over constantly so we can 
 show some DDR spirit together. The dance animations are also very nice.
  But that doesn't make the game perfect. The graphics are truly horrid for a Wii game. There is 
 a shortage of play modes. In Groove Circuit mode, the challenges jump from horribly easy to white-knuckle 
 hard. The playlist could have been a lot better. My biggest complaint, though, is the inability 
 to turn of Wiimote and nunchuck gestures. They're nice, but they can seriously get on my nerves. 
 Also, the company overuses them - 1,2 step consists entirely of flicking the Wiimote every few 
 seconds.
  All in all, it's a worthwhile addition to a Wii owner's library, but only if you don't have a PS2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cazador1989
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Hottest Party is probably the worst DDR ever created. Bad Songs. Once you get above Basic the steps 
 are horribly written there's times where the steps are completely off sync and make no sense, (and 
 yes before I even get accused I can play expert and stuff, so I'm not just messing them up) It kinda 
 seems like this DDR was aimed towards girls based on the song selection and the flowery backgrounds. In 
 the end, I don't recommend buying this game, go buy a different DDR, the others are way better. 
 I for one am going back to In The Groove =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerHawk310
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Note: My previous rhythm game experience includes arcade DDR, DDR: Mario Mix, DDR Universe (XBox 
 360) ; Guitar Heros 1, 2, 3 (demo) , Elite Beat Agents, Boom Boom Rocket, Karaoke Revolutions 1, 
 2, 3, Party, American Idol. I. e., I know my rhythm games. On DDR, I'm typically a 5 step player 
 (between basic and difficult)
  
  Pros - Generally good song selection, with a few really fun covers (99 Red Balloons, Karma Chameleon, 
 and Hot Stuff are all great choices for this game) . The hand shaking adds an interesting twist, 
 and makes the game slightly less Riverdance-ish. Single player campaign mode is reasonable and 
 fun, and the difficulty levels are well-calibrated. Navigating menus with the Wiimote control pad 
 is more pleasant than navigation by stomping. Compatible with Gamecube dance pads, and with previous 
 Gamecube DDR and DDR-related games (i. e., Karaoke Revolution Party) .
  
  Cons - Still all techno (OK, I'm probably the only one who feels this way, but any chance we could 
 see a DDR: Classic Rock? DDR: American Bandstand Edition?) . Hand-shaking controls awkwardly relative 
 to timing (those who have played Rayman Raving Rabbids know exactly what's happening here) . During 
 sight-reads on faster songs, difficult to distinguish arrow from hand-shake cue. No Mii support. 
 Graphics compare unfavorably to what I'd expect from an N64 version.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The last two DDR 
 versions that had something unusual were DDR: Mario Mix and DDR Universe. The former was poorly 
 calibrated for difficulty, as I found it to be fairly boring and easy on any but the highest difficulty. 
 Since I usually play in the 3-5 step range on normal DDR games, this says a lot. The campaign mode 
 was cute and interesting, but filled with stupid, waste of time minigames that couldn't be skipped.
 
  
  The latter, DDR Universe, kept the traditional techno songs and good top difficulty, but introduced 
 the most nonsensical travesty of a single player campaign mode ever to appear in a rhythm game. 
 Many stages, even in the beginning, couldn't be completed at the beginning of the game with anything 
 short of an 8 step song. The difficulty in general was messed up in DDR Universe, where despite 
 using 5 difficulty tiers rather than the usual 4, the jump from Basic to Normal was ridiculously 
 hard. Many songs in DDR Universe were, for me, boring on Basic and impossible on Normal. Many songs 
 in DDR Universe also sucked, and were worse techno than usual.
  
  DDR Hottest Party solves most of those two previous titles' problems and introduces a new twist. 
 This brings it up to being one of the best DDR games out, but faults in the details leave it short 
 of its best rhythm game cousins, Guitar Hero 1/2 and Elite Beat Agents. On the rhythm game calibration 
 scale:
  
  Guitar Hero 2: 10
  Elite Beat Agents: 9.5
  Guitar Hero 1: 9
  DDR: Hottest Party: 8
  DDR: Mario Mix: 7
  Boom Boom Rocket: 6
  Mad Maestro: 5
  DDR Universe: 
 4
  Boogie: 3
  
  (This meter will probably, and appropriately, go to 11 when Rock Band comes out. I wonder how many 
 game review sites will make that joke in late November? Guitar Hero 3 is expected to score either 
 9.5 or 10, depending on how cool the campaign story turns out to be)
  
  The game has 3 main modes: Groove Circuit, Free Play, and Workout. Under each of those are various 
 multiplayer modes; the game supports up to 4 players simultaneously, but finding enough space and 
 cash for 4 Wiimotes, 4 Nunchucks, and 4 dance pads is hard. Both Groove Circuit and Free Play modes 
 support:
  
  Single Style: 1 player. In Groove Circuit, includes various gimmicks (spike steps, double arrows, 
 etc.)
  Friendship Style: 2-4 player coop. The group gets the highest judgment on the step. The DDR version 
 of the Scramble golf format.
  Multi Style: 2-4 player competitive, without gimmicks
  Sync Style: 2-4 player coop. The group gets the lowest judgment on the step. A Boo or NG score 
 will fail the game. For experts only.
  
  Additionally, Free Play has Battle Style, which is a 1-2 player competitive mode (1 player is vs. 
 computer) which contains gimmicks such as Hand Missiles; missiles that you have to shake at the 
 right time to throw at the opponent. Groove Circuit single player will also have battles vs. the 
 computer from time to time.
  
  The single player campaign mode is more sensible here than in DDR Universe (not a hard challenge) . 
 Go from venue to venue, playing 3 songs of your choice. After passing a venue, you'll generally 
 get a new song challenge and a new song dance battle challenge, both of which unlock the new song 
 for all modes. There's no need to keep the same difficulty throughout the campaign. I'd prefer 
 a DDR campaign to have some sort of song progression of rising difficulty as in pretty much every 
 other major rhythm franchise, but this'll do for now.
  
  The game's best improvement and greatest fault are both in the hand cues. Adding hands into the 
 routines really does make them more fun. Unfortunately, there are implementation problems. The 
 biggest: When the required action is shake , it's tough to get the timing right enough for a rhythm 
 game. This same problem was in Rayman Raving Rabbids' drumming sections, and has a similar effect. 
 The best way to handle them appears to be trying to hold the controller perfectly still prior to 
 the cue, and then make a quick swing on the cue. This can be done if the foot section allows, but 
 where the two are intermixed, it's overly tricky. The other, smaller problem with the hand cues 
 is that they're in the same place as the left and right arrows, just represented with a different 
 graphic. If you're playing a fast enough song that you're barely keeping up, it can be difficult 
 to figure out whether you're supposed to step or shake at times.
  
  Meanwhile, I realize the Wii isn't in the next-gen graphics class, but I shouldn't be seeing pixel 
 artifacts all over the place. The background graphics are really terrible. If graphics weren't 
 the least important part of any rhythm game, it would have been a real problem; as it is, you'd 
 rather be watching your friends make asses of themselves than watching the screen anyways. And 
 if the graphics are going to be second-rate and cartoony, why not throw in Mii support? Mii support 
 really should have been an easy call here for Konami.
  
  Basically, if you enjoy DDR and you have a Wii, get the game. It's the first real advance in the 
 franchise in a while, and tough parts inspire determination rather than frustration (an important 
 quality in any video game) . But it's not a good enough rhythm game given current technology to 
 drive platform purchases, unlike the Guitar Hero titles or Elite Beat Agents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfblademusic
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  This game absolutely sucked. Within the first 5 minutes I was completely enjoying it. I liked the 
 new features.
  
  The story mode rip off mode that they have completely drug me down. It started off far too slowly. 
 I can do A on doubles heavy... I don't want to go through a tutorial and some crappy levels.
  
  The graphics? Annoying as hell. There's a bunch of Oompa Loompa fairy dancing going on the 
 background and the avatars absolutely suck. What ever happened to my demon chick Yuri or Alice 
 or any of the other fine avatars? Why are there like 9 crappy avatars to choose from that all look 
 like ****
  
  Gameplay? Standard DDR game without the simplicity of changing the mods (arrow speeds etc) I really 
 can't find the mods and I looked for 15 minutes. Where ever they hid them, they did a damn good 
 job. Good enough to make me want to give this game a shitty assed review.
  
  To recap they really **** this game over. Sure there's some cool gimmicks in here, but that's all 
 they are. I'm not going to go into depth about the gimmicks just wanted to warn people how abysmal 
 the navigation is. If you want the perfect example of how poor quality they made this game.. then 
 look no further than the fact that the mat plugs into the GAME CUBE PORTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadkandy
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big DDR addict, and I hated this game. It's simply horrible. It's back to 4th mix all over. 
 No mods available, so that makes things boring really fast. 5 hours and I had completely unlocked 
 everything and finished all the challenges. You can only play on 1x, so like I said, it quickly 
 eliminates any challenge. Not many options to choose from besides turn off gimmicks (bombs, double-steps) , 
 turn off freeze arrows and turn off controller arrows. You can't turn off the backgrounds, you 
 can't turn off the dancers, not many songs to choose from and they are all horrible. The 10 footer 
 is simply boring and nothing in comparison to other 10-footers in others of the series. The steps 
 either don't make much sense or are too easy and not challenging, even on expert mode. I feel ripped 
 off of the 80$ I spent for this game. Not worth 10$. Only buy if you're a DDR collector, and for 
 no other reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranadar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is like most of the other DDR games out there, with the expection of the Wii-mote and 
 the nun-chuck as extra features. They really add to the game play and give it an extra plain of 
 depth. Some of the songs I wanted to be a little faster on it, and I would have liked a little 
 (just a tad) more use of the Wii-mote and nun-chuck. But other than that, it's awesome! Money well 
 invested. The dance pad (for the one that comes with one) is pretty decent as well. It comes with 
 a mesh bottom so it doesn't slip as easily, especially on carpet. It moves around a very very little. 
 It folds and is really no different that the others. I have yet to try it out with multiple players, 
 but it appears very solid. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
