-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: de Blob
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/deblob/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Painting Chroma City is a fresh, satisfying experience.
 Story is told in a series of very smart, funny movies.
 Multiplayer modes are fun.
 Graphics and sound work together to make the most of the game's great concept.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too few challenge types that repeat too often.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 634 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Blue Tongue
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Sep 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Painting the town red, blue, or any other color is a lot of fun in this charming Wii platformer. 
 

  Children often find joy in taking crayon to paper and turning the blank page into a vibrantly colorful 
 mess. The act of bringing color to what was colorless is delightful and tangibly rewarding, yet 
 as we grow older, this activity tends to lose its charm. De Blob, a great new platformer for the 
 Wii, takes this act and makes it rewarding again in a way that can be enjoyed by players of all 
 ages.  

           The world is your canvas. Feel free to color outside the lines.      

  The story of de Blob is told through a series of excellent movies that manage to be funny and 
 smart without a word of dialogue. The evil INKT Corporation, led by the dictatorial Comrade Black, 
 has drained all the color from Chroma City, turning it into a drab, monochromatic metropolis. It 
 has also turned its once diverse and colorful citizens, the Raydians, into sullen, homogenous Graydians. 
 Blob joins forces with a resistance movement called the Color Underground to bring color back to 
 Chroma City and liberate its people. In its own lighthearted, rated-E-for-everyone way, the game 
 deals with the theme of political oppression, and the whole game can be viewed as one big visual 
 metaphor about the role of art in a free society. But the game never bludgeons you with this stuff, 
 so you can also just take it at face value as an entertaining little tale and leave it at that. 
 In any case, the mischievous, versatile Blob is a terrific hero who oozes personality (among other 
 things) , and you'll quickly grow attached to him, as well as his fellow Color Underground members. 

  The basic goal of each level is to paint part of Chroma City and, by doing so, gradually free the 
 city from the colorless grip of the INKT Corporation. As you paint the area, the color energy level 
 (or, if you want to be old-fashioned about it, your score) increases, and you'll need to reach 
 a certain total in each section before you can open the gate to the next. There's always a clock 
 ticking down in Story mode, but this is not a high-pressure game. You generally have plenty of 
 time to leisurely make your way through each section at your own pace, which is a good thing. It 
 keeps the focus on the game's most enjoyable aspect: painting the town.  

  Blob starts each level without any color himself, but thankfully, Chroma City is crawling with 
 paintbots, which are spiderlike robots with tanks of red, yellow, or blue paint on their backs. 
 By smashing into one of these, Blob becomes coated with paint. Each paintbot you smash nets you 
 10 paint points up to a maximum of 100, which work both as his health and as his attack strength, 
 as certain foes require a certain number of paint points to defeat. (Blob also gets bigger as he 
 absorbs more paint.) Blob paints in broad strokes; simply making contact with a building while 
 you're wearing a coat of paint is enough to cover every inch of the building's surface in that 
 color, so you'll quickly turn drab, gray parts of town into vibrant neighborhoods again. Zooming 
 around restoring color to the city is a lot of fun, at least partially because the visual results 
 of your actions are so dramatic and so enjoyable to behold. Wiping out the monotony of INKT's rule 
 is so satisfying that you'll naturally find yourself wanting to cover as much of the city in color 
 as you can -- not just the easily accessible areas, but every INKT propaganda billboard overlooking 
 the city and every blimp soaring overhead -- leaving no sign of INKT's oppression.  

           Blob has more personality than your average gelatinous goo.      

   

  Throughout 
 each section of the city are challenges that give you specific goals to fulfill, lending some structure 
 to an otherwise unstructured experience. There are four types of challenges. Races require you 
 to hit a series of checkpoints in a limited amount of time. Combat challenges involve taking out 
 specific INKT soldiers or equipment. In landmark challenges, you must hit the weak points of specific 
 structures that INKT has commandeered with large quantities of a given color of paint. Some of 
 these structures are protected by traps, including spikes and electrified panels, which makes reaching 
 the weak points a bit tricky. Restoring these landmarks to their former glory is often a rewarding 
 surprise in and of itself. It's a treat, for instance, to do away with the soulless Church of INKTology, 
 only to find that the building is truly a shrine to skateboarding, with Raydians happily riding 
 the ramps on the rooftop. Not all challenges are created equal, however, and one in particular 
 really loses steam fast. In it, you are assigned to paint specific structures in specific colors. 
 You might need to paint one cluster of buildings green, another orange, and another purple, for 
 instance, all in a relatively short amount of time. As much fun as it is to paint the town, being 
 told exactly what to paint and what color to paint it can feel a bit limiting.  

  You move Blob around with the thumbstick on the Nunchuk and swing the remote down to jump. Blob 
 gets around by rolling, and maneuvering him around Chroma City is a breeze. In addition to these 
 standard moves, he's also capable of running along walls and jumping off of them. These more advanced 
 skills are a bit trickier to pull off, but once you get the timing down, you'll be bopping your 
 way all over the place, though Blob has a frustrating tendency to get wedged into tight spaces, 
 particularly when he's absorbed a lot of paint. Combat is also simple but fun. You target your 
 enemies with the Z button and then jump on them to smash them. Blob hits his targets with unerring 
 accuracy, and targeting distant paintbots or INKT troops is often a necessary technique for leaping 
 across greater distances that Blob might not otherwise be able to accomplish. If Blob is hit with 
 the nasty ink of INKT, his paint points will quickly plummet, and he'll need to find a source of 
 water to wash himself off right away. Although most enemies aren't much of a threat, they can certainly 
 be a nuisance. The most interesting type of INKT soldier is the Elite Inky. Decked out in a colored 
 uniform, these soldiers can only be squashed by Blob when his color matches that of the soldiers. 
 For the most part, de Blob is quite an easy game, though the game's one and only boss fight at 
 the end -- while not extraordinarily difficult -- is surprisingly tough in comparison to everything 
 that precedes it.  

  The single-player mode is definitely where the meat of the game lies, but the gameplay translates 
 very well to multiplayer action as well. The game has three multiplayer game modes, each accommodating 
 up to four players. In each one, your goal is to paint more of the level than your opponents. In 
 the Paint Match mode, you can paint over other players' colors, whereas in Blob Race, each building 
 can only be painted once. Finally, in Blob on the Run, only one player can paint at any one time 
 while other players find and smash that blob to acquire the ability to paint. The more people you 
 have on hand for these modes, the better. The areas feel a bit large for two players, but with 
 four players, the action can really get frantic as players zoom around the city, vying for the 
 top spot.  

           Racing to paint more of the town than your friends can be good, messy fun.      

  
 The game's presentation is outstanding. While it's not technically impressive, the artistic design 
 of the visuals is delightful and a large part of what makes de Blob such a joy to play. Watching 
 the city gradually go from oppressive gray monotony to vibrant colorful freedom is rewarding. All 
 of the characters, even Comrade Black and his INKT goons, also have an infectious charm. The sound 
 is terrific as well, with the characters speaking a cute and funny gibberish language. The funky 
 music selections, which you choose from before each level, provide dynamic accompaniment to the 
 action, exploding with sound each time you paint something and building up gradually as color is 
 restored to more of the area.  

  There's a good deal of content in de Blob. While you have a lot of freedom in terms of how much 
 or how little time you spend completing each of the game's 10 story levels, you'll probably spend 
 roughly an hour or so on each one. Because the game tracks your progress in every area, you may 
 want to go back to complete more challenges, paint more billboards, or do any number of things 
 you may have missed the first time through. In addition, there's a Free Paint mode if you find 
 yourself wanting to color the town without any pesky time limits or INKT forces to bother you. 
 There are also a good number of one-off secret missions that you unlock as you progress, which 
 you can complete to unlock concept artwork, movies of the game's development, and the like. The 
 small number of challenge types means that the action gets a bit repetitive after a while, but 
 de Blob is still an invigorating explosion of color that anyone with an interest in platformers 
 should absolutely check out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  I guess I should be surprised by how much I enjoyed de Blob; I'm not much of a platformer kind 
 of person, and the Wii is infamous for its third party games. However, while it may not be Super 
 Mario Galaxy, de Blob still kept me entertained long enough to make it through the game. It has 
 a few shortcomings, but fans of platforming will find it to be a real treat, and in the very least 
 it should be tried out before it's shot down.
  
  Story: Nobody should expect a platformer to have a top-notch story. They never have, and they probably 
 never will. In the very least, though, de Blob has SOMETHING holding it up. Chroma City, a land 
 of vibrant color where its citizens, the Raydians, frolic and party every day, is invaded by a 
 group of aliens known as Inkies. Their organization, INKT, forms a quick takeover of Chroma City, 
 removing all color and reverting it to a dull, gray wasteland. This is when our hero, Blob (who 
 is, as you may guess, a living blob) , enters the scene to help with the revolution against INKT, 
 and its leader, Comrade Black. It's nothing too special, but the cutscenes that bridge each mission 
 help to keep the story fresh and fun.
  
  Gameplay: The interesting thing about de Blob is that you don't spend most of the game traversing 
 a landscape to get to your destination. Well, sure, there are checkpoints you have to make your 
 way to, but most of the game is spent coloring Chroma City. Littered across each stage are walking 
 canisters of paint; when you smash into them, you take on the color that was contained within. 
 This method can be used to mix colors as well; if you are currently blue, and you take on some 
 red paint, then you become purple, and if you mix two conflicting colors, such as green and red, 
 you become brown. You're given various missions, each of which bring up your score and unlock different 
 sections of the city that eventually lead to the stage's exit. However, these missions can get 
 repetitive; they usually consist of either races, color-coding certain buildings, or shaking the 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuk to restore color to landmarks. My personal favorite of these is the latter; 
 yeah, I know that I should be hating gimicky stuff like this, but I can't resist the charm when 
 the maraca-like beat starts playing in the background in time to the music. The races are, surprisingly, 
 not as arduous as one might think, since they usually lead you to farther spots in the stage that 
 you might not have been able to find before. Now as far as actual gameplay goes, you shake the 
 remote to leap in the air, and whenever you touch a building, your current color spreads throughout 
 the building. I have two problems with this. First of all, the trailers and cutscenes suggest that 
 you would bounce from building to building in a Spider-Man like fashion, flying through the city 
 without a care in the world. However, when it comes right down to it, when you try to jump from 
 a building to another building, you probably won't get very far. If you're lucky, then you might 
 be able to land on a building right beside you, but my point is that the game just expects you 
 to rub against the buildings, not leap between them. The other issue I have is in the fact that 
 you jump by swinging the Wii Remote. I have to ask why they couldn't just use the A or B button 
 for this, to avoid Wii-related arthritis. The A button is used for a radar-like map (which is useless, 
 since it only detects that which is in plain eyesight) , and the B button brings you plummeting 
 back down to the ground mid-jump, which is usually more of a hindrance than a help. So I must beg 
 the question as to WHY they couldn't have just, say, made a map in the corner of the screen and 
 left the jump button as A. Honestly, I don't see why this game had to be a console exclusive; other 
 than shaking to restore color to landmarks, there aren't too many Wii-specific controls. It would've 
 been nice to see this on the Xbox 360 and the PS3. Oh well; less money for THQ.
  
  Graphics: Seeing as this is the Wii we're talking about, of course the graphics won't be top notch. 
 However, I must say that I am impressed by how colorful and vibrant the city is when you dot it 
 with different colors. Artistically, the graphics are incredibly strong; I like the lighthearted 
 feel of all of the bright colors spreading throughout Chroma City. Even technically, the graphics 
 are pretty good. The aforementioned cutscenes push the system to the limit, presenting the whimsical 
 story with a nice touch. Overall, not too bad.
  
  Audio: Like almost all Nintendo games, the characters don't talk. Well, the kinda talk, and they 
 kinda don't. It just sounds like gurgling, but when you read the text boxes that go along with 
 it, you can see how they match up. I've gotta say, though, I was not expecting this game to be 
 as music-oriented as it is walking in. Each time you start a stage, you're given a basic "mood" 
 of music to select from. However, this just serves as a base; depending on what color you currently 
 are, the style of music will change as well. If you're yellow, then the music will take on a bright 
 tone with trumpets blaring in the air; if you're purple, the music will change to a cool jazz; 
 if you're a murky brown, the music will sound like rap. How appropriate. While the soundtrack itself 
 didn't impress me all that much, I do like the idea of music that changes throughout the stage. 
 It's a nice touch.
  
  Length/Replay Value: Luckily, the game doesn't get long to the point where you get tired of it. 
 There are about 10 different stages, each containing 3 levels. You only have to beat one level 
 of each stage to beat the game; that's what I did, and I clocked in at about 5 hours. Chances are 
 if I had played through all of the stages and got every single achievement, the game would've lasted 
 me somewhere between 15-20 hours. Like I said, though, I'm not that much of a platforming buff; 
 I'm sure that those who are, though, would have a blast with all of the little things that this 
 game has to offer.
  
  Final Statement: It might not be a No More Heroes or MadWorld, but this third party Wii game is 
 still worth a shot. Platforming fans will definitely eat it up. Even if you aren't a fan of platformers, 
 but you still own a Wii, then at least rent the game. It's worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrypticSun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  De blob is a nintendo wii exclusive (thankfully) the games story is about a world that has been 
 drained of its colour no thanks to INKT a corporation against colour . Your objective as de blob 
 is to restore colour to the land aswell as saving the Graydians .
  
  Gameplay:8
  The gameplay is fresh thanks to big levels , however some of the missions become repetitive . the 
 battle system is very basic using the wii remotes features all it is, is lock on and swing. Various 
 enemies and traps make battling a fun experience. 
  
  Graphics:9
  The graphics are very artistic and brightly coloured , this game is a work of art the cutscenes 
 also remind me of monsters inc .The cartoony feel of this game works really well with its artistic 
 design.
  
  Sound:8
  The sound in this game works well but nothing special , you may change the tune on each level , 
 there are also unlockable soundtracks .
  
  Controls:8
  Controls are ok there may be bits where the platforming sections are difficult due to the controls 
 , however they're fine most of the time .
  
  All in all this game is an innovative platformer which is pretty solid i recommend it . FINAL RATING 
 :8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  The Good- The missions are simple, the game is easy and long fulfilling, and the story is good, 
 There is really no dialogue but simple story, and the combat is fun, good for a family game. De 
 Blob is a fun game and can be a good pick for your first third party platform for the Wii. If you 
 like to spread color then try De Blob.
  
  The Bad- Camera angle, movement, the game can be a little "too" easy, can be boring after a long 
 period of time playing one level.
  
  Blue Tongue has made quite a pretty plat forming game here. Not only De Blob is fun, long, colorful 
 and has a charm but there are a few flaws that stand out when restoring what has the INKT taken 
 away. With each building or object you touch you can give color to, as from going to chroma city 
 to the next part of the city you have to use color to, complete missions, free raydians/greydians 
 , with a set amount of color points. De Blob starts out with 10 color points in his non-color form, 
 guessing that he is a ball of "water". As you roam around the city fulfilling optional tasks and 
 missions for various members of the color underground, INKT forces are sent out after you using 
 handheld ink guns, turrets, tanks, jet bikes and elite inkie foot soldiers that are immune to the 
 color that they wear. These inkies or any pool of black ink will turn De Blob black and constantly 
 start to loose paint points fast. When De Blobs paint points reaches 0 you loose a life. There 
 are also traps layed out around the city to harm De Blob in various ways. During a mission there 
 is a time limit of 17 to 20 minutes but you can gain more time from completing missions , destroying 
 inkies , or freeing raydians.
  
  Controlling De Blob is smooth and when you lift the remote it makes him jump up or from side to 
 side and using Z jumps that are on high buildings and other various spots that you cant reach. 
 You hold Z to aim and shake the remote to jump from one to another. The nun-chuck is used for his 
 on foot movement, and he will stick to buildings when you land on the side of one. Here is where 
 one problem is. When you try to move De Blob off the building it can be difficult because sometimes 
 he doesn't want to get off. You have to shake the remote twice or three times to have him jump 
 off or just try roll off which is more simple than trying to jump depending on camera angle. Sometimes 
 on roof tops if your trying to roll through them you can get stuck inside a lower building that's 
 surrounded by other taller ones because he will stick to a small side of the other building standing 
 out and that can cause some trouble too. Its not bad like your stuck there forever it just can 
 be in the way. The camera angles are not at its best so you have to move it manually using the 
 arrow buttons up on the top of the remote and moving the camera will be slow. 
  
  The levels are long and have plentiful amount of missions and other objectives you can fulfill 
 to earn a gold medal or to gain more time. There are also bonus missions you can play when you 
 unlock them after the main level. Coloring building after building of an entire city is a lot on 
 just one level trying to unlock all the gates and going for a gold can take about an hour worth 
 of time and it just seems like the same thing on each level. The bonus levels, coloring, and fighting 
 inkie soldiers, especially the combat missions, shows that the game could be still challenging 
 yet fun. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FerdiF
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is good for 3 hours, but not more.
  It's looking good and the gameplay is good, but there is no real adventure or big motivation to 
 play.
  It's ok to play a few times, but that's all.
  
  Are there a real story? Not really. You have to paint, to jump, but with no emotions. The animation-scene 
 are at the start of all levels and they are good.
  The Developers didn't use the potential of this game.
  
  It is unhappy to see the people giving 
 high score this game. Maybe they all playing this game only for 1 hour?
  
  What is more to say? = Rent it first!
  
  (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text 
 only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text 
 only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text 
 only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text 
 only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) (Filling Text only) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cburtenshaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  De Blob is a fun game! Fairly easy to conquer if you are just trying to complete the minimum just 
 to get to the end. But if you take the time to try and achieve all the tasks and get all the rewards 
 it is fairly lengthy game and will keep you coming back to levels to try and find where the heck 
 that particular element is hiding, or how on earth you can bounce your way all the way up to some 
 precarious ledge.
  
  The one benefit of completing the game initially is that it opens up all the levels and side games. 
 It also means you can play the levels multiplayer. Which is where the extra fun of the game comes 
 in. The simplicity of the game means anyone can pick it up in a few minutes and the unique controls 
 using the Wii remote make it extra fun to play with friends.
  
  I enjoyed completing all the levels. And the story and in game cut sequences are funny. I am now 
 going back and trying to find some of the bits I missed on my first try of the levels which is 
 still fun as you tend to fins areas you may not have found when you were trying to get through 
 the level against the clock. And playing with friends has added a whole new dimension to the game.
 
  
  I would recommend the game to anyone who likes similar games such as Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paper_Jellly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:33 am PT
Review:  Ok so as many of you may or may not know, there are actually a lot of third-party games out there 
 (games for the Wii that weren't made by Nintendo themselves) . This is one of the first that I have 
 actually had fun playing. Lets get into the review...
  
  Graphics
  ~~~~~~~
  The graphics in DeBlob, are to be put simply, quite nice. They are crisp and the animations well 
 done. In all the time I have spent playing there has not been one second of lag. The colors are 
 very nice looking - but only after you paint them, but that's the whole reason why your playing 
 the game - to paint.
  
  Sound
  ~~~~~~
  The sound effects in DeBlob are very good. The Raydians (citizens of the world you play in) , all 
 sound happy and ready to party and your buddies have good sound effects too. When you talk to the 
 professor he makes a high pitched kind of grumbling noise which is quite funny when you first hear 
 it. There is no audio-dialogue, but as with most games on the Wii, no dialogue works a treat. 
 
  
  Game Play
  ~~~~~~~~~
  Your main objective in DeBlob is to paint. This would get soooo boring, however, if it were not 
 for all the other things to do as you paint. You can turn Graydians into Raydians, collect patterns 
 to make buildings look different, try paint the blimp flying around, paint all the billboards and 
 a hoard of other things. While you move around the city, you can complete missions to add to your 
 score. The missions usually involve either beating up some baddies, painting a block of buildings 
 in certain color/s or racing to a checkpoint.
  
  You do have a time limit, but unless your trying to get all the achievement for each level you 
 will probably never even notice it is there. I might add that trying to paint every single thing 
 in the city is immensely hard. In one level, I got 99% of all things colored and I couldn't find 
 the last one or two objects to paint.  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  First looking at a game like De Blob, I'm sure most of us think it's just another lesser-known 
 game that may or may not be as good as it looks. Fortunately for De Blob, it really is as good 
 as it looks!
  
  You play as a Blob, and your objective is to use your sponge-like qualities to spread the missing 
 color back into a now-colorless world.
  
  Right from first starting the game you get a taste of what De Blob is like, in a graphically sound 
 but humorous opening scene. By the time you start the first level, you'll more than likely already 
 be a fan.
  
  First, the graphics. For Wii games, De Blob is pretty sound graphically, and it's color fluidity 
 is beautiful. Dramatic change from gray-ish landscape to technicolor paradise is a snap due to 
 the impressive graphics this game holds.
  
  Second, the controls. For the most part the controls are very effective, making jumping around 
 to rolling fairly easy, but there are times where gameplay feels boxed in- sometimes you may find 
 yourself trying to escape a small enclosure but having trouble actually escaping. Other than this, 
 the gameplay is pretty well structured.
  
  Third, the creativity. Few games these days create a very revolution from being created, after 
 all, De Blob is a first of it's kind in a way to allow players to literally color up their world. 
 You can also see the humor and creativity of this game in the cutscenes of each mission.
  
  Overall, De Blob feels and looks great. It has limitless age appeal and it's a beautiful, humourous, 
 creative game that I can say was actually quite "fun" to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  The De Blob idea was taken from a project that was created by 8 students from Netherlands while 
 studying game design. After the rights were bought by THQ De Blob splashed its way on to the Wii 
 as a fully fledged game in its own right.
  
  The game is set in a place called Chorma City where the peaceful people known as Raydians live 
 their lives in a world full of colour and music. The city is invaded by an alien force called I. N. K. T. 
 Corporation and its leader Comrade Black orders the worlds colour to be sucked out. Leaving the 
 town colourless and miserable, it's up to the hero Blob and his friends from The Colour Underground 
 to lead the colour revolution and restore the town to its former bright glory. As a coloured blob 
 it's your job to re paint the city, complete quests and rid the town of the I. N. K. T. henchmen 'inkies'.
 
  
  Although the story may seem simple you can't help but get sucked into fighting for the colour revolution's 
 cause. Seeing the communist like regime of the I. N. K. T. Corporation and what they did to the once 
 beautiful Chorma city give you the urge to paint the city from top to bottom. The story is shown 
 through a bunch of often amusing cut scenes and comic like strips. The Raydians don't speak English 
 so most voice acting is just different sounds, but that works fine for the game. The story progresses 
 pretty well, moving to each part of the city you have to liberate and not dragging on too long 
 for you too become completely bored with the game.
  
  The best part of the game is the art style which you paint buildings and walls with. The buildings 
 can be painted a range of colours that look attractive but also after collecting items called 'styles' 
 you can see patterns in the colours. This adds more creative ways to paint the city. When first 
 starting out everything is gray and drab, but as you paint more and more the surroundings such 
 as the sky and the ground get their colour back, adding to the great feeling of painting the world. 
 This gives you a happy and bright feeling when bouncing around the city. Along side that this game 
 boasts a great soundtrack. Picking a certain music style before the start of the level, every time 
 you paint something an instrument will play a few notes. Each colour makes a different instrument 
 play and eventually you build it up so there is background music playing along. This makes it even 
 more addictive to paint the city because not only are you painting, your also making music as you 
 go.
  
  Quests send you off painting buildings, restoring landmarks, completing time trails and smashing 
 inkies. There is enough variety to keep the game interesting but not enough for you to play massive 
 amounts in one sitting. The great thing about the quests though is that they still feel fun when 
 coming back to them.
  
  Controls work well but can be a little frustrating at times. You swing the Wii remote down to make 
 blob jump and squash enemies. Even though most of the time it works well, sometimes it can be a 
 little un-responsive. The camera is great, allowing you to move it to whatever view you desire 
 with the d-pad on the Wii-mote, and blob moves around via the nun chuck.
  
  Multiplayer consists of 3 modes over a bunch of locations. 'Paint match', where the objective is 
 to paint as much as possible, person who paints the most wins. 'Blob race' is where you race your 
 fellow blobs around the map and 'Blob on the run' which is like King of the Hill, you must have 
 the crown to be able to paint stuff. With up to 4 players it can be a lot of fun, easily adding 
 more hours of fun game play. Although this is where the un-responsive part is most felt as you 
 are usually jumping a lot and very quickly and the Wii-mote isn't sometimes able to keep up. No 
 online multiplayer has been included in this game so it's strictly local. 
  
  You will find that de Blob isn't a game you can play in huge amounts, but one you will keep coming 
 back to. After the space of about 2 hours you will turn it off and leave it only to come back a 
 few hours later ready to paint up the city again. This effect makes your interest in the game last 
 a lot longer as you're not charging through the game all at once. When the quests get a bit samey 
 you loss interest but the game flaunts so much charm and fun you go back and play regularly. 
 
  
  De Blob is a fun and innovative game that brings new ideas the market. Its also one of the best 
 3rd party efforts for the Wii to date. People who are looking for something different or like to 
 be artistic will enjoy this title
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey_Face
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  De Blob is a good game with an interesting story. The controls are pretty easy to use, but to jump 
 you have to shake the wii remote making jumping more complicated than it could of been. The movie 
 scenes between each level are funny, and well made. Levels are good but they all have more or less 
 the same idea, just with slightly different challenges making them a bit boring after a while. 
 There are four types of challenges: painting, racing, combat, and landmark. Multiplayer, and choosing 
 your own music for each level is a good addition to the game. If you just want to have fun on a 
 level, you can go to free paint and select a level you've already beaten to have fun on without 
 challenges, a time limit, or enemies. De Blob has good replay value because you can go back to 
 levels and complete goals that give you medals. Over all it's a game worth checking out, especially 
 if you like unique games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmil1991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that could be overlooked, but is really something amazing that 
 shouldn't be missed. De Blob is one such game, and original IP from THQ built specifically for 
 the Wii. Your goal is to save Chroma City from the INKT Corporation by bringing color back to the 
 landscape.
  
  De Blob is all about painting - paint different buildings different colors, collect paint to transform 
 structures, and combining colors to get new ones. In this game you are a blob of paint that rolls 
 around the levels, hitting different colored tubes as you go in order to get different colors with 
 which to paint. The tubes are only blue, red, and yellow, but these can be combined in order to 
 create green, purple, orange, and brown. As you collect paint, you grow in size up to 100 paint 
 points (each tubes is worth 10 points) . Missions in the game take several different forms: you 
 paint certain buildings different colors (which can be done by merely touching them) , you following 
 a set of flares to a new place, you gather up lots of paint to hit a structure to transform it, 
 and you can smash lots of enemies with paint.
  
  The experience is not particularly difficult, but the levels are so fun that it doesn't really 
 matter. The game can be beaten in around 10 hours, but there are tons of collectables and bonus 
 missions that will bring you back. Plus, there is local multiplayer that can get really hectic 
 and is a nice bonus on top of an already great single-player game.
  
  Finally, the game has an awesome soundtrack. It's really funky and totally original, with blaring 
 horns and grooving guitar riffs. It rarely gets old, and makes even the more boring spots of the 
 game fun to listen to.
  
  To conclude, de Blob is a must if you own a Wii and enjoy platformers. This is one of the best 
 3rd-party games on the systems, so don't flinch: give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:32 am PT
Review:  De Blob is a very surprising game, much more enjoyable than the 'kidified' box art would lead you 
 to think and much lengthier than I thought it would be, I really enjoyed this charming title, despite 
 a few technical issues. 
  
  You play De Blob, the hero of the colour underground, a resistance movement fighting against the 
 evil I. N. K. T corporation who have occupied Chroma City and turned all the inhabitants into boring, 
 dull Graydians and removed all the colour from the world. Your job is to re-paint the city and 
 liberate the Graydians back into Raydians, stopping I. N. K. T in the process. 
  
  The gameplay is surprisingly addictive, and has you roll into roaming 'paint bots' which contain 
 the three primary colours of blue, yellow and red. This soaks De Blob in the colour specificed 
 giving you 'paint points' up to a total of one hundred and they can also be combined to form other 
 colours, such as yellow and blue make green and so on. Rolling into a building paints it your current 
 colour and reduces your paint points by one. 
  
  The gray and dull world is slowly turned into a vibrant and colourful place, and it becomes addictive 
 rolling around and hitting every white and gray builiding, wall and object in sight to fill it 
 with colour, but there are specific challenges to complete, ranging from paints certain buildings 
 a certain colour or transforming a I. N. K. T building by hitting it with a certain number of paint 
 points of a certain colour, or even destroying a certain number of I. N. K. T troops. All these are 
 done under a time limit imposed at the start of the challenge, but there is also an overall timer 
 that counts down while you roam around the world. Completing challenges gives extra time to the 
 main counter giving you more time to paint the area of the city you are in. 
  
  As I have said De Blob is very addictive when rolling around Chroma City, as every thing that isnt 
 a vibrant colour you want to paint. This leads into to the challenges, which also lead to a set 
 of objectives shown at the end of each level, such as painting every tree, completing every challenge 
 or painting 75% or more of the area. I couldnt help but feel however that these challenges would 
 have worked better had they been xbox live or psn achievements/trophies, as I had no incentive 
 whatsoever to replay a level to complete them. 
  
  One niggling problem, though by far not the biggest of the games issues, is that it isnt possible 
 to save during a level, only at the end of each one. Now if the levels were shorter this wouldnt 
 be so much of a problem, however each level can take upwards of an hour to complete and if your 
 about half way through means that turning off the game will loose all your progress, which can 
 be disheartening if you have completed several challenges. Saving at each new section of the level 
 that opens up would have been much better.
  
  The biggest problem with De Blob, however, isnt whether or not it should be on the more powerful 
 consoles, but rather a problem inherit with the console it is on, and that is of control. Actually 
 moving about is easy to do and is controled by the analogue stick on the nunchuck, however jumping 
 is the biggest problem, as I had several issues where the game didnt recognise my flick of the 
 remote to jump. 
  
  This is compounded by De Blob's natural, well blobiness, which while it allows him to perform a 
 strange kind of wall run, if you jump in a narrow area he has a tendancy to stick to the wall, 
 and can prevent you from jumping at all. In fairness I only encountered this a couple of times, 
 but it was still enough to spoil those sections and make me fail challenges. 
  
  The camera does a half decent job, and rarely gets stuck behind geometry but it is easy to forget 
 that the camera controls are mapped to the d-pad of the Wii remote and roll around without even 
 using them, making the challenges more difficult than they need to be. This is another thing that 
 leads me to believe a re-realise on xbox and ps3 could do this game alot more justice. 
  
  De Blob is an addictive, vibrant platformer that oozes charm and paints your time with it a happy 
 and satisfying colour. With a few control tweaks and possibly a platform change, this could become 
 a great title, but as such, it is still one of the best games on the Wii and really does encompass 
 the systems simple and pick up and play nature, I recommend this to anyone wanting to be cheered 
 up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Ever reminisce those times as a child when you'd actually get a crayon and start painting on the 
 bland, white wall, and every time you did you would get reprimanded by your parents? Well, this 
 game basically takes this child-like desire to color the world and put it in a video game, and 
 infuses it with a political metaphor along the way.
  
  So you start out as the titular Blob as you help the Color Revolution bring all life back to Chroma 
 City, much to the anger of the colonizing INKT Corporation. You restore landmarks, ancient ruins, 
 rivers, lands, and look at pretty pre-rendered, but smartly 'written' cutscenes in between.
  
  Gameplay-wise, de Blob is extremely easy to pick up and play. The primary mechanic here is 
 to put color back just by absorbing a specific color and touching a building to color it. Still, 
 you're not exactly an unlimited coloring machine, as you have to observe the number of paint points 
 you have. They operate similar to ammo, but these points also double as your HP or life points. 
 
  
  You can get several styles to give a bit more personality to your establishments, and you are free 
 to color the part of the town you want as long as the timer doesn't run out, which is pretty much 
 the least of your concerns if you agree to the challenges presented to you by the members of the 
 Color Revolution.
  
  These challenges are generally easy, but one challenge type in particular which involves having 
 to paint a select part of the town in specific colors is a bit limiting (and at times, frustrating) . 
 They manage to infuse some variety in the paint job, but they, in the end, lack just that as well-variety. 
 To be honest, the lack of challenge types (there are only 4 if I'm not mistaken!) is the only major 
 con in the whole game, but that won't stop you from actually getting addicted to coloring the entirety 
 of Chroma City and killing every INKT soldier in sight.
  
  Another con, albeit minor this time, is the fact that Blob can and will cling on to the walls of 
 buildings every single time. This is frustrating if the path is narrow, but with a little bit of 
 perseverance and luck, you can get out of that sticky situation.
  
  The thing that the game definitely runs with is its artistic presentation (the effect that accompanies 
 you painting a building never gets old) as well as its addictive, yet simplistic (and deceptively 
 so) gameplay. If you have a Wii, de Blob is a title you may want to nab if you're into platformers. 
 It may not be as magnificent as Super Mario Galaxy, but it's a potential third-party franchise 
 I'd want a sequel for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjo36
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  De Blob Mini Review
  
  The game starts with a colourful and humourous intro movie that shows the main hero called 'Blob' 
 bounce around the life sucked Chroma City, restoring colour to it. Its a good start and the visual 
 and musical style of the game is pretty cool.
  
  The gameplay in de blob is simple. Roll and jump around an environment and paint as much as you 
 can. Paint enough and you can move on, although its very easy to just stay in the current area 
 and bump up your score, mainly because its pretty damn addictive. When you touch a segment of a 
 wall, it turns the colour that you currently are. It works well and the colour mixing is a great 
 original idea. Obviously thats not all thats to it but its the basic premise. Missions are timed 
 but the time limit is certainly not strict. Each level introduces you to a new enemy or dynamic 
 (like inkt tanks) . This makes each level feel a bit more fresh and prevents the game from becoming 
 stale. Once a mission is completed you usually get 2 bonus missions, the next main mission and 
 some concept art or videos. It is a good incentive to re-do the levels as the higher your score, 
 the more you unlock. Points really do mean prizes. Some may want to take the game a step further 
 by re-doing levels to get a 100% score. Its not easy as you have to paint all the trees, graydians 
 and even a blimp. 
  Its a pretty good looking game too and its just so colourful. The menus are well laid out and have 
 something about them, a good thing. The music is also great. Its jazzy and funky and goes in tandem 
 with the games overall style. Presentation wise, De Blob is a really good game.
  The actual story is pretty predictable but then, its not about the story anyway; the game focuses 
 more on gameplay and style. The story is broken up with short cutscenes involving Blob and they 
 look great. A couple will make the younger gamer chuckle as Blolb has a sort of cheeky character 
 to him that is surprisingly fleshed out. Well, for a blob anywyay.
  Also included is a multiplayer mode for up to 4 people. It can be a laugh but dont worry if you 
 never use the multiplayer, its not great.
  
  Story 6/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Presentation 10/10
  Multiplayer 6/10
  
  If you can find De Blob on the cheap, it is an absolute 
 must buy. If its full price, put some consideration into it. That said, it is a great original 
 effort from THQ, seeing as they are one of the main culprits of movie tie ins. Hopefully we can 
 look forward to more games like this in the future.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  As graphics push closer and closer to total realism, it's beginning to seem like not the best thing. 
 The graphics of current generation games have been this dark, gritty brown and gray-athon, despite 
 being able to use more colors in games than ever, it's like everyone only uses dog sh -- brown and 
 gun metal gray.
  
  Enter de blob, rising up amist the shovelware of third party Wii games, to bounce and color his 
 way into your heart. Bringing a unique and colorful platformer with the simple premise of coloring 
 the city.
  
  The story goes that the evil INKT corporation has taken over the once colorful and happy town of 
 Chroma City turning into a drab world of dull conformity. The de blob leads a group of color revolutionaries 
 who are out to overthrow the Inkies, rescue the Raydians and bring color back to Chroma City. While 
 there's no voice work the story is told through a series of well done and wonderfully comical cutscenes. 
 If you really think about it, there's the underlying message of using art to rebel against a conformist 
 society. The Blob himself despite not being able to talk, actually has a lot of personality making 
 him rather loveable.
  
  At the core, de blob is a 3D platformer with a bit of Katamari mixed in. The goal is to gather 
 paintbots and color as many buildings as needed to move onto the next area. You're timed but there's 
 plenty of way to increase your time by completing side missions within the main level, coloring 
 the Raydians you free and taking out enemies. You can get more points if you use secondary colors 
 like purple and orange and there's this wonderful feeling of accomplishment as you watch this once 
 dull city spring back to life. You watch as dull billboards transform into a wild work of pop art, 
 trees get their leaves back and instead of buildings simply getting back color, wild and crazy 
 patters appear all over.
  
  As third party Wii games go, the controls are good. A simple flick of the Wiimote lets de Blob 
 jump and you control him with the analog stick. It works but I will admit the platforming is a 
 bit dodgy at times and it would've been nice to have been able to map that jump to a button. Also 
 from time to time the Blob will get hung up in a corner and the camera gets a bit spazzy however 
 it's not enough of an annoyance to be a deal breaker.
  
  As you travel though a level letting your inner Jackson Pollock out, there are four kinds of side 
 missions. Racing, defeating enemies, restoring landmarks and color asignments. While they might 
 be a bit repetive after a while, they still manage to be fun especially jumping inside a landmark 
 and shaking the controllers to restore it and watch a dull prison transform into a skate center. 
 The painting missions will grind the most after a while. You are told by your friend Arty to paint 
 said buildings a certain color and all too ofter you'll accidentally hit the wrong paintbot and 
 color a building the wrong color however you can always start over and oddly enough if you lose, 
 your buildings will remain the color you already painted them so say you ran out of time and two 
 buildings weren't finished, just go see Arty again, restart the mission and paint the two you missed. 
 It feels a bit easy then, but at the same time you don't have the annoying frustration of doing 
 it over and over again.
  
  The levels themselves are long especially if you are trying to paint as much as possible and finish 
 all side missions and find all the hidden goodies throughout the stage. Unfortunately there's no 
 saving during levels so if you quit, you have to start over again. After finishing a main level, 
 you have two mini quests which you can do as well. Though overall the single player campaign lasts 
 anywhere from 10-15 hours depending upon how much of a completionist you are.
  
  There's also "Free Paint" mode where you can choose a location and just paint for as long as you 
 like and getting a couple friends together for the multiplayer races is also fun given the easy 
 to pick up and play nature of this title however online play would've been nice.
  
  Also de Blob is a game that drips with artistic flare and has what is possibly one of the best 
 soundtracks out there that consists of funky jazzy tunes. The game will let you choose the background 
 music or de Blob's "mood" at the start and a really neat touch is depending upon de Blob's color 
 when you paint, different instruments play, like if he's orange, you hear horns, if he's brown 
 you hear scratchin and if he's blue you hear electric guitar.
  
  Really anyone who's looking for something really unique to play, should pick this up. People complain 
 about wanting good third party Wii games, well here's one right here for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrogamer96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  THQ's "De Blob" is a charming title with an interesting premise- transforming a gloomy, monochromatic 
 city into a vibrant mess of colors. It's a great idea on paper, and is properly executed to create 
 an experience that many players wouldn't want to pass up. Although there are a few flaws with "De 
 Blob" that even go as far as the control scheme, the latter is so enjoyable you'll most likely 
 forget the troubles.
  
  The game sets up shop with a CGI Opening that introduces the player to the world of Chroma City- 
 a once happy place full of color, but the "INKT" forces and their leader drain all of the color 
 to create a black and white world. INKT has also captured nearly all of the citizens of Chroma 
 City- the Raydians. Luckily, a group of high class Raydians escaped the clutches of the INKT organization 
 to form the Color Underground. With their newest recruit (and also the main character) known as 
 Blob, they plan to rebel against INKT and recreate Chroma City into the happy place it once was. 
 Although this isn't the most involving or deepest plot, it's substantial for a puzzle/platform 
 game.
  
  Once you get into the Single Player Campaign mode, you'll be in control of Blob- who's characteristics 
 are self explanatory. He's icky and gooey, but he IS the setting's only hope against INKT. You'll 
 travel around ten locations as Blob, and they range from a Fun Park to Outer Space. The main goal 
 in each location is to color up buildings and the like to raise the Color Energy within each section. 
 You do this by smashing PaintBots- mechanical creatures that carry a tube of color on their backs. 
 Smashing the PaintBots give Blob the color needed in order to paint up the sections. Blob can also 
 mix the primary colors (Red, Blue and Yellow) to get the secondary colors (Brown, Orange, Purple and 
 Green) . Coloring a building is simple- pushing up against it is enough to wash the whole building 
 into color. However, it drains Blob's "Paint Points" which serve as his energy and hit power. Alongside 
 painting everything pretty, Blob will need to complete challenges in order to fully complete each 
 section and progress onto the next. Blob will also want to free the Raydians inside the buildings 
 he colors since they also add to the overall Color Energy. There is an astonishing amount of things 
 to do in each level, but it's rewarding to see all of your work transform the different locations 
 into jolly places. I've only gave a sample of what you'll need to do in order to complete the game 
 100%, so this one will definiteley be a long journey to make.
  
  The gameplay is presented in a wonderful artistic/musical nature. The graphics are well designed, 
 with character models fairly interesting and pretty to look at. Whenever you paint a building, 
 different jingles play according to Blob's color. You can even change the mood of these jingles 
 before you start the stage! Also, if you collect "Style" icons, the building will be smothered 
 in different textures and designs. Although my motto is "Visuals and Music don't make a game", 
 the artistic and musical embellishments make "De Blob" an even better product.
  
  Controlling Blob is simple enough, you can move around using the nunchuck's analog stick. Blob's 
 "compass", which tells you where the nearest objectives and paintbots are, is mapped to the A button 
 on the Wii remote. A flick of the Wii Remote allows Blob to jump onto buildings and also leap across 
 hazards such as spikes and hot plates. The game also uses a "lock on" system which allows you to 
 aim at paintboats and enemies with the Z Button, and a flick of the Wii remote will smash a target 
 that is in the reticle that appears on screen when you press Z. My main complaint with the control 
 system is the jumping- you need to jump alot, and flinging the Wii remote around hurts your wrist 
 after awhile. Also, Blob's jumping mechanics are a bit iffy. It can become very hard to get on 
 top of buildings because Blob doesn't jump high enough to reach them, and he can't hang onto ledges 
 and pull himself up. 
  
  Overall, "De Blob" is a fairly tight game, and it's not one to pass up. It has managed to earn 
 a ranking of a "8.5" from me. The only reason the game didn't get a 9 is due to a few nitpicks, 
 like the awkward jumping command (swinging the Wii Remote down like a lever) and the fact that 
 you can't save in the middle of levels that take an hour or so to complete. But still, look this 
 one up if you're into platforming and puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_croft
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  De Blob has an insane theme to it and great visuals to go with it are a great combination. The 
 dialogue is also very funny because it's just squeaks. Although, the game play isn't easy because 
 it gets very frustrating when your blob flies over in the wrong direction and all the colour is 
 washed out of him and it's like starting all over again. Also, the worst thing is saving points 
 because only yesterday I was forced to end a level and I had to leave it incomplete just to save 
 it after 30 minutes of work. Difficulty is perfect because I like to do everything eg. all collectables, 
 and there's plenty of time to do it and for my sister although not as good at the game also feels 
 like she is doing really well at it. Finally, above all the bad points, it is just plain fun because 
 after a while you suddenly realise what you're actually doing. Being a bouncing blob hopping around 
 the city covering it in collectable paint fighting evil inkt characters all the while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wodjer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I picked this up in a bargain bin (ok 25 euro, is a bargain here) after hearing a review on a Wii 
 pod-cast. The reviewer had rented it for the night - but I think he regretted not putting the money 
 towards buying the game - and, I can see why!
  
  The game has a simple story, a simple set of controls, a simple run through or collect everything 
 philosophy too. I enjoyed playing this - to the end - twice, doing both: Once as a quick - see 
 where I get can I complete it, the second time as a more thorough collect everything, try to do 
 everything walk through, and I have to say that I enjoyed playing it in both styles!
  The aim of the game - colour up the lives of the characters who have had the colour sucked out 
 of their lives by the baddies (boo-hiss) - is simple.
  
  I found the controls are simple, using the Nunchuck for direction and the Wiimote for jumping, 
 camera viewing and such. They can be a little "random" at first - some of the roof jumping is a 
 little hit and miss - with more missing than hitting for me at times....
  
  Overall, I have enjoyed playing the game, and replaying it - something that's not happened for 
 a while (perhaps since Locoroco!) and there's definate value for money here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  If Okami is gaming's answer to a Japanese watercolour then de Blob is its answer to a Crayola canvas. 
 It's primary bolds and "outside the lines" attitude to vandalism enlivens its revolutionary message 
 to the point at which it becomes the poster boy for monotone rebellion in gaming itself. It's success 
 lies in the fact that it had no such intentions to start with, resulting in a game that is more 
 righteous than pretentious and its simplistic and cutesy faade hides something that is more than 
 just competent, but a game that can at times be fantastic.
  
  Almost immediately the games different approach presents itself. While de Blob employs the traditional 
 set up of sequential levels, the levels themselves are large, complex expanses filled with mini 
 challenges and major landmarks. More importantly the focus is on simply painting as you will, with 
 the challenges being tackled optionally. More of ten than not these challenges merely represent 
 what you would have done anyway. But its limited collection of races (which-as is a running theme 
 throughout de Blob-is against the clock rather than actual opposition) and specific painting tasks 
 give a necessary structure to a game that is relatively freeform by comparison. At times these 
 tasks can be impeding; transforming major buildings into their pre-invaded states-which is the 
 other part of the triumvirate of mini challenges the game offers-requires entering a challenge 
 in order to do so; merely attempting to paint these buildings is impossible and although the clasping 
 time limit and explicitness of the colours required gives these "set pieces" focus, it slightly 
 lacks the seamlessness of the other challenges and as some of these tasks can only appear after 
 certain criteria have passed it can leave blights on the cityscape that for a while cannot be undone.
 
  
  Time is you reward here. Each level operates on a fairly basic timer, that although initially seems 
 tight, with the wealth of challenges and buildings available it soon becomes non-existent. Indeed 
 what is most likely to kill you is your own time limit. For a game of downloadable origins de Blob 
 requires a shocking amount of dedication. To be fair actually finishing a level can take about 
 20 minutes but this is basic completion at it's very finest. If any kind of thoroughness is to 
 be exhibited then these sessions can stretch well beyond an hour. The importance being that these 
 must be single sessions. You cannot save mid level here and although getting a game over is an 
 actual challenge in itself the pressure of commitment may reduce your amount of playtime more than 
 any frustrations over constant death would have.
  
  Separate distractions come in the form of side missions. There are two of these challenges available 
 with each of the main levels and their stronger focus on platforming and harsher emphasis on a 
 time limit give them the air of Super Mario Sunshine's FLUDD-less zones. It is in these side missions 
 however, that de Blob shows its greatest fault: it simply isn't a very confident platformer. Though 
 the motion controlled jumps are usually accurate, they falter enough to make you doubt each leap 
 of faith. Blobs sticky wall runs-although necessary for Prince of Persia style hazard avoidance-frustrate 
 due to Blob sticking to any vertical surface he hits, causing many of the games poorly judged rooftop 
 climbs to result in a slow wait for Blob to slide down the buildings surface. The ability to pounce 
 off a wall is also rarely advised; erratic in both the distance travelled and the speed of propulsion, 
 trying it on one of the games tight walkways can lead to an unavoidable plummet. The cameras refusal 
 to rotate around your body to show you your possible landing zones means it is even advisable to 
 avoid doing so in one of de Blob's more serene moments.
  
  Thankfully however the greater focus on such serenity means that these problems never become more 
 than mere inconveniences. The side missions are totally optional and even the occasional mid level 
 challenge that takes you to such dangers can be tackled at your discretion, if at all. It results 
 in a game whose difficulty curve is entirely dependant on how much you want to challenge it, on 
 how much of the game you want to see and how much of it you want to paint. Impressively however 
 the games greatest strength is how it makes you want to cover everything.
  
  de Blob is not Half Life 2. Liberating the cities here is not out of moral duty or fear of capture 
 but unrestrained necessity. Entering each level with is horrible murky shade of brown and you almost 
 feel required to inject some life into it. It's an unnatural feeling of oppression entering each 
 area of de Blob; not just because you feel isolated as the lone speck of colour but because you 
 have an almost instantaneous urge to see these places return to life. And as you plough through 
 the districts and assault inkie enemy hives it does so, the soundtrack coming alive as your magic 
 touch blossoms entire buildings with colour. You constantly run through different paint pots, almost 
 always giving you the excuse to paint each block with every mixture of colours the game offers. 
 It is when you paint each block of buildings however that de Blob unveils its greatest visual reward. 
 Confused and bewildered, the once incarcerated inhabitants emerge from buildings blinking as they 
 look around almost lost for words. Your last act of liberation is to pile drive into them, destroying 
 their gray straight jackets and leaving them in the hue of your implementation. Their jubilatory 
 cries and jumps far outweighing the time reward deposited nearby. Gain enough momentum with your 
 revolutionary work and they will dance behind you in your wake, creating a parade of satisfaction 
 that can appear on almost every street corner. It's not just buildings that require work, but trees 
 and lampposts, walls and handrails, even then stone surrounding such areas needs revitalising. 
 Billboards get emblazoned with their own dynamic imagery and even rarely seen blimps can be hit 
 on, providing even an aerodynamic form of protest. Special buttons can appear on significant plazas 
 or spaces where activation results in an Okami style act of rejuvenation, producing fountains or 
 football pitches that your own body could not naturally conjure up. It's a nice touch as the liberated 
 citizens often gather there but it's not quite as satisfying as the more personal touch that your 
 own actions grant you.
  
  This is accompanied by a sound design that defies criticism. Both progressive and dynamic each 
 level in de Blob starts out silent-with only the environmental hum and the short instrumental stabs 
 as you paint your first buildings providing interruption. It soon adds up however; as you gain 
 momentum an ever increasing bass line is added, and not long after that perfectly judged harmonies 
 and solo sections join the fray eventually creating a cacophony of music that is constantly varied 
 due to each colour producing its own unique riff. Brilliantly each musical soundtrack is not contained 
 within the confides of a single level. The music is portrayed as "moods" which can be applied to 
 any level in the game, providing a personal level of visualisation that because it is stated as 
 Blobs mood, gives you an added connection and involvement in the game. It is a sound design you 
 have to work for, as it instantly dissipates with every ink hit or death that you suffer but it 
 becomes one of the main driving forces in the game and combined with the visuals creates a riot 
 of sound and colour that pushes the initial one blob revolution into a parade of exaltation. Overthrowing 
 the inkies may be what the game tells you to do, but partying in the cities is what it really wants 
 you to do. 
  
  The entire atmosphere is focused thanks to a story that mercifully doesn't want to take precedence. 
 Restricted to loading screen banter and mini challenge narration, your support characters may interrupt 
 you on more occasions than you would wish (and like all essentially amateur produced games, its 
 tutorial is infuriatingly stagnated as a result) but they provide enough jollity and personality 
 to give the game a bit of characterisation. Rather enjoyable inclusions are the CG cut scenes that 
 precede each level. These no doubt insomnia thought out creations showcase the inkie enemies more 
 like Rayman's rabbids rather than Orwellian oppressors. It may not give you much of an incentive 
 to squash the blighters but it keeps the entire thing (even when it's at its darkest) wholly humorous.
 
  
  That really is de Blob's principles laid out in one line. Its plot is that which has been done 
 to death but its style is one that provides a far greater sense of liberation as a result. It may 
 class itself as a platformer but its focus and lust for a reward greater than that of precise jumping 
 put it in a rare group of games that simply defy categorisation. Whether this is a case of style 
 over substance is irrelevant because its style is its substance-painting is its gameplay, music 
 is its reward. It may not cause a revolution in either game or artistic design but it sticks out 
 like a sore thumb in an industry that would rather paint its own streets brown. It's the guy on 
 the street corner busking for loose change, it's the kid on the rooftops who claims that graffiti 
 is art and it's the thing inside every one of us that wishes "painting the town red" were a literal 
 rather than a metaphorical phrase. It may not be time to celebrate the revolution but we can at 
 least give our thanks to the multi coloured revolutionary who did all of the above, with wit and 
 charm to spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckiesrule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty sweet game- I wasn't sure until I took the plunge and got it home- there is a 
 lot of fun to be had with this one, I have played through a few levels and it has been fun and 
 a good use of my gaming time. This one is a real original - I like the concept of painting the 
 town red (or blue, green, orange... etc) and fighting the nasty little ink blots that remind me 
 of Nazis somehow with the uniforms, tanks, and propaganda. It makes you want to slam them with 
 your happy little ink blob of a character.
  
  The beginning is a little slow because of the tutorial stuff, but once you get into it- it is a 
 lot of fun and will keep you busy for a while. I definitely give this a thumbs up and would recommend 
 it to my friends. I can't wait to play one of my friends in the blob party mode which looks like 
 a lot of fun.
  
  All-in-all a cool concept and a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOboeNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the PC version, but it wasn't enough. By the time I finished painting all the landmarks, 
 I looked further into the internet and noticed that a Wii version had a release the next week - 
 a strange coincidence. This release impresses me even more.
  
  Production: Amazing. Menu's full of style, graphics are full of style, and the music just kills 
 in this game.
  
  Graphics: Who cares about those polygons when it looks good? Everything looks great and it's just 
 full of style.
  
  Music: Amazing. Catchy tracks, mixed with the solos which change by color and play only when you're 
 painting buildings. For a music geek like me, it's half the reason to get this.
  
  Gameplay: Fun. The missions are all way too easy, but the entertainment is found in the game as 
 a whole, trying to get the blimps, painting every block and avenue - it's just an amazing concept. 
 The mapping of the jump button wasn't the smartest thing to do, but you get used to it. Half of 
 the puzzle is using your short jump to navigate skyscrapers and complexes.
  
  Lasting Appeal: Hey, if I can stay with a game for a long time then it's got to be good. It keeps 
 you in for quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  De Blob is a platformer game where you try to paint things into colorful objects, as they have 
 been transformed into monotone, grayish objects by the evil INKT Corporation. There are three primary 
 colors which can mix into brown and three secondary colors, giving you a total of seven colors. 
 Moving is done by the nunchuck. Jumping and attacking enemies is done by pushing the Wii remote 
 down. If you move it too fast, the game my not recognize it. The real problem with the controls, 
 though, comes with the sticky mechanic. When blob is on a wall, he will stick to it and slide down. 
 It seems like a nice idea at first, but it becomes frustrating in the later levels. You barely 
 miss a platform, and you stick to the walls. The only way to come off the wall immediately is by 
 jumping in a random direction, which is really hard to control. It's also possible to get stuck 
 in some tight spaces to the point where you can't move (I actually had to restart one of the levels 
 because of this) . The music is rather forgettable, and the graphics are average at best. Nonetheless, 
 there is still a large amount of replay value to be had if you can overcome the faults. There are 
 only 10 levels, but many of them take over an hour to complete. There are also two special separate 
 missions for each level, where you try to race the clock doing a variety of things. Most the game 
 is easy, but collecting some of the emblems in each level can be challenging, especially the time 
 emblems. There are several offline multiplayer modes available, but I haven't tried any of them, 
 so I won't comment on those. De Blob is one of those games that can only be enjoyed if you can 
 overcome some bumps along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Yes, a cheesy review deck, but regardless, this game is really fun. I was suspicious at first, 
 but de Blob delivered. In first player mode, each level is divided into 3 or 4 sections set apart 
 by gates. You must explore through each area, jumping from rooftops, skyscrapers, and anything 
 else you can imagine, coloring the town and completing challenges that add to your point total. 
 It sounds original, but the vibrant colors and freedom to go anywhere that little Blob can get 
 you is very addicting and brings you back for more. After the fairly short, 5-20 hour single player 
 mode (depending on your level of exploration) there are mini-games unlocked that correspond with 
 each level. Also, there is a free-paint mode and a multiplayer mode that brings all sorts of crazy. 
 
  Graphics
  Nothing to go crazy about, but for what the developers were going for, it's fantastic. Great colors, 
 fun looking characters, and hilarious clips before each level. Moves at a good pixel rate as well.
 
  Sound
  Every character talks with "jibberish". However, it's perfect for the context of the game. I think 
 if they spoke English it would be too... serious. Peaceful and exotic music keep you playing on. 
 
  Value
  If you're the type of player who just wants to go through the levels and complete them as quickly 
 as possible, not only will the value decrease tremendously, but you probably won't enjoy the game. 
 It's meant for the player to explore and try to paint everything from skyscrapers to trash cans. 
 Interesting mini-games and a small multiplayer mode adds some extra value as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudkirby
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  de Blob has been hyped as a great 3rd party, but believe me when I say there are no good 3rd party 
 games on wii.
  
  Today, Cloudkirby reviews de Blob.
  
  The plot:
  
  The terrible Inkt Corperation has taken over chroma city and robbed it of all its color and instead 
 of calling rainbow brite, a jungle blob comes and decides its his job to restore it.
  
  Not much of a story, huh? Sounds like a Playhouse Disney special to me.
  
  When i saw the opening 
 cutscene I thought one thing, "Rabbids Ripoff" The Inkt members speak just like the rabbids and 
 the humor is almost identical. The game, however, is not as fun.
  
  Gameplay: the game play's like a standard platformer, except that jump (and every other command) 
 is set to swinging the Wii-mote downwards which really confuses the hell out of me.
  
  The good: 
  I'm gonna get this out of the way quickly.
  
  painting and mixing are somewhat 
 creative but I won't get into too much detail. Control is somewhat solid, but nothing too drawing.
 
  
  The bad:
  Ok, this is where I take my chainsaw and split the game into a billion pieces.
  
  The game 
 is supposed to be relaxing, which it hits a little too well. I was sleeping by level 2.
  The timer and lives system is useless because you have to have your head so far up your ass to 
 lose. Freakin' easy.
  The control is clunky and repetitive, and the "Combat" is little more than Mario style jumping.
 
  In the end you are painting the same buildings, using the same attacks and freeing the same little 
 bugger over 5 million times.
  
  So Cloudkirby, you purple clad superman, is this a good game?:
  yeah... FOR TODDLERS!!!
  Any 
 regular game player will realize that this snore fest is barely worth the rental. And if you dissagree 
 with me you are wrong.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  It is a sad but true fact that Nintendo's current gen system lacks the third-party support of its 
 direct opponents but from time to time great third-party efforts appear on the system. Last year 
 we had Zack and Wiki, one of the most inspired adventure games ever produced, and early this year 
 No More Heroes was released to fulfill the dreams of those looking forward to a solid gory game 
 on the Wii, not to mention other great titles. This September this short yet good group gained 
 another member when De Blob came out.
  
  De Blob is a game about art, as the INKT Corporation, led by the evil Comrade Black, suddenly takes 
 over the colorful and vivid Chroma City. The city, once a happy place, has its color completely 
 drained away and its scenario becomes as sad and dull as the black, white and grey landscape created 
 by INKT's army. The residents are also captured and drained by the company, becoming lifeless strange 
 creatures that spend the whole day inside buildings while constantly watched by guards.
  
  Fortunately for the city and all its inhabitants, four revolutionaries are able to survive the 
 evil attack and joined by De Blob form the Color Revolution and they plan to strike different parts 
 of Chroma City and paint it back to its original beauty and groove. And that is when you take control 
 of the action.
  
  As De Blob you will explore ten different areas of the city that range from a Summer Resort to 
 a Dam, and bring the color back to the different constructions of the city. By moving the main 
 character you can touch pods that carry the ink around the city and gain color. After doing that 
 you can start painting everything you see. You can mix different colors to pain the city orange, 
 purple, brown, yellow, red, green or blue.
  
  The controls work fine as you can lock on enemies by using the Z-button before attacking them and 
 do all the jumping and running things you find on platformers. However the jumping controls are 
 not mapped to any buttons, instead you will have to move the Wiimote so that De Blob jumps. This 
 mechanic doesn't feel very natural during the adventure and you will eventually come across a few 
 moments when jumping is crucial and you will not trust the movement since it can occasionally be 
 unrecognized by the system.
  
  The attacking controls are also mapped to movements but those work perfectly and feel very good 
 when you make a downward gesture and the character pounds the enemies. The camera adjusts automatically 
 to everything you do but there are some rare hiccups along the way. 
  
  To help you along the exploration your friends from the Color Revolution will wait for you at certain 
 locations to give you different missions to accomplish. There are basically four types of missions 
 which are defeating a certain number of enemies, racing through the city to reach a certain point, 
 painting a group of buildings in a specific color and coloring landmarks which are big and important 
 buildings that look really cool after you have done your thing.
  
  The game will invariably feature a timer on the screen but it will rarely come into play because 
 after you do missions or save citizens, which is done by completely painting a block of buildings, 
 you will get some extra time to finish the area so one can easily take their time and enjoy the 
 game without having to worry about any time related issues.
  
  As you paint buildings and do missions you earn points, after you reach a certain amount of points 
 a gate to a different part of the area you are in will be unlocked so that you can advance. Each 
 one of the city's ten areas is very big and you can easily spend one full hour painting and racing 
 down the streets, sometimes the length of the areas will hurt the gameplay a little bit as they 
 may stretch for way too long, you will eventually feel like they could have divided the levels 
 into two and made a twenty-stage game instead of ten.
  
  This flaw is made even clearer due to the fact the game doesn't have any kind of saving features 
 during the playing of the level, so De Blob must be played through on bursts of one hour or more. 
 One saving point in the middle of each stage would have been enough to do away with this issue 
 but unfortunately the developers decided to make the game this way.
  
  After you are done with the levels, something that should take around twenty to fifteen hours you 
 have plenty of options that will keep you playing. Each stage has twelve different goals that can 
 be achieved such as painting all buildings, saving all citizens, doing all missions, coloring all 
 landmarks, finishing the stage within a given time and more. Doing them is a lot of fun and chances 
 are you will be compelled to try them.
  
  There are also small side-levels that are unlocked after missions are completed. Those are simple 
 and have only one goal, after you are done with those you will be awarded medals according to your 
 performance, getting gold on all of them is challenging and fun. The multiplayer mode may not be 
 so entertaining when played by two players but when you have and other three friends sit down to 
 a match you will have a great time. The multiplayer mode features three different matches and four 
 different scenarios to be painted.
  
  The game's visuals thrive on both their technical presentation and their art. The game pushes the 
 Wii's hardware due to its huge and ever changing scenarios. When exploring the city you will see 
 constructions that are on a considerable distance which is impressive. The characters and details 
 look very sharp and there aren't any kinds of slow downs during the adventure.
  
  The artistic presentation is outstanding, perhaps the best one the system has seen. Everything 
 has some graffiti-like characteristics from the painted buildings to the incredible menus that 
 can even be painted as you wait for the short loading times to end. Another nice feature during 
 the loading times is that you can see some HQ-like storyline explaining the current situation of 
 the revolution and your main goals this time around. The soundtrack follows the groovy feel of 
 the game and it has remarkable tunes that get intense and faster as you paint the city. Once you 
 start there is no music at all but as the city gains life so will your music.
  
  Before the start each level different cutscenes will be played. Those look marvelous and are very 
 funny. There are more scenes and sketches of early art to be unlocked according to your performance 
 on the game's levels, you will definitely notice the game was handled with extreme care by the 
 developers which is a miracle when it comes to non-Nintendo Wii games.
  
  Overall, De Blob is a great and engaging platformer. It may have its fair share of flaws but the 
 final product is a lot of fun.
  
  Actual Score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zinc55
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Alright, lets just say: If you are a medicore are hardcore gamer, dont buy this game. Here's the 
 breakdown.
  
  GRAPHICS: Acutal game is so-so, but cutscens are great. 
  CONTROLS: Great besides one thing. Jumping. You jump about 1 foot in the air. Come on, youre tryimg 
 to get to skyscrapes, and its like a puzzle tring to get up there. B. S. 
  EXCITEMENT: Ughh. No polish at all. All missions are pretty much the same, and nothing new really 
 appears trough the game. A few things, but nothing big or fun. 
  SOUND: Great sound, mant differnt tracks that you pick. 
  OVERALL SCORE AND TIPS FOR IMPROVEMENT: 
 The game needs more polish, e. g. more enimies, differnt challgens, than just "kill the enimies." 
 "paint the buildings blue" "get 50 paint points" BORING. More inital enimies, more open worlds, 
 everyting is so thight in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, it is different from other games. Although it can be very easy, it 
 still manages to keep me entertained, and it has it's own little challenges that you can really 
 enjoy. The basic story is, there is this whole colorful world where Blob lives, and it gets attacked 
 by the INKT corporation (kind of like color nazis) , that make everything black and white. Some 
 of the people form a rebellion, and it's up to Blob to bring down the evil INKT, free the people, 
 and paint the whole world back to its colorful form. Quite simple..
  So, as "De Blob" you are able to absorb color points, and use them to paint buildings and such 
 by touching them. you can jump around and attack enemies by stomping them. The levels are all timed, 
 but i really can't see how you would possibly run out of time, because every little challenge you 
 complete, you get like a minute more, and you already start off with 10 minutes usually. So you 
 go around painting everything you see, and completing challenges, such as painting a set of buildings 
 in certain colors, getting from one place to the other in a set amount of time (like races basically) , 
 destroying enemies, and bringing big landmarks back to color. The controls can get on your nerves.. 
 you jump by thrusting the wii remote upward, and you can sort of do a wall jump, but wall jumping 
 is usually very unresponsive. Besides that though, its great.
  The game also has a free paint mode, where you can play levels and paint as much as you want, and 
 a multiplayer mode, where you compete with another player in painting a certain level. It's really 
 a very charming game, and worth a play, the overall look and feel is perfect, and soundtrack is 
 always fun and energetic. Also the cutscenes are always hilarious.. for some reason the little 
 INKT dudes remind me of the Rabbids from Rayman, just less evil haha. If you have a wii, give this 
 one a go, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtno132
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  De Blob is all about painting, you play as Blob, and with the help of your friends you must paint 
 the city, which was turned Grey by a company called INKT.
  
  The gameplay is simple, you move around the city, and paint buildings by touching them, and you 
 can jump by shaking the wii remote upwards.
  
  In every level you must complete some missions that are all about destroying inkies, painting buildings 
 with certain colors, time trails, and transforming land marks, which tend to become repetitive.
 
  
  you can paint buildings with many different colors, which is by changing Blob's color by destroying 
 paint bots, you can also mix colors, for example yellow + Blue = green.
  
  The main thing that I didn't like about the game is that the levels are way too long, you can't 
 save in the middle of a level, so prepare yourself to play at least an hour in every time.
  
  De Blob is a great game, with good visuals and unique gameplay, I say that this is a must buy.
 
  
  Good:
  Good graphics.
  fun gameplay.
  Good sense of humor.
  Great multiplayer.
  
  Bad:
  Challenges/missions repeat them selves a lot.
  levels take too long to finish. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The good: Painting the town is loads of fun, great cutscenes, funny gibberish language, awesome 
 graphics and funky soundtrack.
  The bad: Experienced gamers might find this too easy.
  
  Game-play: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 9/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  Average Score: 
 9.6/10
  
  8 college students once made a game. THQ was impressed by it, that they bought the rights to the 
 game and made it availible for the Wii. The game is De Blob, a game where you are a Blob that can 
 be any color he absorbs, and you must help him stop the INKT Coporation from making Chromo City 
 monochrome. The resulting progress of the game is so sweet and satisfying.
  
  The cutscenes in the game are very funny and high quality in graphics. They basically explain a 
 humorous and enjoyable foreshadowing for the classic gameplay that De Blob is. 
  
  When you start the game, you basically run over paintbots to get paint. The enemies are INKT guys, 
 who you can attack with by swinging your remote. This is fun, and somewhat easy, but you're going 
 to need it. When you run into ink, your paint points you absorb go down fast, so find some water 
 quick, or else you'll lose a life. Luckily, Blue Tongue was generous enough to offer loads of lives 
 in the game.
  
  Most of the time, obviously you'll be painting the towns. If you hit a Blue bot and then a yellow 
 bot, you'll be a green blob. You can paint buildings any way you want, and if you use a certain 
 color, a cool different song plays. The funky soundtrack totally fits the games colorful experience. 
 When you get enough color energy, gates will open.
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing. You make most of the color by painting buildings. This is cool 
 and amazing to do. Overall, if there's a third party Wii game you must have, De Blob is one of 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Although de Blob is unarguably pretty easy, it keeps you occupied for a good amount of time and 
 it's well worth the money being suitable for every member in the family.
  
  Good:
  
  Graphics are really smooth, also the interface in menus are very enjoyable. The colors really bring 
 the Wii alive and even the loading screens have been made into good use by showing a comic while 
 the game loads.
  
  The game sounds awesome. Music and sound effects are both top-of-the-notch.
  
  10 levels filled 
 with lots of collectables and challenges is just right. Coming back for those missing blimps, styles, 
 trees and billboards is also pretty much fun so the game has a great replay value.
  
  Cutscenes are funny and the story doesn't get boring.
  
  Bad:
  
  Occasionally controls 
 and the camera will get you frustrated.
  
  Levels are too long.
  
  If you can get over the camera problems and the controls for jumping you'll really enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Remember the thrill of painting when you were five? It was a big sloppy mess of colors all over 
 the page, and the end result was always either a wonderful picture of the family in really bright 
 colors or a coffee-colored mess in the middle of the page. Regardless of the end result, it was 
 always fun.
  
  This game brings back all of those thrills and more. You play as Blob, a creature with the ability 
 to soak up different colors of paint and splash it on just about everything imaginable to re-color 
 your home town of Chroma City, after it has been taken over by the evil Inkt corporation. Inkt 
 has taken all of the color away leaving everything in a depressed black-and-white color scheme, 
 and it's up to you to save the day.
  
  Blue Tongue focused their efforts right where you would expect them to for a color-based game: 
 the graphics. They went with this brightly-colored, cartoon-like style that works incredibly well 
 given the source material, and it's accentuated by the fact that every level starts out completely 
 gray and instantly becomes more colorful as soon you splash up against it. There are also some 
 incredibly nice touches, such as how the sky slowly goes from gray and cloudy to blue and sunny 
 during a level, that reflect some real attention to detail.
  
  Another aspect of the game deserving of heavy praise is the level design itself. Most of the levels 
 are absolutely massive, and it makes for some breathtaking moments during the game. One particular 
 mission has you riding a train around the city after you've colored it, and it gives you a real 
 sense of grandeur as look down at all the yellow, red, green, purple, brown, and blue structures. 
 You will also suddenly realize why some levels take over an hour to complete.
  
  All of this isn't to say that the game is perfect, however, as it stumbles on more than one occasion. 
 While the soundtrack is somewhat fun, there's nothing memorable about it. Also, the jumping and 
 targeting mechanics needed more work, but they're hidden most of the time behind the easy difficulty 
 level, so you'll barely notice these particular issues. 
  
  The one major, glaring issue with the game is that it has trouble defining its intended audience. 
 Most of the time the game is insanely easy, which screams casual, but the length of the levels 
 and lack of mid-level save points leans more towards hardcore gamers. The uneven difficulty becomes 
 even more glaring at the end of the game when you are forced to fight a particularly long, frustrating, 
 and difficult boss battle that is a complete contrast to the rest of the game. This ultimately 
 means that hardcore gamers will feel unchallenged most of the time, while some casual gamers will 
 be too aggravated at the end to actually finish it.
  
  But don't let the blemishes keep you from buying what is otherwise a fantastic game. No matter 
 how you look at it, it's a fun game with loads of humor and a great presentation that just about 
 everyone can enjoy. Only hardcore gamers who can't stand easy games should avoid this; everyone 
 else should go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbonney
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I only found out about this game about 2 weeks before release and that was through the tv, the 
 ad just looked so catchy, i dint lok at reviews or such before buying the game but im glad i didnt 
 need to.
  The blob is a platform game where you as the blob paint the world, ok sounds a bit like a sandbox 
 game but all the challnges and awards make it far from that and more of a collect (paint) everything 
 game. This game offers a fun multiplayer mode with variations of tag and paint the most that offer 
 a lot o fun. Personally i found that the motion controlling a bit under used and when its only 
 used for the jumping and landmark tagging it doesnt really offer much, personally this game could 
 of been on gamecube and been as good. Overall this is a very fun game and even though there are 
 only 8 levels and 20 bonus levels you will easily spend over 8 hours on this game.
  a must buy for any core of wii (and soon pc) gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Now, I rented De Blob for my little brother's, but I can't lie, I was a bit interested in it because 
 the commercials seemed to make it be like another fun motion sensor game (the reason I purchased 
 a wii) . However from the start button, I mean, A+B buttons, I was left with this empty feeling. 
 But since this game got a fair rating from me, I'll do the initial break down.
  
  Visuals: 8
  Sound: 5
  Gameplay: 6
  Replay: 4.5
  Overall: 6.5
  
  Summary:
  Before 
 I start, did anyone see the commercial where the kid is swinging around his wii-mote, commanding 
 the blob like a wet mop on a taught fishing line. Throw that image out of your head. You control 
 all movement other than jumping (not jumping control, but the act of jumping) with the nun-chuck 
 joystick. So if you think you're getting a game that uses the innovative materials of the Wii, 
 you're sadly cheated.
  
  The game takes place in some city, which if remember the name from, you're a die hard fan of a 
 sub-par game. And basically you're part of some Chavez revolutionary group that is to over throw 
 Castro - I mean Inkys.
  
  Basically you're to assume the city was once rich and colorful and then some group took over and 
 made everything monochrome. (However, an educated persona would realize for this to happen a previous 
 revolution would have had to happen [Castro] , for them to take over in such a way. So really it's 
 there own damned fault for allowing this) . So basically your group is a terrorist organization 
 that produces violence via graffiti with MS Paint's fill/bucket tool.
  
  What's even more estranged is the fact that your partners in crime won't hook you up with prizes 
 (bonus time) unless you finish their own Picasso design on select buildings. As the levels go on 
 the harder they get.
  
  Every step makes this game lose it's substance. The game kicks off like any other modern nintendo 
 game, a cut scene of mute characters with ambient elevator music playing. You even get to choose 
 your music (Funky and.. mellow or some crap) . This concept is made part of the gameplay as you 
 must unlock more (elevator) music.
  
  The good of the game? Don't get me wrong there is some good stuff about this game. The game looks 
 amazing, you can see the producers used most of their time forcing the creators to make it look 
 amazing and smooth (yay nintendo for being anti alias fans) . The animation is smooth and the textures 
 are surreal. But that's it.
  
  This game is alright, but the concept of painting a town with a fill tool isn't very great and 
 the concept is defeated within the second level.
  
  If you some how beat the game you should have unlocked the extra features (it's not that hard) , 
 and you can do free paint mode with all your 'cool' new tools. That being music, effects, and other 
 useless tools.
  
  The game is made for kids, but kids these days I think don't have the medication for ADD to allow 
 them to complete this game. If you were hoping for a Mario Paint like game, you are sadly mistaken. 
 This game is like a flash game with the havok physics engine (which was never impressive) , and 
 a graphical make over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSmitto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, De Blob is the kind of game the Wii needs more of, as it's something that really 
 distinguishes the Wii from other consoles. Before I get into detail, I'd like to say that I'm currently 
 in the 5th area, so this is more of a first impression review.
  GAMEPLAY/CONTROLS
  In De Blob, you roll across the world, touching buildings and structures to splat them with various 
 colors that can be switched by combining various colors from paintbots. You move with the control 
 stick, flick the wiimote to jump, and press Z to target enemies and items. You can also change 
 the camera with the d-pad, brake with B, and go into first person. There's a decent variety of 
 enemies to fight, and although combat isn't the most important aspect of the game, it's a lot of 
 fun.
  LENGTH/DIFFICULTY
  De Blob doesn't hold up to the lengths of games like Zelda or Metroid, but it still takes time 
 and gives itself justice. De Blob's campaign has ten different locations, each taking around 30 
 minutes, and over an hour if you're a big completionist like me, as these levels are HUGE. There 
 are also 20 other challenges that can be unlocked, some of which are quite challenging, giving 
 the game a good difficulty for all ages.
  MULTIPLAYER
  De Blob is best known for its single player, but I find multiplayer to be a blast. There are 3 
 different modes; paint match, where you paint as many buildings as possible and steal other's building, 
 blob race, where you race to paint certain buildings permanently, and blob on the run, where only 
 one blob can paint, and the power can be stolen by attacking the current blob. In all, there are 
 10 different multiplayer options. I would have enjoyed online though.
  GRAPHICS/MUSIC
  De Blob has a unique art style, and you'll have to be the judge of whether you like it or not. 
 Personally, I find them to be some of the Wii's best. De Blob also has beautiful cutscenes that 
 branch the story together. The game has a great soundtrack, as some of the tunes are constantly 
 getting stuck in my head. Not only can you choose the track before each level, but the color you 
 are painting alters the music as well.
  Overall, De Blob is one of the wii's most impressive third-party achievements, and although it's 
 not perfect, it's pretty close. 8.5/10!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chappy_man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  In my little time spent with De Blob i have quickly come to the conclusion, that this game does 
 alot of things right and leaves you begging for more.
  
  when you start off the story is a very cutsie style of sans voice acting and cartoon humor. Essentially 
 you are a rather large living blob of paint. Your goal is to paint the city red, in a good kind 
 of way, and save the residence of the city from INK.
  
  Once into the actual gameplay your going to find the controls to be easy enough to paint those 
 buildings and save the local folks. Issues do occur occasionally when you hit jumping components. 
 Other wise it feels great to smash inkies with the downward thrust of the wii remote, and to bounce 
 along painting builings, people, signs, and pretty much anything you want to any colour you choose.
 
  
  Graphicly it is a wii game so dont expect GTA 4 HD, but it certainetly works in its own right. 
 De Blob features a cartooney, and semi cell shadded look giving a great feel and sensation as you 
 splattwer along the streets of this inked out town. In my own case i even dared to right my name 
 by simply rolling about in an open square.
  
  De Blob is a game i picked up just out of interest and currently i can say its one of my favorite 
 games on the wii. If any one owns the wii, this is certainetly a simple and fun game to own. Keep 
 in mind though the simplisity may not suite to the more hardcore. But for a simple good time this 
 is the way to go, from the few hours i have logged so far.
  
  
  And here's my update December 14th 2008, So now i have logged even more time into de Blob and find 
 myself coming back to it again and again. From all the unlockables, and secrets, his game has alot 
 to offer well after the main storyline is done.
  
  Another impresssive aspect is de Blobs multiplayer. Now in my own case its a great way to pick 
 up and play with my girlfriend competitively without either myself a long time gamer or her a casual 
 gamer feeling like our practise or skill has any impact to the negative or positive effects as 
 to winning or loosing.
  
  The multiplayer modes contain 3 basics from a king of the hill paint as much as you can, where 
 your opponents can steal, and block you on buildings. This is one of the better and by far my own 
 favorite. And as always multiplayer with your buddies is great. Only thing i could have wished 
 for would have been some small wifi matches so i continue once my friends are gone.
  
  If you haven't picked this game up, and own a wii. Seriously you gotta try it, at least rent it 
 the child in you will thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofanjp
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game and it's made in Australia! The story has itt's charms and is very kid friendly... 
 obviously. The controls of this game are simply to pick up but can cause wrist strain in about 
 1-2 hours, but hey it's better then the 20 minutes from Mario and Sonic at the Olympics Games. 
 The games a simple platformer that has a old school fell to it with basic timed jumps and defeating 
 enemies with a jump on the head, but as like all platform games this one can be finished pretty 
 quickly if your a long player like I am... I mean sheesh I finish both Zone of the Enders games 
 in 10 hours, seriously both games one after the other in 10 hours between the two... but I digress. 
 Paining the town is a lot of fun, I personally love painting profanities on the road but hey, I'm 
 an immature 22 year old. This game is a lot of fun to play for kids but if your an adult you'll 
 probably ignore it, but just give it a go... you may be surprised by how fun it can be. I say that 
 this is probably a great edition to a kids Wii library and adults should try this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdepaul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game before the review came out. That's rare, but the guy at the store told me that 
 he hasn't been able to put it down... sold. AT first glance, I didn't know what to make of this 
 game; awkward controls, no real dialog, not very exciting. But then the game started to sink in 
 and 3 hours flew buy. Now, I'm completely addicted to this game and I don't know why. I love the 
 simplicity and the music is killed. You'll definintely be doing a little sofa dance while you're 
 playing. The bottom line: this is a wonderful game. It's not frustrating, it's very entertaining, 
 and it's great to listen to and to look at. I'll definitely be watching out for more blue tongue 
 titles.
  To anyone who buys this game: stick with it through the first level or so. I guarantee the game 
 will suck you in once you're comfortable with the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winnyboy1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Because since Super Mario Galaxy we've had what exactly? Not much, so it is a great relief that 
 De Blob is here to fill any void left where the next Mario or Zelda game should be. 
  
  There have been some complaints that the game lacks any sense of direction or incentive to be playing, 
 which really is complete drivel in all fairness considering that there is a plot and a reason for 
 your painting the town red (and indeed all manner of other colours) which is pretty clear from 
 the beginning of the game. You are Blob and you are a revolutionary sent to scupper the plans of 
 the fascistic INKT who are stealing the colour from the world.
  
  Your ultimate goal is to free the slaves called Graydiuns of each stage and to bring colour and 
 fun back to a now grey and unexciting world. To free Graydiuns and convert them to your cause you 
 must paint blocks of buildings various colours. This is the most basic part of the game and you 
 can go around the town freely, painting anything you come across by rolling over it or by jumping 
 into it. You are't equipped with any paint to begin with however and Blob is nothing more than 
 a hollow translucent ball at the start of the stages. To gather paint you must destroy Paintbots, 
 each one of three primary colours. Take out two or more Paintbots of differing colours and those 
 will mix to produce another colour, for example attacking a blue and yellow Paintbot one after 
 another will mix those colours to produce Green paint. Therein lies De Blobs tactical side as the 
 missions dotted around the stages in the form of your revolutionary buddies require you to paint 
 building in specific colours to achieve points needed to progress to the next section of the stage. 
 As well as paining missions there are also timed speed runs where you must follow flares to the 
 finish line and also rampage missions where you have to dispatch the INKT guards all within a specific 
 time limit.
  
  Obstacles in the game include the likes of the INKT forces of varying varieties, each requiring 
 specific tactics to defeat, although most just requite a simple Z-targeting and jump to take care 
 of them. There are also traps such as hotspots which you will need to find switches for to turn 
 on and off and black ink which graudally drains energy as well as ruins your paintwork. Each of 
 these elements are thrown in to make the missions that much more challenging and to give the game 
 a more purposeful feel and the player a sense of achievemet when they complete the various missions 
 and stages.
  
  The graphics in De Blob are of the sort of Saturday morning cartoon variety akin to Bluetongue's 
 Spongebob Squarepants outing, although the quality of the characters and the framerate is comparable 
 to Super Mario Galaxy. That said the environments certainly aren't as lush as SMG's or as varied. 
 Seeing as the main task is to turn drab grey office blocks into works of art there isn't a huge 
 amount of scope from which to draw inspiration from. This is forgivable however as the whole idea 
 of painting everythig around you soon becomes an incredibly addictive experience that simply does 
 not need mind blowing graphics to achieve greatness. The humour and charm gone into producing the 
 game and not to mention the excellent cutscenes is also commendable and keeps you hooked, you look 
 forward to seeing the next comedy moment as a reward for completing a stage.
  
  Soundwise Bluetouge have done a fantastic job utilising fmod technology. Before you begin a level 
 you can select the type of music you want to have playing in the back ground and when you sart 
 the level the music is eerily subdued - however splash a bit of paint on the wall and you might 
 here some vocals, a bit more in a different colour then some saxaphone and so on and so forth until 
 you have built a town that looks and sounds alive with Graydiuns cheering you as you go and dancing 
 in the streets. It can be quite heartwarming stuff.
  
  If any issue is to be brought to task it would be that of the control system, in particular the 
 jump mechanism which relies on a quick flick of the Wii remote. Granted this is what we expected 
 most platformers to be like on the Wii at some stage, however it can be a little imprecise and 
 when you are trying to line up the perfect jump it can all go horribly wrong very easily. Why it 
 is that you can end up sliding down walls sometimes and jump off them at others is a question you 
 may find yourself asking as you curse the TV. That said it is still only a minor issue and rarely 
 does it spoil this great game. 
  
  De Blob is not goign to be for everyone, and don't let my opening headline fool you into thinking 
 I consider this as highly as Super Mario Galaxy - it is a completely different game. What it does 
 feel like though is a pure Nintendo game - if this had Kirby or a Pokemon or even a character from 
 the Super Mario Bros roster then this game would probably be getting higher scores from some - 
 as it stands though Bluetongue have come up with a game that stands up well against in-house Nintendo 
 products and even recalls some of the classic Rare moments. It's that good and I thouroughly recommend 
 this title to all Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikmin08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Like i said in the deck its fun, addictive, keeps you in a good mood and a good rent or buy. You 
 get to paint virtualy everywhere including the main menu and load screen! It is keeps a good challenge 
 trying to complete all the achivments. So get ur giant blobs of paint and blow up the inkies. When 
 playing you are faced with a lot of challenges the main one painting as much as you can to get 
 the points you need to continue. There is always a bad thing when it comes to gaming one of them 
 is the fact each level takes a long time so there may not be a lot of levels but there is a lot 
 of game time. Another thing is controls and camera most of the time they are working perfect but 
 theres always that one plays were the camera zooms in to much. I recomend this game to people that 
 don't crave action 24 hours, but more to people that like a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliusmysad
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Of all games, i bought this one and i really regret it. In fact, i actually refunded it and bought 
 a BETTER GAME instead.......
  
  Because of a lack of direction and story, i found the gameplay to be very boring and lacking any 
 real fun. The basic gameplay is to jump onto buildings and 'paint them' with your body. At first, 
 it seems kinda fun but then realise that theres' another 1000 buildings to paint and you say to 
 yourself: "Why am i doing this?"
  
  The controls are good etc etc etc. however the game is completely lacking an incentive to play 
 due to gameplay. The game is basically one repetitive cycle. You paint building, after building, 
 after building until you mentally die from a lack of interaction. 
  
  SO if you're the kind of person like me, who can never ever decide on anything (Example: Weither 
 the Xbox 360 or PS3 is better) , then may i please try and deter you away from this lord awful game. 
 There is absolutely no point of the game, therefore no incentive to play. All you do is paint buildings 
 and etc. Now i know that there are some challanges in between the tediousness, however it simply 
 isn't worth the crappy challenges.
  
  If you play games for what they are, or play because of the story, then may i suggest you stay 
 away from this game. Seriously, don't make the mistake of buying this game, and regreting over 
 the fact that you could have bought something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevey13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  As my classification says, de Blob is just plain fun.
  de Blob is a game where you take on the persona of a round hero who goes through the many layers 
 of Chroma City, filling the black and white city with color. It may lack the adrenaline and gore 
 of that some modern gamers seem to look for (and which the Wii has yet to fully embrace) , but that's 
 where the game truly shines (so if you are looking for that, this game is not for you) . If you 
 are looking for a game that has charm, simplicity, and overall addictiveness, then you are in the 
 right place.
  
  de Blob's simplicity is its strong point. Within five minutes of playing this game, I had mastered 
 the basics, leaving me free to roam around the 'Last Resort' opening level. After a very stressful 
 week of college projects, homework, and political campaigning, I found this game to be the perfect 
 tonic. As you progress through the level, not only does the level become more colorful, but the 
 music becomes more and more jazzy. Even though the game can be easy at time, some of the challenges 
 are downright difficult.
  
  de Blob is not a perfect game. It is a very, very good game, but it has its faults. First and foremost, 
 the jump isn't quite charged enough. I always seem to need one or two more inches of height to 
 reach higher places. The second major issue are the challenges. I understand their purpose (to 
 give the game direction so you aren't just wandering) , but sometimes they seem unnecessary.
  
  de Blob is fun, through and through. It is altogether polished graphically and has a great 
 soundtrack. If you were interested enough in the game to read the review, you should buy this game.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
