-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deca Sports
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/decasports/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun to play with friends, at least once.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls are simple to a fault.
 Bizarre mix of &quot;sports&quot;.
 Not fun for very long.
 Poor AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 215 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: May 13, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This collection of short-lived minigames marks an unfortunate victory for quantity over quality. 
 

  Like Wii Sports, Deca Sports is a collection of sports games with simple controls and equally straightforward 
 presentation. Unlike Wii Sports, it's not free, some of the games control poorly, and only a few 
 of them are really any fun when played with a group, much less alone. There's soccer, basketball, 
 badminton, beach volleyball, motocross, archery, curling, snowboarding, figure skating, and kart 
 racing. By trying to please everyone with variety, Hudson has come up with an eclectic mix of activities 
 that don't fit well together and aren't much fun.  

           Looking at this screenshot of badminton is as much fun as playing badminton in the game. 

  Deca Sports is extremely shallow. If you can move the remote up and down, you'll be able to perform 
 most actions in the game. In sports like badminton and beach volleyball you don't move your player, 
 you just flick the remote once in a while to swing your racket or hit the ball. You'll need the 
 Nunchuk to move your players when playing soccer and you'll have to press the A button to change 
 players, but passing, shooting, and even slide-tackling are all done by waving the remote. This 
 means you'll occasionally pass when you mean to shoot and vice versa. Sometimes, controller inputs 
 simply aren't recognized quickly, or at all. This makes snowboarding and motocross particularly 
 frustrating because crashing into a barrier often brings you to a screeching halt. The controls 
 for curling are imprecise -- particularly with regards to determining power. To be fair, a few sports 
 control fairly well. To drive a kart you hold the remote sideways, hit one button for gas, and 
 tilt left or right to steer. Basketball also controls fine; it's the fact that your players constantly 
 pepper the bottom of the backboard and rim with their layups that makes it awful.  

  Another problem with Deca is that each sport is broken down into its simplest form. Kart racing 
 has just three tracks with six total participants; badminton is one-on-one; and archery is just 
 you shooting at the same target repeatedly with only slight variations in wind and distance to 
 mix things up. Figure skating has only three programs, which never change; all you do is follow 
 a path and flip the remote upward when you come across a red, blue, green, or gray circle. Simple? 
 Yes. Fun? Maybe for a couple of minutes.  

  You'll have to overcome one last obstacle before you find any enjoyment with any of the sports: 
 the game's terrible AI, which is poor on all three available difficulties. CPU-controlled soccer 
 players pass the ball back toward the midfield on breakaways; figure-skating judges award higher 
 scores to the skater who falls the most; supercross riders and snowboarders will make no effort 
 to avoid you; and the only time points seem to end in badminton and volleyball is when the AI just 
 gives up and doesn't try to return a shot.  

  Playing with up to three friends alleviates the shoddy opponent AI (unless your friends are really 
 stupid) , but you'd be hard-pressed to play each game more than a couple of times before you and 
 everyone else has had their fill. Eventually your friends will ditch you, and because there's no 
 online support you'll have to suffer on your own through the handful of single-player modes. You 
 can play a single round of any sport, participate in a tournament, or take part in a league where 
 you go from one sport to another in an effort to earn more points than the CPU-controlled teams. 
 Each sport also has a challenge that you can tackle. For example, in badminton you need to try 
 to hit the shuttlecock toward specific areas of the floor, while in kart racing you have to beat 
 a specific lap time. The challenges mix things up a bit, but you'll be lucky to squeeze an hour 
 of entertainment out of them.  

           Snowboarding might have been OK if tricks mattered and there weren't only three courses. 

  Deca Sports' visuals are more interesting than its gameplay, but only slightly. There's no Mii 
 support, nor is there any character customization. This shouldn't come as a surprise given how 
 sparse the rest of the game's options are, but the characters are so simple it doesn't seem like 
 it would have taken much extra time to let you create your own athletes. Arenas are basic in their 
 appearance and the blurry backgrounds in kart racing and snowboarding could very well have been 
 rendered on the Nintendo 64. But other than it being hard to see the center of the target in archery 
 because of aliasing, the graphics don't hamper the gameplay nearly as much as the game's other 
 problems, and the ice in the skating rink looks nice.  

  As tempting as a game with both badminton  and  curling may be, there's no reason to recommend 
 Deca Sports. The roster of events is baffling, the controls for many of the events are poor, the 
 AI is pitiful, and the gameplay is so shallow that you're unlikely to get your money's worth before 
 this one starts gathering dust on a shelf somewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: juliusmysad
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Who would have thought that this game was ever going to be fun in the first place? The only good 
 thing about the game is the whole 'mocking it with a friend' component', while bagging the s**t 
 out of the terrible gameplay, through the mild frustration of the horrid controls and etc.
  
  For full price, Deca sports isn't worth the 9-or-so sports it provides. Damn, the game isn't 
 even worth playing for free. i knew for a fact that this game was going to be crap based on my 
 past experience with Game party and other such bad titles. But is there anything good.
  
  The only sport that was mildly enjoying was the kart racing which was only good because of its 
 smooth turning, something that i haven't come accross, even in Mario kart. All the other 'mini-games' 
 had bad controls and simplistic gameplay. All i can say is that this game ISN'T worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game was something I had waited for because I thought it could be the next Wii Sports, but 
 damn, I was wrong.
  
  Graphics: (7/10)
  The DecaPlayers are badly rendered but some of the fields look pretty good.
  
  Gameplay (6/10)
 
  Broken Controls on 6 of the 10 events. 2 of the 4 events that survived were archery and basketball 
 which SUC K! The other 2 were soccer an d figure skating which can be fun.
  
  Sound (9/10)
  Gotta say I love that theme song and the sound is OK.
  
  Replay Value (5/10)
 
  Good with friends because with broken controls, you can laugh at each other. 
  
  Online Ability (3/10)
  If you were able to get your hands on a beta disc like me, you can try 
 the broken online gameplay.
  
  Total (30/50)
  A 6.0.
  
  This is one of Hudson's many failures over the years. It saddens me to have to say this but I am 
 losing my faith in the Wii's once good gameplay. I am left playing Galaxy, Brawl, GH3, Fit, Sports, 
 MY Virtual Console DLC, and Scarface. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Deca sports is okay with friends or family it's just that the mini games suck. It's a waste of 
 time playing this game, the soccer mini game is extremely slow. The players are slow and the field 
 is really small. One thing i didn't like is that you have to choose made teams why couldn't you 
 make your own characters and make your own teams to play with that would be much more fun. All 
 the racing mini games have just only 3 courses and the difficulty is still sorta easy even if you 
 put it on the hardest level possible. This game wasn't well made and that's the biggest problem 
 the mini games are short, difficulty is way too easy, and characters should be made by the owner. 
 The only okay thing with this game is it's pretty fun to play with family and friends but you'll 
 get bored fast. So don't rent it don't buy it you'll regret it. It's a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAULISDEAD26
Rating: 1
Date: May 28, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  All i want to say is that i picked this game up last night and i was expecting many hours worth 
 of playing time and a fun time but i was sadly mistaken. after less than half an hour i was ready 
 to stab myself i the throat with a rod. the only plus of the game was the archery game which was 
 playable and lots of fun but eventually got boring.... fast. and every thing in between was simply 
 horriable. and the game looked horriable..... the ball at points went straight though the characters 
 body! this is just another reason as to why my wii may very well be found on ebay soon, way to 
 much shovel ware and we all know that nintendo is more than aware of that fact that under 30 percent 
 of the wii's games got under a 50 percent as a rating. but thats fro another review. but how my 
 story ended was i took the game back less than a day later, even for under twenty percent trade 
 back value i was happy to get that piece of crap of my hands forever and instead purchased tiger 
 woods 08. the words that i leaver you with are simply DONT BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u8nogard
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is not the way to spend your money.
  
  Wii Sports has better entertainment value than this ... game. Read game reviews on this game to 
 tell you what it can do and what it is about.
  
  What I experianced:
  I am over spending time with the family when this game was brought to our attention. The owner 
 of the game pops it into the wii system and was loaded up. The navigation thru the game was horriable. 
 The controls were super sensitive, to the point where there was no control - whether it be the 
 basketball to the kart racing... the characters were all over the place. The controller was being 
 constantly being swapped in and out with the nunchuck.
  
  An actually statement from the owner of the game from owning the game for just 5 minutes stated 
 "Why did I buy this game? This game is junk. I just bought this and I thought I was getting something 
 like Wii Sports. This is junk."
  
  All that I can say is that I am glad that I don't own this game. I am also glad that experiance 
 this game so that I know next time not to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenakuma
Rating: 2
Date: May 22, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Honestly was their a need for another sports game for the wii after wii sports?? Yes and No!! while 
 wii sports did the job as a fun multiplayer sports game it left a lot to be desired such as deeper 
 game play and some type of massive online multiplayer to form real whole teams online and duke 
 it out against each other!!! However in decas case the answer in no this game did nothing to improve 
 upon wii sports and basically is a rip of it hopeing you forgot the original wii sports exists 
 since it release a couple years ago!!!
  
  This game is bad bad BAD BAD!!! you'll almost instantly feel like your back in time playing wii 
 sports all over again accept this time no one wants to play with you!!! After my freind cranked 
 this out at a party everyone was hyped at first when rembering wii sports but then after about 
 ten minutes everyone was left asking "why dont we just play wii sports?" or "lets just go back 
 to playing rock band already"!!!
  
  This game is also more buggy than wii sports was when it comes to motion sensor detection so their 
 just another reason to steer clear of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRYAN34
Rating: 2
Date: May 21, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I saw several advertisements for this game and they all looked very exciting and fun. I was basically 
 expecting a Wii Sports 2, but with a different title (Deca Sports) . The controls on this are all 
 VERY EASY and BASIC. I played almost all of the games and I realized that this game isn't really 
 worth putting the time into especially when it is what I refer to as a blah game. I can see where 
 this game may be fun for younger kids that can only pick up on basic controls, but for someone 
 that is looking for more of a challenge than it isn't for you. I would definitely advise you to 
 go out and rent this game before you buy, so you don't throw away 30+ dollars and then get stuck 
 with an unwanted game or a horrible trade in value. I would not recommend this game to anyone for 
 several reason. The game play isn't very smooth, the controls are easy, and the replay value isn't 
 going to be too high. Save your money as put it towards the Wii Fit. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
