-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Destroy All Humans! Big Willy Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/destroyallhumansbigwilly/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Causing random havoc can be fun for a little while.
 The addition of a Big Willy mech increases vehicle variety.
 Some clever weaponry.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not nearly as funny as previous games in the series.
 Rehashed combat that wasn't so great to begin with.
 Lacks the engaging presentation of first two games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 338 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Locomotive Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Feb 25, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big Willy Unleashed lacks the humor of earlier installments, leaving its shallow and rehashed gameplay 
 to fend for itself. 

  The gameplay found in the original Destroy All Humans! may have been so-so at best, but it was 
 able to overcome this shortcoming with a fiendish sense of humor that used 1950s sci-fi to satirize 
 Cold War paranoia. The second installment did its best to mimic what made the first so funny, but 
 couldn't produce quite as many laughs thanks to a lack of focus in its storyline. This downward 
 trend in quality continues with Destroy All Humans! Big Willy unleashed, which relies on a quickly 
 tiresome flood of sexual innuendo to mask the fact that the human-destroying action has gone stale. 

           The Zap-O-Matic isn't the funniest weapon in the game, but it's pretty effective.     

  Big Willy Unleashed takes its name from the chain of fast-food restaurants Pox has opened in his 
 newfound quest to take over the Earth through good old-fashioned capitalism. The twist here is 
 that Pox uses the scores of dead humans that have been piling up throughout the first two games 
 (a result of his partner in crime Crypto harvesting human brains for DNA) as a cheap alternative 
 to beef in his hamburgers. Heiress-turned-activist Patty Wurst (rhymes with "Hearst" -- get it?) 
 is out to expose Pox's  Soylent Green -inspired business practices, so it's up to you as Crypto 
 to stop her and her cronies. From there, the plot spirals out of control with a smattering of halfhearted 
 '70s pop-culture parodies that rarely illicit more than a faint chuckle.  

  Although the plot may be all over the place, one consistent theme throughout the game is the constant 
 repetition of Big Willy-related double entendres. Whenever Pox sends Crypto on a mission to protect 
 his restaurants from anticannibalism activists, he always mentions how his Big Willy is not to 
 be touched, or how they'll feel the wrath of his Big Willy, and so on. It's a little funny at first, 
 but the joke is repeated to the point where it becomes a groan-inducing routine.  

  The series' trademark humor may have taken a nosedive, but the action remains much the same. You're 
 given a pretty nice assortment of Furon weaponry to aid your task of obliterating select groups 
 of human life. These options include old standbys such as the Zap-O-Matic and the Anal Probe, but 
 new options are thrown into the mix, such as the Zombie Gun and another that shoots balls of lightning 
 like grenades. Like much of the humor in the game, these weapons offer some amusement at first -- turning 
 people into zombies to distract police is a nice ability, and we never tire of seeing the phrase 
 "Anal Probe Upgraded!" flash across the screen -- but the simplicity of running, shooting, running, 
 shooting becomes rather monotonous after a short time.  

           Destroy an entire city with the flying saucer within a few short minutes, but don't expect 
 much of a challenge.      

  Thankfully, Crypto doesn't remain a pedestrian for the entire game; you now have a pair of vehicles 
 to pilot. You can choose from the flying saucer featured in previous games and the newly introduced 
 Big Willy mech suit. The vehicle sequences provide welcome variety to the combat, though they tend 
 to make you almost invincible. In the saucer, you'll mostly fly around while zapping buildings 
 out of existence, taking care not to draw too much interest from escalating levels of local authorities. 
 But if you do find yourself in a hailstorm of missiles, it's pretty simple to restore your health 
 by using your abduction beam to drain the energy from almost anything lying on the ground. Though 
 simple, the saucer sequences are pretty fun -- at least until you run into the occasional fetch quest. 
 In an odd bit of self-referential humor, you'll hear Crypto exclaim how much he hates fetch quests 
 as the mission begins. It's a funny way of breaking the fourth wall, but it doesn't really mask 
 the fact that, yes, it's a fetch quest and, yes, it's quite boring.  

  The Big Willy mech sequences follow the same trend of interesting but overly simple gameplay. You're 
 able to hop into any of the 25-foot-tall Big Willy statues that tower over each of Pox's franchises 
 to engage in mech-suit mayhem. With Big Willy, you can pick up giant objects such as cars and use 
 them as weaponry to smash helpless citizens. These same citizens also restore your health when 
 you snatch them up and toss them into your mouth like they're pieces of popcorn. For sheer brutality 
 alone, it's quite a bit more amusing to pilot the Big Willy, but the two vehicles don't really 
 feel all that much different. They control the exact same way: You use the Nunchuk to move around, 
 and twist the remote side to side to turn the camera. Combined with the fact that the saucer is 
 fixed pretty low to the ground, these vehicle sections really blend into each other.  

  Vehicular navigation doesn't take many risks with the Wii Remote's motion-sensing abilities, and 
 that's a fairly common theme in the game. The remote is used most often to control the camera, 
 which thankfully includes three levels of responsiveness. It does a fairly nice job of mimicking 
 the standard dual-joystick control scheme and never becomes much of an issue in the game. But beyond 
 that, the Wii Remote's abilities are kept in check pretty often. When you want to engage Crypto's 
 PK abilities (which include hypnotizing and bodysnatching) , you'll need to defeat a quick minigame 
 that involves shooting brain-shaped targets on the screen. You can also use the remote to swing 
 objects you've picked up in the mech suit with an overhand motion, but that's really about it. 
 Overall, this is a game that could be played easily with a traditional controller.  

  Visually, Big Willy Unleashed doesn't impress. It really shows its roots as a series that began 
 on last-generation systems in 2005. Not much seems to have been done to improve the graphics, and 
 furthermore, there's an ill-conceived bloom-lighting effect that gives certain textures a sort 
 of blurry, tie-dyed look. On top of this, the sound feels very off. Whereas the first game in the 
 series featured great voice acting and lots of creepy, theremin-filled sci-fi music, this one lacks 
 the same punch. The new voice actors filling in the roles of Crypto and Pox sound like poor impressions 
 of the originals, and the disco-filled soundtrack fails to produce the same charming atmosphere 
 found previously.  

           Wield taxi cabs like blunt objects when you take control of the Big Willy mech.      

 
  Finally, there's the ability to enlist the help of a friend to take part in multiplayer. Your 
 options are pretty limited, though; you can go head-to-head against another player in an effort 
 to hold as many beacons as you can within a set time limit, or you can work side-by-side to defend 
 a Big Willy restaurant from waves of troops. This tacked-on multiplayer doesn't add anything to 
 the experience and only continues the general theme of disappointment established by the campaign. 
 It would be tough to recommend such an underwhelming sequel right out of the gate, but if you can 
 find it down the road on sale, it might be worth it for the few chuckles it offers.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ferraro007
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  Destroy All Humans! Big Willy Unleashed is without a question fun to play. The Wii controls don't 
 add much, other than a slightly easier point and kill ability. The story is very pointless, and 
 could have been a downloadable game. It does have some extras, new weapons, areas and Big Willy, 
 but is starting to reach it's peak.
  
  Graphics: Okay, it works, but could have been better. 
  
  Sound: Same great voice acting, no 
 matter how bad of plot Crypto still sounds great.
  
  Gameplay: The controls were an issue sometimes, the story is bad, but it is still enjoying to play. 
 The multiplayer, is terrible, split-screen action did not work at all.
  
  This is a good idea, but fails to bring the revolutionary feel as the first one did. Some extras 
 include new skins and weapons, such as the shrink ray. This is not a horrible game, I liked it, 
 the missions were dumb but worked, and who can get tired of Destroying All Humans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jegan234
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was good, but lacked some things like, the true destroy all humans, plus Path 
 of the Furon looks better, I mean would you rather have the same zapomatic and disentegrator you've 
 benn using for the last 3 games, or would you rather have huge, cooler looking, more powerful guns?! 
 But still, as the first DOH game I owned, I gotta say it's good for people that like killing people 
 from the old cheesy 70's show, "Fantasy Island". It had good controls but if you didn't play it 
 for like 2 months, you would kind of forget the controls. Like in all DOH games, the one true part 
 of the game is when you finish the game and get to go around killing everything, but it's not very 
 fun like that without the cheats and the cheats aren't even very good! But still if your just bored, 
 nothing to do, finished all 3 Halo games and just want to kill something besides the Covenant and 
 the Flood, you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chappy_man
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Upon picking this title out of the value bin not that long ago I found myself confussed. Being 
 an returning player to the Destroy All Human's franchise I had already experienced and enjoyed 
 the previous titles on the Xbox and couldnt help but wonder what deed this installment had done 
 to deserve value status. Upon poping the disc into my Wii and trying it out i can now see why.
 
  
  DAH: BWU, starts off a little ways after DAH:2, Crytpo our fun death loving and violent little alien 
 has been enjoying the limited 'boob tube' events. When Pox the leader of Furon invading forces 
 informs Crytpo it is once again time to go forth and destroy all humans!
  
  Positvely for the game it does just that, you are supplied with many weapons and abilities suited 
 to simply take out the pesky humans i your path. This is something the series has always done well, 
 with the variation in weapons such as the zombie gun ( where you tunr people into brain eating 
 machines of doom) to the basic zap gun (lightning in a can) . You truly do get the sense of being 
 a superior being as you mow down the populaces no matter your weapon of choice.
  
  Aswell as new weapons the new choce between your saucer and A giant fastfood symbol mech certainetly 
 adds to the fun. There is nothing quite like the great taste of burning down buildings with your 
 saucer or vomiting to kill civilians with the mech. Of course one of the games largest issues comes 
 from these vechiles.
  
  The issue comes from the controls, tilting the wii remote to turn from side to side and moving 
 up and down through space with the saucer is just too difficult to fully master if ever master. 
 The Mech handles a bit better but deals with the issues of wii remote pointer to aim attacks, and 
 the same tilt action to turn the camera. After a while you simply dont want to use the vechiles 
 and try to do everytihng you can on foot.
  
  Control issues dont just effect the game with the vechiles, the siple task of walking is hindered 
 by the fact you have to point the wii mote to turn your veiw around and aim crytpo's line of sight. 
 for attacking and shooting humans it works fine, but in moments where split second timing, and 
 turning, is needed one will quickly find that the slow wii mote pan is simply not enough. And I 
 garuntee both vehicle and simply walking for the first while are a pain, but can you can get around 
 it eventually.
  
  Once controls are out of the way and your doing well getting around the game turns out to be a 
 pretty good time. Nothing really exciting or particulary different from any of the previous titles 
 but for something similar it turns out pretty good.
  
  For gamers i recomend if you love the series and can deal with a few annoying control blips, and 
 a slightly dumbed down story line this is an okay filler for the series. Although after logging 
 in enough time to finish the single player and all unlocks, aswell as some quick fun multiplayer 
 I have to say deep fans of the series or those looking to get into it this is not the place to 
 start, but if you want a backstory lead up to the upcoming PS3 and Xbox360 title and continuation 
 i recomend this for a little component nothing much more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jetfire2000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Destroy All Humans!: Big Willy Unleashead review. In this review you will find: 
 very little positive things, lots of negative things, and more.
  
  If you are a new person to the Destroy All Humans series, do not start off with this game. Start 
 with the first and work your way to this point. And make sure you take your time playing the first 
 two, because you'll need to spend time waiting for the price of this game coming down excessively, 
 that is, if you prefer to buy it. I recommend renting it first, just to show you how you could've 
 waisted your money.
  
  The game starts off where Destroy All Humans! 2 ends off. If you have played the previous games 
 in the series, you'll notice a drastic change in graphics once you start playing. It looks as more 
 like a cartoon more less a Sci-Fi action adventure game. You can tell this by looking at the main 
 character, Crypto's eyes, as were they red. In the game world, you'll notice that objects, such 
 as cars, were less detailed. Even a toy robot such as Transformers looked better. But all of this 
 was not a fault of Sandblast and Pandemic. It was a mere letdown from Locomotive.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, it was a huge disappointment. The PK in the game was terrible. The cars 
 picked up like a lightweight piece of paper and wouldn't allow far distance throwing.
  
  When it came to invasion sites, there weren't many. Only four to be exact unlike the previous five 
 and six. They were very small and there weren't many buildings.
  
  Then there were the weapons. Going back to the graphics of the game, the detail of the weapons 
 were very low. It was like having a tube shooting molten fire and electricity volts. However, they 
 did increase the fully upgraded quantum deconstructor's blast radius. Things like the Big Willy 
 weapons such as the heat laser were pointless of using because when you used it, it turned the 
 buildings red instead of causing a fire to erupt.
  
  Story wise the game probably needed something better than what it has. The jobs you can accomplish 
 is very interesting as in what happens after you complete them all.
  
  Overall, this game is not what it was expected and could easily trick you into thinking the whole 
 series was bad. I would recommend this to younger gamers such as 9-12 year olds. But beings that 
 it is Teen rated, I suggest that you really don't mind it. The humor in it is lame and you most 
 likely will not remember any of it. Most of it was speaking about sex slang jokes coming from Pox. 
 But as I said, I do not recommend this to youger gamers that find this offensive.
  
  Thank you for taking time to read this review and I hope this has gave you second thoughts about 
 playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pox14
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  this game graphically, could use major improvement even if it had been on a console wth better graphics 
 it would still suck when a building is hit by laser it turns RED also the lack of pox and crypto 
 voice actors really lowered its standard plus it had one less weapons then dah2 this game had absolutley 
 no ties to dah2 exept in the side missions this game is not for anyone not even a dah fan it has 
 horrible graphics mediocore gameplay and character's, voices did not have the dah feel in short 
 it was justone long penis joke
  
  graphics 2/10
  gameplay 5/10
  sound 3/10
  over all 10/30
  
  over all game that a dah fan would only rent if you do buy bwu is going to 
 dissipoint you it seems it was only made to make money off the fame of the destroy all human franchise 
 witch could be beaten within a few hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsmith16
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game may bare the Destroy All Humans! name, but it doesn't deserve it. I absolutely love the 
 DAH! franchise. But when it came to this... my heart was broken. Clearly from the start it's clear 
 that THQ simply wanted a quick port to the Wii. They succeeded in that, but failed miserably elsewhere. 
 One of their biggest mistakes was replacing the original voice cast, which made the humour dry 
 and shallow. Pox acted gay, and even though they're aliens, the best they could come up with was 
 a 15 foot tall fiberglass toddler. Pathetic, absolutely pathetic. This was made worse, due to the 
 fact that the main story revolved around nothing but corny penis jokes and Pox's restaurant. The 
 new voice actors are extremely cheap imitations of the originals. Any mention of the game's "prequel" 
 DAH!2 was only made in side quests, and the main plot had nothing to do with the following game 
 at all. The game is indeed, a little repetitive, not to mention short, with less weapons, locations, 
 and game play options that all the games that came before it. The graphics made PS2 look next-gen, 
 and the damage feedback was absolutely pathetic. If you damage a building, it turns RED. No fire, 
 it just turns red. The rag-doll effects and cortex scanning, one of the prime sources of comedy, 
 were gone. This made you feel cut off from the people, unable to discover any 70's thoughts they 
 may have had. PK is much worse than what it was in DAH!2, PK Push barely threw the human or object, 
 and once and object was in PK, it had little to no mobility, making PK seem somewhat... weak. Another 
 flaw that the game is a loosely put together piece of detritus, is that the music used in the game 
 was originally meant for Path of the Furon, and it feels really out of place. Adding to that, this 
 is pretty much the only thing this game has relating to Path of the Furon. The game does have good 
 ideas though, such as jumping in bodysnatch, bodysnatching animals, a shrink ray and a zombie gun. 
 Though these are very good ideas, they're loosely showcased in the game, and animations aren't 
 as nice as they should be. Is the game for you? If you're a hardcore DAH! fan, and own a Wii, then 
 rent it, or wait until the rip-off price of $45 goes down. Otherwise, pretend the game doesn't 
 exist. Just forget about it and walk away, before your taste in DAH! is severed forever. My suggestion 
 is save your money for Path of the Furon, as it'll be worth the wait and money, and you won't lose 
 your appetite in the process. To sum it all up, Big Willy Unleashed wasn't a step down the ladder, 
 but completely fell off. We can only hope Path of the Furon, releasing later this year, will reach 
 the top of the ladder, and make up for this awful tragedy that is Big Willy. Luckily for the game, 
 it still has DAH! in the title, and just for that, I'm giving it a 3.5, despite the fact it deserves 
 a big fat zero. THQ, you'd better get your head out of the mud. Any potential in this game was 
 ruined. I expect better when the next game releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_Player64
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  DAHBWU is a great exclusive game for the Wii. If you like being naughty, killing the good, and being 
 the bad and taking over the world, THIS GAME IS FOR YOU! The Destroying and killing never gets old. 
 DAHBWU is WAY better than the first 2 DAH's which were for the X-Box. Here are MY good and bad 
 things about the game:
  
  The Good
  
  -Destroying never gets old
  -Fun missions
  -Big Willy is very fun to play as
  -The weapons (Crypto weapons, BW's weapons, The Saucers weapons)
 
  -The Unlockables
  -Fantasy Atoll is a fun location to play
  
  The Bad
  
  -The graphics are 
 not the best
  -The "Harbor City" location sucks
  -The bosses are pretty easy
  -You don't get to be Pox (not a big deal though)
  
 
  The game has about 24 main missions and about 28 side missions. The side missions are a little 
 bit more funner than the main missions. If you like to destroy stuff for the fun of it, BE CAREFUL! 
 The Military will come after you, so don't over do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokokrema94
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  It should be fun to be an alien and destroy all humans, don't u think?. Well, in Destroy All Humans!: 
 Big Willy Unleashed, it would give you a bit of fun, but when you play it for a couple of hours 
 it would get boring. When I saw this game coming for the wii I said: "Yeah this game is gonna be 
 awesome like in the Ps2". Unfortunately, this game is really dissapointing. First, I was comparing 
 the graphics with the first Destroy All Humans on the PS2 and, in Big willy Unleashed the graphics 
 look worse, when the characters talk they don't open their mouth, the faces of the characters look 
 ugly and the textures look muddy. There's no much variety in the missions, and sometimes they are 
 boring or are too easy. Crypto's weapons have a nice variety with the Anal Probe or The Zap-o-Matic. 
 Tha game keeps the humour from the series. Destroying stuff with the Big Willy or your saucer can 
 give you a little fun while it lasts. The game has like 25 missions that you can complete in 8 
 or 9 hours. It's not a good entry for Crypto in the next-gen consoles but it can give you a little 
 fun for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeDude224
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game is da bomb. Okay, so there isn't much of an improvement on the graphics, and it's a little 
 hard to play, but, GOD, it's cool. Every weapon has been redesigned, and you have awesome new ones 
 like the Zombie Gun, which turns people into zombies, and then other people will completely ignore 
 you to attack it. It also feels more realistic to shoot with the Wii Remote. You can also Bodysnatch 
 animals! How funny is that?!!? You can run around, playing as a cow. Now, that's hilarious. The 
 Big Willy Mech is also a fantastic addition to the game. He has three weapons: The Regurge-O-Tron, 
 (vomits on humans and buildings) Heat Beam Eyes (I don't have to explain that) and the most powerful 
 weapon of all, the Windbreaker. (He does a really powerful, loud, and big FART!!!) And you can 
 pick up vehicles and smash humans, buildings, and other vehichles with it, or you can throw it 
 at them. But all this comes with a small price: The Big Willy has to get energy back once in a 
 while, so you have to pop the brains outta people's heads, and munch 'em. And if you can't find 
 a human, the Big Willy will run out of power, and you have to get out and fire the Zap-O-Matic 
 at it to charge it again. This is a brilliant game and I don't care what anybody says, it's the 
 best game of the series so far. I wonder why not many people like this game, it's wicked... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefuronemperor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  SPOILER ALERT!
  This game is generally entertaining but it is shorter than the other two games. It still contains 
 the things that made the first two games good except the voice acting. They have changed the voice 
 actors for Crypto and Pox. The new voice actors are ok but they are not as good as the originals. 
 The good new is that the originals will be back for the fourth game. This is a list of all of the 
 new features in the game. This is a Destroy All Humans! game so it is still funny and still works 
 better than a stress-ball. Another bad thing about this game is that it only has 4 invasion sites 
 whereas the first game had 6 and the second game had 5.
  Ball lightning: This gun shoots out a ball off electricity that shoots nearby people with other 
 bolts of electricity.
  Zombie gun: Turns people into zombies.
  Electro clone: The new weapon for the saucer. As you fly around electricity zaps the life out of 
 nearby objects and people.
  Big willy (looks exactly like lard-lad off The Simpsons) : A new vehicle. You can get inside him 
 and wreak havok. You pick stuff up and through them. You can pick people up, squeze them so hard 
 that their brains pop out and then eat the brains to recharge. You can use heat beams of death 
 that come out of your eyes. You can fart and burp acid everywhere. You can jump and slam.
  Jumping: You can now jump in body-snatch mode.
  Four new locations: Harbour City, Farfield, Fantassy 
 Atoll (based on Fantasy Island) and Vietmahl (based on Vietnahm) .
  The new storyline: The story line for this game is that Pox has started up a new restaraunt business 
 and it is your job to protect the restaraunt's and destroy the competion. Also more things happen 
 in the storyline that distract them from the main plot but I won't go into that because it will 
 spoil it for you.
  
  This game is generally entertaining.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foiyo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best DAH. The story line isn't the best. The destruction is awesome as always. 
 The unlock ables are great. I love the blimp for the disguise. Their are many good things and bad 
 things about this game. The good things is new weapons. Personally, I love most of the new guns. 
 Some of them they could have made better. Another good thing is you get more fire power at the 
 beginning of the game. You get tons of weapons more quickly. Now for the bad. The graphics were 
 not as nearly as good as the other DAH's. The voices were also really bad in this one. The thing 
 I hated about this game is only four maps. I was also expecting to go to different planets and 
 not just earth. The rag doll was token away which is a HUGE disappointment. I also hated how if 
 you go in to an inch of water. You should be able to walk in shallow water like in the other games. 
 Overall it's a good game. I recommend that anyone who loves destruction should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Big Willy Unleashed is way to short and the saucers weapons this time have no ammo its just fire 
 and wait to recharge which makes it even more easier. Also the new voice actors are horrible and 
 hopefully in Path of the Furon the other voice actors will return. Another thing is some missions 
 are very easy such as the fetch quest 2 mission and others its just not as challenging. Apart from 
 the bad things Big Willy Unleashed offers things such as playing and doing missions in a big willy 
 mech which is really fun. Also this time you are crypto in 1976 and basically the game invovles 
 you going around the earth protecting pox's BIG WILLYS!!!!!!! I kinda thought of this game to just 
 be a side story for the big one PATH OF THE FURON!!!!! In my conclusion Big Willy Unleashed is 
 not as challenging and just way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Hokage
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Alright, so anyone who has played one of the DAH games before will love Crypto (unless they are 
 a concerned parent, then they blow up in wrath) . Well, his creators, Pandemic sold the intellectual 
 rights to THQ, who gave the actual assignments to two of its sub-companies, Sandbox and locomotive. 
 Sandbox is taking the DAH game they are making (Path of the Furon for Xbox360 and PS3) , but locomotive 
 did a substandard job with this license, either because they are very small, and just could not 
 push it out completed, or because they considered Crypto a budget character. The good thing is, 
 crypto as a character, while maybe a bit more childish, is not ruined. Pox's voice actor refused 
 to do this part, so they have a replacement, making him sound rather pathetic and remorseful. The 
 weapons except for the exceedingly cool zombie gun are all taken directly from the old games, the 
 only other new addition is the Big Willie, which in most cases is replaced by the saucer in missions, 
 but can still be cool. The main sore points for any fans or pick ups will be either A or B, or 
 both, and those being
  A. This DAH has less content and smaller areas than either of it's precedents, and is basically 
 shorter
  B. The pixel count and the texture count are below the original Destroy all Humans, back on the 
 PS2 and Xbox, even though the wii is capable of low hi-definition. 
  Now, there is no way to solve A, but you can make B SLIGHTLY more managebale, by putting your TV 
 on widescreen setting (which the game actually supports) , which, while shrinking the image, condennses 
 things so it LOOKS like it is higher quality.
  
  The evaluation? This game would have made an OK standalone title (good by the Wii's horrible third 
 party standards) , but it just doesnt match up to previous games. 
  
  The call? if you are a true blue DAH fan, then buy. If you are anything but, wait till its in the 
 bargain bin, or rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_roamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Once in a while, there comes a game where you can blow the crap out of anything and everything 
 in your path. The next game is here.
  
  I mean, as you roam around playing as Crypto, you can:
  
  1. Electrecute people.
  
  2. 
 Desintegrate them.
  
  3. Zombiefy them.
  
  4. Shrink them.
  
  5. Anally probe them (hehe)
  
  6. Levitate them and proceed to either smash them against a 
 wall or throw them into the open sea.
  
  You can also levitate cars, tanks and pretty much anything reasonable. (For Crypto)
  
  In the 
 saucer you can pretty much blast the crap out of anything. In Big Willy you blast the crap out 
 of anything in a different way.
  
  The humour isn't as good as it could be.
  
  To put it in words you may understand, it's "Better Than the Sum of It's Parts"
  But, people 
 have different tastes, so rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddos-attacker
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  destroy all humans 1 and 2 were ok. The second was the best, but the third Just plain lame! There 
 isn't 2 player co-op which makes the game funner. The game isnt all that hard but come on! The 
 multiplayer games suck real badly. The graphics are good but gameplay is kinda complicated at first. 
 Aiming with the wii remote can sometimes be frusterating. i liked the destroy all humans series 
 but this game was a big dissapointment. (RENT THE GAME FIRST PLEASE) ADVISED
  
  I give destroy all humans : big willy unleashed a thumbs.......... down
  
  please take my review 
 into consideration because when you buy or rent this game......... i bet you'll have a horrible 
 time playing it. 
  
  If you have a ps2 go buy the second D. A. H. You will have a more enjoyable time playing it. If you 
 think im wrong go rent it for yourself. It's more challenging than big willy, if your up for a 
 small challenge. I was expecting more out of destroy all humans big willy unleashed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggontherocks
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has been a blast for me the controls are pretty easy to use Throwing objects using the 
 PK seems a bit tough for me but who know could just be me... All and all the commentary is hilarious 
 and it is exactly what i have expected when i purchased the game. Defiantly hours of play time 
 even after you beat the missions and side missions. I did feel that the actually missions were 
 a bit easy and quick to fly through. Maybe the next version will take more time. The Addition of 
 the Big WIlly mech is great though.. I love the ability to have a giant temper tantrum and just 
 wreck a whole town. The Weapons are all fun with the zombie gun being my favorite.. and The missions 
 are just plain fun too.. All and All i would have to say this is a game i will keep in my collection 
 for some time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ficko66
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I beat this game almost to 100% (I think I was at 94% when I took it back to Blockbuster) in less 
 than 9 hours without really trying. 100% completion would be completing all the missions (which 
 I did) and finding all the little energy cells or whatever (I found all but 13 out of 144) . That's 
 pretty weak considering the nature of the game especially if you look at the first 2. I also felt 
 like Crypto's guns in this game were a little lackluster. They were fun, but not the ridiculous 
 guns they had in the 2nd game. The craziest these got was the zombie gun which was basically useless. 
 On the other hand, the saucer and Big Willy were awesome! The graphics also left something to desire. 
 They looked awfully outdated for a game that came out less than a month ago. The only hard part 
 was length of some of the missions, Some of them you would fail the first time just because you 
 weren't exactly sure what was going on but then they were pretty easy once you figured it out. 
 On the bright side, the story wasn't bad given the nature of the game. Went well with the previous 
 game although the conversations were linear in this one. I liked it that way though. Had some legitimately 
 funny parts. Oh, I also felt like the controls worked out ok. Nothing amazing but I rarely had 
 an issue with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is just pure fun. One of those games that you can play for a hour or two and then put 
 it down for a couple days/weeks, then just pick it up and start using the anal probe again. The 
 story is nothing to be bragging about. It is crude and semi humorous, but entertaining. 
  The gameplay works fine. It could be fine tuned, there are a few things with the controls that 
 bug me, but after playing the first game in the series, the wii contol scheme def works better.
 
  Graphically, just like all wii games, good enough, nothing that really pushes the Wii to its limits, 
 but it looks fine. 
  The best part, is the sensless killing, it is tons of fun, but I can see getting bored with the 
 repetitiveness, but, it is a game you can always pick up and play. 
  Bottom line, Get this game, If you like to blow stuff up, not really challenging, but you will 
 die once in a while. Perfect game for the Wii, just as good as the other Destroy all humans, so 
 GET IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Napalm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, before I start out this game, I am not being a fan boy for Nintendo, for the series, or anything. 
 I am writing this review as a gamer. 
  Destroy All Humans: Big Willy Unleashed! Is the third game in the Destroy All Humans! series. 
 
  The first game took place in the 1950's. 1959, to be exact. The country just got out of the war, 
 and life has taken on a normalcy, until you came along. You stopped the Majestic threat, and became 
 the president.
  The second game takes place in the rockin' 60's, and you have recently taken interest in the local 
 "Wildlife", particularly the female human. The mothership has been destroyed, and your supervisor, 
 Orthopox 13 (The alien race, the Furons, clone themselves.) has narrowly escaped by launching himself 
 into a holo-disk. You need to destroy the communist threat along the side Natalya, a human double 
 agent.
  This game is a whole new decade, the raging 70's. Disco is rising, and so are two powerful figures 
 in the fast food industry; Colonel Cluckin's Chicken Kitchen and Big Willy's Hot Dog Stands. But 
 these chains have secrets, secrets darker then deep space. The most notable one is that Big Willy 
 is people. All of the humans that crypto has destroyed over the years had to go somewhere. Pox 
 (Orthopox) has decided to grind up the humans and sell them as fast food. The game revolves around 
 Pox trying to hide the secret while advancing his hold on the human race. After all, when word 
 got out that Soylent Green was people, hardly anyone bought it anymore.
  How will he do this? Through Cryptosporidium 137, the main character of the series. You will get 
 to explore four completely destructible environments; Harbor city, Fairfield, Fantasy Atoll, and 
 Vietmahl. This game brings more firepower than ever to the table, in forms of the familiar Zap-O-Matic, 
 Disintegrator ray, Ion Detonator, and the redone (And my new personal favorite weapon) Anal Probe, 
 to more exotic weapons such as the Ball lightning and Zombie gun. Your flying saucer has also received 
 new weapons, such as a revamped cloaking feature, and the new "Electro Cone",
  The game's major new feature is the prototype Furon mech, Big Willy. This 20-foot tall teenager 
 brings a nasty arsenal to the table. You get devastating powers such as the Heat beam eyes, the 
 Regurge-O-Tron, and a rather frighten case of gas (Think tactical nuke) .
  Let's get down to the core parts of the game, shall we?
  Gameplay: This game plays very smoothly 
 on the Wii, and newcomers and veterians (such as myself) should have no hard time playing this 
 (but this game should not be given to children, because the child will be hopelessly lost in the 
 maze of double entendres, and it's just plain wrong. And, you as a parent and/or legal guardian 
 will feel so embaressed. (And you should not be given children your Grand Theft Autos! The game 
 is a freaking M for a reason!!!) ) . The controls are very easy to use, shooting is as easy as pointing 
 and pulling a trigger. Your returning PK (Psycho-Kinesis (the ability to lift objects with your 
 mind) is controlled by pressing A and then B. From there, the object becomes an extension of your 
 hand, and you can throw it around like a child's plaything, or hurl it somewhere with the flick 
 of a wrist. Saucer and Big Willy movement takes some getting used to, but once you do, it makes 
 great sense. Overall, the gameplay is an excellent example on how the Wii shines above the others. 
 Gameplay scores a 10/10.
  Graphics: This part is a mixed bag. It really has major ups and major downs. The major downs are 
 that the civilian detail and effects can be pulled of tons better, and that some of the environments 
 feel way too small, and the lack of true ragdoll effects are inexcusable. The ups are that the 
 game never lagged for me, the environmental detail is amazing (Fantasy Atoll is really a gorgeous 
 level) , there is no pop up rate at all, unlike it's older brothers, and Pox, Crypto, and some vehicles 
 are as detailed as ever. The loader between levels is a sexy beast, too. Graphics earn an 8/10.
 
  Sound: This thing sounds excellent, but ordinary. The theme and invasion site music is as sexy 
 as ever (Although the Vietmahl music sounds familiar (Fellow fans will know it) ) and the weapon 
 sound effects are astoundingly well done. Pox and Crypto, although they have new voice actors, 
 sound very good, and the conversations between them are sometimes funny, albeit goofy. (The double 
 entendres about Pox's "Big Willy" need to stop, and everyone in the game acknowledges it.) Sound 
 gets a 9/10
  Value: Does not deserve a place in the rating system. So I will blow it up by giving it a value/0. 
 (Division by zero blows up, for the not  so  bright ones here.)
  Tilt: Is a fancy word for freshness and/or concept. The concept of destroying all humans with advanced 
 alien weaponry always sounds fun, but it is not fresh anymore. Still, I give it a Win/10.
  Overall fun factor: This game is officially an excellent game full of win and awesome (They even 
 found my weakness and put zombies in it. They found the most awesome thing in the world for me, 
 and put it in. How awesome is that?) . You need to buy this game if you own a Wii, understand semi- 
 adult humor, or enjoyed the last two games. Despite the fact that win is not a real number, and 
 the average of 10, 8, and 9 = 9, and that I blew up the value rating by dividing it by 0, the fun 
 factor is the only important thing, so I give the game a 9.8/10.
  So, you have been warned with it's ups and downs, and I hope that you found this review helpful 
 in purchasing your next video game!
  
  EDIT:
  
  After further evaluation, I have come to the conclusion that while this still is a fun game, the 
 first one will still top it in the fun department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcgreg77
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm shocked that this version has a single player only campaign mode. The previous versions were 
 more fun having someone play along with you. I don't understand what the developers were thinking 
 changing this.
  
  Do not be deceived by this game being advertised or shown on the box as "Multiplayer". Multiplayer 
 exists as two lame mini-games outside of the regular campaign game play. The Wii controls are easy 
 to adjust to if you've played previous Wii shooters. I haven't played enough of the single player 
 campaign mode, but the first chapter wasn't horrible. I'm sure the game content will be entertaining 
 (which is the 2rd reason I bought this) , but I mainly bought this to have another co-op multiplayer 
 DAH game. I'm very let down by the stripping of the multiplayer campaign. WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?!?!? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: console-deity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Note I am writing this review about 40% through the game.
  Sound: All and all not to bad, the voice overs are the best part. Pox and Crypto's remarks are 
 the funniest part of course but sound effects and music fit well enough and do what they are supposed 
 to.
  
  Controls: The controls all work fine and it doesn't take long to work out how to do everything. 
 I did find it a little difficult to throw things I pick up but that's not a big deal as there are 
 plenty of weapons to play with.
  
  Story: Not quite as funny as the first DAH game but still good for a laugh (especially the Ecole 
 joke) . The missions do a decent job moving the plot and action but the best parts are still Pox 
 and Crypto's remarks between each other.
  
  Graphics: Not bad but not great either, the Wii can do better. It looks as if the graphics guys 
 were not top of the budget but they did a decent enough job. I found no frame rate or other technical 
 to speak of, it shouldn't really tax the Wii but no one plays DAH for high polygon counts.
  
  Game Play: The solid lovable game play of the second DAH game is back, with a few minor changes, 
 but still very enjoyable. The waggle crap that way too many Wii developers use is no where to be 
 found, Locomotive obviously care more about fun then cutting corners, unlike some many Wii developers. 
 
  
  Conclusion: A solid game and some really funny lines make this a true DAH game, I would definitely 
 recommend this one. All said and done I'd give it an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
