-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dewy's Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/dewysadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting temperature-based mechanics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Presentation is so cute it might make you violent.
 Motion controls frustratingly inconsistent.
 In-game advertising is so blatant it might make you violent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 146 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Sep 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dewy's Adventure is too cute for adults and too frustrating for kids. 

  After finding early success on the Wii with last year's release of Elebits, a first-person hide-and-seek 
 game aimed at a younger audience, Konami is back with another Wii exclusive with Dewy's Adventure. 
 Developed by the same team, Dewy has a lot in common with Elebits, from its sincere cuteness to 
 its novel use of motion controls. Unfortunately, Dewy's Adventure lacks the strains of weirdness 
 and voyeurism that made Elebits appealing to those outside its target audience. Perhaps even worse, 
 the novel motion controls can't provide the precision demanded by the level designs, leading to 
 frustration for players of any age.  

           Who knew water could be so cute?      

  Dewy's Adventure splashes onto the screen right from the start with a kind of sweet earnestness 
 that persists for the rest of the game. With some glowing, watercolor illustrations, a young boy 
 is told a storybook tale about a fantasy world inhabited by a race of creatures called Eau, and 
 how their home was invaded by the evil and enigmatic Don Hedron, who poisoned the world with his 
 black rain. The Tree of Seven Colors, the source of power in this world, summoned Dewy to fight 
 back, which is where you come in.  

  If the opening sequence doesn't scare you off with its unflinching adorability, then you might 
 just stand a chance of finding the rest of the game's presentation agreeable. It's not that it's 
 a bad-looking game -- in fact, the art design is very consistent, with a lot of personality -- it's 
 just very divisive. High value is put on simple designs and bright colors, which Dewy himself epitomizes, 
 and it seems like the screen is always busy with light bloom effects and bursts of color. It's 
 also a very squeaky game. Just about everything you come into contact with will squeak or chirp, 
 Dewy included, and the whole thing is blanketed with impossibly upbeat background music. The only 
 time the game breaks from its cute aesthetic is during loading screens advertising a particular 
 brand of bottled water, adding a real mercenary air to the proceedings.  

  Dewy is, for all intents and purposes, a drop of water with a smiley face. Though he's got a pair 
 of legs, they're mostly useless, so to get most places, he has to roll there. The basic control 
 scheme in Dewy's Adventure is reminiscent of games like Mercury Meltdown Revolution or Super Monkey 
 Ball: Banana Blitz, in that you'll tilt the Wii Remote to tilt the world itself, and Dewy will 
 go wherever gravity tells him. Dewy can jump, and being made out of water, he's affected by changes 
 in temperature, which you can adjust by pressing up or down on the D pad. When it's cold, Dewy 
 transforms into a diamond-shaped chunk of ice that is able to perform some simple lock-on attacks. 
 When it's hot, Dewy transforms into a cloud that can shoot a bolt of lightning at nearby enemies. 
 The world is equally affected by the temperature, and much of the game's simple puzzle-solving 
 revolves around how Dewy and different elements in his environment react to these weather changes. 
 Some of these are intuitive, such as turning bodies of water that are deadly at room temperature 
 into icy walkways, though there are plenty that require some fooling around first.  

           Control and camera problems make obstacles like this a nightmare.      

  The game 
 is very patient at first, introducing these various concepts one at a time, and though the means 
 become more complicated and challenging as you progress, the overall objective of simply making 
 your way from one end of a level to another, rescuing Eaus and battling Don Hedron's minions along 
 the way, remains consistent throughout. There are some big boss fights as well, which can be some 
 of the game's most challenging sequences, as well as some of the best uses of the whole temperature 
 system. Challenge can quickly give way to frustration in Dewy's Adventure, though, due in large 
 part to the game's motion controls, which often can't keep up with the game's more intricate, detail-oriented 
 level designs. Especially maddening is how inconsistent the controls can feel. A slight twist to 
 the right might send you careening out of control at one point, while no amount of tilting will 
 get you over a slight bump at another. The inability to adjust the camera can make navigating certain 
 areas more difficult than need by, and collision detection problems exacerbate things further, 
 especially when dealing with objects in the environment that are also in motion.  

  The game's unapologetically sugary presentation will likely scare off older players, while the 
 inconsistent controls make the game more exasperating than younger players will likely tolerate. 
 It leaves us unsure of who, exactly, Dewy's Adventure is meant for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FerdiF
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Oh my God.
  Hello, in the world of ANNOYING Dewy!
  Are you 5 years old? Then play this game.
  I gave this game a few of my friends (14 ~ 32) to hear 
 their "review".
  And absolute everyone said the same its extremely ANNOYING!
  Only 2 played more than 5 Levels.
  (Gamespot:100 words?)
  
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! 
 !ANNOYING!
  !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING! !ANNOYING!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior_noob
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Dewy's Adventure is a pain in the butt and insanely hard game but also extremely fun. 
  There are several hard things about this game. Controls are one of them. You hold the Wii remote 
 Sideways and tilt it to move, shake it up to down or side to side for either wind or earthquake 
 effects. The puzzles are kind of confusing too. Many of them are multi-step and require thinking 
 carefully. Lastly, Dewy has this annoying thing where, yes, he can change the weather, but... he 
 can't make it last very long. Like when your in an ice place and your being ice Dewy. The weather 
 drops, Dewy melts, and you lose some of his life. It's really annoying.
  But some good things about this game are just as powerful as the bad.
  Like Dewy, he's a good 
 thing. His cuteness just makes you not want to give up. Just keep going, for Dewy's sake! Another 
 is the bosses. They range from easy to OMG HOW CAN I BEAT THIS??? Again, if you get that last kind 
 of boss, maybe Dewy can cheer you on. XD Lastly, the flow of the game is simple and easy to read, 
 making the game easier to play.
  So, Dewy's Adventure has a very fun and frustrating style. (Sounds like an essay, huh? XP) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/dewy_adventure. html? var1=sc3
  
  It wasn't until now that I ever thought I would play something that in the end made me feel like 
 I'd just finished with an interactive form of Blue's Clues and Teletubbies. Don't take that as 
 this recent Wii game plays like a children's TV show with a bunch of disturbed actors trying to 
 teach kids something worthwhile. No, that's not what Dewy's Adventure is about. The reason I describe 
 Konami's latest Wii outing like that is due to the borderline sickening presentation of cuteness, 
 all revolving around a bloody drop of water. That's some feat for the Elebits team eh?
  
  Dewy is easily the most versatile water droplet we've ever seen. He was spawned from some kind 
 of Great Tree in order to eliminate the threat of black rain, and that's exactly what your mission 
 is. The evil Don Hedron has kidnapped all of the Eau, the off-the-wall name of your fellow creatures, 
 and trapped them in seven different worlds, all plagued by his toxic aqua. That's literally the 
 entire premise here.
  
  How does our armless hero do this? Very simply, by sliding around on his ass Marble Madness/Mercury-style, 
 either comparison works. The Wii remote [sideways] is the only requirement to play the game, and 
 Konami did what they could to take advantage of the motion technology within to create a series 
 of sizable tilting worlds, you don't control Dewy directly. It works alright in some cases, but 
 absolutely sucks in others. Other than manipulating the Wii-mote to tip Dewy's environment, he 
 can also jump and attack with the 1 and 2 buttons, and change forms with the D-Pad. With D-Pad 
 up, Dewy transforms into a misty cloud, and while only wind from the area can move him, you can 
 rise up by holding the attack button, creating a blast radius below, and send a shocking bolt to 
 any unfortunate Hedron lackey below. Press down, and you have a wintery ice Dewy that not only 
 slides around very quickly, but can spin-ram into enemies and objects, or jump up and perform a 
 three hit combo. If you're in basic water form, jumping up and butt stomping is your offense.
 
  
  As you navigate what's [hopefully] in between the edges across the game's seven worlds, you'll 
 encounter a possible 100 Eau to save. They may be trapped in a ring of black mist, a rainbow-colored 
 web-like thingy, some of the monsters themselves, or somehow, in crates. This is what unfortunately 
 makes Dewy's Adventure really freaking boring and monotonous after the third or fourth world. You 
 do the same damn thing in each region, and when it's not the most fun thing in the world to begin 
 with, you notice. It's great that Konami did such a good job designing all the colorful, vibrant, 
 and well-textured levels [although some bloom lighting would've looked awesome] while incorporating 
 some fairly clever puzzles and obstacles, the whole tilting idea just feels old way too quickly, 
 and with it not being the most cooperative mechanic ever, makes the game far less enjoyable. The 
 camera can be very troublesome at times too, since it never rotates, so you either have to rely 
 on seeing your shadow behind something massive, or pray that where you guess to jump to is somewhere 
 solid for Dewy to land. Don't count on that happening.
  
  If it also wasn't for the insanely painful sound effects, I wouldn't have had to cringe every time 
 I accessed the game's menus. The blatant and unnecessary cuteness, while it may fit in its own 
 creepy way, just isn't attractive for the older gamer, unless of course you work on Teletubbies. 
 If you couple that with the unreliable gameplay, you wonder how kids are supposed to have fun. 
 Seriously though, if I never hear those kinds of character sounds ever again, it won't be too soon. 
 I won't even consider describing what you might hear in fear of lashing out even further. The music, 
 thankfully, isn't nearly as bad, as there are a couple catchy tunes, but when everything else that 
 is distracts you more, you almost start to hate Dewy's Adventure in ways that you shouldn't.
  
  Hopefully by now it's been established that the fun in this game just doesn't last, because 
 that's also why the multiplayer and Wi-Fi elements are brought down a couple rungs on the quality 
 ladder. Sure it might be worth checking out, but it would obviously help if the game was entertaining 
 to begin with, so think before bringing other people into the mix. Why subject others to the same 
 frustration? Why is there even a 'Take Photo' option either? Who's going to care to screenshot 
 what they do when every other Dewy's Adventure player can do the very same? If anything, I would 
 want to take a picture of the stoic look on my face as I'm looking like I'm about to fall asleep 
 when playing the third Act of the fifth world.
  
  Ok, by now it's apparent that I've rather criticized this game. I don't necessarily mean to, but 
 I'm calling it as I saw while playing. Dewy's Adventure really does have merits, because the game 
 isn't broken, it just has one too many flaws and questionable design choices. At least the waggle 
 mechanics make sense, in that pumping the Wii remote up and down causes Dewy to summon some wind, 
 or shaking it back and forth results in an earthquake. But again, we can't emphasize enough that 
 it doesn't feel satisfying when the core experience falls off the edge. Oh, and you'll do that 
 plenty too. We certainly respect Konami for trying to bring Wii owners another new IP after their 
 mostly acclaimed Elebits, but sorry, they just didn't cut it with Dewy. Maybe next time, but thanks 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Dewy is from a theatrical perspective a well produced game but seems too much like Marble Mania. 
 In a graphical standpoint, Dewy terminates and fuflills the requirements needed to qualify itself 
 for a child's game. However, it fails to get a perfect ten for numerous reasons to be noted.
  
  Essentially, Dewy is too cutesy for to the average adult or even teenager. With that being 
 said, Dewy is overly complicated for the mentality of a child. Take a kid as an example, would 
 they be able to figure out that you would have to freeze the large body of water to pass through 
 it? Probably not. It seems logical enough for the "grown up" brain, but can prove a hair pulling 
 and frustrating task for a kid.
  
  Not to say that the younger generation is any less inferior than us, Dewy bosses are challenging 
 as well. It's not hard to evade a tounge of a lizard, but many kids I've seen play, don't have 
 the experience to perform the action. For that sole reason, Dewy's Adventure will most likely collect 
 dust on the shelves of many children accros the globe.
  
  Camera Angle is yet another inferiority that sould try to be preserved better if they decide to 
 make a sequel. If you are choosing between Marble Mania or Dewy, consider this an important variable.
 
  
  With all the negative talk I've presented in this review, it is of utmost importance that I simplify 
 the matter. Dewy is not a bad game at all, but stating the obvious would make the review weaker. 
 In conclusion, Dewy is a great game but minor details add up to the difference between a perfect 
 ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatorCartoons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Dewy's Adventure is in my opinion one of the best wii titles out there yet. The game is really 
 polished and everything about the game just seems to fit. That being said, let me tell you about 
 the game...
  
  Story- The story is kinda, well... bleh... The story is that the evil Don Hendron has once again 
 takin' over the land with his black water and in a last effort to save the land Dewy was created 
 too, umm, save the land...
  Ya, I know this sounds really crappy, but the developers of the game said that they focused more 
 on the gameplay then story. Good Call Konami!
  
  Graphics- One of the best on the wii, period. The textures hold up extremely well in most of the 
 levels, and the blur effects in the background just make the game seem really polished. The character 
 models are the games strong point. Some of the character models seem as if they should be on the 
 Xbox360, no joke. For example, the first boss you fight is in a pot, the pot is so detailed its 
 mind boggling. Its so realistic, it looks as if it was, well, actually real. Bottom Line, Great 
 Visuals.
  
  Gameplay- As I said before Konami really focused on gameplay, and let me say first off it works 
 really well. I think the thing that throws off people when they first start playing is that they've 
 never used a control scheme like it. I mean, you have to tilt the wii romote to slide Dewy's butt 
 through the levels, and then press the up and down buttons to change forms at the same time. That's 
 why it may throw new gamers off a bit, and therefore judge the game too quickly.
  
  Since the controls are so diffrent then what your used to the learning curve takes anywhere from 
 1hr-1hr 30min. But after you've learned the controls, it's the BEST gaming experience you've had 
 in awhile. Style (Bonus) - Some people may argue that Dewy's Adventure is too cute for it's own 
 good, but for me it's the right amount of cute-ness, not overpowering at all. And that's hard to 
 say for me cause I'm a hormone-charged teenager that likes violence, and boobs.
  
  Overall- This is a solid game Konami has made. The game has a ton of replay value, fun gameplay, 
 a load of intense boss battles, and cutesy style. What more could you ask? I recommend everyone 
 in the world, young and old, go out and buy Dewy's Adventure!!!! Yeeyaaah!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The game's graphics are phenomenal (including depth of field effects, where distant backgrounds 
 appear blurry) and as soon as you hold the controller you will feel connected to the game: the 
 whole world moves fluidly as you tilt the controller and Dewy's response is on the ball. 
  
  You'll start jumping and remember Spyro 1 on the PSX. It's just the way Dewy moves and the 
 feeling of jumping, using his forms and various attacks.
  
  And then you find yourself trying to navigate a series of blocks that fall from under you, and 
 you're a sliding droplet of water with relatively imprecise control (you are sliding where you 
 tilt the Wiimote, not walking exactly where the analog stick says as in Spyro or Mario 64) .
  
  After the first boss you'll find yourself trying to not fall off of a narrow wooden bridge, 
 that has curves and turns, and enemies that require you to turn into ice form (which is far more 
 slippery) in order to beat them.
  
  Sadly, Dewy's Adventure could have been great if the developers kept the game difficulty equivalent 
 to the tenor of the game, which is light-hearted and fun. Instead you are met with some maddeningly 
 difficult scenarios early on, and things get worse from there.
  
  The saddest thing was watching my 3 daughters want to play Dewy's Adventure, and having even my 
 10 year-old, who crunched through 300+ missions of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance and enjoys hard 
 games usually because I don't like games where I just push buttons and win, give up. None of them 
 can play it.
  
  If you're hardcore, get it. Otherwise, beware of the above.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  My kids and I tried this and it was a bit of a joke. The levels are square, versus 
 the organic, large layout of the single-player game, and it's so easy to fall off all my 10yo daughter 
 or I had to do was let the younger ones fall repeatedly. That and my ability to get to stars first 
 beat my 10yo girl. Using powers on each other did not work well - you could either avoid the enemy 
 player too easily or just fall off something while trying to do so.
  
  MUSIC:
  Appropriate and, oddly, really good. Catchy up-beat tunes.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Depth of field, 
 the watery effects, the artistic style and presentation make this one great looking Wii game.
 
  
  CONTROL:
  Spot-on... if only the courses were not so maddening.
  
  COOL FEATURES:
  Take snapshots in game and mail them to your friends (who have Wii's) . The usual unlockables.
 
  
  That's all that's relevant. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
