-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disney TH!NK Fast
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/disneythinkfast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great Disney atmosphere.
 Good variety of games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Questions are easy and repeat too often.
 No Pixar movies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 16 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive
Developer: Magenta Software
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This family-friendly trivia game is fun while it lasts, but its mostly easy questions are repeated 
 far too frequently. 

  If you've spent any amount of time in the board game section at any department store, chances are 
 you've seen at least one edition of Scene It. From Harry Potter to James Bond, the Scene It DVD 
 game series has taken on just about every franchise or studio you can think of -- including Disney, 
 which is unfortunate for Disney Think Fast. Other than some motion controls and a charming Disney 
 atmosphere, Disney Think Fast offers nothing better than what you would get with the Disney Edition 
 of Scene It. Still, if you have a family with young children or you're an absolute Disney fanatic, 
 this bare-bones game show might be a winner.  

           Even if you haven't seen every Disney animated movie, the helpful pictures make guessing 
 easier.      

  Disney Think Fast is set up in a game show format. After picking your contestant and Disney-movie-themed 
 stage, you're whisked away by the show's host, Genie from  Aladdin . Up to four players compete 
 in a series of trivia games based on Disney animation. Unfortunately, none of the Pixar movies 
 makes an appearance, but everything from  Snow White  to  Lilo &amp; Stitch  does, so there are 
 still a lot of movies to pull from. The default setting assumes you have a moderate amount of Disney 
 animation knowledge, though that can be changed to better suit your Disney experience in a custom 
 game. At the end of a few rounds, the scores are totaled, a winner is declared, and the credits 
 roll. Other than a few unlockable characters and some items to dress up your contestant, that's 
 about it. You can get in at least a handful of games before the questions start to repeat.  

  If you've played other movie-themed trivia games you'll almost certianly recognize many of the 
 game types found in Disney Think Fast. These include an observation game that shows you a clip 
 from a Disney movie and questions you on random elements from the clip, a sketch game that draws 
 a character and asks you to identify it before the timer runs out, true-or-false and general trivia 
 questions, and a few other variations of these. The best of the bunch are the genre-specific questions 
 (heroes and villains, sidekicks, songs, and the like) and the guest questions. The guest questions 
 depend on the location: if you're playing under the sea, for instance, Sebastian will come in and 
 ask you questions about The Little Mermaid. In addition to Disney animation questions, there are 
 some general knowledge questions, most of which are extremely easy, such as this gem: "Which is 
 more useful in the rain? An umbrella or a balloon?" The simple questions make Disney Think Fast 
 a good game for young children, though perhaps they'll lose interest when the questions start being 
 repeated.  

  This being a game show, the controls are appropriately simple. Most answers are displayed in one 
 of four directions, and you can use either the D pad or a flick of the Wii Remote to select them. 
 Using the motion controls works OK, but the D pad is more reliable. There are some instances where 
 the game interprets your flick incorrectly, especially if you're making a broad gesture.  

  Disney Think Fast nails the charming Disney atmosphere in the presentation. The characters all 
 look and animate fluidly, the genie in particular. Each environment represents a different movie 
 and era in Disney animation. Whether it's the hard lines of  101 Dalmatians  or the smooth pastels 
 of  Lilo &amp; Stitch , each environment evokes the appropriate style. The games feature plenty 
 of sparkly effects and high-quality videos and pictures. The sound is full of cheerful music, with 
 the occasional recognizable tune played during a game. When you're navigating menus, an announcer 
 reads options to you, but a sound glitch will occasionally pop up and cause him to get stuck in 
 an endless loop, which can be grating when you're trying to set up a game. The genie spits out 
 a number of humorous one-liners during the game, but they repeat quite often, and start to get 
 stale after a few rounds. The contestants aren't too chatty, but they pipe in when necessary and 
 their voice samples sound great, so you can expect to hear an authentic Donald Duck tantrum when 
 you lose.  

           Each environment features iconic imagery from the movies.      

  There isn't much to do in Disney Think Fast, especially if you don't have people to play with, 
 as there isn't an option to play against the computer. The solo game will let you unlock more characters, 
 but the games and questions repeat too often to make it worth playing for long. If you or your 
 children have an unquenchable thirst for all things Disney, there's some fun to be had here; everyone 
 else should look elsewhere for their trivia fix.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:09 am PT
Review:  Trivia games have been a popular niche genre since consoles began their rebirth in the early 1980s. 
 From the Nintendo Entertainment System to the present, every console has been graced with the likes 
 of Jeopardy!, Trivial Pursuit, or something along those lines. They've also been fun for families, 
 since any type of question can come up and everyone has a shot at providing the right answer. The 
 PlayStation 2 has had its fair share of trivia games, but none have been more popular than the 
 Buzz! series, thanks to some of them being focused on specific age groups and subjects; the buzzers 
 also make the Buzz! franchise more accessible to the casual gamer than any titles featuring standard 
 controller. After observing the popularity of Buzz! in the United States, Disney and Magenta Software 
 have thrown their own game into the ring with Disney Th! nk Fast, a solid trivia title for families 
 and Disney buffs alike.
  
  The premise for Disney Th! nk Fast is a simple one. You choose your Disney character and one of 
 four locations at which to host your trivia game. Genie from Aladdin is your master of ceremonies 
 as you go through as many as 15 rounds of questions. Answers are chosen via the hand buzzers supplied 
 with the game, and by the end, whoever has the most points is the winner. 
  
  
  
  Like other recent trivia games such as Scene It! and Buzz!, Disney Th! nk Fast offers questions 
 in different ways. Some rounds will have you picking a category type, such as World Locations or 
 Quotes, before giving a small series of questions based on the chosen category. Other rounds have 
 you looking at movie clips before giving you a series of question based on what you saw. Depending 
 on the area you play in, a special guest may appear and ask you questions about a movie in which 
 he or she has starred. The final round always has you trying to answer as many questions as possible 
 in the given time frame. About the only thing they have in common is that they are all multiple 
 choice questions with either two or four possible choices.
  
  As one could figure out from the title, a good majority of the 5,000 available questions are Disney-related. 
 Despite the many areas where Disney has been involved over the last 80-plus years, the questions 
 here all relate to Disney animated features from "Snow White" onward, excluding the Pixar films. 
 This alone gives the trivia amazing breadth and difficulty. Some of the questions will be easy 
 enough for people to get, since they cover pretty big films such as "Sleeping Beauty" and "The 
 Lion King." Other questions cover the smaller, less successful films like "The Rescuers Down Under" 
 and "Robin Hood," making them a bit tougher for those who think they know everything about Disney. 
 By including such a wide range of films, the game finds a medium level of difficulty that will 
 please all players. Oddly enough, though, there are a few questions not related to Disney movies 
 at all. Though they are only relegated to a small section of the game, these non-Disney questions 
 are too easy to answer, making them challenging for only the youngest players and yawn-inducing 
 for just about everyone else.
  
  Disney Th! nk Fast consists of two modes: single-player and multiplayer. The single-player experience 
 is pretty straightforward, with Genie asking questions in multiple categories. Even though you're 
 just competing against yourself, ending the game with a high score gives you the opportunity to 
 unlock three additional Disney characters for use in any mode. Multiplayer is a much more varied 
 experience. Here, players can inform the game about how much Disney knowledge they have, helping 
 to balance between Disney-based questions and general questions. Quick Game and Standard game only 
 differ in whether or not you want the game to automatically choose your characters and sound, or 
 whether you want to select that yourself. Custom game has you change as many of the game parameters 
 as you want. During the game, you might have a few rounds that are just mini-games. Trivia buffs 
 will hate these rounds, while those who are doing poorly will welcome the break. The winner of 
 the game unlocks a costume piece for his or her character. With four costume pieces per character 
 and nine characters to choose from, the multiplayer mode has legs and quickly becomes the reason 
 you'll keep the disc in your console.
  
  
  
  There is absolutely nothing to worry about when it comes to the controls for Disney Th! nk Fast. 
 Instead of asking players to use the standard PS2 controller, the game provides four wired PS2 
 buzzers, which are the same ones used in the Buzz! series, so Buzz! fans will feel right at home 
 with the controls. (The wireless buzzers from the PS3 version of Buzz! also work with Disney Th! nk 
 Fast) . For those unfamiliar with the buzzers, each consists of four colored buttons and a large 
 red button near the top of the controller, which is used to confirm menu choices; the other colored 
 buttons will get more use since they correspond to the multiple choice answers for each trivia 
 question. The system is simple and it works, so you worry less about which button to hit and more 
 about which answer is correct.
  
  The graphics end up being very solid for a PlayStation 2 title. Despite the limited number of backgrounds 
 in Disney Th! nk Fast, each stage is rendered very well and stays true to the art style for each 
 film. This is especially true of the "101 Dalmatians" level, which has cars and background buildings 
 that perfectly match those in the film. The pictures corresponding to the answers in each question 
 are clean, as are the video clips. Genie and the contestants are rendered and animated well, matching 
 the quality of these characters in the Kingdom Hearts series. As an added bonus, the game has the 
 option to display in 16:9 widescreen, which isn't supported by most PS2 games.
  
  The sound in the game is a bit surprising. There isn't really much to talk about when it comes 
 to the music and sound effects. The music is appropriate for a quiz game, though forgettable, and 
 the sound effects aren't anything special. There are several different buzzer sounds the player 
 can choose from, and because it's a family game, none of them really set out to be offensive. 
 
  
  The voice actor for Genie does a good impression of Robin Williams, though the joke delivery falls 
 flat most of the time. The announcer also does a good job as well, pronouncing everything loud 
 and clear so that no mistakes are made. The same can be said for the special character voices in 
 all four of the environments. The contestants don't have much to say, but because they are all 
 voiced by the original voice actors, there's not much to complain about when they speak. The disappointment 
 in the sound department comes from the fact that the game sounds empty almost all of the time. 
 The applause clips are short and don't play when Genie speaks. Whenever this happens, there isn't 
 even a musical background track to go along with Genie or the announcer, so an eerie sense of quiet 
 sets in. Compared to games like Buzz!, where there is a sense that you're playing in a game show, 
 Disney Th! nk Fast feels like a game show that's taped in an empty studio.
  
  Overall, Disney Th! nk fast doesn't match up with other games like Buzz!, but it's still a good 
 trivia for disney fans or the younger player to enjoy.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
