-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Donkey Kong Barrel Blast
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/dkbongoblast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Chaining combos with the speed burst is kind of neat.
 Plenty of mode options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Motion controls are the deadly combination of dull and imprecise.
 Courses are generic and irritating to navigate.
 Computer opponents have a knack for catching up out of nowhere.
 Bland visuals and annoying audio.
 Poor sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.5, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 276 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Paon Corp.
Genre: Kart Racing
Date: Oct 8, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the inconsistent controls aren't enough to steer you away from this fifth-rate Mario Kart clone, 
 the frustrating AI and total lack of personality probably will. 

  Donkey Kong: Barrel Blast is one in a very long line of half-baked Mario Kart wannabes, and it's 
 one that just so happens to be published by the Mario Kart maker itself, Nintendo. It's one thing 
 when some other publisher apes the formula for the sake of cashing in, but Nintendo ought to know 
 better than to release something so shoddy and genuinely unpleasant to play, especially considering 
 Nintendo practically invented this genre. Barrel Blast certainly has a couple of amusing ideas, 
 but the execution of this game is so patently flawed and devoid of personality that it's difficult 
 to imagine anyone enjoying it for long.  

           Games about rocket-powered monkeys should be awesome. Why is this game not awesome?   
    

  In Barrel Blast, DK and his pals are actually riding around on weird rocket harnesses that just 
 happen to be shaped like that bongo controller Nintendo put out for the GameCube a few years back. 
 Shockingly enough, Barrel Blast was originally destined for the Cube, with bongo-flavored controls. 
 Eventually production was moved to the Wii, and the bongo controls were scrapped in favor of a 
 motion-oriented control scheme -- and a rather lackluster one at that.  

  We're all in favor of the idea of rocket monkeys jetting around wacky tracks (and only slightly 
 less in favor of the rocket lizards that make up the other half of the game's roster) , but the 
 gameplay pretty much wrecks any amusement one might derive from the game's concept. Essentially, 
 all the characters move around the track on rails. They are always moving forward, and the way 
 you make them accelerate is by drumming the Wii Remote and Nunchuk as fast as you can until you 
 hit max speed. Max speed never feels especially fast, even when you're playing with the fastest 
 characters, though over time you can collect roughly a bajilliondy bananas scattered about the 
 tracks, which feed into a meter that gives you a meteoric speed burst that blows through just about 
 everything in your path for a few seconds. Also, for some reason, busting through barrels rejuvenates 
 your burst, so you can actually string together some combos for lengthier bursts.  

  Unfortunately, the speed burst is about the only entertaining gameplay element the game has on 
 offer, and it never lasts for more than a few seconds. The rest of the time, you're putting around 
 at this weirdly sluggish pace, periodically launching weapons like swarms of bees and exploding 
 barrels at opponents, and just hoping not to run into anything. You do have a basic attack you 
 can use to bust through some objects, but most simply need to be avoided, and unfortunately, the 
 controls don't often allow you to do that with any precision. Turning is mapped to the remote and 
 Nunchuk, and you turn by swiping either of them downward. Again though, there is no precision whatsoever 
 to this. Trying to navigate tight bunches of obstacles is far more harrowing an experience than 
 it needs to be, and there are times when the game will register you as turning when you're trying 
 to drum to accelerate. There is simply nothing more infuriating than hitting an object, trying 
 to drum up some speed, only to have the game think you're turning and drift you into another object 
 to the right or left of you.  

  Well, except perhaps for having practically every computer opponent on the track catch up and pass 
 you immediately following this, and that does happen a fair amount. Barrel Blast's artificial intelligence 
 comes from the school of rubber banding. There's no way to get an insurmountable lead against them, 
 and they capitalize on every small mistake. On the opening difficulty level, you can still win 
 races in spite of this, but once you move on to the next difficulty stage, the game just decides 
 that it's time for you to stop winning, and effectively turns you into one of those novelty devices 
 where you press a button, and random expletives come pouring out. Long bouts of practice and track 
 memorization will eventually get you winning again, but the frustration is such that you won't 
 want to waste your time.  

  If you can give Barrel Blast credit for anything, it's that there's no shortage of things to do. 
 Modes include quick race, time trial, challenge, and Grand Prix modes. Grand Prix offers up several 
 cup challenges over multiple difficulty levels. The challenge mode has you taking on rather specific 
 tasks, like breaking a certain number of objects in a race or coming in ahead of a certain racer 
 after a couple of laps. There's nothing too exciting here, but at least the game isn't left wanting 
 for content. You can also play the game with up to three friends, including the grand prix mode. 
 While adding other folk to the mix does alleviate some of the catch-up AI business, it doesn't 
 make the controls any less flimsy, meaning you'll probably just end up with a few frustrated friends 
 at the end of it.  

           The part they don't mention is that 'max speed' equates to 10 miles-per-hour.      

 
  You can't say much for Barrel Blast's presentation, either. The graphics are about on par with 
 an above-average GameCube game, which is perhaps fitting given the game's roots. The game isn't 
 awful looking by any means, but the animation doesn't stand out, the track environments are painfully 
 generic, and apart from a few neat visual effects here and there, there's not much to please the 
 eye. Audio consists of a bunch of music that sounds like it was recorded for a Japanese game show 
 filmed inside a salsa club, and a bunch of screechy, oft-repeated exclamations from the various 
 characters. Not exactly pleasant stuff.  

  It's impossible to know whether or not Donkey Kong: Barrel Blast would have been any better with 
 bongo drum controls instead of Wii Remote action, but in truth, it doesn't really matter. The lackluster 
 track designs, inconsistent difficulty level, and no-personality presentation are more than enough 
 to sink the game all by themselves, and when you throw in the wonky motion controls, that just 
 sinks things even deeper. Skip out on Barrel Blast.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ratchit66
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:13 am PT
Review:  y do people think this game is boiring they got no taste of game at all and y is the rating rubbish 
 aswell good game tho. it would be ace if there wer mario and the rest of mario family in it aswell 
 that wud be ace. its strill a great game. donkey kong jet race has donkey kongs family in it but 
 who r the kremlings lol there like crocodiles or somtin there needs 2 be more kremlings i think 
 but thats my opinion isnt it and now 4 the finish people ho voted donkey kong jet race rubbish 
 has no taste of games at all.
  
 
  
 
  wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BizarroPat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Donkey Kong: Barrel Blast for the Nintendo Wii is an underrated fun racing game. Sure it can be 
 compared to Mario Kart games but what seperates it are the controls. This game was originally going 
 to be controlled by the Bongos that were used in the Gamecube DK games. Though with the creation 
 of the Wii, the bongos were replaced my the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. You drum with the remote in 
 your right hand to move right and the nunchuck in your left to turn left. It's a very addicting 
 racing game. 
  
  One of the great things about this game is that it really makes you feel like you're part of the 
 game because as a character drums on their barrels to move, you do the same with your remote. It 
 really takes advantage of the Wii motion detecting capabilities.
  
  When you start a race, you must drum with both the remote and the nunchuck to accelerate but rest 
 assured you do not have to do this the whole race, after a few seconds of drumming you will reach 
 max speed, which allows you to not have to drum and only turn and jump. 
  
  Overall it's a very good and underappreciated game.
  
  NOTE: To beginners, before you start 
 playing the game go to Kranky Kong's school. It teaches you how to play the game.
  
  I give Donkey Kong: Barrel Blast an 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Why? This game is ridiculous. All you do is walk through ugly and generic looking levels, hit down 
 the nunchuk and wii remote when you want to move, and have these computers always waltzing around 
 jumping past you and hitting you. Also every single time you stop you have to irritatingly hit 
 the two sides quickly and consecutively to continue moving at a decent pace. After that, when youre 
 moving people pretty much randomly pop up behind you and the banana thing is not fun at all, and 
 the entire flame move thing is not creative at all, especially for a Donkey Kong game, which was 
 meant to be a story mode came (one or two player) . It is ridiculous how the DK series went down 
 this far to make a racing game. Mario Kart is the only Nintendo racing game I really like, all 
 this other stuff is junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario113
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Lets see whats wrong here a nintendo character in his own game but it sucks ! Iagree that bongo 
 controls would have made it a smash hit yeah the charatcters are the most familiar and maybe there 
 are a few extra ones But it just dos'nt pay to be swinging the reomote and nunchuck like a complete 
 lunitick wasting your time trying to get in first when it's almost nearly impossible because your 
 arms grow tired and can barley even shake them befor the last leg of the race to even win but keep 
 in mind the jetpacks move atumaticly now how can that go wrong because once you run out of bananas 
 you stop yeah thats right stop and it takes a great amount of time to even get started long enough 
 to get that potasium enriched fuel source now back to the characters yeah you will see icons like 
 donkey diddy and dixie but you will also see long time favorites like tiny funkie and candy pluse 
 there gator counterparts but disapointley enougth this game does not do to hot for my ratings so 
 thats thaat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thimitry
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  At first i wasn't that happy with it. I noticed the unfinished graphics and found the hand movements 
 were making me look like an idiot. But after i started becoming better at it I started to enjoy 
 it. It took me about a day but it became very fun. Give this game a little while before you start 
 to think it's boring because it is actually O. K. You even start to forget about the graphics. The 
 only time it is boring is when you finishing all the races + candy's challeges. But that is when 
 multi player kicks in and you can play with your friends. That doesn't really ever getting boring. 
 Overall this game was very good and I've unlocked everything, even Ultra barrel Donke Kong. But 
 that was after I finshed all the races.
  
  Anyway, if you've got it i hope you enjoy it, Thimitry ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  -You can't call this game a "5th rate Mario Kart clone" (I'm talking to you Gamespot) . Why? Because 
 it isn't Mario Kart, it isn't supposed to be Mario Kart, what it is, and what it succeeds in is 
 being a unique new way of racing for the wii.
  
  -- [Good] --
  Great, Unique controls - It's Donkey Kong, he rocks! - Tons of features to keep you playing - fun 
 power-ups - Cool Tracks - Flying Monkeys
  
  -- [Bad] --
  Mediocre Graphics - Sense of Speed is slow at times
  
  -- [Gameplay] -- 9.5
  Originally made 
 for the Gamecube to use advantage of the "DK Bongos" this game was in development too long so they 
 turned their heads to the newly released Wii, replacing the bongos are the wii-remote and nunchuck, 
 nunchuck representing the left drum and the remote the right. And it all works out great, they 
 are fun and responsive and a sweet new take on kart racing. 
  
  -- [Graphics] -- 6.5
  The graphics arent bad, they are 'mediocre' (Excuse my spelling?) . They would be a "Top-Notch Gamecube 
 game". A cartoony look resembling the DK: Country look, which is weird, they should stick the Jungle 
 Beat's look. The sense of speed seems slow at times, but it doesn't hurt the game at all, you'll 
 focuse on collecting bannanas, attacking jet-pack equiped monkeys, and using power ups the whole 
 time.
  
  -- [Value] -- 9.0
  There is always something to do, unlock characters, unlock tracks, do Candy's challenges, which 
 are numerous challenges involving attacking, racing, ect. It is a really good feature to the game. 
 Grand Prix's are fun, alot to play and unlock, alot of value in this game. If only we had online...
 
  
  -- [Fun Level] -- 10
  Extremly fun, great value, awesome controls, okay graphics, just below the wii's standards but 
 all around great game, you should really look into this if you have a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Donkey Kong Barrel Blast is known as a "cheap mario kart ripoff" but its a totally different game.
 
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in this game is excellent. It has very responsive controls that are different, and 
 very fun to use. Everything runs smoothly with a great frame rate. Its a way different game then 
 Mario Kart. With awesomely different control scheme.
  
  Graphics-
  Lackluster is the term for these graphics. They would make a great gamecube game but not a wii 
 game. Overall this game is a great kart racing type game that is very underrated by gamespot. It 
 is a nice change to the genre. Has a reputation of a cheap Mario Kart ripoff but its a completely 
 different concept. I think gamespot might be afraid of change. This game is definately worth any 
 mario kart fans attention and money. The graphic issue is minor but worth mentioning. I'm looking 
 for a sequel but don't know if that will happen. It also has a good amount of unlockable characters 
 and racing tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesker2412
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  As always I will start out giving you the positive on the game. The positive about DKBB is it is 
 fun to play and the levels are interesting. You also get a couple charecters.
  Now for the bad. The bad is that the steering could take you from 1/2 an hour to a full hour. The 
 problem with the steering is that you shake the wiimote to go left and shake the nunchuck to go 
 right that is if your right handed, and vice versa if your left handed. It takes a lot of getting 
 used to to fix this problem they could have had the steering with the anolog stick. Another bad 
 thing is that there are only a couple cups to win then you have to beat the same cupa in pro mode. 
 This game is fun but it is not worth what you pay for it so I would keep it at the bottem of the 
 list until the price goes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBluff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Yep, Gamespot really ticked me off with their lousy review on Donkey Kong Barrel Blast. How could 
 they give it a 4.5? Now that's just crazy! This game has awesome graphics, ok sound, and the gameplay 
 is fantastic. It makes me think back to the good old days when I used to play Donkey Kong Country 
 all the time. I still do play it a lot, but not every day. Anyway, the controls, though, could 
 use a little fine-tuning. It takes forever to get to max speed (which isn't very fast, I have to 
 agree with Gamespot on that) , and getting hit by something will really slow you down, causing you 
 to have to wave the controllers to get to max speed AGAIN. Over and over, time and time again, 
 you get hit with something, and over and over, time and time again, you have to shake your Wii 
 remote and Nunchuk to speed up. It's a very long, tedious process. But, you know what? In the end, 
 it's all worth it. Nintendo really pulled through with this game. Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, overall, 
 is probably my favorite Wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anman786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  When I read about the controls it sounded bad to me but when I started playing I couldn't stop. 
 I love this Game! Its highly addictive and way more fun with friends around. You guys just need 
 a friend to play with. I recommend this game to a game playing family. People at home should try 
 this. Bad thing is your arms can get a little tired after playing a lot but that just wears off 
 and it strengthens up your arms as well. I'm still hooked to this game and I'm trying to unlock 
 Funky Kong. Already unlocked Lanky Kong and Tiny Kong. Deluxe Barrel DK is really hard to unlock. 
 Gamespot's ratings aren't so dependable any more as they used to be since now they're caring more 
 about the graphics and stuff. This is a really good game and is worth buying. Other people must 
 have rated it bad because they never had anybody else to play it with but this is a good family 
 and friends game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  wow... i cant believe i payed $8 to rent this
  what a load of garbage nintendo!!!
  this game has the worst controls on the wii by far
  and the graphics are something b/w n64 and 
 GC
  and why is this game so slow!?
  
  oh and by the way, the nunchuck sucks at being responsive in this game (and many others) but beyond 
 that fact this game has got to be the worst game i have played on the wii 
  
  im pretty good with most games controls on the wii but i continually jump when im trying to bongo!
 
  
  Graphics = 4
  Gamplay = 3
  Controls = 3
  Replayablilty = 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sc00bYd00bY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is fantastic... i hope mario kart is this simple and fun... once you ge tthe sensitivity 
 just right and get over the fact that you permenantly accelerate (which i love) , its awesome... one 
 thing that is difficult is getting the moves down when you get shot out of "those" barrels... it's 
 like diddy kong racing... if you like that you'll like this... the graphics are well animated for 
 its genre (being wacky racing) ... it's just as fun as mario kart and if you loved donkey kong country 
 on snes, tell me that hopin in the mine kart is not fun, tell me you're not down with the swordfish, 
 tell me you're not down with the rhino... i mean c'mon people it's not need for speed or anything... wii 
 is pretty much a kid/family system, with few exception (hopefully will be more mature rated, but 
 not getin my hopes up) ... overall at least rent it, i did at first, and knew i had to own it... it's 
 hours of fun... i'm not the most active gamer or poster, but i have to say, this game is not what 
 people say it is... get it... DO IT NOW ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice05052005
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  So. . .another Kong kart racing game. When i saw this in the game store i instantly thought, some 
 kind of crap Diddy Kong Racing game . But that changed pretty quickly. I'm a person that takes 
 learning how to play a game pretty serious, so tuturiols have to be on point and pretty fun to 
 learn in the first place. The tuturiol in DK Barrel Blast didnt really explain alot. It might have 
 said something on the short loading screen, but even then it would remove the screen itself even 
 though there press A to skip . Well, i would expect for it not to skip for me if im supposed to 
 press the button myself. So that and the fact that the only other two things wrong with the game 
 is the fact that the characters should each have some kind of special boost/blast/barrel to make 
 them each special in their own way excluding the stats. Overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFXIsAstyanax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  When I heard my family bought for me the latest Donkey Kong game, I was a bit confused. So I came 
 home from college that weekend and they showed me what had shipped -- Donkey Kong Barrel Blast. 
 I'm usually the first person I know to hear about a new game. Why had I never heard of this one? 
 I wondered as I searched a couple game sites. Their reviews ended my confusion -- the game was 
 a complete bomb and nobody was talking about it. It was a gift, though, so I begrudgingly slid 
 the game disc in my Wii and prepared for the worst.
  
  What I got was something totally unexpected. Donkey Kong Barrel Blast is actually a really good 
 game. After playing through the tutorial (something I wonder if any of these reviewers even did) , 
 I started racking up wins in the Jungle Grand Prix mode. Victories with one of the two teams (either 
 Kongs or Kremlings) begins unlocking more racers on each side. And overall victories begin to unlock 
 harder modes and cup races.
  
  I don't know what game these game review sites were playing, but this game controls well. The low 
 agility characters are a little harder to steer, but some offer a great offset in return. Boosting 
 up your speed is done by drumming with the Wiimote and Nunchuk alternatively. Once you have reached 
 a maximum speed, you don't need to drum alternatively. To turn, you simply drum with one hand more 
 than the other. Jumping is done by lifting both hands simultaneously, and items are used with the 
 Z or B buttons. Pressing the A button will result in a short attack (usually a punch or spin) . 
 After collecting 50+ bananas (which are strewn about the racetrack) , you may activate a turbo move 
 by holding and releasing the control stick on the Nunchuk. None of these controls are hard to pick 
 up, and the game responds well to your actions.
  
  Turning around the track's corners is done for you. You may think this a downside, but you'll be 
 needing it when whipping through each course. Rocket barrels make an appearance in the game, often 
 offering quicker routes or leading to short banana filled rides. The Kong animal friends also make 
 an appearance, some friends acting as rides and others as items. What I have yet to mention is 
 probably one of the most important racing elements in the game -- chaining your boosts. When you 
 pull off a turbo, your character is able to pass through enemies and wooden barrels on the course 
 as well as the other racers. By chaining collisions with these characters and objects, your racer 
 continues his or her turbo that much longer. Certain sites have commented upon the slow pace of 
 the game; but if you pull off chains, you'll be speeding through the course making very split second 
 decisions.
  
  Overall, the game looks like you would expect from a GCN-Wii crossover. It doesn't look nearly 
 as good as something like SMG, but it's not a shoddy, blurry mess either. Each course is filled 
 with colorful landscapes, items, objects, and enemies. The sound could have used a little more 
 work, but I'm usually too busy listening to the bongo sound effect emitted by the Wiimote to notice.
 
  
  All in all, Donkey Kong Barrel Blast is far from a bad game. It offers a fun and exciting racing 
 game to play while waiting for Mario Kart to wow you in '08. The controls work great, it looks 
 like you would expect from a Donkey Kong game, and it's easy to pick up, learn, and start having 
 a blast. No pun intended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonw131
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Donkey Kong: Barrel Blast is a racing game not to different from the Mario Kart games. Unfortunately, 
 this is not only dull, it's also frustrating. The game was originally designed as a Gamecube game, 
 and the DK Bongos were intended as the controller for the game itself. But the developer took too 
 long with the game, so they decided to put it out on the Wii instead. They also scrapped the Bongos 
 in favor of the Wii's motion controls. Which brings me to that subject. The controls will take 
 a very long time to get used to. You have to take the Wii remote, nunchuk added, and wave them 
 up and down as if you were a drummer. This is a real workout. So you're waving this controller 
 like a maniac, trying not to run into anything, and by the time the race is over, you have to sit 
 back and catch your breath. It's exhausting! So if you're looking for a great upper body workout, 
 Donkey Kong: Barrel Blast is for you. But if you're looking for a great racing game for the Wii, 
 skip this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIMMYMAINES
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I like racing games from nintendo but this one really stands out from the others. First when you 
 race it seems like your going 1 mile per hour while trying really hard not to crash into rocks 
 with a horrible control scheme wich is really hard to manage.
  
  Graphics isnt anything to look at but of course nintendo is more about gameplay then graphics wich 
 in this case doesnt matter to me.
  
  Everything else is not really worth mentioning due to the fact that i can go on and on about the 
 bad stuff and the only good thing is when you first get this game but then you will see how this 
 title is not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skywardbr
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I just cant understand why this game is so underated. Probably because the fat nerds out there 
 get too tired playing this game since it require some exercise. The thing is that i got the japanese 
 version of this game and its one of the best ive played so far. A great race DK game which grants 
 hours and hours of fun, not to mention the multiplayer factor that will make you enjoy it a lot 
 with your friends.
  The story mode is very nice with lots of good tracks and lots of characters that you can use. You 
 will also find the mini games very cool, and after you finish some of them you open some secrets 
 of the game.
  
  A must buy game that you just dont want to miss, mostly if you are a nintendo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  The Good: smooth feal to the game, the graphics arent great but look nice and well done, well character 
 selection, alright race places
  
  The Bad: little on the easy side, nothing that couldnt be done on the gamecube, a little to slow 
 for even a kart racer, only fun really on multiplayer, gets old pretty fast
  
  Im have been known to be a bid dk fanatic and i am, but this game is really nothing special, the 
 game is nice and clean and is a good idea but they really could of added more features or watever, 
 i understand that this game transitioned from the game cube to the wii, but i dont understand why 
 they couldnt have worked harder on it when they knew it was coming to the wii.
  i'll rate this game  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrserv0n18
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  fun idea, I had no problem with the controls like gamespots review stated, when I turn or jump 
 or speed up it all worked everytime. So control wise I think they did just fine. Problem for me 
 was it just wasn't fun...
  The #1 cause of this is your max speed feels like 15mph down a residential street searching for 
 an address. When you turbo boost its fast, if they would have made the standard max speed somewhere 
 in between the turbo and the standard speed this may have helped the fun factor. Im not looking 
 for F-Zero here, but at least mario kart speeds. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
