-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/dragonbladewrathoffire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of boss fights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The controls are imprecise.
 Visuals look incomplete.
 The story ends when the game begins.
 You die cheap deaths.
 Takes six hours to beat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 214 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 25, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This wimpy action game for the Wii is easy on the wrist but hard on the eyes. 

  You can tell by the randomly generated title that Dragon Blade isn't going for creative gusto. 
 This game could have just as easily been called Dragon Fire: Wrath of Blade, Blade Wrath: Dragon 
 of Fire, Dragon Fire Blade: Wrath Of, or Of Wrath, Dragons, Blades, and Colons. What it can never 
 be is worth your money or time. This Wii-flinging hack-and-slash action game features a couple 
 of decent boss fights, as well as a few interesting enemy encounters. However, its low budget, 
 high price tag, fickle controls, and terrible cheapness keep it from being a game worth generating 
 in the first place.  

  The most interesting detail about Dragon Blade is that its plot was penned by author Richard A. 
 Knaak, author of such diverse titles as Dragon Hunt, Ice Dragon, The Crystal Dragon, and Day of 
 the Dragon. In this, his latest opus, a good dragon named Valthorian enters human society until 
 his five evil siblings take over the minds of humanity's rulers and convince them to chop Valthorian 
 into little pieces. Somehow, the good dragon's soul is contained in a sword, which is found by 
 a farm boy named Dal, right after some bad guys kill his girlfriend.  

           Hero one, monster zero.      

  The rest of the plot goes as follows: Dal arrives at 
 ruins. His sword says something to the effect of "This place used to be nice. Dragons messed it 
 up." And then, in the name of a better tomorrow with higher property values, you fight stuff. Specifically, 
 you fight wolves, bears, spiders, bats, lizard people, archers, orcs, minotaurs, and wizards. Those 
 are the only enemies in the game, and although they change colors in later levels, they never behave 
 any differently. Everywhere you go, lizard people are the same.  

  At least they die in different ways. As Dal, you can slash foes with your sword or subdue them 
 with dragon magic. But before we get to things like the dragon punch, let's cover the basics. With 
 flicks of the Wii Remote, you can hack and slash, while normal button presses will cause you to 
 parry, roll, or jump. For the most part, you can just wag the Wii Remote like the tail of a dog 
 to get your dirty deeds done. The only exception is the thrust, which requires a poking motion 
 and nets you red crystals. These, in turn, fill your dragon magic bar.  

  It sounds simple, and indeed it is. But the game's interpretations of your motions are awfully 
 subjective. You may be trying to slash but wind up poking -- or vice versa. This can be bad because 
 the poke is a slower attack and can leave you wide open to damage. The greater issue, though, is 
 the fact that Dragon Blade is the gesture equivalent of a button masher, a Wiigler if you will. 
 And it's impossible not to notice the poignancy of the effect. To get an idea of how this works, 
 hold your hand in front of you like you're holding a Wii Remote then shake it back and forth at 
 the wrist. You just summed up Dragon Blade.  

  To its credit, there are some bright spots. Two of every three levels feature a boss fight, and 
 these tend to be pretty interesting. The dragons are big, they have the coolest-looking attacks 
 in the game, and their fights take place in three stages. The first is a simple attack pattern, 
 the second is a new attack pattern, and the third is a core break chance that mimics the cinematic 
 battles from God of War, but without the style or violence. The other boss fights pit you against 
 the human kings turned wicked by dragon magic. Each possesses one of Valthorian's body parts, and 
 when you defeat them, you gain a special attack associated with that part.  

           The dragon punch claims another victim.      

  For instance, right off the bat, you 
 defeat a guy with a dragon hand. From then on, pressing right on the D pad will turn your sword 
 into a giant, flaming dragon paw. By swiping or poking with the Wii Remote, your attacks will do 
 much more damage and consume dragon power. Although you gain a handful of powers by the end of 
 the game, the dragon punch is the only one you'll regularly use. It is mana efficient, and one 
 smack can fell most standard enemies.  

  Even though you only have to kill them once, the kings are the biggest source of frustration in 
 Dragon Blade. In any given level, you can either restart from the beginning or continue from your 
 last checkpoint. However, you only get five continues before you have to restart. Because every 
 dragon is a level in and of itself, you can repeatedly fight them without having to wade through 
 a flood of foes. But kings come at the ends of long levels, and if you die a couple of times on 
 the way to them, you only have three chances to defeat them before they knock you all the way back 
 to the beginning of a stage.  

  Despite being forced to play some levels two, three, or even four times, Dragon Blade only takes 
 six hours to beat. Because the enemies are the same all the way through, you'll have no problem 
 exploiting their patterns in later stages, and even the cheapest boss fights can be won once you 
 learn the pattern.  

  Speaking of cheap, Dragon Blade looks like a bargain-bin game, even though at the time of this 
 review, it cost $40. The environments look unfinished and the enemies look silly. Dal himself is 
 a nondescript hero, although his sword is impressively fiery. The music is generic Japanese adventure 
 fare, and in place of voice work are little emotive sound bytes. When you're holding your dying 
 girlfriend in your arms, you say, "Uh!" and she says, "Argh!"  

  Then again, with lines like "Now it's time to vanquish you again, forever!" who needs voice actors? 
 Though your inner dragon hunter may yearn for mortal combat with giant scaly monstrosities, you 
 should save your money for a better game than Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I just got back from my friends house and I'm writing a review about the worst game on the wii. 
 I was playing it at his house and I couldn't even take ten minutes of the game it was so terrible. 
 The graphics suck, it has unresponsive controls. The whole time your walking on a lame path going 
 one way and your this really weird dressed guy. The enemies look really stupid, there like oxes 
 and polar bears. The games graphics really sucked. The game play was just terrible. I wish gamespot 
 could rate games 0 because that is what I would rate this game. I would not recommend this to anyone 
 in the world. I wonder why people make these games that they know suck. This has to be one of the 
 worst games on the wii and in video game history. Hopefully they don't make a dragon blade 2. So 
 anyone out there who is thinking about buying this game DON'T you would just be wasting your money 
 on a poorly designed piece of crap. Worst game EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is just terrible.. it's one of those games that make you wonder why the hell they released 
 it in the first place! When you start it off, it tells you a long and boring story that makes no 
 sense at all.. i guess its supposed to be cool and engage you into the game, but didn't work out 
 too well for the game.. Then once you start playing it, you immediately realize what a steaming 
 pile of crap it is. The controls are terrible and unresponsive. It's sort of cool how they tried 
 to implement the wii remote as a sword, but damn couldn't they have developed it a bit further 
 before releasing the game?? when you try to swing up, or down, or horizontally it rarely responds 
 the way you want it to. The graphics are nothing special either. i mean sure, the wii has its limitations, 
 but looking at all the great games that don't look half bad that were released at around the same 
 time as this one just takes that excuse off my list..
  There is also the difficulty problem, believe it or not. Well actually it is quite believable, 
 since the controls suck. The first few enemies of the game are no challenge at all, you can handle 
 them with a quick swing (or random wiggling) of the wii remote. But when you come to the first 
 boss, some weird mutated king guy, the difficulty takes a huge jump for some reason.. I don't know, 
 maybe i suck at the game, or maybe i just never had the patience to waste my time trying hard to 
 beat him, but damn.. Once he is almost dead, if you dont kill him right away, half his life just 
 comes right back, and you would think there would be health items nearby during the fight, but 
 there are none, and a couple of hits from this guy will kill you before you can say, "screw this 
 game, i won't waste anymore of my time".. So yea, don't ever ever get this game.. if you get it 
 as a gift, that person either really hates you, or has never heard of it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraCell
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is your basic beat'em up game. You fight enemies after enemies till you get thru the 
 stage. It's repetitive but it's not that bad... What makes up for it is the boss battle. This is 
 where the game shines. The Dragon boss battle are like a level in it self.. for you must figure 
 out a way to avoid the Dragon's attack and also find a way to deal damage to them. The Boss battle 
 ends with a cinematic way.. in which you must press or shake the Wiimote or Nunchuck according 
 to the on screen display. Your Main Hero.. Dragon Blade ability is the other shining point of the 
 game. I like using the different dragon powers you get as you play along. It helps getting you 
 out of situations during battles.
  
  Over all this game is pretty good to kill time with.. it can be bland and repetitive but the Boss 
 battle makes it a huge plus. Also this game can get frustrating at times... for you will die here 
 and there... whether fighting a bunch of enemies or fighting the Mini-boss or Dragon Bosses. The 
 Controls are OK. At times they register and at times they don't... but It don't bother me all too 
 much. As long as I can get the job done I am satisfied. 
  
  I did get stuck at two points of the game... 1- I didn't know how to get through one of the mini-boss's 
 room.. i figured it out after a while... and 2- had a hard time beating one of the other mini-boss 
 towards the last stages of the game... tried many times only to fail. This game is linear but at 
 few times would help to give ya a hint. Give it a Rent and play for a while... the Dragon boss 
 fights should draw you in.. if you can get pass the repetitive stuff in the game... like fighting 
 the same enemies over and over again. It ain't that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordfrog0
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  when i went to blockbuster to find a new game to rent i saw this and thought it actually looked 
 fun but once i played it i was realizing that this game is a piece of crap. the graphics suck, storyline 
 sucks, and the levels are poorly designed it has no other paths to do just 1 straight path and a 
 few dead ends and the armor shards are pretty much in the wide open not hidden at all. Sure i didn't 
 expect the graphics to be the best since it's a wii game but these graphics were just a disgrace 
 even for the wii. The bosses were made way to freaking easy and even when there easy it gets really 
 old fighting one like every other level or so, i think probably one of the worst bosses was the 
 water dragon. The water dragon was really dumb with the three stages of pure easyness, i beat him 
 with one hand tied behind my bACck and the other one broken. so if you ever think of renting or 
 buying this trust me DO NOT GET THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patdrums
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphically, and soundwise, it's nice. Gameplay is okay. My big complaint is the enemies. GameSpot 
 is right - the enemies are VERY cheap. When you get knocked down to the ground, you get knocked 
 down again as soon as you get back up. Most of the time, you are greatly outnumbered by your enemies, 
 with a tiny health bar, that disappears quickly. There's a good chance you will have less than 
 half of your health in many of the battles simply because the enemies are so cheap. Bosses were 
 cool, but were made difficult using a very cheap method again: The "scales" inside the bosses must 
 be destroyed within about 10-15 seconds of the armor on them coming off.... otherwise the armor 
 regenerates and you have to remove it again, only to see the scale's health bar is completely refilled. 
 Cheap. I had gotten to the left arm boss and gotten two complete game overs before I had had enough. 
 This game could've been so much better, and part of it is pretty good. It feels like it was halfway 
 thrown together. I'm sorry I spent $40 on this. Nowhere near worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RemusLupo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok what can I say about this game, first off if you are a true nerd of games or of dragons then 
 this game will satisfy you. If you need hardcore games and long lasting action this game is good 
 for a break. I beat the game within the week I rented it by playing five levels plus a boss each 
 day. The power ups are cool, I mean who wouldn't want to be able to control the limbs and fire 
 of a dragon all conveniently placed within a sword. Also collecting dragon armour adds to the game. 
 Although those abilities are fun the energy drains to fast to use all of them within one power 
 bar. I actually had to restart the level one time because I wasted all my fire energy and couldn't 
 continue without it. The enemies do give a bit of challenge . Ok they just send hordes of them 
 at you but that still is a challenge with the little control you have. It is nice to swing the 
 wii-mote around to attack but you must be precise with it if you want to do a certain swipe like 
 a stab ( I recommend holding the wii-mote like a dart) . The layout and background is a bit nes 
 for me although it looks good it just lacks detail and is too empty. The boss levels are fun though 
 maybe not worth the five gruelling levels to get to them but its interesting to figure out how 
 to defeat each one and see what kind of dragon you get to fight next. Ten bosses in all 5 mini 
 bosses you get your power ups from and 5 huge dragon lords so within the 25 levels it keeps you 
 busy enough that you're not extremely bored. The story behind it is clich although if they added 
 more story the game would have had to been better and longer so the story is good for the game 
 it is in. The real challenge of the game for me is to last long enough to get energy so that you 
 can wipe out the next blockade of baddies that get sent out (oh and stabbing them gives you fire 
 energy good tip) . Since I never got to use the full extent of my wii mote except with my wii sports 
 game it was a nice change of pace. The game has a certain quality to it that makes me like it. 
 Not disappointing but not really something to rave about, still nice to give it to your buds for 
 a try though. I wouldn't put it up with my favourite games like Zelda Mario and Metroid but it 
 holds a special place in my heart almost like an underdog that does it's job without complaints, 
 not the best job ever but the job gets done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you pair up barely PlayStation 2 graphics with horrible motion based controls 
 and an AI that borders on cheesy? This game apparently. Initially this was a game that I picked 
 up solely for the purposes of actually playing the Wii a bit and blowing the dust off of it. The 
 only thing that ended up blowing, in the end, was this game. I haven't seen a game this bad in 
 a long while.
  
  Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire has a fairly interesting backstory. Years ago a dragon, who regarded 
 himself as a protector of the human species, was betrayed by those very same humans and his soul 
 was torn to pieces. The humans took his soul and put it into a number of Dragon Cores. Using these 
 cores they gained immense power for themselves. One of the kings, a friend of the dragon Valthorian, 
 had betrayed the dragon but realized the error of his ways. Running away he smuggled the piece 
 of Valthorians soul with him and sought the one who could wield it to reunite the dragons soul 
 and end the tyranny of the other kings and the dark dragons who aide them.
  
  This sounds fairly interesting and it was supposedly written by Richard A. Knaak, the author of 
 the Dragonlance novels. It's a shame that he chose to attach his name to this horrendous wreck 
 of a game. Admittedly some of those books weren't the greatest fantasy novels ever written but 
 this is worse than Orson Scott Card putting his name to that horrendous game, Advent Rising.
  
  Dragon Blade is controlled by using the Wii mote and swinging it around to emulate sword slashes. 
 Left to right or right to left movement produces horizontal slashes, down to up produces an uppercut 
 and up to down produces a downward hack. You can string these attacks together to form combos. 
 These attacks are actually fairly responsive, happening pretty quickly after you move the Wii remote. 
 This is actually a fairly functional system. I would even go so far as to say it works better than 
 it did in Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  This is about the only thing that the game does right. The graphics would be considered bad during 
 the early days of the PlayStation 2. All of the character models are really bad, even the main 
 character, and the backgrounds are a muddled mess of colors. The only things that don't look horrendous 
 are the structures in the areas, which look simple and fucntional, and the dragon bosses. It's 
 obvious that most of the attention was put into the dragons and that's about it.
  
  Almost as bad is the sound which makes me think back to the old 16-bit hack and slash days. It's 
 cheesy, repetitive but somewhat catchy. However the music gets grating very fast and it feels overy 
 dramatic and epic for a game that is this crappy. Were the game a bit more action packed it wouldn't 
 feel so out of place. But in what is essentially a button masher, without the button mashing, it 
 feels really ridiculous. It's kind of like putting an epic score to the Simpsons, it feels really 
 tacked on and seems to do its best to pull you out of the game rather than immersing you in it.
 
  
  Also reminiscent of the older games is the enemies which are animal-human hybrids for the most 
 part and spiders, don't forget the spiders. To illustrate how this game is similar to the older 
 games, you even get the whole palette swap of enemies and enemies of different sizes being treated 
 like wholly different enemies. I'm sorry but it's kind of hard to tell the small purple pig-man 
 from the big pig-man until they are pounding your face into the ground. The worst part of all of 
 this is that there is around seven or eight different types of enemy at best and they are repeated 
 throughout most of the game. If there was a bit more variety in the type of enemies it would seriously 
 help this game from being so repetitive. However they aren't and it doesn't take very long before 
 they start repeating and you enter this kind of dazed controller wiggling coma.
  
  The enemy AI leaves a lot to be desired as well. The enemies alternate from being unable to scratch 
 their own backs to being able to pluck you out of the air and lock you into what amounts to an 
 instant death. The bosses are especially guilty of this, going from easy to fight to suddenly spazzing 
 out and slaughtering you wholesale. It would be an error to say that the game is hard, hard would 
 imply that there is a consistant difficulty level. Only the archers are consistantly hard to deal 
 with. The other enemies and bosses will go from being simple to wigging out and tearing you to 
 shreds, causing you to lose long minutes of game time having to reload from a checkpoint.
  
  Last but not least of Dragon Blades various offenses is the interactive cutscenes. I am so 
 sick of these things by this point, they do not need to be in each and every action game that hits 
 the market. What makes these cutscenes so offensive is that the controls are not very responsive. 
 When the games wants you moving the controller from side to side, or up and down, the normally 
 super responsive controls go out the window and I had great difficulty getting the game to recognize 
 my movements at times. These only really show up during the dragon battles and considering the 
 huge trial it is to even get a dragon hurt enough to get to the interactive cutscene it really 
 feels like an extra kick in the pants when you fail one of these and the dragon heals up, forcing 
 you to go after him some more before you can get another shot at taking them out.
  
  It's kind of sad that some of the best Wii functionality yet seen in a game is in this giant turd 
 of a game. I generally refrain from being totally negative about a game in my reviews but no game 
 has earned my ire like this game. Even games like Lair and Jericho which aggravated me to no end 
 at least felt playable without frustration in parts, if not the whole. I would suggest passing 
 up on this game if you can help it, you are only doing yourself a disservice.
  
  Score: 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikinstien
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Not the best game for the Wii. Not the worst. I enjoyed it, for a couple of days. It kept me amused 
 for about two hours a day, and I beat in it maybe a week. I wouldn't recommend buying it, but if 
 you could rent it, it's worth it. Maybe if you find it in a bargain bin... Then MAYBE you should 
 get it. It's only good if you like this kind of game. If you don't enjoy beating the cap out of 
 demon dogs and lizard men, then this game is not for you. Of course, if you want a game that you 
 can pick up and play fairly easily, without much of a learning curve, then definitely go for Dragon 
 Blade: Wrath of Fire. It's great for getting started on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I like Dragon Blade Wrath of Fire. I love the idea of a new seris on the wii, but this game didnt 
 turn out how i expected. You start this game off in a visually awful looking room with no dragon 
 weapons to speak of. There are a couple cinematics that bring on an interesting story. So at first 
 thought im thinkin ok well no action yet but the story sounds cool. Then the game starts, and the 
 story ends. Right when you pick up with the gameplay there is hardly any reference to the original 
 storyline. So inbetween the period with no dragon weapons and no story line traveling through awful 
 looking areas mindlessly killing easy enemies, im thinkin, i just blew away 40 bucks. Thankfully 
 slowly but surely the action picks up as well as the difficulty. The game begins to reach the climax 
 now, which last until the end of the game. The only problem with that is that the game is almost 
 over! You begin to aquire dragon weapons from boss fights with kings. Each weapon is a part of 
 the dragon Valathorian lodged in your blade of fire. My personal favorite weapon was the whip-like 
 tail. It added a cool effect and dropped many enemies to the ground at once. But unfortunaley it 
 isnt very powerful, so you will just end up using the ground pound with your dragon arms, the second 
 dragon power you aquire in the game,. Aside from the drab worlds you travel through the fire effects 
 are stunning. Or mabey they only seem that way because everything else is terrible. What ever the 
 case, they look out of place. They look to good for the game. It almost seems as if the developers 
 polished the game a bit more everything could look good too. So with all of the negatives of the 
 game listed now, lets get on to the positives. The best thing about this game, is the feeling of 
 dispatching hords of enemies with the single blow of your dragon powers. It is a very satisfying 
 experience. The boss fights are also very cinematic and act as a level on their own. The dragons 
 look very well done, refering to my statement on how more time in development could have made the 
 whole game look much better. Facing the last dragon is not nearly cinematic as it should be, just 
 another noss fight and when you beat him, the games over. It just ends. All in all i think Dragon 
 Blade Wrath of Fire is an entertaining experience, but is not worth the $40 price tag. For $20 
 I beleive this game would have recieved fairly good reviews from gamespot and Ign. But releasing 
 a less than 10 hour game with no multiplayer or side quests, exepct for easy to find dragon armor, 
 is inexcusible. BRING BACK THE OLD RATING SCALE 5.7 rounds to 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjavelmor
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  i just finished this game last night. and i enjoyed playing through it, it was satisfying to beat 
 it, and i had a good time with it. Anyway, this is a action adventure title, but a company called 
 Landho. i think this is there first game, you can tell right off the bat , that this is a bugdet 
 title. The graphics aren't great, and there a few prombles with the combat system. the voice acting 
 in the game isn't that great either, but there not to much of it, so its not that bad. The story 
 is the average story of revenge, basically a dragon comes to earth to help the people of the earth, 
 but 5 kings double cross him, and seal him within a sword. your just is to find the sword, then 
 find 5 pieces to put the dragon back together, so he can be freed from the sword. The battle system 
 works like this, you swing the wii mote to attack, if you swing left your character swings left, 
 if you swing up, your character swings up, and so on. also you have powers granted to you from 
 the dragon, you get wings that help you defend against attacks, and jump higher, you get a dragon 
 tail that makes your sword turn in to a whip, and many other neat powers. the game is about 6 hours 
 long, not to long of a game, but most action games aren't. so the game plays out in stages, you 
 start a stage, and basically you just have to follow the map until you reach then end, all the 
 while, you are fighting enemies, breaking object, and collecting armor shards (ever 6 you earn gives 
 you a new piece of armor.) you can also go back and redo a stage if you missed something. The boss 
 fights in this game are what made it fun for me. some are real easy and other are pretty diffucult. 
 The pros. of this game are, theres not many games like this on the wii right now, it has a fun 
 battle system, that lets you be creative with your attacks, it allows you to go back to previous 
 beaten stages if you missed items, the boss battles are alot of fun. the cons of this game are, 
 the graphics are bad, the voice acting is bad, sometimes when your attacking you don; t quite do 
 what you want your chatacter to do, sometimes there are cheap death (gamespot metioned this) some 
 of the boss battles are longer then they should be. So in the end, this is not a bad and, but its 
 not a great game either. it has its flaws but its still fun to play. it has some slight replay 
 value, because you can re play stages, but because the game is short, its had to recommend buying 
 this one, if you really want to play a decent action game go for, support the new gaming company 
 Landho, but if you just dont have the cash, just at least rent this one and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackDragon110
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I original had high hopes for this game, but that hope quickly died after about an hour of play. 
 The graphics are only sub-par at best. Honestly I think developers are scared that if they were 
 to push the Wii any harder that itll break. The music although fits the theme of the game, sounds 
 pretty cheesy. There is very little voice acting; personally I dont believe any game this current 
 generation game should have subtitles. Yet I guess there some wisdom that it better to have subtitles 
 then to have terrible voice acting. Still I could over look these flaws because I was more interested 
 in the controls. This is a Wii game after all. Unfortunately its only saving grace is its biggest 
 flaw. The way you use your dragon powers is interesting and pretty imaginative. Using two giant 
 hands to pound your enemies into the ground with a tomahawk smash is very satisfying. And using 
 the Dragon Tail Whip gives you that God of War like feel. But the game often misinterprets your 
 motions causing attacks that you didnt intend. This is especially true with the vertical attacks. 
 This also gives you missed opportunities to set up some killer combos. On top of all of this the 
 game is pretty short. Overall its still a pretty fun ride. A bit more tweaking and this game would 
 have really stood out. Instead it ends of being just average. Lets hope the sequel will fair better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Blade: Wrath of fire is a typical beat-em-up. You run around and beat on lizards, magicans, 
 polar bears and so on. Plot is you are a young man in a village who is having dreams about a fire 
 sword. Your village gets raided by the empire, you grab the sword and hack up the monsters the 
 empire sends. You have no powers for a while in the game, and that is the most boring part. Once 
 you get some powers, things move along nicely.
  
  The game looks suprisingly good for a wii game. All the enviorments are very nice, and there is 
 some sharp character detal, like sparks coming of your sword, and the enemies look good. The fire 
 and lava you shoot out looks nice too. There are a cupple things, like you dont have foot prints, 
 that bring the graphics down a notch, but its no big deal.
  
  The sword play is good. The sword follows your movements nicely, and puts red steel way way down. 
 you can run three hit combos usually, and the game counts your hits, and you can have any point 
 total (my record is in the late 50s) . There's very little voice work, just text, which is fine 
 with me. And no sound comes out of the wiimote, again, thats just fine. The sounds arnt great, 
 but its not a major part of the game. Soundtrack that sounds a bit like some fire elmbrum thing. 
 The boss fights are kind of boring. Nothing special there. Nice mini game finishers, but thats 
 about all there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JobeSeramiel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The background story of Dragon Blade is a tad weak to say the least. The hero is forced to deal 
 with the impending evil that is sweeping across his world; a common setting for most video games, 
 but somehow the writers didn't really bother to make it interesting at all.
  
  The graphics: you're not going to be playing Dragon Blade because of its graphics. Let's be honest 
 here, the graphics here will pale in comparison to any X360 or PS3 games. Enough said.
  
  The controls are not actually that bad, albeit a bit sensitive. I've read reviews people indicating 
 sore wrists, but that's also because people seem to get a tad excited when swinging the wiimote. 
 From time to time, the game may misread how you want to attack, but all in all, it is pretty good. 
 Particularly, it has a pretty good queue memory, so if you are constantly swinging, you won't get 
 a chance to stop anytime soon to block or roll out of the way.
  
  This game isn't special, but it is one of the few hack &amp; slash games on the wii. I can't say 
 it's a must-play, but since there aren't any other games out, why not give this one a try (granted, 
 you like the hacking and slashing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luzer7072
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  We've all heard the Wii's mantra that a good concept could prevail over flashy graphics; that, 
 if done right, the idea is truly mightier than the tech. Titles like WiiSports and Wario Ware: 
 Smooth Moves show us that a stylized look and smooth controls can minimize the Wiis greatest weakness 
 while proving to be fun and engaging. On the other hand, Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire tries too 
 hard to be epic with too small a budget and too weak an idea. While other games (Such as The Legend 
 of Zelda) show us that a games story can be told effectively without any spoken word at all, Dragon 
 Blade opts to use it despite its small budget and, in the end, comes off not only cheesy but amateurish 
 as well.
  
  The controls work well enough, but theyre stiff and often dont do what you want them to. Although 
 not as often as, say, SSX Blur, the motion controls will sometimes misread what youre trying to 
 do. In fact, its sometimes easier to just shake the controller around willy-nilly. Furthermore, 
 the animations are rigid, so once you initiate an attack, its animation must complete before you 
 can begin, for example, blocking. However, youre not invincible while attacking, so during the 
 animation, youre open to attack all around you.
  
  As history tells us, a great presentation can help us forgive derivative game play. Unfortunately, 
 in Dragon Blades case, the shoddy presentational values only serve to make its other faults stand 
 out. In 2007, not even the Wii should be allowed to get away with cut-scenes reminiscent of a first-generation 
 PS1 game. And even worse, the voice work feels as though its literally been ripped from an old 
 Saturday-morning cartoon.
  
  My advice: Leave this one on the shelf, next to P. N. 03 and Charlies Angels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n_trix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  D3publisher is not a very well known gaming company, but for a third party game Dragon Blade: Wrath 
 of Fire is very uniqe in many ways.. When I first saw this game at wal-mart i bought it instintly 
 without even knowing anything about it.. so i poped it in and started playing... This game sucks!!! 
 Thats what was going threw my head, but when i started playing it threw, I kinda started to fall 
 in love with it.. the story unfolds into a great and addicting adventure... The two main best things 
 about this game have to be the very accurit and impressive wii controls similer to zelda Twilight... 
 and the awsome epic boss battles... And i love a game with cinamatic clips and this games full 
 of them....
  The graphics in my opinion wernt relly that good but the game play paid off all of that... This 
 game was based on a novel in which im not to aware of but now i would love to buy it.....
  
  I recommend renting this game first because all gamers have diffrent expectaions and intrests.. soo 
 give it a shot you might just fall in love with it like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  D3Publisher is beginning to pick up quite a fan following from me. Not only have they answered 
 the call from Wii gamers asking for an actually half DECENT, core title for Wii, but they're doing 
 it several times ... not only with Dragon Blade, but with the upcoming Oneechanbara R.
  
  Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire is a new IP for Wii ... a hack n' slash adventure with a fantasy story 
 written by Richard Knaack, who's written a handful of novels based on nerdastic things like Warcraft 
 ... but probably best known for his Dragonlance series. So ... yeah, the guy knows dragons. And 
 this shows, as the opening prologue does give you quite the indication that the story was conceived 
 straight from the mind of an experienced fantasy writer.
  
  The story is nothing too ground breaking or over the top, but as I said ... not only is it imaginative, 
 but it explains the gameplay rather well. There are spoilers , or at least spoilers of the opening 
 cut scene in the following sentences, so skip ahead a paragraph right now if you don't want to 
 read them! Valthorian, a dragon, was sick and tired of men waging wars, so he barged in, fought 
 for the side of good, made kings of a few men he trusted, and all was pretty great. Well, up until 
 the point where some evil dragons show up, convince Valthorian's kingly friends that he's actually 
 evil ... and the whole lot of them storm his stronghold and cut him down. Valthorian's soul was 
 then split into shattered cores , or the equivalent of a dragon's spiritual-like heart, in a way, 
 and the cores were obtained by the kings, who then went on to use them to rule in evil ways. The 
 Dragons who planned Valthorian's demise, likewise, rule the Kings, and the minions under them all 
 have transformed into man-beasts out of the extent of their own evil minds. One of the kings, however, 
 regretted what he had done ... moved to a small village, hid amongst the farmers, and did everything 
 he could to try and resurrect Valthorian, to no avail. He hid his shard of the dragon's power ... 
 and generations progressed, until one of the king's descendants, the hero farmer named Dal, hears 
 Valthorian's telepathic message, finds the shard, and takes up the Dragon Blade to defend his village 
 from the attacking man beasts. Although he kills them all ... he can't save many of the villagers 
 ... including his fiance ... and so we end up with some cheesy, melodramatic moments between the 
 beginning of the game and the actually gameplay ... but it does set up the concept of justice, 
 vengeance, and a whole slew of incentives for Dal to take up the Dragon Blade and go town.
  
  Dragon Blade's presentation is its lowest point. The only voice acting in the game that I've 
 stumbled upon was the opening cut scene ... in which Valthorian explains his beginnings. The voice 
 actor's performance was a bit melodramatic though, and unconvincing ... but worse than that ... 
 that's really the only voice acting in the game. The rest of the game is filled with text boxes 
 ... and not only that, text boxes that strangely lack any indication of who's talking. Sometimes 
 you don't know if one person on screen is talking, whether it's someone else, or whether one of 
 them is thinking ... or even if its Valthorian's own disembodied voice. And the fact that there's 
 hardly ever a character model with a mouth that actually moves, this sort of presentation is not 
 only confusing, but hinders the story telling experience quite a bit. None the less, context clues 
 may let you stumble through the game's story well enough.
  
  Graphically, Dragon Blade delivers in ways you'd expect in some places, but then exceeds expectations 
 in others. Most of the character models are extremely low-poly ... like, Playstation 2 quality 
 character models ... and the level design is EXTREMELY, EXTREMELY linear. But you may be surprised 
 by the level of detail in many of the textures, not only for character models, but for surrounding 
 environments as well. Dragon Blade's best graphical performance, however, has to be its lighting 
 and effects ... as everything is well lit and runs liquid smooth. There's not that kind of this 
 character glows a bit while everything else doesn't ... effect you saw on Gamecube very often ... 
 and, on the contrary, often times the very fire from your blade can light your enemies in an eerie 
 glow as flaming embers drizzle behind it. The Wii's extraordinary color pallete rendering ability 
 and bloom lighting comes into play quite often as well, which really helps make up for the low-budget 
 hold backs the rest of the game's graphics suffer from. However, Dragon Blade still suffers from 
 some unusual aliasing: aliasing that borderlines on looking like an interlaced display in some 
 cases, which makes we wonder whether or not the game actually runs in progressive scan.
  
  Obviously, however, Dragon Blade's shining moment is its gameplay and controls. The best way I 
 can sum up Dragon Blade ... is that it is a more refined version of The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess combat mechanics. You can do many of the things you could do in Twilight Princess, including 
 blocking, locking on to enemies, and swinging your Wii Remote as a sword, but the controls make 
 Twilight Princess' controls feel very tacked on. Unlike Twilight Princess, Dragon Blade actually 
 has a different, corresponding sword slash for different directions you swing the remote -- left, 
 right, up, down, or forward -- and you can string these attacks into combos of 3 in nearly any 
 order, making the game feel far more satisfying than Twilight Princess' waggle-a-wiimote attack 
 function.
  
  As you progress through the game and obtain more dragon cores, the Dragon Blade acquires more powers 
 ... including a giant flaming right arm, two giant flaming arms, a dragon tail which is more like 
 the Balrog's whip from Lord of the Rings, some dragon wings for a double jump, a dashing move, 
 and a giant flaming dragon head which can breathe flames or shoot fire balls. Using these special 
 abilities, unlike your basic sword attacks, use up some fire power in a meter you have ... however, 
 defeating enemies or busting objects can give you shards to refill this meter. Not only are these 
 new abilities extremely fun ... but as you progress through the game, more and more enemies spawn 
 and assault you at once ... really demanding that you take out a giant flaming fist and swipe all 
 of them away in a single blow ... which is so amazingly satisfying its indescribable.
  
  For the low price of forty dollars, Dragon Blade: Wrath of Fire appears to be a successful budget 
 title. Its definitely a taste of things to come, from future hack n slash titles like Oneechanbara 
 R and Soul Calibur Legends ... and from what I've played, its a fun adventure that gives you a 
 decent amount of replay value as you attempt to go back through levels and beat them with better 
 time, taking fewer hits, killing more enemies, and unlocking pieces of armor you can collect. On 
 the grand scheme of things it may not be a masterpeice of video game art, or offer much, but what 
 it does offer is quite a bit of fun ... which is why, for a budget title, Dragon Blade is a fair 
 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
