-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Quest Swords: The Masked Queen and the Tower of Mirrors
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/dragonquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat system is interesting for a while.
 Familiar visual style, music, and monsters .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Everything outside of combat has been massively dumbed down.
 Shallow story featuring shallow characters and dialogue.
 Motion controls aren't always accurate .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 367 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Genius Sonority
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 19, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This disappointing, bare-bones spin-off has its moments, but not enough of them to make it worth 
 playing. 

  Dragon Quest Swords seems like yet another attempt to appeal to the Wii's more mainstream audience, 
 in this case by plastering the name of a well-regarded franchise onto a short, stripped-down game 
 that can only be described as role-playing lite. Of course, there's nothing wrong with some airy 
 entertainment, but in this case the Dragon Quest brand has been reduced to its barest form, without 
 retaining the wit, style, or narrative depth you would expect. This is, from every angle, an inoffensive 
 throwaway release that may draw young players into the DQ universe but will leave most fans unfulfilled. 

  Even the story keeps things on the simple side and boils down to a single question: "What's up 
 with the queen?" It seems she's taken to wandering about unescorted and wearing a strange mask 
 that -- surprise -- may be the source of her woes. As a self-named hero, it's up to you to find the 
 queen, rescue her from the injurious clutches of the mask, and reveal the brute responsible. Prince 
 Anlace, your father Claymore, and a French damsel called Fleurette join you in your quest, though 
 their contributions to the tale are usually small bits of dialogue and some humorous asides. However, 
 this doesn't mean you gain a full adventuring party; in any given dungeon, only one of your cohorts 
 will be fighting at your side.  

           Inserting a birds nest in your hair is all the rage in Paris these days.      

  The 
 game has the essence of an RPG, insofar as you will level up, purchase improved equipment, and 
 gallivant around town prior to heading off to monster-filled dungeons. Each piece of this sugary 
 pie is kept as elementary as possible, starting with the remote-only control scheme. From a first-person 
 perspective, you roam using the D pad, and interact with characters and objects by targeting them 
 with an onscreen reticle and pressing the A button. The developers were obviously gunning for simplicity 
 by eschewing use of the Nunchuk attachment (nonsensically, there is no alternate control scheme 
 that allows use of one) , but the movement controls are clumsy. It's also hard to shake the feeling 
 that you are wading through a pool of molasses, even if you run by holding the B button, though 
 this is mostly mitigated by the tiny size of the one town you get to explore.  

  Once you are in the heat of action, you can use the Wii's distinguishing strengths with more prowess. 
 You move through dungeons on rails en route to the end boss, though your travels are broken up 
 by encounters with various enemies from the Dragon Quest universe, including all manners of slimes, 
 drackies, and golems. Once battle begins, you swing the remote much as you would a real sword, 
 crisscrossing the screen with dramatic slashes and slicing foes in two. There are three basic slashes 
 available to you: vertical, horizontal, and diagonal. Enemies will often approach in formation 
 or move around in various patterns, making it a snap to cleave through multiple enemies at once. 
 Thrusting is also effective against certain enemies, such as rockbombs, which can be deflected 
 back toward oncoming foes. You can also hit the A button to target a specific spot onscreen, which 
 makes it easier to focus your attacks where they do the most damage.  

  Additionally, you can press B to pull up your shield and block enemy attacks. The location of many 
 of these attacks are marked onscreen a few seconds in advance, which gives you time to move your 
 shield to the right spot. And once you've dissected enough monsters, you'll fill a special-attack 
 gauge, which then lets you unleash a devastating master stroke. These powerful moves require some 
 remote wiggling of their own, though the moves are rather fun and require you to thrust the remote 
 into the air or wave it in circles above your head before slashing. Even the standard action can 
 be amusing, particularly when there are a number of monsters on the screen and you have to alternately 
 block with your shield and attack with your sword. Nevertheless, the swordplay can become quite 
 a chore. The idea behind it is sound, but in practice, the onscreen result of your slashes doesn't 
 always seem to match the action you performed with the remote. This is particularly true with diagonal 
 slashes and thrusts, both of which often register as simple horizontal or vertical slashes.  

 
  Your adventuring companion is there to help, though it's curious that while your allies are all 
 named after swords, they don't use weapons in battle; rather, they just cast spells from the sidelines. 
 You can assign a few different behaviors to your comrades, though whichever way you handle them 
 will require some tweaking of the game's moronic artificial intelligence. The default mode, in 
 which the AI casts spells "intelligently," doesn't live up to its in-game description of aptitude, 
 and as such your companion will frequently waste spells, or cast an offensive spell when you are 
 in dire need of healing. Conversely, you can set them up to cast spells without regard for their 
 mana bar, but this is only a good idea if you are battling a boss. Alternately, you can do all 
 the offensive work and set up the AI to only heal, which sometimes results in your companion doing 
 nothing at all, even when you've taken a good deal of damage. Fortunately, you can also command 
 your ally to cast a spell at any time -- one of the game's few examples of required micromanagement. 

  Aside from the combat scheme, there is absolutely nothing noteworthy about Dragon Quest Swords, 
 unless you count the manner in which every other aspect of gameplay has been thinned out to the 
 point of absurdity. You can purchase new armor, swords, and sword upgrades, but there are remarkably 
 few choices when you visit a vendor, and by the time you fully upgrade a single sword, the game 
 is over. There are just a few master strokes to learn, your companions have a scant number of spells 
 to cast, and customization is essentially nonexistent. Add these factors to the featherweight story, 
 stripped-down party system, and eight-hour length, and you have a game that falls back to the lowest 
 common denominator in almost every facet of its design.  

  The familiar Dragon Quest style is evident in the game's character models, which may not quite 
 have the attitude and charm of DQVIII's characters, but still look good and fit nicely within the 
 universe. As usual, the monsters are designed well and animate in a variety of amusing ways. On 
 the other hand, environments are decidedly low-rent, displaying a lot of low-resolution textures 
 and bare areas with very little of visual interest. A few set pieces look terrific, such as one 
 in which you fend off mermen while riding a raft through river rapids, but the game doesn't apply 
 this high standard consistently. The sound design has a few bright spots, but it too is unpredictable. 
 It's nice to hear familiar music from the series, but the midi tunes could have stood for some 
 enhancement. The sound effects are fine in battle, but others, such as the laughable 16-bit effect 
 when climbing stairs, must be meant to evoke nostalgia but come across as merely cheap. The voice 
 acting helps pick things up because most of it is rather good -- just be prepared to wince from time 
 to time at the sound of Fleurette's clichd French accent.  

           The combat is interesting for a while, but it gets repetitive.      

  The game holds 
 a small bit of replay value by way of extra bosses and an unlockable payback mode, which grants 
 you use of an impressive sword and lets you exact revenge on your enemies with its commanding power. 
 But by and large, those extras aren't rewarding enough to inspire a return visit. This is the fast-food 
 burger of RPGs: It looks and feels the part, but tastes decidedly mediocre.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Swords was a bit rough around the edges at times, but overall it was a nice game. 
 I think it had a few very good ideas, but it just wasn't fleshed out enough. For example, I hated 
 the main town. I wish the story was a bit more.. original. I think most of the NPC were recycled, 
 along with ALL the enemies in the game. Heck, even the music was recycled. However, I didn't hate 
 the game. I thought the combat was fun. It was a bit frustrating at first but I eventually realized 
 how accurate you had to be to pull off perfect slashes. 
  
  Heck, I never once groaned at the game, but I said, it was a bit rough and they could have easily 
 spent more time fleshing things out. I still say give it a shot if you find it for cheap.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Dragon Quest Swords is an Rail Slasher / RPG. Within the 
 down, you have free range, 100% control of your character, but you can only control him with your 
 D-pad, which sucks. It's like playing the original Doom with your keyboard exclusively. When you 
 jump into a dungeon, it's a complete rail slasher. You move forward, and occasionally a group of 
 monsters will attack you. The monsters are no random, and attack you in certain spots of the dungeon. 
 You will notice this if you replay them. 
  Some monsters line up in ways where you can slash them in bunches. You can slash vertical, horizontal 
 or diagonal, across the entire screen. You can also stab by thrusting the Wiimote towards the screen. 
 To make things easier, you can assign a place holder for your slashing with the A button. For example, 
 if a Slime is standing to the left of the screen, then you can point directly at the Slime, tap 
 A, and then slash. The slash will be more accurate that way. You can block incoming attacks by 
 monsters with your shield. The more damage your shield takes, the more it starts to deteriorate. 
 You can also deflect missile/fireball attacks back at enemies aswell with slashing.
  
  Your main character doesn't use magic, but he has a power bar. With each successful attack, the 
 more power he gains. Once the power bar is at 100%, he can then perform a one of many Special attacks. 
 You gain new attacks by forging new weapons. When you perform the attack, you are given a few seconds 
 to initiate the attack, for example, you will need to Raise your Sword for 3 seconds, or shake 
 the sword until the power gauge is up. Once the attack is ready, you can then finally perform it, 
 draining your Power Gauge.
  
  Within your quest, you gain 3 party members. Each party member only uses magic (but they have weapons 
 equipped, not sure what the point in that is) . They gain levels and experience just like you do. 
 You can only take one at a time with you though. Once they get enough levels, they can gain new 
 spells. They have unique skills among them, so it's nice to have an option.
  
  You gain experience and gold after each monster you kill. You can even level up while in the middle 
 of battle, which is nice. You can only set the equipment of your main hero. He can equip a sword, 
 shield, helmet, piece of armor and an accessory.
  
  After you beat a dungeon, you are graded on how well you did. You get points for various tasks, 
 and can even earn bonus points for doing secret tasks. If you find a "Lucky Bag" within the dungeon, 
 will a random item. You also gain "Renown" points, and gain new titles once you gain enough Renown 
 points. This is alot like Soul Calibur Legends in a way. Except, when you gain new titles in Dragon 
 Quest Swords, they give you status boosts. So you feel like you're actually earning something with 
 a new title.
  
  The main town is kinda small, but at the main gate, there is an item shop and your home. If you 
 to the center of the town, you can enter the Castle. To the right of the first area is a weapon 
 shop, where you can forge new weapons, and an armor shop. To the right of that is a Bar, where 
 you can track your high scores for dungeons. Within this same area you can also find a mini-game 
 booth, an extra entrance to the castle, a grave, and a cave where you can spend Mini-Medals. The 
 area beside the Mini-game booth is where the Church is to save your game, and another grave behind 
 it. The town is kinda small, but it's broken up into a quite a few areas, so it's annoying to load 
 each area up when you just want to rush somewhere.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as a nameless, silent protagonist. You are a 
 young, upcoming Knight in training and the son of the former Knight, Claymore. Five years earlier, 
 Claymore and his men fought against the evil demon lord Xiphos. Funny things are happening around 
 the land, so the hero, along with his father Claymore, his friend the Prince Anlace and ex-nun 
 Fleurette investigate the problem by going out on a quest.
  
  The story is rather generic and predictable. I wasn't expecting a great story out of this, it's 
 enough to get you through the game, it's hardly insulting, but nothing about it will blow your 
 socks off. I think Prince Anlace is kinda dull, but Fleurrette and Claymore are pretty cool characters, 
 better suited in a more epic game. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  The graphics were ok at best. I liked the character models, but some were better than others. The 
 town looked a bit like crude, but the dungeons were nice to look at. The enemy models are great, 
 with very fluent movement, which is a big improvement over Dragon Quest 8. However, most enemy 
 models were completely recycled Dragon Quest fodder. I can't think of an original enemy in this 
 game, outside of the final Boss.
  
  They could have easily made this game look better, but it wasn't bad to look at in the least.
 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  All the main characters have voice work, but only during the most important cutscenes. The voice 
 work is solid, nothing to complain about, I just wish there was more of it. The music is classic 
 Dragon Quest. I don't think there is an original song, but luckily, Dragon Quest music is awesome.
 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The map is a standard menu map. Once you beat a dungeon, you can return to it as many times as 
 you want. The dungeons are very basic and straight forward. You can only walk forward or backwards, 
 and occasionally tilt the camera, but rarely. Sometimes you can check the ground for items, like 
 bushes or rocks. You will even find treasure chests, but alot of the time they're trick treasure 
 chests like Mimics.
  
  There are only 8 stages in all. They do offer a decent amount of replayablity though because each 
 dungeon gives you branching paths. Sometimes they lead to dead ends (with Treasure) or other times 
 they offer a different route, but they all end up the same way. Dungeons only take about 10-15 
 minutes to run through, so it's not a difficult task. 
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  12:41
  
  Not a very long game. I probably could 
 have beat this at 8 hours, but I ran through the dungeons multiple times. I'm pretty sure you can 
 continue playing the game after you beat it, which is nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maren179
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  a lot of people do not like the game but the other people think its a great.
  i am one of the people that love the game. the game play is good the storyline is ok the sword play 
 is relly fun. it is a firsy pearson swordswinging game witch is very differnt from other rpgs. it 
 is a very unushual game and very fun but some people just seam to hate it. i think it is realy fun 
 thought. if you like first person games i think you should give this a try. the grafics are sort 
 of cartunish though so that might be one of the resons people dont like it. i think you should play 
 this game if you like rpg games or the dragon quest serise.
  one thing that is fun to do is just hit arrows back at them witch is very fun. you can do the same 
 with some spells .some of the bosses are very fun to kill some are just plane anoying. so i think 
 you should rent it first befor you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraCell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Swords.. is a simple and short RPG experience. I was interested in picking up this 
 game cause it reminded me of Shining of the Holy Ark. (I get to more on that in a sec.)
  
  Basically in this game your Wiimote is your sword. You swing the Wiimote Left to Right, Right to 
 Left, upward, and Downward.... This is your basic sword attack on enemies. Mind you that this is 
 done on first person perspective. Your Magic Sword attack as I call it.. you gotta draw a circle 
 or do a combo of slashes to activite it.. or something to that degree. Which is pretty fun to do 
 in my opinion.
  
  Being that this game displays itself in First Person Perspective.. so you don't see the character 
 your playing as... but you do see your party members show up on screen dishing out their attacks. 
 This remind me of Shining of the Holy Ark on the Saturn. I loved playing that game... I only wish 
 that this game Dragon Quest Sword would be as epic as Shining of the Holy Ark was.
  Wish you can travel to more than one town.. solving things as you go along. This is my major problem 
 with this game...
  
  It's too short! But don't take that as a complete bad thing tho. Yes, I wish the game would have 
 had more... but at least there are some things to do after you've beat the game.. like... forging 
 more powerful swords, finding more powerful armor.. and little bits here and there. For those of 
 you looking for an epic game like Shining of the Holy Ark.. you won't find that here... but it's 
 a nice simple RPG to get into. Give it a rental at least.. it's not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game has all the old school sound effects and enemies, which was great fun, as I remember 
 playing all the old Dragon Warrior games for my NES. 
  
  I was able to beat this game without too much difficulty, and didn't spend too much time working 
 on the extras or leveling. The game was fun, but just not that much fun. You get several different 
 partners, but they are never really that helpful to you throughout each chapter. Part of the problem 
 was that swinging your sword exactly how you wanted was something of a problem for me. It was fun, 
 not too tiring, but you would attempt a horizontal swing and end up going diagonal and missing 
 enemies you were aiming for. The idea was great, but it wasn't responsive enough to capture your 
 movements. A fun game, worth having if you love the series, but a bit short. Hopefully we can expect 
 more games from this series on the Wii, but with more of an adult content and a longer gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Swords: The Masked Queen and the Tower of Mirrors (whoa that's a long title for a 
 game, I'm never writing the whole thing out again) is about a young boy named (insert name here) . 
 Yes, you have to input your own name. This means you can safely assume that he's going to be one 
 of those "silent" heroes, can't get enough of them. I wonder why developers choose to have silent 
 heroes in their games; maybe they can't find any good voice actors these days, hahahaha! Anyway 
 back to the plot. You, the hero, and your allies must take up arms against the forces of EVIL, 
 and prevent the destruction of the world. Yet another "save the world" type game, whoopdeedoo!!! 
 The story in this game is as exciting as a chewed up shoe in a toilet bowl. If you're looking for 
 a game with a hard hitting story, you won't find it here!
  
  DQSTMQATTOM (wow the acronym for this game is long, I think I'll just stick to DQS, Dragon Quest 
 Swords) presents somewhat innovative game play. In the game you use your wii remote as a sword. 
 Throughout the game you will basically hack and slash your way through hordes of enemies, fight 
 a boss, and repeat the process until either you get bored, or you beat the game, whichever comes 
 first. Just think of DQS like one of those classic arcade gun-con shooters such as House of the 
 Dead or Time Crisis; minus the gun-type gameplay, the zombies, the cover-system, and. the fun. 
 Never mind DQS is nothing like those classic gun-con shooters. When you're fighting enemies, a 
 tiny bit of strategy is involved. You can't just go swinging your wii remote and expect to kill 
 something (which BTW I often do) ; you have to have a balance between blocking attacks with your 
 shield, and attacking with your sword. Sure the whole concept is great, but the way the concept 
 is delivered in the game is TERRIBLE. When you try to slash an enemy in a certain direction, your 
 wii remote decides to have a puny brain of its own and registers the slash going the other way. 
 This is a very crucial part of the game. Why? Cus when you need to deflect attacks with your blade, 
 you CAN'T, because the wii remote doesn't want to register your attacks correctly. It's like trying 
 to teach a rock to complete a 100 mile marathon; IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN!!! When a game's concept 
 is flushed down the toilet, the entire game is flushed down the toilet. The developers should have 
 used guns instead of swords, I'm just saying
  
  DQS is a game that's filled with color, lush, and vibrant visuals. Now that's what I would have 
 said if this were a last-gen game, but it's NOT! Now don't get me wrong, the game doesn't look 
 half bad, but the visuals could have been well.. better. I know it's on the Wii, but still, Super 
 Mario Galaxy looks better than Super Mario Sunshine. So why couldn't DQS look better than Dragon 
 Quest VIII on the Playstation 2? The level designs within the game are uninspired, well except 
 the town. The levels just look sooooooooooooooooo boooooooooooring!!!! Whenever I enter a new level 
 I want to get it over with as soon as possible. Why? Cus my eyes are constantly burning from the 
 severe lack of great level designs. The environments look completely the same no matter how far 
 you venture into the level. The character designs on the other hand are done well; just what you'd 
 expect from the artists of Dragonball Z. 
  
  Bad voice actors. That's all I have to say, but for your convenience, I'll explain why. Everyone 
 in the game just feels like they have to have an ridiculously, annoying accent, and you know what, 
 BULLSHOT!!! When the characters do get to talk, I quickly read the text they're going to say, and 
 I skip the actual voice acting. Their accents. they're just so. HORRID!!! When the characters 
 talk I feel like I want to chop off my ears, put them in a grinder, then flush'em down a toilet. 
 Yeah, it's that bad. The in-game music was pretty good though. If you've enjoyed listening to the 
 music in other Dragon Quest games then you'll love listening to the music in this game. 
  
  Overall: Dragon Quest Swords had the potential to be a great game. It had many interesting ideas, 
 ex. first person swordplay, but in the end it just wasn't delivered well. Hopefully Square Enix 
 will learn from their mistakes in this game when developing the next Dragon Quest Swords; assuming 
 there will be a next one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkaruki
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i thought it was awesome but after that it went a bit downhill then 
 i let go of it for a little while and i later decided to finish it and it surprised me by somehow 
 re-gaining all the glory it once had at the beginning 
  but it took a bit of my patience to understand everything in it (not to mention where you save) 
 but it worked itself out eventually my only really bad regard on it was the terrible voice acting, 
 they tried to make it sound like old English but most of it just sounded like an essay from a 7 
 year old but not all of it. The only other thing to complain about would be your Character's development 
 because generally the only thing that goes up is your HP. This is worth buying if you're wondering 
 what to get for that Wii because you already have all the games you think are good but only if 
 you're an RPG fan but certainly not a #1 choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeUchihaCMF
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  bein ga loyal "dragon quest" series fan i have purchased this game hoping for an immersive sotry 
 with a new twist on combat in the series. well, as most ppl wiht half a brain can see that the 
 combat has taken to a new level but, as for the story a total letdown. thi sis the sotry the queend 
 is sick, she leaves the caslte, her son and u go after her, she has a mask on, u get mor eppl in 
 ur partry, ther's a tower with mirros on it, a evil guy is resurrected. big whoop we've all seen 
 games with storylines like this (only this game takes the story to an all time low.) SQUARE ENIX 
 tries to make up with the shallow boring storyline with a new combat system. now dont get me wrong 
 the combat is fun (at least for a while until u finally figure it out that the combat is dull and 
 repetitive.) i like games where u can temper and upgrade weapons idk y it just a thing i like. 
 the weapons dont have may attributes fire, lightning, ice and, shadow. now thats just dissapointing. 
 only 4 attributes. what about earth, water, air, and the other elements of nature. of the dragon 
 quest series my favorite has been "dragon quest VIII: the legend of the cursed king" now that a 
 good game. it had a fnatastic storyline, a variety of monsters, bonus features, optional side quests, 
 and its a game that takes up a good amount of time to complete, so it is a good investment, since 
 it wont b a waste of money. i hate games that u buy and beat them in like 1 or 2 days after buying 
 it those r a waste of money. 
  
  P. S. my friend robbie says "dragon quest swords: the masked queen and the tower of mirrors is awesome."
 
  
  ok dont know wat he's been smoking but anyway... hope u liked my review. 
  also this is a mesage to any and all maplers who read this. my name is Sasukeuchiahcmf3 ima a lvl 
 20 warroir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DotHacck
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was a total letdown to me. I was excited for this game to come out, but it just was a 
 super dispointment. The story was weak and SUPER short, the climax was weak, and the only character 
 I liked was the girl, ahah. The gameplay was pretty fun and catchy a fresh at first, but it gets 
 old really fast. The controls suck, and you get no freedom to move anywhere you please. It's basically 
 a game witha one track mind, and it's really boring. Overall, this game is just not worth buying 
 at all, you can rent it, but you'll be bored after an hour or two.
  
  I paid 49.99$ for this game, and it should actually be worth 15.99$, that's how short and uninspired 
 this game is. I don't recommend this game to any Dragon Quest lovers, because you will be very 
 dissapointed.
  
  I give this game 5.0, because I like the graphics, the creative at first gameply, and the cute 
 monsters you fight. That's what saved the game, the story and characters on the other hand, no 
 no no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Anyone remember Dragon Quest VIII? I sure do. Yep, Dragon Quest VIII cursed the homes of many back 
 in 2005. You had to break the curse of the castle, and the King and Princess. You were the Hero! 
 You went on a long journey, with heaps of surprises in it's brilliant plot and a lot of addiction 
 which kept you playing for well over 100 hours! Dragon Quest VIII had simply everything an RPG 
 needed. Every part of the masterpiece had something you'd love. And it remains to this day, one 
 of the best PlayStation 2 games ever released.
  
  Now, you were probably wondering why I was talking about Dragon Quest VIII. It's a fine example 
 of what a Dragon Quest game (or any RPG) should be like. Don't get the wrong idea though, Dragon 
 Quest Swords is a pretty decent game... there are just a few things it lacks. I thought that it 
 could've had some improvements for it to be a bit better.
  
  It all begins in the Kingdom of Avalonia, five years after the defeat of Xiphos. The hero turns 
 sixteen and is ready to become a man, and take his father Claymore's place as a great warrior. 
 When attempting to meet the Queen, the Hero finds out about the Queen's absence and hurries on 
 through the forest with the Queen's son; Prince Anlace, where they find the queen with the Mask; 
 Hence the first part of the subtitle "The Masked Queen". There, they meet a girl who kind of resembles 
 Jessica from DQ8, Fleurette. After these two join your Dragon Quest, so does Claymore. These four 
 go and find out what the Queen is up to and eventually venture through the "Tower of Mirrors". 
 The story is very shallow, and isn't very impressive compared to many epic storylines in RPGs.
 
  
  At times, the gameplay can be pretty good. Then again, at others, you could find that it needs 
 some improvement. The battle system works well, and makes very good use of the Wii Remote, though 
 it would've been a bit cooler if you could use the nunchuk as well. The game is entirely in First-Person, 
 like the battles in the older Dragon Quest games. The Wii remote resembles your legendary sword 
 and you can slash enemies. You can slash upwards, downwards, to the left, to the right, diagonally, 
 and also thrust your sword into the enemy. You can also guard with your shield by pressing B. This 
 battle system is very cool, and is by far the highlight of this game. You also have allies, but 
 unfortunately you can only go with one ally at a time. Allies have very limited spells, barely 
 attack and can only get experience when you have them in your party. This is one of the many things 
 that could've been improved. Enemies can be pretty annoying at times. The encounters are not random, 
 and you eventually find out that they only appear at certain points. So if you run around in one 
 spot for about five minutes, you'll find that there will be no encounters until you reach certain 
 points. Also when fighting enemies, because you wield a sword, you can only attack in short range. 
 Unfortunately, there are so many times when enemies appear several metres away from you, so you 
 have to wait until you can counter attack their long-range attacks or when they move closer towards 
 you. You also find that enemies defend a lot, so you have to wait a while until they stop defending. 
 Enemies also flee a lot, sometimes you never have the chance to kill them.
  
  There is also a new feature in battles, named the "Master Stroke". This is very similar to Limit 
 Breaks from the Final Fantasy series, and it can only be used when the gauge under your HP is at 
 100%. When using the Master Stroke, you can use certain techniques using the Wii Remote. Examples 
 include shaking the remote, raising it upward, or writing repetitive figures of eight. You can 
 get new strokes by getting new weapons. There's also a little weapon synthesis feature which allows 
 you to get new and improved weapons.
  
  As for outside of battle, movement is very limited. When you're in the town, you can move normally, 
 except not on the outer grass or anything similar. The world map is nothing like previous DQ games, 
 and instead is just a point and click map. Click on a certain place, and you're there. When outside 
 of town, movement is limited to forward and backward, kind of like a rail-shooter where you can 
 actually choose when to move. There are also those times when you get the option of going left 
 or right, like a "Choose Your Own Path book". Sometimes you can go the wrong way, and sometimes 
 you can find a route which takes you to treasure. But usually, it doesn't matter which path you 
 choose.
  
  There are a few mini-games in Dragon Quest Swords which might not be very interesting, but are 
 still some side-things to do if you want to for some reason play this game to death. The mini-games 
 even have multiplayer. Up to 4 people can play at once. There are also a few optional bosses after 
 the main story has been beaten. Aside these little side-quests, the main story is over very quickly. 
 It is about 8-10 hours, which is terribly short for an RPG.
  
  The sound has everything you'd expect in a Dragon Quest game. Many of the tracks you've probably 
 heard already from Dragon Quest VIII. Many of these tracks include the Opening theme, the File 
 select, the Pub, the Church and the victory ring. The new tunes are not very impressive, and could 
 have been so much better. It seems as though the composer was slacking off when making this one.
 
  
  Dragon Quest Swords feels as though it was one of those games that could've been worked on a bit 
 more. It would've been a better game as a launch title for the Nintendo Wii, but being released 
 this late? I don't think so. It is still a good game, and there are moments when you'll enjoy it... but 
 still a lot of aspects which needed improvements. So, it's not just Final Fantasy spin-offs that 
 let you down.... It's Square Enix spin-offs in general.
  6.8/10
  
  RENT FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhippi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Nice game Dragon Quest just keeps making games better. Nice new weapons and characters. Always 
 nice to have a new role. Can not wait until I get to buy the game. Where I live you can not get 
 one because they are always off the shelves. I can not wait until they come out with the next game 
 in this wonderful and addicting series. A nice catchy name too. nice new name choices too. Nice 
 moves and new power stroke. I like the way they incorporated the wii controller's movement with 
 the role. I do look forward for them too make it a little more realistic. I just wish that the 
 other character's were able to be customized more. The little you could customize them was not 
 to magnificent or marvelous though. The hero has a quite a bit of customization but it did not 
 make up for for the other characters lack of customization. Over all this game pleased me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SARGE3D
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  i got this yesterday too, man even though the story line is a bit long, after you get the hang 
 of it its a Great game to play. i played for 5 hours , and plan to continue to get my levels up. 
 i like the 360: panoramic view, the sword fighting is just wonderful, of course you do need to 
 go thru training. Yet all in all, it a suoer game t oplay, even kids will like it. i like paly 
 the Tennis game on the Wii sports. well palying this is like taht but you have better move. i like 
 the way you can use you cross directional so tou can see around the rooms easy. when it comes to 
 fighting, watch out you could getBanged up and die, be sure to read manul before you play, it always 
 helps.
  
  Sarge3D
  
  and i repeat, don't miss out on this gmae, i sort of tend to ignore other reviews about a game 
 unless i try it first. like the paul simon song, one man; s ceiling is another man's floor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  the game is so good i would never stop playing it the way the game was made was great but i would 
 have really liked it if you would be able to use the nunchuck as a shield but its fine by me im 
 sure this game would be liked by many players because they bring you a good style to play like 
 how you swing your sword in many ways it may be right that out on the field you can only walk forward 
 or backward but it is fine in town you can buy items you can find materials to make many weapons 
 you can trade medals for weapons and sometimes helpful items you can find secrets you can keep 
 training to become more good and play with a series of new party members this game is amazing i 
 think it may be one of the greatest in the series dragon quest swords has a good story combined 
 with great game play to bring you perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Based on the Japanese electronic toy titled Kenshin Dragon Quest, Dragon Quest Swords is a unique 
 new game for the Nintendo Wii. While not the typical role-playing affair that the Dragon Quest 
 series has to offer, Swords does have some interesting new gameplay ideas, if players can first 
 suffer through a handful of game-hindering flaws.
  
  Story wise, Dragon Quest Swords doesn't tread any new ground at all. A young voiceless hero and 
 son of a greater hero awakens to realize that he has is now of age to be considered a warrior in 
 his town. And like clockwork, a dire situation arises that calls for some serious fighting, so 
 who better to send than the barely of age son of a great hero, right? That game clich is as old 
 as time, but the Dragon Quest series has never really been keen on reinventing something that it 
 has already perfected throughout the years.
  
  This is especially obvious with the characters of the game. For players that enjoyed Dragon Quest 
 VIII, the good news is that you'll be playing and interacting with characters that might as well 
 be relatives. Need proof? Take the bandana off the head of Dragon Quest VIII's main character and 
 you've got Swords' lead, change the hair color of Angelo and you've got Anlance, and make Jessica 
 a blond with a French accent and you've got the game's token female, Fleurette. Even the supporting 
 characters and monsters are all reused, which isn't necessarily a bad thing since Dragon Quest 
 is more about tradition and nostalgia than re-envisioning, but players looking for something new 
 may find the game too close to its previous predecessors.
  
  But like mentioned earlier, one thing that players will find new with this Dragon Quest installment 
 is the way it is played. Instead of a classic turn based fighting system, the game uses the Wii's 
 remote as a sword and shield. Selecting and watching attacks are a thing of the past as the controller 
 allows players to swing it across the screen to attack enemies in real-time. Swinging downward 
 will create a downward strike, while slashing horizontally across the screen with naturally slash 
 any enemies standing in a row. Just think of it as a much improved Red Steel sword system, but 
 not quite perfected as most players would like.
  
  The gameplay is fast and fun, but for some reason the programmers at Square Enix decided it best 
 to not include Nunchuck controller support, which almost cripples the game. Instead of mapping 
 character movements and shield usage to the Nunchuck, players are required to move around town 
 with the d-pad and put the shield up with the same device used as a sword. It can be a bit disorienting, 
 especially with battles that require fast decisions and movements that require quick turning.
 
  
  Once players get accustomed to the severely neutered controls, they'll be out and about in one 
 of a handful of locales, where gamers will soon realize the next big problem with the game. Instead 
 of a free-roaming, quest-based structure, Swords is simplified to an on-rails, hack-and-slash fest. 
 The B button and down arrow on the Wiimote moves the character forward and backwards along the 
 same linear path until players are occasionally interrupted by random battles. This structure feels 
 a lot like an arcade game with players being able to return for high scores, but the ability to 
 level up, earn money for better weapons, and search for secrets on one of many numerous paths makes 
 the game a bit more suitable for multiple plays.
  
  All in all, Dragon Quest Swords has many good and bad things to offer gamers. The game can be genuinely 
 fun with decent visuals, music, and a talented voice cast, but it starts to backslide when the 
 monotony sets in with its game-hindering designs.
  
  As soon as hardcore Dragon Quest fans and newbies alike realize this, or that the game takes about 
 as long to beat as it does to say the entire title aloud, they'll quickly be sending it back to 
 rental stores or laying it aside in preparation for the oncoming apocalypse of Super Smash Bros. 
 Braw on March 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Swords on the Wii mixes the new technology of the Wii with old school RPG gameplay. 
 While they don't mix to form the perfect game, the game is in no way terrible. The combat is easily 
 the best thing in Dragon Quest Swords. The motion sensative combat works very well and it is quite 
 fun. With the Wii remote you slash at the screen and your strikes transfer very accurately on whichever 
 monster you are fighting. You have to aim your shield to block incoming attacks and time your sowd 
 strikes well to lob projectiles that your enemies throw at you right back at them. At the end of 
 the day, the combat in Dragon Quest Swords is one of the most rewarding things to be found in the 
 game.
  
  When you are not in combat though, this is when the game suffers. The dungeons are so straightforward 
 and to the point that that you will get bored quite fast as there are no ways to explore since 
 you can walk forward or backwards, and occasionally to the left or to the right, when there is 
 a division in the road.
  
  However, this is nice when you are visiting the many towns that can be found i the game. The controls 
 have you using the D-Pad to look around in a first person persepecive, and you use the B button 
 to walk forward. I can totally see that the developers wanted to keep the controls simple by leaving 
 them all to one hand, but it doesn't work as well as they had hoped.
  
  The game's voice-overs are good for some laughs. The British accents shared by the characters will 
 giv eyou some chuckles here and there or it will annoy you to death, it really just depends what 
 grinds your gears and what doesnt. 
  
  Ultimately the game feels like an old-fashioned NES game as when you are in town it literally feels 
 like in order to figure out what you need to do next you need to talk to every single person in 
 the town. Another way that it feels like an old NES game is the basic RPG storyline and the menus 
 can be annoying at times. While fans of the older RPG's won't find much appeal in this game, fans 
 of the older RPG's will find quite a few redeeming qualities in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stringanime
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder what an RPG would be like in the ARCADES? No? Me niether, but that is what "Dragon 
 Quest Swords" feels like. I am not a RPG fan, I would play "Gunstar Heroes" or "House of The Dead" 
 over any RPG anyday, but "Dragon Quest Swords" is the first Dragon Quest game that interrested 
 me enough to buy it. This is a major leap away from tradition for Square Enix, but I think DQS 
 reflects the innovative effect that Nintendo Wii is having on even the most sequal driven companies.
 
  
  There are some issues with Slash detection, but in RPGs don't you usually have to take a few hits 
 and make a few misses? This is all forgiven because the Design is so cool. You have a central Town 
 that is your gateway to all the levels you unlock. You buy supplies and chit chat with the locals 
 and play a couple multi-player mini-games as well as forword the plot. 
  
  The game is called "Swords" for a reason, and no it isn't because you wiggle the Wiimote like a 
 sword. You start off with a simple Bronze sword and the Smithy in town only sells Bronze swords. 
 So you can stock up on all the Bronze swords you like because, for a fee, he will temper the Bronze 
 sword into an Iron sword, and the Iron sword can be tempered into one of three different kinds 
 of Swords that require ingrediants to make specific upgrades which are found on the field of battle. 
 So you will spend most of the time replaying missions to gather ingrediants to Temper your Swords 
 into Electric, Fire, or Ice tricked out shweaponry. 
  
  Each one of the branching types of swords can be upgraded into more powerful versions that have 
 different Special attacks. You get a nice close-up of the sword equiped when you unsheath it before 
 slaughtering some monsters. Upgrading them is actually very fun and important to do so your attacks 
 are powerful enough to make the next mission doable without having to stuff your little anime face 
 with herbs in the heat of battle.
  
  The nice thing about replaying missions is that you can pick any one of your companions (or none) 
 to bring them along to fight side by side with you as they level up with you. Also, you can put 
 your buddy on auto pilot and he/she will fight on their own based on whether you set them to "Fight 
 wisely" or go Bannannas. The way the companions talk to you after the battle is kinda "cheer leader-esque." 
 Make your own judgement call whether that is a good thing or bad. I don't mind it.
  
  The game is colorful and puts some nice visual lighting effects, Bump mapping, Reflection and water. 
 The Monsters, while cute in a way, have funny taunts and are even funnier as you replay missions 
 and they have new stuff to say like saying it is their destiny to eventually defeat you, even though 
 you will have more powerful weapons and stats.
  
  I don't think this game supplies the typical expectation which will send fans screaming into the 
 perverbial hills, but as for me, a non-RPG fan and lover of the peculiar, that is a good thing. 
 Nice work Square Enix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  I like what Square Enix is going for in this title, and it's certainly a great example of a game 
 experience you can only get from the Wii. However, the game does come with a few flaws that relegate 
 it to good, not great.
  
  The hook for this delightfully old school RPG is the real-time, motion controlled battles. You 
 use the Wii remote to set a target point on the screen and then use a variety of slashing motions 
 to take down the bad guys. While this is moderately well-executed and succeeds on some fronts, 
 like many Wii games, it leaves much to be desired.
  
  For example, I like the fact that direction of swing has a strategic element. For example, if your 
 target has a shield and you swing starting from his shield side, he'll most likely block the shot. 
 On the other hand, if you strike from above you might bypass his shield entirely. What I don't 
 like is that the sensitivity is entirely too picky, which will leave you flailing your arms wildly 
 without effect in many cases.
  
  As for the story, Square was shooting for a very basic, entry-level RPG. Don't expect this to be 
 on par with any of the heavy-hitting RPGs, but that's not meant as a negative. The story is 100% 
 what you'd expect from a Dragon Quest title and the characters are charming.
  
  The graphics, on the other hand, are downright poor- even for the Wii. If the world were a sandbox 
 environment I would understand, but since exploration outside of town takes place on rails, I really 
 expected more. And speaking of exploration, be prepared to do it all with the D-pad, no nunchuck.
 
  
  Back to the positive, I really loved the decision to sprinkle in some sound effects from the original 
 Dragon Quest. I grinned when I heard the old familiar "clip-clop" of my character climbing stairs.
 
  
  Overall I recommend this game, albeit possibly more as a rental than a purchase. Anyone looking 
 for some nostalgia with an innovative mechanic mixed in really should at least take it for a test 
 drive. If you approach the game expecting a few short hours of light, classic RPG fun, you'll get 
 exactly what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haaaisme
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  I am sorry to say but i am losing all hope for Square Enix. One by one they are destroying the 
 greatest RPG series' ever made. It is not the new hack and slash concept. Its new and innovatIve. 
 The graphics are excellent and look the part. Mostly the problem are in the controls and the fact 
 that this is nothing than a pretty arcade game. They have taken out the freedom and exploration. 
 Real RPG's give you control of your character and the freedom to choose where to proceed next. 
 The forced path map travel is terrible. Why bother using the directional pad. In fact, why didn't 
 they make use of the Wii analog stick. The movement in town is awkward and clumsy. I refuse to 
 believe that this is true Dragon Quest game. I'm begining to think the series will never be the 
 same again and another of my favorites is lost forever. Hasn't Square ever heard the saying "If 
 its not broke DON'T FIX IT". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briancujo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely Dragon Quest no doubt about that. The graphics are really good for the 
 Wii, and sound is what you would expect from Dragon Quest. I'm about 4 hours in so I can't comment 
 on the ending yet but for what I've played so far seems very dumbed down. The whole game can be 
 navigated with just the wiimote (no nun chuck) . The fighting is all about waving the wiimote around 
 in certain directions to form different slashes and cuts. The hero is the only party member that 
 you really get to fully control as well, the other characters are limited to using attacking and 
 healing magic and can't be outfitted with any equipment that's only done for the hero. The fighting 
 also gets to be pretty tiring on the arm and elbow after a while to the point were I had to stop 
 for a few! Now with all this being said if you like Dragon Quest and don't expect a fully explorable 
 world (this game only lets you search on a set path) than this game is a lot of fun. I really loved 
 DQ8 for PS2 and that's the real reason I think that this review sounds negative I was looking for 
 another experience like that and this is not that. It is however very good for what it is a easier, 
 friendlier DQ game for gamers of all levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj288
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Definitely a nice addition to the DQ collection. A different vantage of a great series. While it's 
 not a pure RPG, the game still holds its own.
  
  Great animation and voice acting. The characters are quite memorable. The sword action for the 
 most part is responsive. The environments are very well done. Also, some interesting mini-games.
 
  
  While the main storyline may not be too long (~7 - 10 hours depending on how much you have collected) , 
 there is plenty to do after beating the main storyline. Defeating the extra bosses and collecting 
 all of the equipment can easily double or triple the amount of time you've invested in the game. 
 Also, there's even another mode after you've beaten the game "twice." 
  
  If you enjoy collecting everything in a game, then I'd say you'd be hardpressed to rent this game 
 unless you devote a lot of time to it. Also, why rush through a great game without getting the 
 full effect.
  
  Highly recommend this game. One of the top games on the Wii right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiforever42
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest The Masked Queen and the Tower of Mirrors Keeps all the monsters and action of its 
 older Dragon Quest games But your the one fighting not your commands which is a fun change of pace. 
 If You were into Dragon Quest for the spells I can't recommend this game Because you don't learn 
 spell you just swing your sword and leard Blade techniques but you allies use and learn magic but 
 It just doesn't satisfy like the old games when you burned the monsters. This Game is able to Work 
 monsters into the game and they even have specific postions of power but these are mostly the bosses. 
 The plot follows the Dragon Quest style nice because it has many historic sounding locations and 
 even a twist or two. All in all I liked this game And if you want to follow Dragon Quest story 
 lines and be an Awsome Sword dude I highly recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is super fun! First off when you start in the game i didn't like it because i was being 
 too spectical. In the beginning you practice with this old man and the sound of the sword didn't 
 sound right but after that it changes. The dialog and acting was good but ill have to admit at 
 points it was very cheesy. 
  I also don't like how in the village for example walking down a flight of stairs you cant do it 
 with out it loading and warping you to the end, i mean you get half way and it warps you. Then 
 they try to make the walking noise which sounds like the tv is getting static. 
  Surpassing that the game is really cool and fun, the storyline is actually really fun. On missions 
 you hold the up arrow to proceed and then you get attacked. So you swing the controller in different 
 ways which in some cases its hard to do so you have to target the enemy. Not a bad thing, adds 
 more difficulty to the game. I actually like how they didn't add the nun chuck because it was different 
 still no reason why they couldn't add the option.
  Another problem is when you walk in the room the characters will pop up in front of you.
  
 
  I Think this was a very small step but hopefully with all the people that bought the game or the 
 many the have rented they will proceed and take another step double the size and make another one 
 like this but...
  
  1. take out the cheesyness and cut back on the accent if they could because i find it to be a little 
 annoying. 
  2. add the nun-chuck option in there.
  3. make it a long game around 18 - 30 hours.
  4. make frame rate better
  5. better graphics
 
  6. more crazy enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Its great to see the game world evolve and change, to grow before your very eyes, somthing that 
 I've been privlaged to witness throught my whole life since the first NES.
  
  Dragon Quest has always been a classic, and its great to see that its made its way even onto the 
 Wii, forging itself into the future of gaming, but sadly its doing it at a slow pace. DQS is a 
 very interesting game but is unfortunatly a bit shallow compaired to the rest of the DQ series.
 
  
  The game is rather stright forward, and the gameplay follows that trend very well. This is a blessing 
 and curse for the game as a whole, because its easy to pickup and just play it for an hour or so 
 but at the same time if you grind away and burn the midnight oil you'll find yourself wishing for 
 more.
  
  As you've read in previews and offical reviews you swing the Wiimote like a sword slaying numerious 
 beasties all in glorious first person. You even get to push the be button and hold up a sheild 
 to block enemy attacks, which is actualy very cool. The combat system is basic but its probably 
 the major focus of the game, and its deffently well done and solid. The downside is outside of 
 combat the game lacks in all other areas.
  
  The world as a whole is one big bath, even the town which is made to feel like its open is generaly 
 a path with many areas (as in off the pathway) that you just can't go to. The town is also extreamly 
 basic which is very sad and disapointing, if your going to have one town in the whole game then 
 it'd better be amazing. In this case its so patheticly small I could consider it a military outpost 
 rather than a town. You've got a collection of shops, wepons, armor, iteams a church, castle, your 
 house, and some random spots where minigames and odd iteam collection happens. Other than that 
 the town is empty and lifeless. Its sad because even one of the characters who finds her way into 
 your house mentiones that she knew it was yours because "you wouldn't live in a shop or church"... 
 yep even the characters in this world realise that there is NO other house in the town other than 
 yours... so where does this kindom live?!?
  
  Aside from the lack of a solid village, the downers continue in the form of the dongeons. They 
 are basicaly paths that you can walk up and down (forward and back) but you can't turn your view 
 or go in any other direction other than when you reach a fork in the road. Every now and then you'll 
 find a rock that you can move and find some nice treasure, or a cheast filled with better treasure, 
 but sadly the game is one big path you walk down.
  
  The graphics are nice and pleasent but sadly could have been done better. Since the player is only 
 able to see what is infront of them I'm amazed they didn't make it stunning! Instead you get a 
 nice 3D anime style world, but even then I've played PS2 games that have looked nicer.
  
  All in all I feel that DQS is an average game, it saves itself from the doom of being crud because 
 of its very interesting combat system. DQS is almost like a foundation, or a test on SquareEnix's 
 part to see what they "could" do on the Wii, almost like a tech demo for the Wii's RPG possabilites. 
 Hopefuly when DQS2 comes out you can move in 360 dagrees in the dungeons, have the nunchuck so 
 you can even look up, down and all around and even have the ability to have more than one party... 
 possibly co-op. Also I'd hope DQS2 has more content, and a world that feels worthy of the Dragon 
 Quest name.
  
  Overall if your looking for a new experience on your Wii and you have money to burn go for DQS, 
 but if you just want a fun quick RPG then I'd rent it first... heck you may beat it before you 
 even decide to buy it. Overall its just a "good" game and hopefuly leads SquareEnix down a path 
 of making "great" games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arline6
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Beautiful and well drawn. Everything in 3D. Flawless scenery from the grass to the trees.
 
  
  Gameplay: Simple to understand. Just use your Wii Remote as your sword. You move around with Wii 
 Remote's control pad. You can talk guards and townspeople. Save at the church is your save point.
 
  
  Characters: You play as the Son of swordmaster who vanish the evil 5 years ago. Other characters 
 are your support and they has skills like healing and attacking magic. Example, Heal magic to heal 
 your health. 
  
  Story: Entire game are in chapters like a book. Each chapter you have to accompany other character 
 to a certain location. It is your choice to chose you want to accompany them.
  
  Monsters are original from Dragon Quest Series.
  
  Overall: Excellent work and easy to understand 
 controls. Totally flawless game. I recommend it for any Dragon Quest fans or anyone with Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawlx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  ok a lot of people said that this game sucks but this game is the best rpg on wii to the date.
 
  
  Let me begin:
  Dragon quest swords the masked queen and the tower of mirrors is a role playing game for the wii 
 and uses the wii remote like a sword and shield (something very very cool) You will walk and slash 
 some some enemies for exp , gold and items. Youcan attack with vertical, horizontal, diagonal, 
 and stabbing actions.
  
  The best thing are the master strokes that are like the special atack of your character you may 
 have to complete you power gauge and the perform your master stroke with the movements that are 
 show in that moment.
  
  There are lots of swords ,some are easy to get other are HARD to get. Your shield can break but 
 you can get some good shields that you can resist more hits.
  
  Of course the equipment is very cool you can have armor, shield, sword and more things that increase 
 your power .
  
  The monster are easy to beat if you know then but they can beat you quickly is you stand there 
 thinkin you strategy. The boss fights are hard if you are not prepared so equip yourself with the 
 best things and have curative items.
  
  The inventory have variety of items like metals, materials , herbs, and more.
  
  Maybe the problem 
 for much people is that the game is not so long but if you want to get ALL in the game will take 
 you a LOT of time.
  
  This version have more things like 4 hidden bosses and a playback mode.
  
  For me this game 
 is one of the best.
  I recomend this game to all rpg fans and dragon quest fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobrobill
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  This is a game that one has to do , do and do again. The voicings are good as is the story line. 
 The wii remote controls work well and the menus are laid out very well. Starting out. things go 
 very well with the abilities at hand. As one progress's things get a bit tough because in order 
 to proceed it requires that one builds up the abilities and upgrading equipment. Upgrades are very 
 expensive. This is where the do and re-do's come in play. When coins are needed they are are hard 
 to find, but later on when coins are plentiful items needed to upgrade are scarce. The movement 
 of the character is limited to going forward or backing up during exploration of the areas, but 
 in the town one can turn left and right. Nunchuk usage included for turning would have been nice 
 as the use of the forward button on the main controller is awkward. There are side games to play 
 but they are very hard to complete at the highest level unless one has a perfect mastery of eye 
 and hand coordination. Not having great eye to hand coordination I have yet to achieve a S grade 
 for all the areas even after upgrading and playing all of the areas more than once. The ability 
 to change your companions focus comes in very handy at times. There are many different available 
 build up abilities. During battle it takes too long for the MP to build back up for re-use so on 
 strong characters one has to block a lot of major hits which at times are just too much to handle. 
 One will spend a lot of time building up abilities by do, do and do again. This is a good third 
 person game. The game is rather short to complete but it has ccontinuation after completion, which 
 I managed to do except for one boss character that runs away every time I engage it. I am a slow 
 player and managed to complete the main game in under 35 hours. At this point I have completed 
 all but one of the boss fights after completion and am not sure if the game continues after this 
 point except to go get higher grades in each area.
  
  I just don't understand why programmers build games that don't have the play factor of games like 
 Zelda and Mario Galaxy on the Wii system. I also don't understand why they also insist on playing 
 in such a small play field when games like Zelda and Mario have such vast one's by comparison. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patch5129
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  I like the Controls with the sword swinging, its definatly not a "Just swing swing and swing some 
 more, and youll hit everything" you need to take care to aim where you are slashing. 
  
  The villians arent hard, just some are annoying, like the archers, and being poisoned, but youll 
 find that in every fanatasy game.
  
  Getting money to upgrade and purchace weapons isnt too hard, just some of the items seem a tad 
 bit exspensive, especially for starting out. As for losing half of what I collected on that quest 
 when i die, well thats going to get worse as I go on. 
  
  The coice acting isnt bad at all, the accents as a whole are annoying, but these dont seem as bad 
 as other games.
  
  The only truly bad issue is the movement controlls, you use the D-pad instead of the nunchuck, 
 which I can see why, they are trying to make the game more simple, but simplicity is complexity, 
 and in this case, it doesnt help, I would have much rather use the nunchuck. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
