-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/dragonballzbudokaitenkaichi2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dozens of playable characters.
 Action can be flashy.
 Lengthy story mode explores almost all of the Dragon Ball mythos.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clunky controls, especially using the Wii remote.
 Camera still problematic.
 Story mode is repetitive, poorly told.
 Very little functional uniqueness for each character.
 Voice actors sound bored.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,008 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Spike
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Nov 15, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Burdened by clumsy controls and predictable artificial intelligence, Tenkaichi 2 is a game that 
 can be loved only by forgiving DBZ fans. 

  Though Atari seemed to have established a pretty comfortable rhythm with the first three Dragon 
 Ball Z: Budokai fighting games, it chose to shake things up with last year's spin-off, Dragon Ball 
 Z: Budokai Tenkaichi. It strayed from the conventional fighting game format in favor of a third-person 
 perspective and more-free-roaming action, and the fighting felt a bit more technical, though not 
 necessarily any deeper. Its newly released sequel does little to address the clunky, somewhat limited 
 combat of the original, though a wealth of playable characters all but ensures that this game will 
 get its hooks into fans eager to fight as their favorite Dragon Ball Z and Dragon Ball GT characters. 

          You'll punch so many dudes through mountains and buildings that it loses its novelty pretty 
 quickly.     

  Like its predecessor, Tenkaichi 2 is a fighter that's played from a behind-the-back perspective. 
 You're given the illusion of an open world, and most of the environments make good use of the 3D 
 space with plenty of hills, valleys, bodies of water, and destructible environmental items, such 
 as buildings and massive rock formations, to knock your opponent around. Attempts at exploration, 
 though, are stopped short by massive webbed force fields that surround the battleground, making 
 it apparent just how confined the environment really is. It can take a while for first-timers to 
 adjust to the somewhat unconventional control scheme, but the action is pretty simple. You're given 
 a button for up-close melee attacks, a button for ranged "ki" energy attacks, a charge button for 
 restoring the energy needed for ki attacks, two dash moves for either closing or widening the distance 
 between you and your opponent, and a block button, which, when used in the right context, can also 
 instantly teleport you a small distance. Fighters will regularly get knocked high into the air 
 during combat, and you can move up and down through the air with the press of a button.  

  To engage your opponents, you'll need to lock onto them, which is either done by a press of a button 
 when they are within sight or will happen automatically when you're close enough. The whole lock-on 
 system is still a source of frustration, since your camera and control perspectives are relative 
 to your enemy's position, which can make for some unintuitive directional controls. Also, the camera 
 still has problems dealing with the full 3D space, and if characters are right below or above you, 
 it's impossible to see them. Fans will recognize some of the signatures of Dragon Ball Z combat 
 in Tenkaichi 2, including quick fits of up-close melee attacks, massive energy wave attacks, and 
 fighters being knocked great distances and through buildings and mountains. There are also plenty 
 of character transformations and tag team battles, but needlessly convoluted controls hinder their 
 usefulness. Though the number of unique special attacks for each character is limited, they're 
 usually the ones you'd want to see. The problem is that you have access to many characters' most 
 powerful abilities right out of the gate, and they're generally not that hard to pull off. Additionally, 
 the controls to pull off these often-protracted, screen-filling assaults are basically the same 
 for every character, and the combined result is some seriously repetitive gameplay.  

  Since the behind-the-back perspective means multiplayer has to be done via a less-than-ideal split-screen 
 mode, you'll probably spend most of your time in Tenkaichi 2 playing against the computer, which 
 is predictable and has a weakness to midranged combat. It doesn't take long to realize that all 
 you need to do is knock your opponent a short distance, launch an energy attack, recharge while 
 your opponent is immobile, and repeat. It's monotonous, especially since you end up watching the 
 same canned special attack sequences several times over the course of a single fight. One thing 
 that Tenkaichi 2  does  address is the stifling difficulty of the original, though the challenge 
 from fight to fight within each difficulty level can be wildly inconsistent. Though the action 
 moves quickly, the controls can feel unwieldy on the PlayStation 2, something that's even more 
 pronounced when the Wii's motion controls add a layer of abstraction. Rather than simply pressing 
 buttons, you'll be shaking the Nunchuk and waving the Wii Remote around to pull off moves. It's 
 not intuitive, and a lot of the controls are context sensitive not only to your opponent's position, 
 but to where you have the Wii Remote pointed. The Wii version handles much more easily with the 
 Classic Controller or with a standard GameCube controller, though the Dual Shock 2 still proves 
 to be the best-suited controller for the action.  

  Ungainly gameplay will keep Tenkaichi 2 from appealing to those just looking for a good fight, 
 but the sheer volume of fighters and content will likely satiate DBZ fans. There are dozens of 
 playable characters from throughout the run of both Dragon Ball Z and Dragon Ball GT, including 
 Goku look-alikes Bardock and Turles, minor DBZ players like Yajirobe, and powerful DBGT villains 
 like Bebi Vegita, Broly, and Android #13. Most of these fighters must be unlocked in the game's 
 adventure mode before they can be used in the separate tournament and duel modes. The adventure 
 mode is long and chronicles basically the entire run of DBZ and DBGT. It's a surprisingly long-lasting 
 mode, especially for a fighting game, but you have to slog through a lot of stuff that has already 
 been covered in numerous other DBZ fighters before you get to see anything new. Though it's cool 
 to see more obscure content like the stories from  The Tree of Might  and  Lord Slug  alongside 
 the more predictable Saiyan, Freeza, Cell, and Buu sagas, the game does a poor job of telling the 
 stories. While the actual fights move fast enough and are brimming with enough crazy energy attacks 
 and hard-hitting melee action to make them fun to watch, little effort was put into the cutscenes 
 used to drive the story. You'll notice a blockiness to the characters that's not apparent during 
 a fight, especially around their hands. Though occasional efforts are made to re-create specific 
 scenes from the anime, the cutscenes usually try to get by with the in-game animations, which look 
 awkward in a dramatic context.  

          The story is lengthy and features a huge number of playable characters. It's also poorly 
 told and stiflingly repetitive.     

  You'll often need to beat an opponent to advance the story, only to see that in the next story 
 sequence, your characters have been thoroughly thrashed, a contradiction that creates a real disconnect 
 between the action and the story. Worst of all, the game will often sum up story arcs with a little 
 bit of text that describes the most exciting parts, rather than showing them. So, instead of getting 
 to see Goku summon an incredible spirit bomb from the Tree of Might to destroy Turles, you get 
 to read about it. The pacing of the story mode is further stifled by nearly constant load times. 
 You'll wait 15 seconds to watch two characters exchange a line of dialogue, then wait another five 
 seconds to load a character select screen, and then another 20 seconds before you get to fight. 
 It could take you a good 20 hours to get through the whole adventure mode in Tenkaichi 2, but you'll 
 likely grow bored with it before then. The voice actors in the game, who are mostly the same actors 
 who voice the Funimation-dubbed US version of the anime, also seem pretty bored at this point, 
 though it's tough to blame them after having to energetically spout lines like "This is the end 
 for you, Freeza!" over and over again for the past 10 years. There's some catchy music thrown in 
 there, but you end up hearing the same two or three upbeat tunes over and over again.  

  Save for the different control schemes and some marginally improved graphics on the Wii, there's 
 not much difference between the two versions of Tenkaichi 2, and neither is easy to recommend. 
 Those who were able to wade through the problems of the original will find a lot of content to 
 play around with here, but this is a game that is simply not suitable for anyone else.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (174 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dbz345
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 can easily be summed up in this sentence - a DBZ fan's dream 
 of smashing together nearly every conceivable character and setting them head to head against each 
 other, but in a way that only they can appreciate. It's hard coming up with a true review of this 
 game since it is essentially a MAJOR fan service game with some possible dealbreaker flaws. Nonetheless, 
 for the DBZ fan's inner child, it's nothing more than amazing and an exciting fighter.
  
  120 - that's the number of playable characters in this game. If there's one thing for this game 
 to be remembered for, its the massive character roster. Practically every major Dragon Ball Z character 
 has been included, even ones from the 13 movies. Added to that, are characters from the original 
 Dragon Ball, and then the spin-off of DBZ, Dragon Ball GT. Each character has a predetermined set 
 of skills, which are called Blast 1, Blast 2, and Ultimate Blast. They are all activated using 
 a very interesting, and very Wii-like method.
  
  Speaking of, the controls for this game are evil and unforgiving to the first time player. Even 
 vets from BT1 will have major trouble adjusting to the less than intuitive control scheme, which 
 involves a combination of odd combination button presses and waving the Nunchuck and Wiimote in 
 a certain fashion. Attacking and such is pretty simple - mashing the A button results in physical 
 attacks, and pressing the B button results in a satisfying, and power-up-able (yes I made that 
 up) energy blasts. Movement seems easy - until you find that AI is flying circles around you, because 
 the conventional analog control isn't enough. Weaving together combos is a tough endeavor - and 
 one not very worth it, due to how the game places a huge emphasis on the Blast attacks.
  
  The Blast attacks are predetermined skills that every character can perform by doing a certain 
 action, and meeting a certain ki energy requirement. Unleash one of these attacks (especially Blast 
 2 and Ultimate Blasts) and your enemy will take major damage. Problem being (mostly for newcomers) 
 is that executing these attacks requires (just wait, it sounds just as bad as you think it does) 
 pressing the Z button on the Nunchuck, the B button on the Wiimote, and waving the Nunchuck and 
 Wiimote in a certain fashion. Thank goodness there are only 6 different ways to unleash one of 
 those bad boys. Yikes.
  
  Essentially, the battle boils down whoever can power up and perform Blast 2's successfully, since 
 Ultimate Blast attacks require you to be in full power mode, which is essentially an overdrive 
 mode. Blast 1 attacks are generally useless, or give you unnoticeable status upgrades - even the 
 AI hardly uses them, that says a lot. The AI in this game is thankfully quite challenging at times 
 - for beginners and advanced players alike.
  
  As for character differentiation - thankfully, different forms of each character act subtly different, 
 with a few noticeable exceptions. There are giant characters like the Great Apes which handle much 
 slower than their regulat Saiyan forms, and require a different approach. Most transformations 
 don't do much in the area of increasing a fighter's power, but rather change the moveset and changes 
 the speed of the fighter's combo engine. As a testament to "at least __ form is stronger", higher 
 Super Saiyan forms and tougher enemies can stun giant character like the Great Apes - and sometimes, 
 their combo engine goes into overdrive (Super Saiyan 4 Gogeta comes to mind) . All transformations 
 are done with the 1 button - once the Blast Gauge (yet another gauge to watch) has filled up to 
 the required point. For good or bad, you can also choose which form you want to start a battle 
 in.
  
  The story mode of Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is pretty darn lengthy - both for good and bad reasons. Nearly 
 every possible scuffle, fight, and showdown is included, all separated by in-game rendered cutscenes. 
 This is nice, but becomes a crutch when you realize that you have to fight characters like Frieza 
 literally like 10 times. Nonetheless, the story mode does a good job collectively, but as I sat 
 there going through it, I cringed as the game left out huge plot points. This further brings me 
 to the point that this game is good mainly for a DBZ fan - the story mode will do an okay job and 
 going over everything, but skipping major points must make someone confused, right?
  
  Besides the main story mode (and obligatory duel and tournament modes) there is an Ultimate Battle 
 mode, which consists of a series of tough challenges. The Duel mode is what you'd expect - all 
 1 one 1 battles mixed with a bit of tag team. The Tournament mode is actually a bit more fleshed 
 out - 3 different ones are available, but they're designed oddly. You'd think that every battle, 
 your health is replenished - it's not so. Basically makes it so that without health upgrades, you 
 stand little chance against the tougher Advanced and Master levels of the tournament mode.
  
  Enter Z Items, the game's leveling system. The Z Item system simply consists of upgrade items 
 to a character's health, ki, attack, defense, speed, Blast 1, Blast 2, and Ultimate Blast. There 
 are also other rarer items that have interesting effects, like reducing the ki cost of Blast 2's 
 etc. The items themselves actually level up by fighting in the story mode, or by fighting in the 
 Ultimate Battle mode. You can of course buy these items in the Item Shop, but by using the currency 
 found in the story mode and earned in tournaments.
  
  All in all, the game can be considered a success in the terms of a DBZ fan service game, but otherwise 
 just a fair game otherwise. It is simply not accessible to those without an interest in Dragon 
 Ball Z, due to the heavy learning curve attributed to the controls, and thick nods to the series' 
 veterans. It's a step up from the previous game - but those who disliked Tenkaichi 1, will hate 
 Tenkaichi 2 with a passion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is the fifth of the Dragon Ball Z Budokai series. Tenkaichi itself 
 took a very daring change to the Budokai formula of play, sacrificing the old simplicities of the 
 earlier Budokai games as well as the standard 1-on-1 formula of play found in such games like Tekken 
 or Virtua Fighter.
  
  This Wii version of Dragon Ball Z is a lot more intriguing than the previous PS2 edition. As well 
 as taking use of the Wiimote and Nunchuck's famed motion controls, this version of Dragon Ball 
 Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 has other extras such as six extra unlockable characters.
  
  Familiars with the Dragon Ball series will know it is about the adventures of a young man called 
 Goku, as he and his friends tackle the threats of the world and search out the 7 Dragon Balls that 
 grant them wishes. There is a lot of fighting in Dragon Ball Z and the set pieces in the fights 
 make great potential for quality game material.
  
  In the past, this potential has been wasted though with games such as Ultimate Battle 22 and Final 
 Bout on the original Playstation being absolutely terrible. Both of these games suffered the problems 
 of bad visuals, terrible controls and drastic gameplay. Thankfully though Dragon Ball Z Budokai 
 Tenkaichi 2 on the Nintendo Wii will challenge gamers views on series' unfortunate games,
  
  The Wii controls are pretty cool too, with moves being performed the way they're like on the 
 show which is nicely done with enough skill. If that doesn't appeal to you though, there is still 
 the Gamecube and Wii clas$ic controller options.
  
  It certainly is like no normal fighting game after all. There is only one physical attack button 
 and one button for using Ki attacks. The rest of the buttons are instead used to maneuver you throughout 
 the stage you fight in.
  
  Yet because of this, it helps in that you can move throughout the stage and prepare your assault 
 using dash attacks and fly combos that are possible only with enough skill. Also unlike other fighters, 
 the camera's focus is completely on you during the game and you essentially have full control of 
 the arena you fight in because of this.
  
  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi is good for some of the more strategic players because of this. 
 It gives those type of gamers the ability to have a more tactical approach to the game and is especially 
 important as there are many strong foes you will face during the game.
  
  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is decent in that it praises the skillful with a list of commands 
 you can learn and combine in the game and is generally a lot more rewarding and satisfying because 
 of this. There are over 100 characters you can play as in Tenkaichi 2, each with their own set 
 of unique moves and special attacks  so a lot of practice and patience makes the difference in 
 this game.
  
  And yet there is still a lot more to Tenkaichi 2. From the minute you start the game, you'll find 
 yourself with a list of options. There are such features like encyclopedias, which come especially 
 useful if you're not accustomed to the series. There are also tournament modes, Ultimate Battle 
 Z (which is like a survival mode) , Dragon Adventure (essentially story mode) , Item shops and Evolution 
 Z.
  
  Evolution Z is an especially interesting mode in Tenkaichi 2. It is a more RPG style mode where 
 you can use items you've bought or won in fights to equip on characters. These items can do a variety 
 of things like improve attack, life, defense, speed and other aspects to your character during 
 fights.
  
  Whats better is these items can improve and gradually calculate your characters level. So as you 
 get stronger, your level grows higher. The Evolution Z mode also has a fusion feature that is intuitive 
 as it has to be used to unlock certain characters in the game.
  
  Furthermore, the Dragon Adventure mode in Tenkaichi 2 is a lot more developed than in other fighting 
 games out on the market, thanks in part to the game's anime roots. Almost the entire Dragon Ball 
 Z saga is adapted into game format in Budokai Tenkaichi 2 with narration and character voices from 
 the Funimation dubbed episodes making appearances. This mode features an entire world to fly in 
 and drop in certain areas and events in the manga's time line which is quite cool.
  
  Sadly these moments aren't as cinematic as they were in earlier Budokai games but they do the job 
 at least. On that note too, the visuals and sound in Tenkaichi 2 are pleasant to say the least. 
 Neither parts of the game are special by any means but they're not bad by any means either. The 
 cel-shading does the job as does the voice acting provided.
  
  When it comes down to the issues though there are more than a few problems in Dragon Ball Z Budokai 
 Tenkaichi 2 that are worth considering before you think about buying the game.
  
  Primarily, there are a lot of load times in this game and for nearly every menu in the game there 
 will be a load time. The load times can be quite annoying at times especially when you're repeating 
 certain fights during the game  which is another issue with Tenkiachi 2.
  
  The AI in Tenkaichi 2 can be very cheap, sometimes unfair, and more than a few of the scenarios 
 included in the Dragon Adventure mode can go from pointlessly easy to unrealistically hard. The 
 game has no simple difficulty or learning curve either which may make it more difficult to absorb 
 yourself into if you're a fan of the earlier Budokai games such as Dragon Ball Z Budokai 3.
  
  Also, whats with the missing fight reset option? It would've been good to simply restart fights 
 that you've previously fought in and lost. Yet instead you're shoved back to the world map in Dragon 
 Adventure before you can go back to the spot you're expected to fight in, all while going through 
 the annoying loading screens in the game once again.
  
  While the camera in the game is helpful for the most part in Tenkaichi 2 it also has the tendency 
 to do things that the player wouldn't want to do. It also isn't easy to lock-off the player you're 
 fighting against because it automatically decides when or when not to lock-on or lock-off.
  
  There are some minor balancing problems too as far as Ki attacks go as some attacks can be 
 exploited far too easily for the amount of damage they cause. Yet few characters play like this 
 fortunately.
  
  Also the Wii motion controls ultimately aren't very good, despite being quite cool on first impressions. 
 Some of the moves are too complex to perform and require far too much enthusiastic effort to really 
 get the best of. It is the same case with the Gamecube controller.
  
  Thankfully though the Wii Clas$ic controller is comfortable to control and plays a lot more to 
 how you expect it with each button placement being how you would expect it, much unlike with the 
 other controllers.
  
  And on that note, where is the Wi-Fi play? The Wii version could have been much better than the 
 PS2 edition if Spike remembered to add it. It is a shame too, because they had more than enough 
 time to develop Wi-Fi play too.
  
  Granted still that you're not buying the Nintendo Wii version for the motion controls then check 
 out Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2. It is a shame that the Wii motion controls are made as complicated 
 as they are, but still, the game is very fun to play otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  dragon ball z budokai tenkaichi 2 is a 3d fighting game with an accurate storyline and a great 
 control scheme.
  
  Graphics: perfect for dragon ball z 
  
  Controls: never been so much fun (making a kamehameha with the wiiremote never gets old)
  
  
 Storyline: Its dragonballz so it is amazing (starting from raditz and ending with omega shenron)
 
  
  Gameplay: just as fun as all the others except you can fly all over the map instead of staying 
 in a line with the opponent. wide amount of characters to choose in dual mode which can be played 
 1 vs 1 (which is amazing is the other player has the game) 1 vs cpu which is really fun. you also 
 have modes like tag battle and tournament and many more.
  
  overall: If you are a dragon ball z fan and have a wii GET THIS GAME it is just for you. If you 
 are not a fan it is still a great game and is worth a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  To understand if you will like the game, here are some things you should know about it
  
  The story is the same story as DBZ and DBGT except you got 3 'what if' stories. These are non canon 
 stories that technically would change the outcome of the real story in many ways.
  
  SPOILER
  
  
  1
  Raditz gets amnesia and befriends Goku (mistaking him for their father 
 Bardock) . He eventually remembers that he's Freeza's henchmen so he attacks everyone and kidnaps 
 Gohan multiple times. Goku eventually defeats him, but since he befriended Goku before all this, 
 Raditz decides to be a hero. He notices Vegeta and Nappa heading towards earth in their escape 
 pods. Since Goku didn't die from fighting Raditz (unlike the true story) Goku didn't get any training 
 from the afterlife, making him UNDER 9000! Raditz reactivates his escape pod and kamikazes into 
 Vegeta and Nappa's pod. Whether he survived or not is unknown, "Only Raditz knows for sure".
  
  2
  Zarbon and Dodoria defeat Vegeta, Gohan and Krillin. Vegeta mentions that the dragon balls 
 can grant any wish and giving them to Freeza instead of themselves is idiotic. Zarbon becomes rebellious 
 and tries to kill Dodoria. Then, he attacks Guldo and steals the dragon balls to grant his wish 
 eternal beauty what? Freeza attacks him and mentions "Why have eternal beauty when you can have 
 eternal life? You might be beautiful, but you'll be dead". Goku attacks Freeza, not knowing anything 
 about Zarbon. Freeza charges up his Death Ball to destroy the planet. As time is running out, Zarbon 
 steals Goku's spaceship, but gets attacked by Dodoria and Guldo. He kills them both, but doesn't 
 know how to use the spaceship, and Goku's friends used the dragon balls to teleport away from Namek. 
 Having nowhere to run, he gets killed by the planet destroying Death Ball, though is body continues 
 to stay looking beautiful.
  
  3
  In short, Goku and his friends destroy Buu before he is revived from the magical ball. Because 
 of this, Vegeta wants Goku to fight him before Goku returns to heaven.
  
  
  SPOILER ENDS
  
  Other than that, the story mode villains are harder and stronger than they 
 are in vs mode. There are also dragon balls that you can collect to get very powerful items.
  
  What are items? You equip items to characters to increase their abilities. There's health, 
 attack, defense, kai, speed, blast 1, blast 2, ultimate blast and support types, which grant special 
 abilities. 
  
  Health is really important, the more health, the longer you can fight.
  
  Attack mostly focuses on punches and kicks, not energy attacks.
  
  Defense decreases damage 
 of the foes' attacks. However, some support items like Master's protection give your immunity to 
 attacks along as you guard yourself, so you don't need defense.
  
  Speed is only useful in story mode because you will be flying around the stage trying to find the 
 dragonball while avoiding certain death from the enemy's attacks. Otherwise, use your speed to 
 run away from foes.
  
  Kai determines your ability to recharge your energy bar and how powerful your kai blasts are. Doesn't 
 effect blast 1, 2, or ultimate attacks in any way.
  
  Blast 1 attacks are abilities that you can use during your fighting. It could be regeneration, 
 charging your energy bar, getting stronger, stunning your opponent, ect. You're blast 1 energy 
 bars are the numbers on the side of your energy bar. The blast 1 bar fills up automatically and 
 when you deflect attacks.
  
  Blast 2 attacks are powerful attacks that you can use at any time as long as you have enough energy. 
 They are beatups (most beatups don't work on giant characters) , energy beams, energy balls and 
 others.
  
  Ultimate attacks are available only when you are super charged. They are the strongest attack made 
 by the character. Some of them can destroy the planet you are fighting on.
  
  The best items are Majin seal (villains only) , Halo (heroes only) , Tenkaichi title and Kiss of 
 Android 18. Majin seal and Halo makes all blast 2 and ultimate attacks cost less energy to perform. 
 Tenkaichi and Kiss of 18 increases all your stats by 4 points.
  
  
  Now for the characters. Many characters have transformations. Transforming into a stronger form 
 will change your strength. It might increase your size, give you a new energy bar and/or give you 
 a new health bar. Powering down will decrease your strength, but transforming of any kind will 
 effect how your character can charge up energy. Most characters have certain abilities that super 
 charge them, but leave them exhausted. Transforming or powering down makes it easy to regain control 
 over your power. Unless you are powering down, you need a certain number of blast 1 energy bars 
 to transform.
  
  Since there are so many characters, I will only mention certain main characters.
  
  The Ginyu 
 force each have a dancing pose that super charge them, making them use their ultimate attack multiple 
 times. Otherwise, they are normal characters, though each one is unique. Guildo is the joke character, 
 Burter is perfect at combos and Ginyu's ultimate attack makes him change bodies with someone, so 
 that his hp is full, but he can't do blast 1, blast 2 or ultimate attacks. 
  
  Hercule is THE joke character of the game. Enough said.
  
  Gogeta ss4 is THE best character 
 in the game. In fact, all fusion characters are more powerful than almost everybody else.
  
  Most robots and cyborgs regenerate energy automatically but at a slow pace. Android 20 and 
 19 can't charge energy except by fighting. Their grapple is similar to Super 17's and Cell's tail 
 grapple because they all absorb the foe's energy and health.
  
  Giant characters, like big apes, are immune to flitching most of the time and can't be grappled 
 but are slow and can't dodge very well.
  
  Hirudegarn's attacks are the highest (except for his blast 2 and ultimate attacks) and his hp is 
 one of the highest.
  
  Some characters can self destruct. Despite the fact that they lose all their health, these attacks 
 are not the strongest.
  
  Tien's ultimate attack, the Nova Tri-Beam Cannon, is THE strongest attack in the game. As long 
 as Tien has a lot of health, it is almost always an instant ko. However, this does drain Tien's 
 health.
  
  Goku's spirit bomb is the 2nd strongest, but is the hardest to perform. You need to charge it and 
 then attack, hopping that the foe doesn't dodge it.
  
  Gogeta ss4 has the Big Bang Kamehameha X 100, which is the 3rd strongest attack. 
  
  But there 
 are some things that people will not like. The one everyone will hate is these characters.
  
  Freeza Soldier (Zeso)
  Appule
  Piccolo Sr.
  Cyborg Tao
  Pilaf's battle droid (transforms 
 into - Pilaf, Shu and Mai's super battle droid)
  
  Why are these characters bad news? They are NOT in the American version. Removing ANY content from 
 the American version should be an abomination!
  
  Freeza Soldier can be selected on the same team more than once.
  
  Pilaf's battle droid is 
 a joke character while his transformation, the super droid, is known for firing b00b missiles and 
 crotch missiles.
  
  Now to compare this game with the other BT games.
  
  The first BT game (Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 1) had poor graphics, less characters and was 
 not on the wii. The fighting was dull and having fun with the game was not easy to do. Not a lot 
 of attacks or combos and fighting seemed too simple. Compared to the other two games, this game 
 is terrible. Even the menus are stupid looking. You don't even have optional costumes! The fact 
 that this game is related to BT1 is almost unbelievable if it wasn't for the 3d fighting.
  
  BT3 
  Graphics are slightly better than BT2, so it doesn't matter that much. The fighting 
 is slightly faster and the amount of moves you can do increase, though it might get annoying if 
 your opponent is always dodging. There are more characters, but most of them are not important, 
 joke characters or are alternate forms of main characters (like Goku during saiyan saga, Goku during 
 freeza saga and Goku during buu saga) . Story mode forces you to play at a handicap and not gaining 
 experience for your characters. Story mode does give short cut scenes during fights and having 
 conversations with your opponent, but it might be distracting, depending on what you think. Also, 
 while fighting in story mode, you might get a chance to quickly kill the opponent, making the fight 
 easier. It has less fighting, though you can decide if you want to play as villains, so you can 
 beat up Krillin with Freeza. Attacks from the previous games are changed or replaced by other moves. 
 Also, BT3 has some more stages than BT2, but it's not much of an improvement.
  
  Is this game better? Is it worse? Hard to tell. If you want as many characters as possible with 
 the ability to replace English voice actors with the Japanese ones, despite a weaker story mode 
 and a harder to learn fighting style, buy BT3. If you want a lot of characters with good fighting, 
 story mode but fewer graphic, buy BT2.
  
  Ps, if you have the wii version, NEVER use the wii remote. Use the gamecube or classic controller.
 
  
  In the end, this game (or BT3) is a must for any DBZ fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Alright i just started playing my wii again and was lokking for a game since i liked the orginal 
 tenkaichi on ps2 i got it. First off this in no means a bad game it just doesent always get things 
 through and the controls do get out of hand sometimes but are easy enough to get used too. The 
 game basicly driives u through the story of the animes which i am a pretty good fan of but the 
 fell of it is not as good as the original now just taking guys out as they come instead of going 
 around picking up stuff and fighting that way 
  is better than this so that doesnt really help. Not to mention the ai can be easily read and does 
 not really put up much off a challenge. But here is where it gets great noiw there is head to head 
 online fights through wifi which i adore with lag free fights and great fun the only thing i could 
 ask for out of this is a mic oir a way to talk to the people that u just owned. Anyway it is an 
 okay game to get i would suggest to rent it first or get tenkaichi 3 instead. So yeah it is a fun 
 game online just wish it had better ai and more stuff and reshape to story so yea great fightiug 
 game on the wii and for fans to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicgamer_Tess
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  As you start off the game you can always decide to go with English voices or Japanese voices ( 
 Just go to options)
  When I first got to play this Game I was thrilled. I started off in the Training session and instantly 
 grew annoyed at the fact that the training itself takes atleast an hour to get through before you 
 actually start the actual game.
  
  But once you're through that you'll have a blast. The game itself has a very very good way off 
 combat yet the stories are very shortened (compared to the Anime's and the Manga) and the animations 
 between the fights are rather bad. But as I am more of a game player than graphic lover I really 
 loved the Battling.
  
  As you go through the game you'll gain items to fuse into new characters to battle with. that's 
 a good idea yet very hard to come up with the idea of fusing one of things to another as It's not 
 the most obvious thing in the world.
  
  One thing I got really addicted to was the tournaments. fun and just the right thing if you want 
 to fight with your friends.
  
  So get your wii control ready, get a friend over and play Dragonball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  A TOTAL BLAST MY FAVORITE WII GAME!
  
  Like always i start my review by telling what character's are in the game:
  
  Goku
  
  Super 
 Sayan Goku
  
  Super Sayan 2 Goku
  
  Super Sayan 3 Goku
  
  Super Sayan 4 Goku
  
  Picolo
  
  Tapion
  
  Hyudegarn
  
  Freezas's Soldier
  
  Zangya
  
  
  Pan
  
 
  Uub
  
  Super Uub
  
  Hercule
  
  Great Sayaman 2 (videl)
  
  Great Sayaman
  
  Bardock
  
  Broly
  
  Super Sayan Broly
  
  Legendary Super Sayan Broly
  
  Yajirobe
 
  
  Pikkon
  
  Goten 
  
  Trunks
  
  Vegeta
  
  Adult Trunks
  
  Majiin Vegeta
  
  Majin Buu
  
  Majiin Buu (Pure Evil)
  
  Super Buu
  
  Kid Buu
  
 
  Kid Gohan
  
  Teen Gohan
  
  Adult Gohan
  
  Krillin
  
  Ultimate Gohan
  
  Super Sayan adult Gohan
  
  Super Sayan 2 adult Gohan
  
  Super Sayan Teen Gohan
  
  Kid 
 Goku
  
  Super Sayan 2 Teen Gohan
  
  Super Sayan Vegeta (Second Form)
  
  Super Sayan Vegeta
  
  Super Vegeta
  
  Super Sayan 2 Vegeta (Second Form)
  
  Super Sayan 
 4 Vegeta
  
  Vegeta (Baby Fused)
  
  Vegeta (Super Sayan Baby Fused)
  
  Vegeta (Super Sayan 2 Baby Fused)
  
  Scouter Vegeta
  
  Scouter Ape Vegeta
  
  Ape Vegeta (Baby 
 Fused)
  
  Vegito
  
  Super Vegito
  
  Nappa
  
  Raditz
  
  Ape Bardock
  
  Ape Napa
  
  Ape Turtles
  
  Turtles
  
  Dabura
  
  Ape Kid Goku
  
  Garlick jr.
 
  
  Super Garlick jr.
  
  Android # 13
  
  Android # 13 (Fused with #14 & # 15)
  
  Android # 16
  
  Android # 17
  
  Android # 18
  
  Android # 19
  
  Android # 20
 
  
  Ape Raditz 
  
  Lord Slug
  
  Lord Slug Giant
  
  Frieza
  
  Frieza Transformation 1
  
  Frieza Transformation 2
  
  Frieza Transformation 3
  
  Frieza 
 Transformation 3 100%
  
  Cooler 
  
  Meta-Cooler
  
  Mecha Frieza
  
  Cooler final Transformation
  
  Trunks Super Sayan
  
  Gotenks
  
  Super Sayan Gotenks
 
  
  Super Sayan Gotenks 2
  
  Super Sayan Gotenks 3
  
  Gogeta
  Super Sayan 4 Gogeta 
  
  Super Adult Trunks
  
  Super Sayan Adult Trunks
  
  Super Sayan 
 Goten
  
  Zarbon
  
  Zarbon Post Transformation
  
  Dodoria
  
  Videl
  
  Cell
  
  Cell Absorbed # 17
  
  Cell Absorbed # 18
  
  Perfect Cell
  
  Cell jr.
 
  
  Saybamaen
  
  Tien
  
  Yamcha
  
  Chiatzu
  
  Janemba
  
  Ultimate Transformation Janemba
  
  Syn Shenron 
  
  Omega Syn Shenron
  
  Bojack
  
 
  Full Power Bojack
  
  Master Roshi
  
  Max Power Master Roshi
  
  Grandpa Gohan
  
  Captain Ginyu
  
  Recome
  
  Burter
  
  Guldo
  
  Jeice
  
  well i forgot some 
 character's but there's a total of 120!
  
  pros:120 characters to chose from (PS2 only have 115) , nice Stages, Good Music, total destroyable stages, long 
 story mode
  
  cons: some time slow gameplay, character's dont have the same health
  
  Gameplay: the wildest fun period
  
  Controls: i prefer the gamecube controler, control's get some 
 time to maste
  
  sound: original english and japanese voices
  
  
 
  
  conclusion have the wildest fun with this game but you can now buy Tenkaichi 3 anyways i reccomend 
 to anyone I COMMAND YOU TO BUY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is the first Dragon Ball Z fighting game to come to the Wii. 
 For a first attempt on making a fighting game for the Wii, I believe Atari did a great job.
  
  Although it is a PS2 port, it happens to have some great Wii exclusive controls that make it 
 really fun to play. The motion controls are used to perform various special attacks like the Kamehameha 
 and the special beam cannon. Many of these attacks are performed by just moving the Wiimote or 
 the nunchuck around, while others require you to point the courser off the screen and quickly move 
 it back on. The motion controls are easy and allow everyone to perform the special attacks efficiently. 
 For those who may not like the motion controls, a Gamecube controller can also be used, however 
 you cannot check the way to use it in the game like you can check how to use the Wiimote+nunchuck 
 control scheme.
  
  In the game there's a story mode called the Adventure Mode. In this mode you watch various cutscenes 
 from the Anime and fight many villains from the series. It is a long story mode with a lot of missions 
 and fights, it even includes some hidden missions that do not appear in the anime. The game also 
 includes missions from Dragon Ball GT as well. One thing that I didn't like about the story mode 
 was that when you beat up the villain to advance, the next cutscene often shown your character 
 as the one who got beat up. Other than that the story mode is pretty fun, and playing that will 
 help unlock many hidden features.
  
  This game also has RPG elements to help make your characters stronger. In the game you can buy, 
 unlock, and equip various Z-items. These Z-items help strengthen you character and some of them 
 can even level-up after a few battles.
  
  Dueling mode is also a lot of fun. Here you can fight against another player or a CPU. Here you 
 can adjust the level of the CPU, pick the stage to fight in, and then just go at it. Playing against 
 another player is of course a lot more fun.
  
  The game has plenty of characters to unlock, which makes the game even more enjoyable. There are 
 over 120 characters to play as in this game. With all those characters, this game will keep you 
 busy for awhile. All the characters play pretty much the same, except for their special attacks 
 and blasts. 
  
  There are a few other modes that you can play in as well like a tournament mode, Ultimate Battle 
 Z, and training mode. These modes can be a lot of and can keep you entertained for awhile.
  
  The graphics are not that great, they are basically PS2 cel-shaded graphics. They are good 
 enough not to hurt your eyes but the Wii can produce way better graphics than this. The sound is 
 great, with a lot of songs you can recognize from the anime and the voice actors are the same from 
 the anime as well, which is a big plus.
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to any Dragon Ball Z fan. Despite a few flaws, this game is still 
 fun and can be enjoyed by most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Dragonball z budukai tenkaichi 2 got some coole fighting teqniques and the story is fully covered. 
 The tenkaichi series expands by giving birth to tenkaichi two. Graphics changed a lot since tenkaichi 
 1. the clothes and hair can now can move. The gameplay has new moves like extreme combos so that 
 you send your opponents flying in the rocks. Players can now transform is other forms. Sound didn't 
 change bit got new sentences. New character have took part.. a new ultimate battle mode is in but 
 is more dull than the other was. Tag team is a new fighting mode you can fight five on five or 
 two or two
  
  Story: wow Atari got a better focus on the story mode 8.7.
  
  Sound :didn't change but I don't wanna comlain so gonna give a good score 8.6
  
  Graphics : 
 much better than previos titles 8.9 
  
  Gameplay : the gameplay rocks it is so action and fst paced that will blow your mind off 9.0
 
  
  Overall : 8.9 this the best in dbz franchise everybody will be happy with this. It's a must buy 
 game for all dbz hardcore fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_GamerAAC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai, Tenkaichi 2
  Platform: Nintendo Wii
  Rated: T
  
  Anime games have had a long reputation of being bad. Dragon Ball Z: Tenkaichi 2 is one of the few 
 anime games that is actually good. Fans of the series will see a lot of their favorite DBZ characters 
 return as well as all the special move and abilities. Here is my review of Dragon Ball Z: Budokai, 
 Tenkaichi 2. 
  
  The games story is taken directly out of the anime series. You start off in the Saiyan Saga just 
 as Raditz, Gokus evil saiyan brother, invades Earth and explains that Goku is also a saiyan. From 
 there, you begin your fight to save Earth from the many villains of the Dragon Ball Z series. Many 
 of the classic battles, such as Goku vs. Freiza, will be playable as you advance through the story. 
 What was really nice about the game are new story events and sagas that haven't been revealed in 
 the TV or movie series. This gives fans something new to look forward to. The only problem I saw 
 with the story is the fact that people unfamiliar with the TV series may have a hard time catching 
 on to what is going on. Still, the intense fighting that takes place will allow even people who 
 haven't watched the show to be hooked. Players also have the choice to use either the new Wiimote 
 or a Gamecube Controller, each of which is easy to use. 
  
  Multiplayer is the probably the biggest strength of this game. There are many different fighting 
 modes to choose from, including Free Battle, Single Battle, Tag Team, and even a tournament. The 
 game also contains RPG elements, allowing you to make certain characters stronger than others in 
 a custom mode. This allows players to make even the weakest characters from the DBZ series to become 
 the strongest. You can choose to play as the custom character you created or with the characters 
 normal abilities. Although the game doesn't have online play (which is a huge disappointment) , 
 you can use a password that comes with the custom character you created and trade with a friend. 
 This allows you to fight their character, allowing for a large variety of battles. 
  
  The graphics of the game appear to be designed to imitate the cartoon. While the graphics aren't 
 bad, I still feel they aren't as good as they could have been. They just don't have a next generation 
 feel to them.
  
  I found the sound quality of the game could have also been better. The sound effects and character 
 voices match up to the TV series, but there were a few times when it could have been better. The 
 in battle music is good, but some of it doesn't sound like actual battle music. 
  
  Still, even with those weaknesses, the game is still great. It is easy to see why many people consider 
 this to be the game of the year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somanshreddy
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  it sucks ghr3pojfrijfr ihr3jifj jeiejojdo hguiehdihdi ghe3ddjked uhdiuehdie gdhdj ndguehd udhuehd 
 jdjeh jeje duehjd ehduidhde uhdjdn w uehejde idehei idebedhd udhe edebdhie iebvdkehd ieekdhekl 
 iehe udhdieub hejeb hejd hed cid ieg dh dkje kd ke kd dk dkmd dkd dekjevgenej je jeeikeg jd k k 
 je k dke ekeei oe ekhdkd kiehkehfnbe jejfhekvd jieheh kiedhke ke k k k k k k k k o l nl n j j kk 
 nokol k kkn k k kk kxkkdjdn h dhd jhd cmd h shshsh hse jeene djejwje ujedjen iieden jenej ejkenkemn 
 ejke edjejne k ken ek x ke ek eke kenje ke menke kendn k keke ndbk kedbke kebkebc mbmd ekbd ,mj 
 kkedbd/ej kdnbdkd kidebjednd jdkdnkldb kebnelk obdkdnd jkdbjd kjdn jd kdb kdmdl hwjkwgd kiwhgjw 
 wei9 kewhdiud ikgdujwhw woigiwyu otgdiewgi iwtiwh iwtwuwfg iwduwfd udgkjw itgdiwb ydgw uwgwj j 
 jb wjwgjw hwjwwvb hjkshewk wjbkmw wjhgwmw wuwuhwjwj wjhwj jbwj kjw wjhswjwj wsjj sj sbjw
  
  sorry sorry
  
  shkeheiednk
  hekner
  fhkejnme
  h; rejf';
  hflerjrf
  fhlejf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonTran97
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game changed Dragonball/Z/GT fighting games as we know it. It added transformations and GOOD 
 graphics (for once) on a DBZ Tenkaichi game. It's almost like BT3 just 1/2 cheaper. The only bad 
 thing is the nunchuck transfering from your left hand to your right. It tangles up! And you use 
 Goku as an example TRY to charge up a kamehameha and out of 10 times 3 you receive a kaiokein attack 
 due to the wiis "activeness". I'm not saying thats bad but.... The only difference between this 
 and 3 is that the graphics are better by 0.001.
  Not a lot right? Oh and also characters people dont use like Akkuman!
  But the other one's story 
 mode is more straight forward and this ones is way to overly complex. This one makes the story very 
 strange.... If you notice the end scene after you beat Omega Shenron Goku is STILL an ADULT!!!
 
  Also no introduction of Uub.....
  No REAL cutscenes either....
  But oh well its still good!
  Thanks for reading!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Dragon Ball Z Budoki Tenkaichi 2 (Manchester City 0) is a good game that with a bit of fine tuning 
 could be a breakthrough for beat em' ups of this type.
  
  Now i know what your thinking (or do i??) "Its a DBZ game, its childish, its licensed, it must 
 be crap" Well, first off, people who think games are childish are children them selves and by the 
 laws of the universe, it should be crap. But, amazingly its not. Find out why below.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Whilst i was never a really huge fan of DBZ, i do know what the series looked 
 a like and the cell shaded graphics really capture the feel of the show. And it has some pretty 
 impressive looking beam attacks and some smooth animation. However, my one nit pick with the graphics 
 is the fact that it lags like hell when you do an attack thats so powerful the world explodes... sort 
 of.
  
  SOUND:
  
  I don't know if these are the real voice actors from the show, but they sound pretty good and just 
 adds to that anime like feel this game seems to be loaded with. Sound effects are also pretty good 
 with beams, explosions and punch impact sounds all sounding the part.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  The games biggest let down! Yes they work, if your worried about that. But they are so dam frustrating 
 with you having to keep the cursor on screen, and do moves that sort of, slightly resemble what 
 the characters are doing, but could have been so much better if they use motion sensing instead 
 of the pointer cursor thing.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Takes you through the entire DBZ series and the DB: GT series and a few movies and What if?? scenarios. 
 Pretty long for a beat em' up. But its also rather easy... a bit to easy. Multi player however is 
 another downfall. Yes its fun, but whats with the split screen camera? Yes its sort of required 
 to play, but it just takes away from the experience and i just don't like it.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Its a OK game that i wouldn't recommend buying because DBZ: BT3 is out. Which is 
 better in nearly every way. So you know... this is rather out dated. However, if you want to start 
 getting into the DBZ games, this is a good place to start, just don't get the impression that its 
 going to be great. But Kudos for being licensed and not being a complete worth of money.
  
  5/10
  
  P. S. Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand 
 why my score is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
 
  10 - so great ill never review a game thats this good... period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 should be more fun on the Wii than on the PlayStation 2, and 
 in that it succeeds. So much of the Dragon Ball series focuses on the movements of the characters, 
 their dramatic poses and grand gestures, that the Wii is an ideal platform for recreating the energy 
 of the show. The mistake that could have ruined the Wii version would be to do things half-way, 
 to refuse to bet it all to capture DBZ's spirit -- a mistake that the BT2 developers didn't make.
 
  
  The Wii Remote and the Nunchuk accessory are the standard controls, although the game can be played 
 with a GameCube controller. Use the Nunchuk's analog stick to move, wave the Nunchuk to dash. One 
 of the two Nunchuk buttons charges your energy, and the other lets you jump or change your flight 
 altitude. The Wii Remote's buttons let you pause, attack, block, fling your energy attacks and 
 navigate menus. The Wii motion sensors are used to let you live your Dragon Ball fantasies. If 
 you don't have any such fantasies (or issues, depending on your perspective) , then this version 
 won't have any more appeal for you than the PS2 release.
  
  In general, to activate a special move you'll hold down the Z and B buttons -- the two "triggers" 
 on the Nunchuk and Wii Remote -- and then move the Nunchuk and Wii Remote in some combination to 
 execute moves like the Kamehameha or the Light Grenade. To throw a Kamehameha, hold down the Z 
 and B buttons, pull the remote back, and then thrust it forward -- that's right, it's exactly like 
 you're throwing one in the show. It's even easier if you're standing, because then you can pivot 
 at the hips instead of having to draw your arm awkwardly back each time and then thrust it forward.
 
  
  Another attack might require you to twist the Nunchuk around while pushing the Wii Remote a certain 
 direction off-screen and back. It's a less direct pantomime of the show, but it's a neat sensation 
 to reach up and then fling forward and see your fighter reach up, gather a ball of energy, and 
 then fling it forward with a cry. The fun, like a good karaoke game, comes from not worrying about 
 people who might think you look silly. Don't worry about it; go ahead and reach back and charge 
 that Kamehameha. If you're a DBZ fan, it's all but heaven.
  
  The problems with the title are the same as they were on the PS2, but magnified because of the 
 control setup. If you aren't a DBZ fan to begin with, getting to pose like Goku (that's the series' 
 main character, non-DBZ fans) isn't a perk. If you actively dislike DBZ, it's even worse.
  
  The fighting itself is a pretty good rendition of how combat seems to work in the show. It 
 focuses on throwing everything you've got at the other guy, ripping apart as much landscape as 
 possible, and relying on massive blasts of energy and special attacks to win the day. You'll pound 
 the melee attack to create an opening, hold down the melee attack button to get a charged attack 
 and fling your opponent back, charge up your energy, unleash your best special attack, and repeat 
 until they're down. It's a simple formula for a fight, but it's pretty much how the show's fights 
 go. The only issue that using the Wii controller generates is when you're stuck against the edges 
 of the massive stages and utilizing the Nunchuk-shaking dash move fails, fails, and fails some 
 more as you get pounded to pieces.
  
  Honestly, it's easy to forgive a merely okay fighting engine considering the wealth of DBZ goods 
 that Budokai Tenkaichi 2 delivers. Like the PS2 version, you can spend dozens of hours playing 
 through the story mode alone. There are the Cell games, the Super Saiyan saga -- honestly, there's 
 enough DBZ content presented in the game's sharp engine to keep even the most manic 12-year-old 
 busy over the holiday break. The only real feature lacking is that there isn't any Internet-enabled 
 multiplayer. A code allows you to send your customized version of a fighter out for other people 
 to download and play against, but multiplayer is limited to one-on-one, in person.
  
  As a proof of concept for the Wii, and as a game for DBZ fans, Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 
 2 is a sweeping success. It's just as inaccessible to people ambivalent about DBZ as the PS2 version 
 of the title, though. If anything, the integration of posing like show characters to unleash their 
 powers will have DBZ haters grinding their teeth louder and longer than they would for the PS2 
 version. Certainly, the actual fighting mechanic is just as so-so as it was there.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudmd23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I've played every console Dragonball Z to be released in America to date. And with each iteration, 
 more characters are introduced and the gameplay gradually improves and becomes more refined. This 
 title is no exception.
  
  In Dragonball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2, you fight one-on-one battles with your opponents by having 
 the camera fixed over your fighter's shoulder. Now this may seem like an awkward angle for a fighting 
 game, but it works well and does a great job of making you feel like you are in the shoes of the 
 character you have chosen. The battles are fought in gigantic landscapes with many destructible 
 objects to knock your enemies into, giving each fight the epic feel that make DBZ battles so exciting.
 
  
  There's no shortage of replay value here either, as there are but a small sample of characters 
 available when you first start the game. The remaining roster of well over 100 characters is unlocked 
 by playing through the single player game which not only spans the main DBZ sagas, but also most 
 of the movies and the Dragonball GT series. The single player mode represented in this game is 
 quite similar to the one in Dragonball Z Budokai 3 where you are given a map to navigate and can 
 choose to fight optional battles, find dragonballs, or advance the story. It worked well then, 
 and it works well now. In multi-player mode you can play in tournaments, team battles, or your 
 standard one on one fights. One thing I've noticed about multi-player is that the game tends to 
 lag during these types of games for whatever reason.
  
  Considering that this is basically a port of the Playstation 2 version, the graphics are not going 
 to blow anyone away. The characters are completely cel-shaded, much like in its preceding titles, 
 which gives it an authentic anime feel. The characters' special attacks are also well animated 
 and are executed in a very flashy and dramatic flair. As battles progress, the characters suffer 
 "battle damage" when their health depletes, so you can physically tell when they are starting to 
 get weak. 
  
  The sounds are what you would expect from an anime based title. The characters are voiced by their 
 respective english voice actors, which can be considered a benefit or a downfall depending on who 
 you're asking. The various sound effects seem like they were lifted directly from the show, which 
 definately adds to the game's atmosphere. These range from Super Saiyans powering up to energy 
 attacks to even that funny sound characters make when they are launched long distances!
  
  The controls in this game are well executed and offer enough configurations to where everyone should 
 be satisfied. The game can be played with either a standard Gamecube controller, or the Wii remote/nunchuk 
 combination. I find the latter to be the most fun, although the learning curve is a bit steep. 
 One has to be conscious of where the cursor is onscreen as this dictates what moves you can do 
 and controls when you block attacks. Also, the nunchuk will control your movement forward and backward, 
 so players also have to watch where this is being aimed as well. Holding down the right combination 
 of buttons will enter you into a "free action" mode which will allow you to mimic the special attacks 
 of your favorite characters. An example of this is Goku's infamous Kamehameha, which you can do 
 by bringing your hands back and then moving them forward really quickly. Any DBZ fan will fall 
 in love with this feature alone as it makes you feel much closer to the action.
  
  With a lengthy single player game, hundreds of characters, and several multi-player modes, it's 
 hard not to recommend this game. Dragonball Z fans, and even fighting game fans will find something 
 to enjoy from this game as it is one of the best launch titles available for the Nintendo Wii. 
 So eat your Senzu Beans, grab your Wii remote, and prepare to power up for the best DBZ game to 
 date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcfuzzy20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Borrowed from a friend for PS2. Loved it. Gave it back and told myself to get it for PS2. Got a 
 Wii. Got it for my birthday a few weeks later. I can't play it enough. The huge character roster 
 keeps me playing it over and over (SS4 Gogeta kicks major ***.) The innovative control scheme makes 
 you feel like you're actually performing the moves. The brutal fighting moves keep the action fast 
 and furious, so you can fit many matches in. The only thing keeping this game from getting a perfect 
 is the graphics aren't as good as they could be, and the control scheme is frustrating at times, 
 but those things shouldn't keep you from playing this awsome game (and it'll keep you busy, with 
 more than 120 characters to collect.) Just because you might not know Dragon Ball Z lore (it's 
 explained very well in the game, anyway, dosen't mean you should avoid this fighter. Very well 
 rounded; you should definately play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxostev
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  With Brawl delayed for March 9th, Wii owners who are also fighters fans believe they are screwed. 
 They are wrong though, as there are a few good fighting games on Wii and DBZ Budokai Tenkaichi 
 2 is one of them.
  
  The Facts:
  It's your standard fighting affair, pick your character out of 120 playable characters and fight 
 to be the last one standing. There are several modes of play in this game. There's Dragon Adventure 
 which takes you through the stories of DragonBall Z and GT, Ultimate Battle Z where you progress 
 up through fighters in an old Mortal Kombat like matter, Dragon Tournament where you compete in 
 the tournamets to earn money for Items, Dueling which is the vs. mode, and Ultimate Training which 
 is self explanatory. You can upgrade your characters with items you purchase at the Item's Shop 
 or win in other modes. A library is also included so you can catch-up on the DBZ story. The game 
 lets you use the Wiimote+Nunchuk, Classic Controller, or Gamecube Controller. I have not played 
 multi-player with anyone yet, so I'm not going to talk about that
  
  The Good:
  There is a vast amount of characters to choose from, ranging from the well knowns (Goku, Frezia 
 Vegeta) to unknowns (Bardock and Bojack) . The Graphics and Sound make it look like your controlling 
 the anime. The action's fast paced and the special attacks are pretty amazing. The few moving cutscenes 
 in story mode are animated quite nicely. You can rack up some impressive combos in this game and 
 most of all it's fun. 
  
  The Bad:
  The Music in this game is kind of forgettable. The story mode is told by the characters standing 
 around and talking (with the occasional falling over went defeated) , why they don't animate all 
 of them like in DBZ Budokai 1 I don't know. The wii controls are iffy at best, your better off 
 with a Gamecube or Classic Controller. Finally, the novelty of the characters talking in the menus 
 explaining each mode, gets old real fast.
  
  Final Word:
  Despite the few problems in the game, it's an extremely good fighting game for Wii, if you have 
 the right controller that is. Since the game is $30 now, I would recommend you buy it. If you have 
 the spare cash though, I would recomand picking up DBZ Budokai Tenkaichi 3 instead, they're more 
 characters and online multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuch9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  dbz 2 is one of the best games i've ever bought and was definitely worth every cent. as a dbz fan 
 from word go i was drooling over the screen enjoying every bit. all your favorite characters, sagas, 
 formations and attacks are in the game. almost every time i play the game, hours in i say to myself 
 after this battle i will stop and get outside , this goes on for at least 10 battles its just to 
 hard to get away form once you've started. in other words this game is extremely addictive for 
 a dbz fan. so anyone out there who liked the show GET THIS GAME!!! also the wii makes this game 
 better to control and to enjoy. for example doing the action of the Kamehameha ha ha love it every 
 time.
  
  thumbs up for dragon ball z: budokai tenkaichi 2  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted-Ice-God
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  This particular Dragon Ball Z game was amazingly deep as far as story goes, but for some that extensive 
 story was rather tedious and repetitive. I do wish though that they would have included the dragon 
 ball story as well as those characters and had more depth to the Gt portion as well. As for fighting 
 mechanics, it truly simulates a dragon ball z fight well, but is hard to learn and somewhat frustrating 
 due to poor responsiveness... since the wii remote and nun-chuck are highly sensitive, and sometimes 
 the game is not. All in all, it is a very well done game, and a nice fighter for those who have 
 the patience to learn it. I would recommend this to any dragon ball z fan, but it is definitely 
 not for everyone. If you do buy it and beat it, make sure to try and play through it and unlock 
 all hidden story content and beat all of it on hardest setting to truly get the most out of this 
 one.
  
  Also if you want a real anime experience, go into options and turn Japanese voices on :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srg1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is by no means bad but that doesn't mean that its excellent either. Story wasn't badly 
 told i just feel that the voice acting could of been better. The graphics weren't ground breaking 
 but they weren't bad either. The gameplay was a little on the easy side once you got the hang of 
 the game but there was a couple of hard parts in it at least for me there was. (Kid Buu) Game spot 
 also said they felt as if the wii controls were tacked on. There was nothing wrong with the wii 
 controls they were responsive for the most part and didn't hurt the game in any way. This is a 
 pretty good game. Its not trying to be a groud breaking title it simply serves as a nice decent 
 fighter. Fans of Dragoon Ball Z will definetly love the game, fighting game fans will like the 
 game to but i think it depends on your prefrences all fighting game fans definetly won't like this 
 game but, its still a satisfying title. With many game modes to play, a lengthy story mode, and 
 so many characters DBZ: T2 doesn't disappoint. There are better fighting games out there but if 
 you like Dragoon BAll Z this game definetly won't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5Winston5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game had some innovative controls for the Wii. Also the game is really long and has a ton 
 of characters to earn. When you beat the story mode there are other modes that can keep you busy. 
 One mode is the Tournament mode and you can play this to earn money and buy things at the store. 
 At the store you can buy things to improve your character. The other mode is Ultimate Z where you 
 fight a series of characters and get ranked on your battles. The battles also add to your experience 
 which can level up and improve your characters stats. Another cool thing with this game is if you 
 decide you don't want to play with the Wii remote and nunchuk you can choose to use the virtual 
 console controller or the Game Cube controller. The graphics for this game were good, but they 
 could have been a little bit better. Something bad for the game was that sometimes the camera angle 
 gets out of control. All in all, I give Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 for the Wii a 8.5 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotgamer03
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  There are a numorous number of characters to choose from, including different types of the same 
 character. Also with a different variety of game modes and a brand new system of evolution z. I 
 would say not the most flashy moves but pretty decent. The graphics are amazing with some songs 
 that I like that makes me fight better. There even some battles that I enjoy and plenty of stragies 
 that I can use to get the upper hand on my opponet. So, I would like to give this game a two thumbs 
 up. It's pretty cool imating those moves like the kamehameha and such. But in my advice, I would 
 rent it first because you could be bored with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  Budokai Tenkaichi returns for more fighting action, with some light RPG and action gameplay elements 
 as well as over 100 DBZ heroes and villains.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doylen05
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  first of all the game has a great story because it follows closely to the original show, but the 
 game its self has some flaws. Its to easy and there are pionts were you beat the bad guy but the 
 cut seen says you lost but on the other hand there are sooo meny characters to unlock nerly all 
 the characters from the show and there are some cool transformations.
  grafics are cell shadded which suits the game well. the music is fun and keeps in with the mood 
 of the level but with all the good parts it does fell like theres something missing. i think budokai 
 tenkaichi 3 will be awsume with the online fighting.
  sorry for the short reveiw but i think i got my point across 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Flat out, this is a great game. Tenkaichi 2 is solid in any form, but bringing this game to the 
 Wii was one of the smartest moves Ban Dai and Atari could have made. Making use of the Wii's awesome 
 control system, this game delivers a new and unique experience to Dragon Ball fans everywhere. 
 The cast of characters is large, amazingly enough there is always room for more characters, but 
 that's why we will have Tenkaichi 3 coming out in the beginning of December. The multiplayer on 
 this game makes the purchase worthwhile right there. I have been playing this with my friends since 
 it came out and the only reason we will stop playing this, is because Tenkaichi 3 is looking to 
 improve on the already great foundation this game has laid down. I would say that Tenkaichi 2 is 
 the best game since Budokai 3. Honestly, I don't want to knock the first Tenkaichi... because I 
 liked it. However, Tenkaichi 2 for the Wii, just like Budokai 3 for the PS2, is groundbreaking 
 awesomeness brought to your home console. Right now, I would tell you to wait on buying this game 
 because Tenkaichi 3 is going to be out in a couple of weeks for the Wii (it's already out for the 
 PS2) but this game is worth having for any great DBZ fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say about it, I mean this is afterall the best dbz made untill now.
  
  It begins from the begining of the series (goku vs radditz) , goes all around the movies, the specials 
 and everything in the show, almost word to word, and it goes all the way to Dragon Ball GT!! (Gogeta 
 Super Sayen 4 vs Lee Shenron)
  
  the game is just great :
  
  -Awesome gameplay
  -resumes all the dbz episodes for a total of 60-80 hours of gameplay
  only in the story mode
 
  -120 characters or something around it from what I remember
  -the graphics could be better, but they're the best dbz graphcis made in a dbz untill now
  
 
  the only thing that you need to do is to give yourself an hour or two to learn how to play, to 
 learn how to do your special attacks and some combos and your ready to go! (They're a little hard 
 in the begining but really fun and immersive once you get the heck of it)
  
  
  What is there to say : If you love Dragon Ball you need this game :P ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rognarock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  DBZ budokai tenkaichi 2 is the best on the wii but for some people the controler is too dificult 
 for someone who is starting with the wii but the good part is that you can play with the nintendo 
 controler ( that good) the is based on the serie that you see when you`re younger or download them, 
 you can see almost all player form the series like goku, vegeta, baby in 3 forms, trunks in two forms, 
 gogeta, this are some of the player I mentioned , I think they`re about 100 player's. the quality 
 of the games is good, the games play is fanstastic you can do almost all in the series like flying 
 and fight in the air and use attacks that you see on the series. the start whit the part of raditz 
 and ends in the fight against syn shenron. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisal1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has been improved long since the first one that's for sure. The first one was cheaply 
 made, with inferior graphics. This game is no exception to that. However, this game has many new 
 moves such as dragon rush mode. This game is too hard to play with the Wii remote, therefore I 
 say stick with the GameCube controller, trust me you would not be disappointed. I would say that 
 this game is strictly for DBZ fans, because people who arent would not understand the point of 
 this game. This game is also best for playing free battle with four of your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypershadow73
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  DBZBT2 is the newest addition in the dbz fanchise. But as it seems with the release of every new 
 game they are gradually worsening. Dragon ball z budokai tenkaichi 2 is no exception. The controls 
 are slopy at times and its is hard to move if your opponent is directly under you.. but dragon ballz 
 z budokai tenkaichi 2 has it good points too. One thing i really liked was the way you used you 
 skills and abilities (Kamehameha, Big Bang Attack etc) you hold the z and b buttons to enter ki 
 blast input mode then for example to use kamehameha you pull back and push forword really fast. But 
 like i said earlier it will be a matter of time before we get what looks like a cheap knock of 
 of what was once a great franchise. but until then Dragon ball z budokai tenkaichi 2 is doing very 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS3Hollow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Finally a Dragonball Z game that has a some of the most useless characters ever. All jokes aside 
 this game is really good and the amount of playable characters is a definite boost. There are your 
 basic modes to the game: Story, Challenge Mode, VS Mode, Shop, Training, and a nice new one called 
 Evolution Z. In which, you can use bought upgrades and fuse them (in correct combos of course) 
 together to even create new characters. You can also upgrade the characters that you already have. 
 Wait, since this is the Wii version i might as well talk about what it's like for the Wii. The 
 controls take some getting used to but once you have the hang of it, you'll be blasting Kamehameha's 
 all over the place.
  Now on to story mode. Simply put, it's not that well done and could have a lot better, but you 
 can play through some of the movies. Those looking for cut scenes, try elsewhere because there's 
 none to be found. It's almost like voiced over Pokemon dialogue, they say things and the on-screen 
 guys react. Once you get past story mode you come to the meat of the game, VS. Mode! This is where 
 all the real action happens, there's even a tournament mode that supports up to 8 entrants. So 
 grab a couple of your friends and beat the snot out of them Dragonball Z style! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing for Arcade Fighting fans and DBZ fans alike. Five things I love about this 
 game is that it has a nice long selection of playable Characters and battlefields to battle on. I 
 also like that the Story Mode follows most of the TV shows and Movies, which was cool to me (I used 
 to watch the show) and I'm sure it was cool to hardcore DBZ fans. Another thing I liked was The 
 music and voice clips. The music was very entertaining (I have a favorite song) and I liked hearing 
 Gohan say things like I'm ready dad! just before he went into battle with his dad, Goku. I also like 
 how much the Characters looked like the anime. My last favorite thing about this game is that it 
 works with The Wii Remote and Nunchuk or the Classic Controller. You could also plug in a Gamecube 
 Controller to the top of the Wii and use that if you want. I like the Gamecube Controller the most. The 
 Classic Controller's good too, The Wii Remote and Nunchuk is well uhh entertaining.... I think the 
 graphics could have been slightly better, just a little and they should have had better controls 
 for the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. I didn't enjoy the other DBZ: Budokai games but this one made me 
 a believer! If you wanna check it out look for it on Wii and PS2, I say you should try out the Wii 
 one. No real differences but hey I like the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nineteer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Dragon ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a good game for wii, i think. I wil do this review by topics, 
 so: Problems: The player doesn't have a role in the history... If you loose you retry the match, 
 if you the story continues. A stupid thing, i think, is that sometimes, when you win, your character 
 looses the match and, sometimes, die. Predefined history, and isn't the one of the cartoons; Advantages: 
 Is not easy to know how to play well the game... So you have to dedicate some attention to improve 
 your techniques during the game. A good number of characters; Good interaction during the combat; 
 Characters graphics are like the cartoons
  
  This game is only for people who love combat games and for people who love Dragonball Z and I, 
 like one of those people, liked it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Like I stated above the controls take a while to get used to but once you get used to 
 it it can be very fun especially doing the special attacks. There is one main problem though. You 
 can use the classic controller but the tutorials are all done using the Wii-mote and there isn't 
 a way to know what buttons do what. Also the multiplayer is flawed, moves you could do in single 
 player that you should be able to do in multiplayer dont work and you kinda have no idea what is 
 going on. Gameplay modes.... basically there is 4 Story, where you play almost every saga in the 
 DBZ and GT storyline, Tourney, where you go through a tournament to make cash, Versus is self explanatory. 
 there is 1 on 1 or 5 on 5 which.... is bizarre but ok, Then there is Dragon road (or tower I cant 
 remember) where you fight specific fights against specific characters under special conditions, probably 
 the most enjoyable mode. Then there is training which is self explanatory.
  
  Visuals- Its a port from a PS2 game with wii controls, nothing spectacular.
  
  Sound- Sounds 
 and music you would expect from a DBZ game.
  
  Overall- A rent at most don't cough up the 50 bucks I did. the next game might have Wifi so that 
 one might be worthy of a buy but not this 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat you can see the games potential. Descent looks and sound with killer looking 
 fights.
  
  The problem I had with this game is its complexity. Spend 5 minutes looking at the training section 
 and you will know what I mean. I personally found that I didn't want to invest the time it would 
 take to become fluent with the game. The result is that I ended up trading it off solely because 
 I don't have time to learn it right now and I wanted to get a reasonable value on the trade-in 
 and that would have been less likely with the new one sitting on the shelf.
  
  The fights look awesome and action packed; I found that as a person just jumping into the game 
 without any practise I had no chance at all. And with the release of the next in series just around 
 the corner, I figured if anything I will get that title and learn from there.
  
  The sound is good and all the necessary training is there for you to learn from. In fact the training 
 area can be quite daunting as there is quite a bit to be learned.
  
  I would suggest renting this title first to see how you like it, then based on that either buy 
 it or wait for part 3 to come out which is quite soon. This game is definitely worth you renting 
 it.
  
  Things I hope they improve on in the new one is just making it a little simpler. Even if they kept 
 the complexity for those who want it, but made it so anyone could step up tp the game and have 
 a good match.
  
  I will at minimum be renting the next one and based on that I will either buy it or not, but I'm 
 telling you, when you see that much potential you have high hopes for what they might come up with 
 next. I'm quite excited to give it a try
  
  Bottom line is, I bought it without realising there was a sequel coming so soon, and I really wish 
 I had waited. Because I've traded it in so quickly with not as much game time as I would have liked, 
 the value in it for me is low and thus the score is not high. Rest assured though, I really think 
 that if you want to focus on this game for a while you will have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverRao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  When I got my copy of DBZ: Budokai Tenkaichi, boy, was I impressed. Usually, when you think of 
 a DBZ game, you think complete failure (Unless it's Budokai 3) . But this game is probably just 
 as good as Budokai 3.
  
  Although the game was originally made for the PS2, the Wii controls are pretty solid. Once you 
 get used to the, they aren't that clunky after all (That's right, Gamespot!) . In the end it seems 
 like it was made for the Wii rather than the PS2, actually.
  
  But let's get to the graphics. Although the graphics are not the best aspect of the game, they 
 are pretty solid. The environments look pretty spot on, and the character models look pretty cool. 
 Nothing too impressive though, and the game lags a lot sometimes. The gameplay is just plain fun. 
 Moves AND even special moves are easy to perform, and the wii controls add even more to enjoy. 
 Facing your friends gets more and more fun as you learn new techiques and gain new characters.
 
  
  The story mode is nice, although they could have done a little better on retelling the story. Also, 
 there could have been more full-length cutscenes for a more cinematic feel, I think. Otherwise, 
 the dueling, tournament and other modes are nice.
  
  Overall, DBZ: BT2 is a just plain fun game that most people can enjoy, even if they don't know 
 much about DBZ. Great game, and can't wait for the next one in November! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubblepaul
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first Dragon Ball Z game to utilize the Wiimote/Nunchuk combination, and it does 
 a brilliant job.
  
  This game has provided me with 100's of hours of gameplay. Some of you are asking how?
  Well 
 its because of the ability to customize each of your characters and the ability to attempt story 
 mode in 3 different skill levels. It means that each time you play at a different skill level its 
 going to become more challenging, which it turn requires you to practice. I have gotten to the 
 stage where i can easing demolish the opposition in the highest skill level, and why can i do it 
 so easily, because the game is so addictive. I have to keep playing and in turn i improve.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is brilliant, get a couple friends around and irrelevant of whether 
 or not they like DBZ they will have great fun waving their arms around and pressing buttons, seeing 
 what happens.
  
  Customization of your characters means that they become stronger and when you play multiplayer 
 against your mates it will become more challenging still.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Audio: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Immersiveness:10/10
  Value: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamza88
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  bad bad bad... that all i can say... this game is just there to impress little kids.... i was severly 
 unimpressed by the gameplay and the character...! all the words that i have for this game would 
 be bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad !! please dont make games like these....!! so i really dont 
 know what i might put into the 100 words limit as i really dont have words to express this poorly 
 made game... but i do feel that i need to tell or should i say warn other people not to buy this 
 game as they would be only wasting their time and money.. go buy a better game..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This latest installment in the budokai series is playable, sadly thats all it is. A few gameplay 
 issues have been fixed with this sequel, but its barely playable. Only an avid dragonball z fan 
 will even finish this game. The one good thing it has going for it is the fact that there is so 
 much to do. You go through almost every single aspect of the dragonball z universe. Almost every 
 episode, fight, and film is in the dragon adventure mode of this game. The gameplay is still nerve 
 recking with very simplistic controls, a very aggrivating camera, and even though the controls 
 are easy, they just dont seem to work at times. Graphics are what youd expect with the anime look, 
 music gets repetitive. Of couse you beat each other through building and walls, but it just doesnt 
 feel as cinematic as you would see in mortal combat. Voice acting is terrible, and the dragon adventure 
 modes only positive is the content, its played like the budokai 3, you fly around to the fights, 
 it feels like a diversion more than an exploration. I do wish theyd bring back the cinematic feel 
 and mini games of budokai 1. There are light rpg elements which only go as far equipping items 
 that level up as you fight. AI is very simplistic, you could win a fight by just doing quick melee 
 attacks. The multiplayer is also limited to only offline with basic tournaments and tag battles 
 which are only swapping of players not actual tag moves like weve seen on DOA. All in all this 
 is playeble, unless you have to have a fighting game for the wii or your a dragonball z addict, 
 dont even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics weren't that great in the game the freebased movement of the characters really 
 helps to forget all about the graphic. With the Wii's remote its only simple to do huge powerfull 
 attack, just hold a buttom and flick the remote to a side of the screen. The story line was dont 
 well also. It followed the show as well as the movies perfectly. The only problem i have with this 
 game at all is the RPG system put in it. You wear different items and they boost your stats in 
 different ways... i just thought that idea was kinda stupid. But over all this game is great and 
 one to have in the wii collection. So buy it, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnykilljoy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  even though this game may started slow it quickly grows faster and funner. as time and items grow 
 so do your character count and so does the enemies' difuculties ( sorry for mis spelling) . beating 
 hte game takes awhile you might beat the many story but their are still characters to unlock! to 
 unlock them you must use your wit to know what capsules to fuse together to get them. then after 
 you do get the characters and thing your done, well your not there are still mult battles to do. 
 invite a friend and play each other it's quick paced and fun, you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasafetch
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Just because this is an anime game doesn't mean that it sucks. true, most do, but Dragon Ball Z: 
 Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is an exception. With awesome visuals and over 100 characters to choose form, 
 you just can't go wrong with this game. Well, that statement is a lie, because despite how much 
 fun this game is it still has a few flaws. For starters, the single player campaign is terrible. 
 There are cutscenes bu this is nothing more than 3d fighters standing there and talking. Yes, you 
 can relive some of the classic battles, such as Goku vs Freiza and Cell vs Gohan, but the steps 
 you must take to get to those battles is really lame. You have to endure battles with countless 
 enemies and go through the story lines of Dragonball Z movies that no one cared about. Perhaps 
 the most annoying thing is how your victory in the battle determines nothing in the storyline. 
 for example, in the Feiza saga you'll have to fight Freiza about 10 times. Even if you do whoop 
 his a$$ the first 5 times you still have to keep fighting him. It's really disappointing when you 
 win a battle but the storyline tels you that actually you were barely able to survive.
  
  Sadly, the single player campaign is a must if you plan to unlock all of the characters. That all 
 being said, the rest of the game is actually quite fun. Combat is very fast paced and in depth. 
 A person new to the game can start having fun in about 10 minutes, while a veteran can still have 
 fun after playing 30 hours. The neat thing about the game is that you can do just about anything 
 they could do in the show. For example you could launch a Spirit bomb that, if successful, can 
 really damage your opponent and even change the entire battlefield/ignite the land on fire. the 
 motion controls for the Wii are decent but not as in depth as you'd like. Still, the fact that 
 you can unleash a fireball by pretending to shoot one is awesome.
  
  On a side note, the graphics are great as well and all of the original voice actors are present. 
 Although there's a bland sense of presentation in the campaign, the game play and fights are very 
 well presented.
  
  All in all this game is good if anything else. If you're a fan of the series you'll love this. 
 If not, well rent it and see. Personally I don't think you can go wrong with this game. At 50 bucks 
 its not worth it, but now that it's price has dropped to 20 it's well worth the money. At the very 
 least, you should try out this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holdenlowe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  DragonballZ: Budokai Tenkaichi 2, for the Nintendo Wii, is an exact port of the PS2 version. While 
 the PS2 version was only subpar, the Wii's is a much better experience because of the new controls. 
 Never before in a DBZ game have you been able to act out the Kamehameha wave. Now you can by simply 
 thrusting your wiimote back, and then thrusting it forward while holding the Z and B buttons. The 
 gameplay is what makes this game so good. You can play it for over a hundred hours just beating 
 the story mode, Tournaments, and Battle Tower, and not get bored.
  
  The story isn't quite as fleshed out as you would hope it to be. If you don't already know the 
 DBZ story, you may at times even become confused at to what is actually going on. It may even make 
 you mad that in many levels, you will demolish your foe, only to go back to a cutscene where you 
 just got thrashed and your opponent is fine. There are at least several unlockable what if scenarios. 
 Ever wonder what Radditz would have been like if he had lost his memory on Earth as well and not 
 kidnapped Gohan? You can find out now.
  
  Graphics wise, this game looks great utilizing cel-shading graphics. Celshading graphics are not 
 going to get much better than this even on consoles such as the PS3., Watching special attacks 
 are always cool. My personal favorite is seeing half the world being destroyed.
  
  The sound in the game is ok. Its not bad, but it doesn't leave any jingles in your head like Zelda 
 games do. The sound effects are not really all that impressive either. Every explosion pretty much 
 sounds the same. One good thing is that this game has most of the original voiceovers in it that 
 the series had, and the special attacks all call out the names of the moves just as they should.
 
  
  Overall, if you like DBZ, you will probably already have this game. If not, it is a must buy. For 
 non DBZ fans, this game is still a blast to play, even if the story doesn't make complete sense 
 sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  As usual, nothing has entirely changed for the most part. Besides the control sheme, the story 
 follows the show, the story mode navigation is a port of Budokai 3, and the menu is a port from 
 the original Budokai, with nothing flashy and the same old features. New characters and stages 
 have been added, and the complete t. v. show series is playable this time. When flying around the 
 oddly small planet, you can't help to make trips every now and then to get items that you find 
 everywhere. The battle system is the same as Tenkaichi 1, but the controls are very innovative. 
 Silly hand motions aside, this game has some addictive flare to it.
  
  Following the show, the special attacks are performed using the same kinds of hand motions. Some 
 attacks for example, have you taking the nunchuck out to the right of the screen and back in to 
 produce the attack.
  
  The graphics are a good example of what the wii's games should look like, but you can tell it isnt 
 the highest quality. The graphics get scratchy at times, but for the most part they hold up very 
 nicely.
  
  The game has an ok value because you will feel yourself coming back to play on occasion, but with 
 a new DBZ game coming out every year, the average gamer can never decide when to buy a copy. So 
 overall, this game is a fun game to own that will give you hours of fighting, reliving the story 
 from the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacMonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game that does a great job by capturing the unstoppable action of the Dragon 
 Ball Z show and giving you ultimate control. I enjoyed DBZ: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 very much because 
 first off I really like Dragon Ball and I really like the action in Dragon Ball. That is basically 
 what this game is: All the action of dragon ball! This game will leave you on the edge of your 
 seat trying to do the special moves with the Wii remote. This game on the Wii allows you to truly 
 get into the intense gameplay to the point where your breaking some sweat on your brow. This game 
 has many different game modes such as story mode, ranking challenges, tournaments, training and 
 dueling with CPUs and friends. The fact that this DBZ is 2-player is awesome! I love sitting with 
 my friends and beating them up with my favorite Dragon Ball character especially with the motion 
 of the Wii remote. This game will have you hooked for hours on end with it's stunning use of gameplay 
 and crazy special effects with booming audio; I like the massive explosions and how loud they sound. 
 I recommend this game to any dragon ball fans and especially if they have a Nintendo Wii, I seriously 
 believe this game would not be as intense if it wasn't for the use of the Wii remote. I hope you 
 enjoy Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 for the Wii as much as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazanos
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok... First off, this game does deserve slightly more credit then what gamespot gave it, but not 
 much more. It could have been a lot better if the developers put the extra work into it. A game 
 is much better off delayed then released sloppy. Gameplay is fun and engaging, graphics are decent 
 but not quite next gen yet, sound is what you'd expect but the value is a big disappointment.
 
  
  The actual gameplay of T2 is where all of the fun in this game comes from. Its fast paced, full 
 of colours and a great variation of moves. The only problem I have with the gameplay is that they 
 made all the characters unbalanced in order to better represent the anime. Though this makes the 
 game more related to the show, it will pretty much turn anybody off except hardcore fans. I always 
 loved beating everyone with hercule in the original 3 bodukai games and I would have loved to do 
 it here but nope... even an experienced player would have trouble taking a newbie on using him. 
 This greatly takes away from the character variation as a weaker character has an instant handicap 
 when fighting against a stronger (or larger) character.
  The controls take a long time to get used to, I'l admit to using the gamecube controller at first 
 but once I got used to the wii controls, I'l never use it again. It just takes a bit of time and 
 practice. Though controls for the classic controller and gamecube controller would have been nice 
 if they were actually listed instead of forcing you to either go online for them or figure them 
 all out for yourself. Since this game is meant to be played with the wii remote, it is reflected 
 in its learning curve.
  
  I know the wii isn't quite the powerhouse but it can certainly push graphics better then a late 
 PS2 game by far. This isn't saying their bad as such, it just doesn't quite meet the next gen standards. 
 And oddly enough, the game actually LAGS in multiplayer sometimes, which there really can't be 
 an excuse for. For a last gen game, the graphics are crisp with a good simulated anime feel to 
 it. And the super attacks look pretty cool too.
  
  The sound is pretty much consistent with the anime, you'l here the DBZ characters scream the moves 
 before they use them, etc.. etc.. the music is what you'd expect from a DBZ game. The voice acting 
 is good but nothing extra ordinary, maybe it feels that way because we're hearing the same story 
 retold a hundred times over..
  
  The biggest draw back of this game is its value. Once you unlock all the characters, there's not 
 a lot to come back to. The Mortal Kombat style arcade mode can be completed rather quickly and 
 the tournaments are not nearly as fun as they were in the past games because of how unbalanced 
 the characters are. You pick SSJ4 Gogeta the tournaments are a joke. You pick Krillen because you 
 like Krillen.... Good luck to you my friend. Story mode is pretty long but it certainly isn't exciting, 
 the few cut scenes it has are boring, uninteresting and almost completely lifeless. I believe it 
 could have been so much better if the developers just took the time to work on it a bit more. Evolution 
 Z might be a way to balance out the characters a little bit more but the time and effort you'd 
 need to put in leveling each stat can get boring. The biggest thing this game has in value is its 
 multiplayer, which is fun if your a big fan of DBZ because virtually every character that matters 
 (and some that don't) are in this game. But again, newcomers will probably be turned off by it 
 when you kill their Tien with one 100x Big Bang Kamehameha from SSJ4 Gogeta. They'l probably be 
 wondering why your health is double theirs too.
  
  Overall, the core gameplay stands out on top as it is fast-paced and fun, even though all the characters 
 are unbalanced. It does take a while to get the hang of the wii controls but they are ultimately 
 the best way to play the game. Graphics are somewhat sub-standard to this gen but it is an early 
 game and does look fantastic for a last gen game. Though there's no excuse for multiplayer lag. 
 Sound is what you'd expect from a DBZ game and value is greatly reduced due to uninteresting/sloppy 
 game modes and a un-engaging story that could have been a lot better. This game does deserve better 
 credit then what gamespot gave it but not a whole lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superzero14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  this is by far the best dbz game ive ever played i think they screwed up on budokai 1,2 and 3 becuase 
 they werent fast faced games like this one this one can be a challenge because the wii controles 
 makes it harder!!!..... which i like than the others becuase u actually have to make an effort 
 to do attacks other than the other ones which u press like 2 buttons and BBOOOOMMM... they're dead. 
 Also i like the number of characters in this one because u can actually think of which one to pick 
 because theres so many different people!! all in all this is by far the most awesomest fighting 
 game ive ever experienced!!
  
  
  
  w w o w w l w w o o w w l w w w o o w w w l w w o o w w o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxey106
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  i have played many dbz games but this one takes the cake. With over 120 charactors you will always 
 be wonderin who should i chose next? The story mode is over 60 HR long!!!! To tell ya the truth 
 though if your a real DBZ fan that 60 HRS will probably only last about 40. U even get to lvl up 
 your favorite charactor!!!! all my friends hate dragon ball z but they loved this game!!! IT is 
 the best fighting game on the wii right know. and it probably will be for a couple of years. but 
 i will warn u........ when ur doing dueling mode against a friend, it can get a little laggy. but 
 id say that that is the only down side. so all in all this is simply just an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inyuashu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Best Dbz game yet it's a game that i would pay 90 dollars for it's not im saying it's really intense 
 and violence and i like those kind of games so i always spend at least 2 hours playing it non-stop. 
 I like the gameplay and the new areas they have also the fighting. The graphics were great better 
 than the previous. And the sound were right for the game so the sound were great. The value is 
 that it's worth 50 dollars but not worth 60 it's not 60 dollars im saying. The rating i give this 
 game is a 9.7 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Many people thing that licensed games suck, and in some way they do, games like One piece grand 
 battle, The grim adventures of Billy &amp; Mandy and Naruto Clash of ninja make this a fact, but 
 this game was an unexpected surprise.
  
  Firts it has cell shaded graphics that look great and they make you fell like you're actually watching 
 an episode of the anime, the visuals are without a doubt one of the most impressive parts of the 
 game, the music in the other hand just fells uninspired as they don't use the original score of 
 the series, the voice acting also fells bland and the actors sound like they're bored to death, 
 there are over 120 characters to choose from and at firts it may look great but in the end you'll 
 always go for goku, Gohan, Broly or Vegeta so that's not the most important thing of this game.
 
  
  The gameplay it's fast paced and exciting and with only one button you'll be able to pull out some 
 mind blowing combos, the interesting part comes when you have to do the characters special moves 
 because you have to move the wiimote in diferent directions as you're actually the character, it's 
 great but sometimes it fells unresponsive specially in the two player mode.
  
  There's a variety of modes to choose but the story mode wish take you from the beggining of z to 
 the end of gt is were you'll spend most of your time, but the way the tell the story is awful you'll 
 have to read instead of watching your favorite moments and besides is the same old story all over 
 again; it's fight after fight wish may get boring and repetitive after a while and you wish there 
 was some kind of minigame or sidequest in between.
  
  The versus mode is a little different from all the other figthing games, since the game has a behind 
 the back perspective the multiplayer will be split screen wish it may be weird at first but then 
 it's nothing important, the game also supports gamecube and classic controller making it the most 
 complete DBZ game to the date and maybe the best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I rented this game at first and I truly loved it. I thought it was the best game in the world. 
 I made a huge mistake. After a couple of days playing it I started to get bored. The story mode 
 kind of sucks. Im glad I didn't buy it. If i would have wasted my money on that game i would have 
 played it for maybe 3 days and stopped altogether. Basicly the story mode is where your some lame 
 dude with yellow hair and green skin flying around the town. It made absolutely no sense to me. 
 The one fun part was the tournament mode. This is where you can chose your character and fight 
 in a number of rounds. If you one you would get money. Then you could go to the shop and customize 
 peoples stats. It didn't make too much sense to me. But overall that part was fun. Once again it 
 got BORING. Please please rent it first and avoid a waste of money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  This was the first game i bought for me wii and i gotta tell u, as a dbz fan, its awesome. This 
 game is very versatile and innovative with great controls and animations
  The graphics on this game is good (for the wii) it puts you in the position of the tv show and 
 lets you experience dbz like never before.
  Gameplay is obviously very compelling and fun. Fighting styles, shooting energy beams at ur opponents 
 is very fun. The new add-on of flying at will and teleporting whenever you can makes this game 
 so much more fun. The game has great replay value, whether u just fight against a cpu or with a 
 friend, this game doesn't get old. With 120 characters and great stages to fight in, this game 
 easily is in my top 5 for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizkid357
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z fans will buy the games till the end of time. I, once liking DBZ in what seems like 
 a past life, gave it a shot. I was surprised. To start off, the game features an extremleya lengthy, 
 nice, story mode branching over years of DBZ and DBZ: GT history. It features hours of full voice 
 acting. The game also features fun Tournament modes, an Exhibition mode (which also has multiplayer) , 
 and many other modes to keep you busy for a long time to come.
  
  Visually, the game has a nice, fitting, cell-shaded style which surprisingly look pretty good. 
 I just can't help to say it could have been better. The sounds are great, especially with so much 
 voice acting.
  
  A fighting game to the core, DBZ BT2 simplifies 10 button combinations to a simple flick of the 
 wrist, with the intuitive controls on the Wii. Although main fighting is done just with the buttons, 
 special moves which would normally take a lot of memorizing are performed by holding down certain 
 buttons and doing a gesture with the Wiimote/Nunchuck. The game feels very slick and smooth while 
 fighting, and can provide a challenge on higher diffuculty modes. Overall, the game was a refreshing 
 game that may surprise you. If you're a DBZ fan, this is a must have. If you aren't... then you 
 might want to rent it first, you probably won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-wii
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game is a fast paced fighting game that fits dragonball z alot better than the slow 
 paced budokai games. This game is a HUGE change. The camera is from behind the fighter instead 
 of sideways. There are tons of characters to play and unlock. The story cover the whole Dragonball 
 Z, and Dragonball GT sagas. but it doesn't cover the originall Dragonball (with no Z) . There are 
 in game transformations now, which is an improvement from tenkaichi 1. The controls are pretty 
 easy for me. for other people this could take some getting used to. In this game, there is a cursor 
 on the screen which can control fighting, finishing moves, and blocking. The cursor can sometimes 
 get in the way of the game. I would have gave the gameplay and 8 but since using the wii remote 
 and nunchuck is so fun, i'm gonna give it a 9. you can unlock hidden characters, items, storys 
 and levels in this game. Graphics: This is some very good cell shading but could be better.
  
  Sound: The music is the best in any DBZ game, but the voices are okay.
  
  Value: $40 used 
 and the price is likely gonna get lower. i value this game very much.
  
  Tilt: The fun battles and Ultimate battle Z, mode, and fusion and tournaments keep the tilt high!
 
  
  Best Dragonball Z game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovemiepie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 for the wii is one of the best games released on the wii thusfar!
 
  
  When I say that Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is complete, I mean it because you will be able 
 to play with almost every character from the series: in this game there are more then 160 playable 
 chatacters! from Frieza till Cell and from Buu till Gogeta Supersaiyan 4 !!
  Each character has its' own fighting style and different Super moves and attacks and since you 
 can transform (if your character is able to) ingame you can speak of a wide variety of scenarios; 
 you will be doing the same fights over and over just to see how the enemy will react on the same 
 character only with another transformation.
  
  Also every saga and movie is playable in the adventure mode.
  Speaking about modes, the adventure 
 mode on its own will take about 60 hrs; if you count that plus the Ultimate Training, Dragon Tournament, 
 Ultimate Battle and Duelling (also Multiplayer) modes, you'll be playing Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 
 Tenkaichi 2 for over more then a hundred hours.
  
  The fighting and flying around with the wii-mote and nunchuk works really well and especially with 
 supermoves like, let's say a Kamehameha!
  It really feels like you're blasting around just moving the wii-mote and nunchuk back and forward! 
 It's just a great feeling!
  
  Also the graphics and sound are worked out really well.
  All of the original voices of the series are there and the game has some really sharp and smooth 
 cell shaded graphics which make it sound and look just like the original tv-series.
  
  So if you're a fan of the Dragon Ball series or if you're looking for a great fighting game with 
 tons of characters and modes and you have a Wii don't wait any longer cause this is your game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  While there have been millions of Dragon Ball Z games out there, this is the first one that tries 
 to get it all done in one game. There are over 120 characters to choose from and the story goes 
 from DBZ all the way to GT. The characters all have similar moves with small differences and many 
 of them are mostly cosmetic. I was disappointed that they didn't have the original Dragonball story 
 in the game. Besides that it covers everything, while it doesn't have every single character in 
 the anime and or movies, it has about 95% of them and that is fine. There are tons of modes to 
 choose from and it makes the game much longer. The graphics look great and match the anime characters 
 perfectly. The Wii controls take some time to get used to but they work out once you get the hang 
 of it. You can also use the gamecube controller if the Wii controls are not for you. The main thing 
 about the game that annoyed me was that the level of difficulty is so frantic, you can beat someone 
 very easily in one battle, but the next one is literally 10 times harder then it will get easy 
 again ect. Another thing that gets annoying is that even if you beat your opponent, sometimes it 
 will say you lost just so it can follow the storyline. Overall, this is a great game for DBZ fans. 
 It's offering so much content and fan service for DBZ fanatics, but if you never liked it or have 
 never even watched the series, then this game probably isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Well I'm a DBZ fan so I'm not going to diss it too bad. However, I am going to. Tenkaichi 2 is 
 a good game with many things to keep you playing. Its many game modes, characters, and long story 
 will keep you playing, if you're into that stuff... The games a simple fighting game. The point 
 of the game is simply to fight. Not much more. But the problem is that the fighting is too much 
 of a button masher. I like it, however you'll end up pressing the same button over and over. Which 
 of course makes this game extremely repetitive. While that is a major flaw I still found myself 
 extremely addicted to this game. One reason I was is because theres so much to unlock. You'll end 
 up trying to earn every item, character, map, tournament mode, and more. You'll get addicted if 
 you're a fighting game fan or a DBZ fan. Another little flaw is compared to the past DBZ games 
 BT2 is way to easy! The enemys go down quick and your stats increase quick. I know this sounds 
 like kind of a confusing review so I'll some it up. Its heaven for DBZ or fighting fans but others 
 should rent it first.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky-22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  i understand why people dont like it. it's something they've all played before, probably in budokai 
 tenchaichi one and two for PS2
  as far as single player this game was extremely fun in my opinion
  
  controls took quite a 
 while to get used to but in the end, everything became instinctive.
  
  the downfall is
  
  for the one on one duel with a friend, the game lags... VERY DISAPPOINTING. i dont know what 
 the problem is but i think it's cause the game was too fast paced for the wii to handle.
  
  also, your right thumb is probably gonna feel swollen and stiff from pushing the buttons so fast, 
 but after 3 days i got used to it and the pain came stiffness came less and less
  
  if you guys have played budokai for ps2, then don't get this game, it's almost the same thing except 
 you need to used the wii-mote movement to use kamehameha or those super moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecube_Gold
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm not exactly what you call a DBZ fan. But, when I got this game, it got highly addictive. I 
 loved to play it. There are a lot of things that make this game good:
  
  Adventure Mode lets you play through the story, and get zeni to buy items from the shop to help 
 in your fights. As you play and win fights, you can unlock items and characters to play in other 
 modes, and you learn some of the story, and you can unlock some special campaigns by winning certain 
 fights.
  
  Then, there is Versus Mode. That's where you play against a friend or computer with all the characters 
 you've unlocked. You can play with 1 character, 2, or 5 for the fights. It's fun because you can 
 learn how to play better and PWN your friends well in it.
  
  There's also tournament mode. In this mode, you start out with 2 difficulties in the 1st tournament, 
 and you can unlock more tournaments and harder difficulties as you keep winning newer ones. This 
 is a good way to get a little zeni (money) , face off against allot of different characters, and 
 play with up to 8 friends.
  
  There is also Practice Mode. In this mode, you can learn how to play, and it will teach you how 
 to do basic moves, or complicated moves, pretty much everything. It helps to try this a bit before 
 doing allot of fights.
  
  There is also a Z items mode, with all the Z items you aquired. In part of it is the fusion mode, 
 where you can fuse Z items, and you can create either good items, or new characters with the fusions.
 
  
  And, then there's Ultimate Battle Z mode. In this mode, you can choose a character, and go through 
 a series of fights through different campaigns. You can get items sometimes if you win all the 
 way, and in some of the languages of the game, you can unlock characters (Japanese, Russian, etc.) .
 
  
  There are other modes, but they aren't very important. If you decide to try this game, good luck! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This has to be my favorite Dragon Ball Z game. The gameplay for the Wii takes some getting used 
 to. However once you get used to the game's controls you will have fun blasting enimies away. It 
 also has some great multiplayer. You will have fun but some gestures like doing Galick Gun and 
 Kamehameha take some getting used to. The graphics are great however even though the charecter 
 models look fantatic the eviorment although fully destructible looks blah! The game has quite a 
 good selection of music. Speaking of selection you can choose the music. This is a 50+ adventure 
 not to mention the other modes. Great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudge_man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Come on its DBZ if you are a fan of the show and movies then you will like this and it's an amazing 
 fighting game too.
  This will be one of the best (fighting) games on the wii for a long time because the only other 
 game that will come close to it will be MK Armageddon but as i said if you are a fan of the movies 
 and stuff you will love this game it has all about every one from it and since its on the wii you 
 get more.
  
  its on the WII!!!!
  TOTAL OWNAGE!
  
  cant wait for the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Even since I've played Evil Zone on the PSone, I've always had a soft spot in my heart for fighting 
 games that was more visual and easy on the knowledge of combos. This game has about over 130 characters 
 to play with. Once you pretty much learn how to use one character, you can use every character.
 
  
  But this game is above that of the original version. Better storyline, better fighting system, 
 and even the abilities to transform within battle... something that was not into the original version 
 for whatever reasons.
  
  The game pretty much covers every saga of the story, it's really hard to find out whats going to 
 be in the Next version.
  
  Now, there is one problem. With the Wii version of this game. See, you can play with any controller, 
 the gamecube, classic or the wiimote with the nunchuku connector. However, the in-game instructions 
 only speak of the wiimote/nunchuku controller. If your playing with the Classic wiimote like I 
 do, you better learn how to do everything by yourself because you get no help.
  
  But if you enjoy playing a great fighting game that beyond that of anything made before, this is 
 your game, even if your not a DBZ fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davids_4_Life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Well let's start off with saying wow. This game is really good! I had my doubts about this game 
 and all but, it pulled through. The graphic are awesome but plenty of room for improovement which 
 I hope they do in Tenkaichi 3.
  
  Lots of characters and transformations well over 150 so it'll keep you ocupied for a while unlocking 
 them and stuff. Other people have said this game don't really make a diffrence between diffrent 
 characters but it dose. Ok sure some people have the same move but put it this way 150 guys (inc 
 transformations) 1) If Goku has Kamehameha as normal and as super saiyan.. whats the harm? Its 
 the same person and lots of people have it like Krillin, Master Rochi (original Kamehameha) , Kid 
 Buu ect. They all learnt the move from Master Rochi hence ORIGINAL and Kid Buu stole it after absorbing 
 Gohan and Goten as Super Buu and thats why he has it. So you see my point. Don't pay attention 
 to those who say 'the controlles are hard' it isn't. It's simple but it takes a few hours to get 
 used to it. So you see this game rocks and with Goku, Vegeta, Piccolo, Gohan and all the other 
 stars of the Show you really can't go wrong! Recommended for DB/Z/GT fans or Fighting game lovers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloFuzion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  DBZ: BT2 was an extremely fun game on the PS2, one that I was afraid that tacking on Wii controls 
 would ruin, thankfully, I was extremely wrong.
  
  If you're not a Dragon Ball Z fan, you may not find quite as much to like about this game as fans 
 will, but it's still a pretty good fighter, and the Wii controls feel very fluid.
  
  Gameplay: The basic gameplay of DBZ: BT2 is obviousely an open ended fighter. What I mean by that 
 is, rather than your typical fighter, camera angle from the side, duking it out in an arena, you're 
 granted alot more ground.... and sky. The levels are pretty massive for a 3D figher, and you're 
 not limited to fighting on the ground as you would in say SF or DOA, at any given point (and it 
 will actually be where you spend most of your time) , you're completely free to take the battles 
 to the sky, not just inches from the ground, but to tall heights. The camera angle will take a 
 little getting used to at first, being that it's located behind your character and over their shoulder, 
 but due to the nature of flight in this game, you'll come to like it as it works great, and camera 
 angle problems are few and far between. As I said before, the levels are large, and there's plenty 
 of destructible environment to send your opponents flying through, everything from building, trees, 
 mountains, to the floors of certain elvels. Sure this could have been improved upon a little bit, 
 but it's still pretty good nontheless. Chracters: LOTS! Need I say more? Including all the character's 
 transformed states, there are 120 playable characters in the game. Yes, alot of the controls will 
 be exactly the same from character to character, but true to form from a game where it relies one 
 ONE controls scheme, how the characters actually behave is very different from character to character. 
 The story mode to the game, while it could use a more cinematic touch, is pretty indepth for a 
 fighter, and covers well a good majority of DBZ and DBGT, very rarely straying from the continuity 
 established by the series. Difficulty: This is where my one complaint with the game comes in. The 
 difficulty starts off ok, but one you have a good hold of the controls you'll realize that even 
 on hard, the game is rediculously easy, and the AI is just short of being brain dead. Multi-player: 
 Thankfully after the brain dead cpu, multiplayer holds up well, which is good since this is where 
 the majority of your challenge will come from, duking it out with friends who think and don't use 
 the same manuvers over and over. Unfortunately the multi player is weakened a bit in the Wii version 
 of the game for 2 reasons. 1. When you're on levels with alot of water (ex: Master Roshi's Island) , 
 you'll experience quite alot of lag. You won't see this in single player but in multi is deffinetly 
 shows, and you didn't have this problem in the PS2 version. 2. Lack of memory cards removes one 
 of my favorite features from the PS2 version, duking it out with a friend using your own custom 
 characters against theirs to see who has the right to brag about better builds. Granted thanks 
 to the password feature you can still do this, but it's time consuming and no were near as simple 
 as just pluging in a memory card to the player slot your using. Controls: This is where the Wii 
 version REALLY shines! I thought for sure that the controls on the Wii would be horrible, but truth 
 be told, I MUCH prefer them to using your average controller. The controls in this version take 
 a bit of getting used to, but onece you've got them down, they feel very fluid, and just down right 
 appropriate. The bow will tell you that you mimic the actualy movements of the characters, this 
 is kind of true, and at the same time, kind of not. You don't have to goto those extremes of actually 
 making the full movements to do a Kamehameha, but it does still mimic it with the back foward motion 
 of it, or Piccolo's Special Beam Cannon with flicking the remote up like you were pointing at your 
 head, and bringing it back down to point at the enemy. And if you can't wrap you head around the 
 Wii controls or just don't like them, you can still use a classic or GC controller to play with 
 and still have the feel of your typical comtroller.
  
  Overall: A very good game, lots of fun to play. If you're a Dragon Ball fan you'll find little 
 to not like about the game, and if you're not, if you take the time to learn to play anyway, it's 
 still a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxboy65
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The ps2 versions were always button mashers that were easy. This version on 
 wii is more than hitting buttons it is a strategy game that takes skill and brains, not just a 
 working hand. I spent about twenty hours on this game and it was totally worth it. There are over 
 one-hundres twenty characters. The graphics for transformations are incredibly genius. All off 
 the twenty-five sagas plus are here even the movies like, Broly, Lord Slug, cooler, revenge of 
 cooler, bardock, and janemba. The amount of super Saiyan power levels there are is incredible to 
 see how your players power level spikes. The KI attacks are amazing, ike the many types of Galic 
 Guns and kamehamehas. Once you beat Dragon Adventure you can dual with all 120 characters. Some 
 characters are made by the fusion off Z-items. On this site under Hints and Cheats there is an 
 list for all of the fusions that are needed to make characters. That is why this game gets a ten 
 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  This is my last game i review till Mario Strikers Charged comes out, but saying that, this is definatly 
 a game worth purchasing.
  
  GRAPHICS The graphics ARE the best on the wii by miles! They are beautiful! they perfectly capture 
 the DBZ look, and the animations are smooth, the frame rate stays steady, and the beams/special 
 attacks all look fantastic. Nuff said.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Though it has a lengthy training mode, it isnt really that hard 2 pickup and play, most of it is 
 done with buttons, but the special attacks ect are done with acurate dbz gestures. SOUND Nice music, 
 and great voice acting. Sound effects are great. Not much more to add lol.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  A 60hr campagin, with loads of unlockable characters and skills, and great fights against most 
 if not ALL DBZ enemies. Wierd multiplayer puts it down, but still a solid game.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Must buy for DBZ fans and non DBZ fans, this is a top notch DBZ game.
  
  
 
  NOTE: I AM NOT A DBZ FAN BOY, THIS IS A REVIEW PURELY BASED ON MY EXPERIENCE WITH THE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS:120 good guy and villians to play with from DRAGON BALL, DRAGON BALL Z and GT,7extra 
 characters in the europian, japanese and australian versions of the good {FRIEZA SOLDIER, APPULE, CYBER 
 TAO, DEMON KING PICCOLO and PILAF MACHINE and PILAF MACHINE COMBINED, you can play all sagas and 
 movies in dragon adventure, BLAST 1 and 2 are easy to do {I DONT KNOW WERE GAMESPOT IS TALKING ABOUT 
 CLUMSY CONTROLES} , awesome battle fields to fight in, all sagas are exactly how they must be just 
 like the serie.
  THE BAD POINTS: they mested up the movie scenarios a bit, each character have only 3 BLAST 2 MOVES. [CONCLUSION] 
 DRAGON BALL Z: BUDOKAI TENKACHI 2 is amazing fighting game, the DBZ fighting game and the best FIGHTING 
 game based on a anime. and i hope that the new DBZ FIGHTING GAME: BUDOKAI TENKACHI 3 have more characters, more 
 moves and more battle fields than DBZ: BT2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinky_bomb
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  this game isnt all that good if you didnt watch dragin ball z becouse you wouldnt know all of the 
 charcters but it would stil be a great game
  bad things
  - whole game is just fighting they could have added in something else like minigames
  - corses 
 are small but bigger than the other games -nothing to do after you beat the game
  good things
  - lots of charecters to choose from ( you have to unlock most of them) - long story 
 line I am a fan of drangon ball z and this is the best game so far so if you are a fan and dont 
 have this game get it becouse a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamgian
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  What great fun! The battles are, at least. Kicks and punches flying everywhere, ki blasts tearing 
 through mountain and buildings, and flexing your muscles. What more can you expect from a Dragon 
 Ball game?
  
  Sure it's your typical fighting game, but you haven't played a Dragon Ball game unless you've tried 
 it on the Wii. The Wii's control makes you feel like you're right there trying to bash the other 
 guy's brains out with your fist, or burning a hole through the guy's chest. I'll admit though, 
 it can get pretty redundant, but what do you expect from fighting games? Fighting games pretty 
 much ARE the same thing throughout every level. The graphics are pretty good, nothing spectacular. 
 It's what you'd expect from these kinds of games. What really grabbed me was the fact that as your 
 character's health meter gets closer to zero, he'll start looking beat up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss4444gogeta
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first game for Wii, other than Wii Sports. I am a die-hard DBZ fan, so this was 
 at the top of my list. This game only has a few setbacks: 1. When in Dragon Adventure you get a 
 perfect, or at least win, and the story says you fought hard but died. That's so annoying, they 
 should have just made you play as the other character. 2. The developers were lazy. They said there 
 would be over 120 characters, but there really only is around 70, the other 50 or so are transformations. 
 3. The horrid lag in multiplayer. It will take me more that ten minutes just to win one battle 
 against my friend (who isn't that good) because the lag makes it so slow. But, all in all, this 
 game is great, if you want to re-create the moves, and if you need some exercise. I think people 
 who don't like DBZ would buy this anyway and never sell it or anything like that. P. S.-One last 
 note, the graphics are better on the PS2 version, but who cares about graphics? Gameplay is what 
 matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bj2790
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 7, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Well to begin with i had the Ps2 and then the Wii version so ive experinced both
  
  To be honest i am really dissapionted with both version
  the wii others nothing more then useless 
 xtra characters and a fast losing novelty control scheme The game itself is busting with content 
 yet lacks depth most fights are ussually punch punch knock flying then Ki attack
  although it a huge step up from Tenkaichi 1
  It just dosent deliver
  you'll be bored with the 
 story mode which is extremely agonising and eventually all characters will lose what they once 
 had
  being FUN!
  Sounds are spot on and i love the music
  The graphics have a nice blend of character to scenery although ive mostlypanned this title i did 
 acctually anoy some of it if yr a hardcore dbz id recomend this
  I HOPE THE NEXT GAME WILL FEATURE SOMETHING MORE DYNAMIC MORE FUN AND ALO MOR DEPTH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwottalegend
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is easily the best DBZ game to date.
  
  The content in this game is amazing! There are more than 120 DBZ characters and the story mode 
 is over 60 hours long!
  The story mode covers the complete Dragon Ball Z mythology and using Z-items to upgrade the characters 
 stats to give them the edge in the battle just makes the jaw drop.
  Some new features include in-game transformations, tag battles and vanishing attacks.
  The controls 
 in the Wii version are complicated, but it is easy to pick up once you get started, in the first 
 few levels you only need a few punches anyway so its a great time to practise moves.
  The story isnt the only thing on offer though. Ultimate Battle Z is a Mortal Kombat style arcade 
 mode where any character moves up the tower till they reach the top.
  Z Tournaments are battle tournaments where the player moves his way the elimination battles to 
 reach the final.
  Training modes: to learn the basic moves. (Which is invaluable)
  Duels: to play against friends and to practise moves
  Item shop: to buy Z items
  Evoloution 
 Z: to fuse Z items to unlock characters or to equip them to characters.
  Fighters Catalogue: Create characters
  Dragon Library: An encyclopedia telling the stories of 
 DBZ and music and characters profiles.
  
  The list just goes on and on. This is one of my favourite games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_scent
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  When you pick up this game for the Wii, you have some doubts; is it worth it? You go on Gamespot 
 to find what it was rated; their rating. You see 6.5 and think that that's atrocious, but what 
 about the player reviews? 8.9. Complete difference.
  
  The first game I played on the Wii was the tennis game that came with the system, and I did terrible 
 at it because I swung three hours too early. Shortly after my brief experience with this disaster, 
 my friend pulled out this game, DBZ: Budokai Tenkaichi. I fell in love almost immediately. The 
 game is a little slow paced, and the fights seem terribly unfair at times, but that's only until 
 you learn how to move, how to attack. The learning curve that I gave is for more advanced gamers, 
 but the next best, 30 to 60 minutes, would be my ideal target for the more laid back gamers, or 
 for those that don't understand what a keyboard is.
  
  The controls are unique to the system, which makes this game stand out. The complexity formed from 
 the simplicity of it (Gamespot bashed it, ironically. It seems they have arthritis in their elbows 
 already) makes for a very unique fighting experience. To raise ones self, you hold C and flick 
 up. To drop, you hold C and flick down. To charge, you hold B and Z. To do attacks, it's usually 
 combos between A, B and Z. Standard movement is performed by the thumb stick, and that's basically 
 all the controls you really need to know. After that, it's merely looking at the attack charts 
 and whatnot to find out how to do charged attacks, etc.
  
  Some problems lie in the fact that people don't know how to make their character stronger, after 
 all, it is an RPG. After a battle, if you've leveled, then you exit and find the shop menu. Scroll 
 through to find what you want and purchase it. Some things become a pain as you want to have the 
 best items and power-ups possible, but it comes with time. After you get what you want or need, 
 your characters becomes instantly stronger, allowing for greater fun during battles.
  
  The AI of the enemies is humorous at times when playing. Sometimes, they'll do the stupidest things. 
 Other times, they'll think well ahead and destroy you in seconds. It's not predictable like GS 
 has stated, but it does have its moments... in easy. Under the harder difficulties, and even later 
 on in the game, the AI improves drastically, allowing for technical fights to break out.
  
  The lock on system could be the only problem, as it does sometimes get in the way of your abilities, 
 but it's usually not a problem at all. It tends to lock on... and it doesn't let go. It stays. 
 It becomes a hassle because sometimes, you just want to fly around like an idiot until you find 
 safety somewhere to charge up, or to see the AI of the character in easy as they fly around, dazed 
 as to where you could be.
  
  Overall, I rated the game 10 for gameplay because of how much fun I had and still have, 9 for graphics 
 (what else could be expected from an anime based game?) , 9 for sound because it does what's needed 
 for this game, 10 for value because it's a good game as it delivers what's necessary to the DBZ 
 gamers, as well as the non-DBZ gamers, along with a fairly long story line along all difficulties, 
 and a 9 for the reviewers tilt because it was a pretty damn good game. I would recommend this to 
 Wii owners if they love good single player games, and a very fun multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quitto
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  Fine little gem in the series
  
  Gameplay is good and fun to play there are still little miss shots
  
  Graphics would not been 
 better, i mean how can you top that kind of cellshade (i dont know how do i write it so cellshade 
 is close :D)
  
  sounds... sounds have improved a little from the first tenkaichi
  and are little more... how should i say ... better.
  
  i give an 8 for a value because it has 
 normal price and it should have normal price :D
  
  I love this game thats why i give 9 for it i don't give 10 because im not a dragonball fan. if you 
 have never played a dragonball game here is a fine game to start whit. Thank you :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Okay, lets start off by reminiscing about the previous Budokai games.
  Start off with the first one. This game was alright, with 30 odd characters
  and alright graphics, 
 this game was very average. Number 2 had slight improvements in terms of most aspects. The graphics 
 looked better but you could tell that they were pushing it to look more like the anime, which isn't 
 nesicerally a bad thing. Also the story mode was dramatically
  different than the previous game and, in my opinion, was not as fun and did not capture the
  
 esscence of DragonBall Z. I've never had a chance to play Number 3 to it's full potential but from 
 what
  I have actually played it seems like a highly upgraded version of Number 2. It seems they just 
 added more characters, moves, and the most different addition was the Dragon Universe mode in
 
  which you fly around, land, fight.... much like Tenkaichi 2 but we'll get to that later. Now we 
 have
  come to the first Tenkaichi... To tell you the truth I have never layed my hands on this game
 
  but have heard it plays and looks a lot like Tenkaichi 2 which we will talk about right now.
 
  Wait up, I forgot about Shin. Played this once, I did like it. The fighting appealed to me the 
 most, it was
  easy, but felt smooth to play unlike some of the crazy button combinations you have to do in the 
 other renditions
  of the series. Anyway, now we are onto the good stuff.....
  
  Budokai Tenkaichi 2 (On the Wii.... Just clarifying)
  The graphics in this game are very, very 
 awesome.
  They capture all of what DBZ is about, looking almost identical to the Anime counterpart. All the 
 characters look identical
  to theirselves in the game and believe me there is plenty of them.
  The backgrounds are very 
 awesome, they are destructible to the MAX!!
  There are many of them also, some that you have not seen before included
  within the selection. 
 I've always been a great fan of how the ki-blasts
  look in the games and have thought that they have looked spectacular in
  all previous games also. 
 That pretty much wraps up the graphics for
  DBZBT2 , in the end the game comes out looking spectacular in every way, Top Stuff!
  
  The 
 gameplay in this is great. The attacks on the Wii make you come back
  for more and more. The melle attacks are done with the (A) button and the special Ki blasts are 
 done by special movement, in which a lot have you pulling the Wiimote out and pushing it back in 
 or Slashing it up and down lightning fast.
  These moves capture what the Wii is all about and are spectacular to pull off everytime.
  There 
 are many games modes like the usual which consist of Versus, Practice, Tournament and Story which 
 is actually very different in this game than the others.
  The story mode is kinda at fist set out like the very first budokai in which you have
  to pick 
 a saga or a chapter and so on and so forth. Once you pick one you can fly around and stop at places 
 marked with a yellow or red dot on the map. Much like the 3rd budokai I believe
  but once you get into it there are options which can differ the kinda stuff you unlock and stuff 
 like that.
  
  There is also an Ultimate Battle Z mode much similar to the Mortal Kombat Fighting Towers
  in 
 which you have to fight opponent after opponent. This mode is great but after your done,
  your DONE! There are only a set number of towers with set opponents to fight each time round
 
  so it may get a bit repetitive. Another great feature is the Z-Item Custom Characters in which 
 you can assign
  certain skills to a custom version of the given character you choose which can either raise their 
 fighting stats
  and stuff like that. In this you can also fuse Z-items to make new ones, usually to unlock the 
 immense amount of characters in the game. This game features 134 different character (Including 
 seperate forms of given characters) .
  This amount can impress any gamer out there with ease. This game is a very complete, valuable, 
 enjoyable package that all of you should consider picking up.
  It featurres great fighting, a lot of choice and a whole heap of fun for everyone out there. AWSUM! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luquita
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Best DBZ made
  The game is awesome and it has over 100 characters which is pretty amazing i got to say is the 
 best game in its series. All the characters have sweet moves which makes the game even greater i 
 think it should have had older goten and older gohan but other than that the game was the best 
 DBZ i ever played. The characters can be customized to as if you pick the worst player in the game 
 and customize him/her to the max they colud be the best fighter. The story modes are very long 
 so it accumulates time which makes it funner to play the game to unlock everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  ok im not a fan of DBZ. but i can honestly say that this game does well in hearding the non fan 
 cattle into their butcher house. story is the same they have had for decades; all of the story 
 lines actually and all the charicters! in terms of varioty than id go for this! gameplay is the 
 typical one on one in 3D with wii controls that actually are good for those to unleash quick moves 
 at a moments notice [instead of countless button pressing for one move] all 120 charicters have 
 their own signature moves which are pretty well made instead of half assed like before. graphics 
 are decent to wii standards with cellshadedness from the anime. voice acting is... forced. very 
 VERY forced!
  
  if your a non fan or a fan than this game is at least good as a rental. without the wii controls 
 than this would be boring city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how this game got a mere 6.5. It's not the greatest game in the world, but it IS great.
 
  It's controls aren't 'clumsy', it does take a little getting used too but it shouldn't be long 
 before your flying all over the battlefield, hurling explosives blasts of energy all over the place.
 
  
  The meat of the game is the story mode and theres a lot to play through, spanning throughout Dragonball 
 Z/GT and also the movies. With a whole host of characters to unlock. Though I doubt it's as much 
 as advertised on the packaging '120', being that a lot of them are just various incarnations of 
 the same character (Vegeta (scouter) , Vegeta form 2, Majin Vegeta probably being the best example) 
 but it doesn't change the fact that you have a lot to pick from.
  
  Throughout gameplay you'll unlock characters, but some require the fusion of objects you'll find 
 throughout play in order to unlock others. Some of the item combinations are obvious, others not 
 so much. Though I'm sure if you look hard enough online you'll find the combinations, it's otherwise 
 a case of trial and error, really. I'd have prefered to unlocked all the characters as I met them 
 and usually consequently beat the snot out of them. The visuals are true to Dragonball Z style 
 and look quite fantastic.
  As a battle wages a character will get bruised, clothes torn and slightly bloodied up in areas. 
 It's only a cosmetic touch, but it's a nice one that earlier games were missing.
  
  The sound and music is tolerable. As are the voice overs.
  I know some people will hate the english 
 dub, but you can also pick the Japanese voice acting if your picky.
  
  What else can I say? It's a great game. Through in another human player and it just gets better. 
 Gamespot have highly underrated this one. Probably the best DBZ game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WIERD-O
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that they were making Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 for the Wii, I flipped. It 
 was the first Wii game I bought. It was definitely worth the money. Here's why:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  While the gameplay was fun, some levels were way too hard, and most were way 
 too easy. It is addictive, though.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  While I'm not much of a graphics person, I have to say: this game had excellent graphics, in my 
 opinion.
  
  Sound/Music: 10/10
  Again, I don't judge by sound or music, but this game had great sounds, and music -- kept true to 
 DBZ sounds perfectly.
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  Unless you're either playing with a GCN/Classic Controller, or in a big room, multiplayer's kind 
 of difficult. Replay Value: 8/10
  While it's fun to replay, it does kind of get repetitive after a few weeks or so.
  
  Overall 
 score: 44/50 = 88% B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, to be honest, this game wasn't my first choice, but after learning that it was supposed to 
 be a good fighting game, I decided it was worth a shot. I picked it up, not knowing what to expect.
 
  
  When I began the game, I was excited, until I heard the disturbing introduction: This is a story 
 of the people who's lives have been touched... by the Dragon Balls. At least that aroused a bit 
 of a chuckle.
  
  In any case, the game's story mode likes to thust you straight into mind-numbing fistfights without 
 much mention. There are many different sagas you could unlock, further building on the story you'll 
 eventually have to complete. However, each of these sagas are mind-blowingly repetitive. For example, 
 in the Cooler's Revenge Saga, you face... you guessed it... Cooler, the brother of another character 
 named Freiza (Get it? Cooler? Freiza? Heheheh...) . The only problem is, you don't face him once. 
 You fight him with crappy characters, then fight him with a semi-better character, then fight him 
 with the best character, then fight him in a Super Saiyan form of the best character, THE SAME 
 CHARACTER AGAIN, then fight the same guy, but he has a friend, so your fighting TWO. Wow... big 
 surprise. Why do you have to fight these people repeatedly? The frustrating part of the story is 
 that when you clearly own the opponent in combat, the next scene in the story shows your character 
 KO'd on the ground while the enemy stands over you. Thus brings you to your second attempt to kill 
 the boss, and so on.
  
  Don't even begin to ask me about the sound. There are probably 5 annoying anime-techno tracks to 
 the entire game, and the voice acting is so filled with corn, it makes you want to take a hoe to 
 your ears, or maybe change the voices to their less-filled-with-corn-japan voices. Hey, at least 
 you can't hear the characters shouting their cheesy catch-phrases like, You're goin down several 
 thousand times.
  
  Hey, it's not like we're tieing you to a chair and forcing you to play the story. There are a couple 
 tournament modes that will certainly attract your attention if the story mode starts to become 
 unbearable, plus the many unlockable characters in 2P dueling mode. So hey, there's a good amount 
 of replay value. However, there are no different modes or anything to play, all three game modes 
 are beat-the-crap-outta-each-other style, and it gets old. Fast.
  
  The graphics are unforgivably bad. Even for the Wii, the developers could've kicked the game's 
 looks up a notch from the DS-looking level it's at now. The characters look blocky and cartoony, 
 even for a cartoon.
  
  The controls take little use of the Wii's abilities. Most attacks are done using the A button. 
 Wanna know how special moves are done? You hold Z and B down and start waving the Wii Remote and 
 Nunchuk. Spectacular? Nah. Annoying? Maybe so.
  
  Okay, maybe I've been a little negative in this review. Budokai Tenchaichi 2 (sp?) has a great 
 fighting style to it, addicting at that. It's a great game to play with friends, especially if 
 you go the extra mile to unlock every character. Despite the game's lacking graphical and sound 
 quality, and occasionally a slow frame rate, DBZBT2 isn't a bad fighter for the Wii. However, you'd 
 have to be a DBZ fan to really get into it. Maybe that's why I didn't enjoy it so much, but all 
 other gamers shold check out something different, like Super Paper Mario or Legend of Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zjohnsto
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  What a game! DB-Z has a huge history, and this game draws on all of it, creating a massive character 
 base. Fans of the series will realise that every episode is over-the-top in action, reaction and 
 dialogue, and all this comes through marvellously (especially with the western voice cast) . The 
 control scheme is fun, despite some bad rap, as all it needs you to do is get into the swing of 
 it! Shake your left fist and thrust your right forward and WHAM! beautiful ki-blasts! Sure, it 
 takes a little while to really get the hang of how much you tilt the nunchuk, or point the remote, 
 but the same would have applied to the optional classic controller/GC controller. The Wii-controls 
 are simply more engaging. Graphically, it's bright and vibrant, fitting match for the series. Sound 
 is a little repetitive, but in the thick of it the sound of battle is chunky if a little top heavy 
 (nothing a sub-woofer can't fix!) .
  Gripes - multi player is a pain due to the width of the screen. The battlegrounds are large enough 
 to actually run away, but multiplayer cramps this feeling.
  Gripe 2 - camera controls are awkward. One button will search and lock onto the enemy, with the 
 camera relative to your enemy. But if you're above you can't see below/above and that spoils the 
 whole 3D fighting arena.
  But hey, you can fly on a whim!
  Buy the game and have blast. BTW - play standing up - it's so much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a fighting game for the Nintendo Wii. I was looking around 
 for some fighting games and I noticed that the shop was selling this game so I thought I'd go ahead 
 and give it a shot. And heres my review for it
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is good. I dont know what it is about the game but everytime I play the game, 
 I feel like I cant stop. Fighting works well although sometimes it can be a bit too easy, I could 
 beat the enemy in 5 minutes just by spamming the kamehameha or whatever its called wave but that 
 can be fixed by changing the diffculty of the opponents. Story aint that good though but I think 
 the game is really all about the fighting.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are ok. I think it looks really nice but I cant help but feel it couldve 
 been done better. It could just be me but thats what I think. The graphics are decent enough though 
 and it passes.
  
  Sound: The music is quite nice but the voices of the characters sound a bit weird at times, like 
 theyre bored or something but it's alright since they only sound bored once in a while. And even 
 though the music is good, it can get annoying since its repetitive. What I really like about this 
 game is the sounds during the fighting. It sounds really nice and I think it's quite well done
 
  
  Value: I think this game is worth it but maybe its best to get it for a cheaper price since the 
 only good part about the game is the fighting and that gets a bit boring after a while. It is a 
 good game when you feel bored since you can just simply pick it up and play. I would probably rent 
 it first or find a cheap one for sale.
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed this game. Im not a big fan of Dragon Ball and I probably wont be 
 one but this game is a good fighting game. I would recommend this game to anyone who would like 
 to get a fighting game. Although, its probably best to rent it first since I dont think everyone 
 will like this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  i remember when i was about 10-12 years old, and i used to be a huge dragon ball z fan, but all 
 of a sudden i stopped watching.
  
  Then one day, i read the IGN review for the Wii version, and decided to pick this one up; boy, 
 am i glad i did.
  
  Controls:
  The controls in this game are awesome. You use the A button for standard attacks, B for shooting, 
 and also for kicking when using combos with A. The motion sensing comes in when you do your special 
 moves, and when you use the nunchuck to dash towards your opponent. Yes - you can RE-CREATE the 
 Kah Mae Ha Mae Ha with the Nunchuck and Wiimote! you will look like an idiot, but feel awesome 
 inside :P
  
  Graphics: The graphics look really close to the cartoon, and i love it. Nice cel shading style, 
 always works - if done right
  
  Sound: Good voice acting - you can choose either the english or japanese voice acting, whichever 
 you prefer.
  
  Tilt:
  This is one long game, and its worth your money. 120+ characters, 60+ hours of gameplay - yeah, 
 its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  On its own, this game is a good fighting game, although I would say nothing special bar the new 
 wiimote controls. However it is very easy for a dbz to really get in to it!
  There are two things that make this game for me. The first is the variety. You can do a story mode, 
 you can do a tournament, you can fight against the computer in one on one, tag, or five on five 
 battles, you can also have your favorite character compete in challenges to gain levels. Speaking 
 of levels, the other game maker for me is the items. Not the first time they have been used, but 
 that doesn't make the idea any worse. You can equip certain items to any character in the game 
 that you have unlocked. These items increase the effectiveness of that character in battle. As 
 you complete the story mode, or the challenge mode, the items will level up, making the character 
 even stronger. This is a fun way to add a personal touch to your favorite character. Test them 
 out against different opponents and perfect your custom character.
  The rest of the game is good too, but those are my favorite aspects. For example, the battle fields 
 are huge, which allows for a lot more strategy in the battles. There are also an unfathomable amount 
 of characters, although there are some I wish they had put in, like teen goten, goku turned kid 
 again, and as long as they are putting in guys like mater roshi... maybe chi chi as well, not to 
 mention a couple of the gt bad guys. However that is more of a fan gripe than a problem with the 
 game itself. The fighting is good, and there is a lot of depth to the game. Its easy to learn, 
 but its not easy to master, which means the game doesn't get old fast. I have found only one glitch, 
 and I don't really know why it happens. Sometimes, after a blast two or ultimate blast attack, 
 the camera view will get stuck in the terrain and warped, and the game will lag. The only way to 
 get back to normal is to perform a B2 or UB that is a rush attack and it also has to successfully 
 hit your opponent. If you are playing with a computer, thats all you have to do, but if you are 
 playing with a person, you each have to do it in order to clear up both halves of the screen. Its 
 weird. My final complaint is that, while there is quite a bit of individuality amongst the characters, 
 the combos are pretty much the same for each one, only the blast moves are unique, and even some 
 of those are repeated (although each character has at least one that no other character has) . The 
 game would be much better and have a great deal more replayability if each character had at least 
 one unique combo that is not a B1, 2, or UB. Other than that, it really is a fun game with a lot 
 of variety that can keep a person entertained for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Lets all be brutally honest with ourselves:
  Some of us just plain suck at fighting games.
  So do us all a favor (if you do; in fact, suck) and DON'T BLAME IT ON THE WII CONTROLS
  
  This 
 game was without doubt a good buy. Great multi-player, great single player and good, imersive controls.
 
  
  The controls did take a good while to get used too, but after that little hump there, it was great.
 
  
  You cannot put this game down for the game play, DBZ fighting in exhilarating, and fast-paced.
 
  
  The graphics, don't even start complaining.
  
  Sound was good, for the fighting anyway, The music was just... kind of... there...
  
  Value: 
 worth all $49.99
  
  And it gave me a good tilt, simply because i had lost my interest in DBZ until i played it.
  
 
  Thus, this was a game i was proud to add to my collection.
  
  And for those of you who complain about the controls, shut up and use the Wii remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whostolemysoul
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  well... I've had this game since I had my wii before christmas, and I waited to give my review 
 because I wanted to see if it would last, and I'm proud to say I have yet to be bored with it... 
 well there was that one time.... anyhow... the Graphics = ok... I never was expecting anything 
 to truly come of the games graphics in terms of how realistic it looks, but seeing they look slightly 
 better then budokai Tenkaichi 1 I'm happy and satisfied...
  
  onto the sound... it was as GS said... boring at least in terms of how the voice acters were, but 
 I have found a way to solve that problem, simply change the voice option to japenese.... with it 
 in japenese the game feels a lot more lively and not as if goku is yawning while saying kamehameha... 
 I personally enjoy the japenese voices over the english ones, allthough Gohans high pitch voice 
 was annoying at first... but like all things... (or most) give it time and you'll come to like it.
 
  
  now for the gameplay/controls... it's addicting, and fun... allthough in order for it to meet those 
 requirements, the CPU must be at the hardest levels possible, and only then will you have true 
 old-school dbz brawl... (minus the countless hours of charging and trash talk) anyhow, the gameplay 
 can get repetive and frusterating at times if your fighting a character that's cheap instead of 
 hard ... but a single battle will often result in something short of the utter destruction of the 
 very planet your fighting on, which in my oppinion is pretty cool... the fights themselves can 
 last a good five minutes depending on who your fighting, and for a five man tag team battle, the 
 fights can last so long that it's almost gaurenteed that you won't remember where the fight itself 
 even started, (due to the destruction of planets and such) what makes the game even better, is 
 that it can keep it's intensity throughout the entire match and what may have felt like a 40 second 
 battle, was in reality 20 minutes... as for the controls you'll feel a little nerdy at first, because 
 the only way to pull of a kamehameha is to litterally do one, but sooner then later (hopefully) 
 you'll realize all you have to do is simply hold your left hand still while thrusting back your 
 right and pushing it forward will give you the same result.... the controls In MY oppinion are 
 actually rather simplistic and easy, I don't see how anyone is capable of not understanding them 
 within 20 minutes.... and if you can't stand them, or your unable to figure out the controls, then 
 you'll have to literally teach yourself the controls with the gamecube controller (or classic) 
 sure, the cube controller is easy to figure out ESPECIALLY if you've played dbz tenkaichi for the 
 ps2... but figuring out fusion and such could take a short while...
  
  it's definetly worth the 50 bucks, and I've been playing this at least once for a couple hours 
 every day since I've got it in december, and I still love everything about it, both the good... 
 and the bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenrard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  It does. Let me start out by saying two things:
  
  First... I am not the biggest fighting gamer fan in the world. I will get them from time to time 
 as something to pass a few days time or whatever. Second... I am not the biggest Dragon Ball Z fan 
 in the world. I know what it is and I have seen dragonball, dragonball z and Gt, but the dragonball 
 z series was the best. Now, this might prompt someone to ask, Why would you buy this game then? 
 It's pretty simple, I always liked this fighting series. I find it better than tekken and other 
 fighting game, because u can move very quickly in this game, teleport, there are some really cool 
 special moves. You don't see alot of fighting games with big stages and can break through things.
 
  
  Good: There are allot of DBZ character's and the length of the story is long.
  
  Bad: Sometimes it's hard to move with the controller. When playing multiplayer mode the game gets 
 really slow. Let's move on to the review itself now, and start it out with something on the presentation 
 of the game. The game is put together extremely well. I really like the menu system. It's easy 
 to navigate and the Wii remote works well for selecting items. The story mode seems to be pretty 
 good as well, as it appears to cover almost every episode of DBZ to date. This game could serve 
 as a fairly good thing to go through if you were looking to get into DBZ and didn't know an awful 
 lot about the lore of the series, but the Dragonball GT series still needs allot of character' 
 s.
  
  Gameplay: Now let's talk about the gameplay. This is what the Wii is all about, right?? Budokai 
 Tenkaichi doesn't disappoint. Most of the fighting games I've played in the past have been able 
 to be beaten by only having a firm grasp on one button. Although Budokai Tenkaichi 2 has only a 
 few buttons that actually control the fighter, the addition of the motion controls with the Wii 
 remote and nuncuck are fresh and fun. Basically, you use the nunchuck and remote in combination 
 to complete quite a few different things in the game. The nunchuck is used for dashing and flying 
 in an absolutely wonderful way. You simply push the nunchuck down to make your character dash whichever 
 direction you want. You hold down the C button and then slightly move the nunchuck up or down to 
 make your character fly up or down. These moves are all easily done and feel actually pretty natural 
 with the nunchuck once you get the hang of them. The Wii remote is used mainly for keeping a cursor 
 onscreen or moving the cursor offscreen. However, where the Wii remote is utilized wonderfully 
 is in the use of special attacks. The characters all have different special ranged attacks, and 
 the two different motion sensing controls of the Wii are used to pull these moves off. For example, 
 in order to pull off Kid Gohan's special move, you wave the nunchuck side to side twice and then 
 push the Wii remote forward. This causes the character to pull off his most powerful special attack. 
 The feel of pulling it off is so much more fulfilling than simply pressing a combination of buttons. 
 The controls of this game on the Wii are simply amazing. It really makes you feel more like you're 
 doing the actual fighting than any fighting game I've ever played... and that fact alone will cause 
 me to keep this game for longer than any fighting game I've ever had. The controls of the game 
 can overshadow some of the other gameplay elements. The other part of the gameplay that I think 
 really needs to be noted is the environments. They are large and full of different obstacles and 
 interactive items. You can power dash and destroy many of the objects in the levels, and on the 
 other hand you can pound your oppenent into some of these objects which will also cause them to 
 be destroyed. The large levels with the huge amount of interaction is a great addition to the already 
 great controls, and makes the gameplay in Budokai Tenkaichi 2 superb on almost every level. Graphics: 
 Now, let's talk about the graphics in the game. Many Wii games are seeming to be on the bad side 
 when it comes to graphics. This could be because the Wii simply doesn't have the horsepower to 
 put together great graphics, or it could be because developers are rushing their efforts. Either 
 way, Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 has really great graphics.
  
  Sound: Next we'll talk about the sound. The voice over acting is superb. It sounds JUST LIKE the 
 anime, in both style and substance. Like I've said, I'm not a huge DBZ fan, but I am fairly certain 
 that all of these voice overs are done by the actual voice actors from the show. There would appear 
 to be tons and TONS of voice overs in the game. The voice acting is some of the better acting that 
 I've heard in a game in a while. The soundtracks are also pretty good. Last but not least are the 
 sound effects. They are also fairly well done. The sound effects of the punches and kicks are fairly 
 generic, but I believe most fighting games contact effects are fairly generic, so I can't really 
 fault this game for that. The sound effects for the different ranged attacks all sound pretty good 
 to me. If you are a Dragonball fan or like fighting games you should buy it. If not than rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I used to be an avid fan of the show Dragon Ball Z. I rented this game for a few reasons... 1.) 
 Wanted to see how the DBZ games played, and i wanted to see how the Wii remote controls took advantage 
 of the playing style. 2.) Wanted to see what this game had offer as far as being parallel to the 
 show. I found out all of these things in the course of time i played, and i happened to love it. 
 This game is great for any DBZ fan, if you're a fan (or were at one point, like me) you can't not 
 enjoy what this game brings you. Over 150 characters, 10+ arenas, thousands of special moves, and 
 intense fighting action that is very fun and addicting. The pace never slows down, and after about 
 an hour to an hour and a half... you have learned the most complicated attacks and strategies that 
 will surely vanquish your opponent. A few downsides to the game are that eventually the fighting 
 could get a little repetitive, this game really has no appeal to people who are not a fan of DBZ, 
 and the main menu is very cheesey. However the graphics are identical to that of the show, and 
 the voices are fantastic! Overall it's a good game, and something that could keep any DBZ fan on 
 it's toes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimate-saiyan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Thres 135 diffrent characters to play as, Pilaf Machine and King Piccolo are my favorites! The 
 controls are easy and there are so many amazing attacks to blast you opponents and blow up the 
 planet with!!
  
  The PAL and Japanese versiosn include 6 amazing new characters and a great new huge level, this 
 game is still good after months!
  
  These new characters include;
  King Piccolo
  Pilaf Machine
  Pilaf Machine Conbined
  Appule
  Freiza Soldier
  Cyborg Tao
  
  and the 
 new level is the midst of space above Planet Vegeta where Freiza killed Bardock.
  
  Play as Goku and others and fight though the DBZ , the movies and DBGT with some of the original 
 Dragonball characters in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akriloth_2160
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  For those of you who know a lot about Dragon ball, Dragon Ball Z and Dragon Ball GT, you'll know 
 that while the cartoon is a classic, most of the games aren't. In fact, up until now, only one 
 of the games (Advance Adventure) has actually ended up worth playing. Here is a very, VERY unlikely 
 game. It's a licenced game that's actually fun, it's a VERY good licenced game (Considering that 
 the scores for fun licenced games aren't THAT high) , and it's the second EVAR Dragon Ball game 
 to turn out to be any good. How unlikely is that to have a hat trick of extremely unlikely factors? 
 The wii controls sometimes make the special attacks kinda hard to pull off, but when you do, it's 
 worth it. Picture it. You've held down the Z button on the Nunchuk to charge up your energy meter, 
 your opponent is regaining balance after being knocked backwards by miles (Like the cartoon, this 
 DOES happen in the game!) , and you (Super Saiyan Goku, for example) want to shave off that last 
 centimetre of health he has left. So you hold down Z on the nunchuk and B on the underside of the 
 remote. And as you do, you draw the remote back and thrust it forward. If your opponent is directly 
 in front of you when you execute the command, you'll charge towards him, whack him into the air, 
 fly up, whack him back down, then cup his hands together and bellow out the immortal words,  
 , and a blast of blue laser light explodes out of your cupped hands. It's incredible! However, 
 while this is massively appealing for a Dragon Ball game, Budokai Tenkaichi 2 does still have it's 
 disadvantages. While the most minor one is the fact that one illegally hard battle between you 
 (Hercule, the most RUBBISH fighter in the game) and Android 18, which is practically unwinnable; 
 the most major gripe is the way the cutscenes connect to the story. In one part of the main Dragon 
 Adventure, I was given 2 slots for characters, box 1 would be the character I start with, and box 
 2 was for when I switched out, or if the character in box 1 got KO'd. You can plonk Piccollo in 
 box 1, and then KO your oppenent to high heaven, yet still, a cutscene pops up saying that Goku 
 was as bruised as a cat in a water-free tumble drier, despite the fact that he didn't enter the 
 fight at all. Still, despite a few story issues, this is still one of the finest, most addictive 
 2-player multiplayer games currently on the Wii. And what's more, it's even more accessible when 
 you realise that you have the option to plug in a cube controller or a classic controller and play 
 the game like Budokai on the Cube (If you bothered to play it, that is...) . Add it all up, and 
 what have you got? A licenced game that's actually good. And wait till you add the shot of the 
 earth blowing up occasionally triggered by certain attacks. It's wreckage heaven! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwdtjuh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  The game released here (Netherlands) about a week ago and i got it on release date. I've read the 
 review of the Dutch gamespot and partly of this gamespot and I noticed that they weren't very positive 
 about the game.
  
  When i started my first fight after i've put it in my WII i got my ass kicked in a matter of seconds 
 ( no need for tutorials right.... WRONG) , after being owned a couple more times after that i've 
 decided to take the tutorial.
  After starting the tutorial i noticed that it was quite detailed and prooved helpfull.
  
  Story 
 morde just rules, it has nice options and tells the story of DBZ including the movies, you can 
 costumize ur character by buying items (can also be done outside of story mode) wich make him level 
 up.
  Some items can be fused with others to make new items.
  Well after playing a couple of matches and finaly defeating my evil brother raditz i unlocked the 
 next part of the story, but i felt satisfied for the time being and went to do something else.
 
  
  On my return i went straight into tournament mode and whooped some ass in the world tournament 
 (on the lowest level ;) ) , after defeating the tournament on a harder level i unlocked the Cellgames 
 (and afterthat Hercule's tournament by doing the same in the cell games) .
  
  Story mode, tutorial mode and tournament mode being the only three of the quite many options in 
 the game that i have explored untill now it seems to me that there will be quite a view secrets 
 to be unlocked and a hell of alot characters to be added to my ever growing collection of heroes/villains.
 
  
  After quite some time of playing the story mode i now finished the Mechanic Cooler (frieza's brother) 
 part and stopped at having completed about 25% of the story mode.
  
  1 Thing to be left said before giving the final judgement:
  There also is a ranked mode (like 
 the old mortal kombats have) where you fight ur way op a ladder, there are different ladders that 
 can be unlocked.
  
  The final judgement:
  
  I gave the gameplay a 8 cuz i think that the learning curve can be greatly shortened when you do 
 the tutorial and after having thought some matches you'll get the hang of it and you wouldnt want 
 them anny other way.
  
  Graphics another 8, well the wii doesnt have 'next gen' graphics, i think they did a nice job with 
 their cartoony look leaving the characters exactly as they look in the series.
  
  Sound, being a bit positive tbh, but i like the fact that they've used the (original) voices i 
 know from tv, some of the music in the game i dont realy like, others i do.
  
  Value, i already think this is money well spend.
  
  If u like the series it's a must have !!!
 
  
  ps.
  This is the first DBZ game i've played since the snes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kejigoto
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Oh yes I mean it completely, this game is terrible and fails in nearly every aspect. The battle 
 system is ok once you get the hang of it, however the main issue here isn't using the remote setup, 
 since the game does allow you to either use a gamecube controller or a classic controller however 
 the game doesn't explain how to play the game with that setup. It simply only displays the controls 
 and moves for the remote setup.
  
  The level system is utterly terrible, first off you need to buy capsules which gain the exp and 
 add more bonus stats to certain areas as the capsules level. Main issue is everytime you turn around 
 you are stuck changing characters or using a different form of a character that needs a whole other 
 set of capsules on their own. For example when you first get to Planet Namek and you use Vegeta 
 with his tail and scouter and get him leveled up, then suddenly you find yourself using a Vegeta 
 who doesn't sport a tail or a scouter and now you need all new capsules to start leveling this 
 new version of Vegeta.
  
  This happens alot, either that or you get stuck with a character that isn't worth taking the time 
 to level or equip with capsules. Such as during the Cooler Revenge Saga when you suddenly are stuck 
 using Master Roshi against Cooler or Hercule against Android 18 and you are expected to win? That 
 is another issue you face alot, using random characters in pointless fights and somehow you gotta 
 win or last for like 2 minutes against them. Another pain in the rear is how many times you have 
 to face an enemy. Such as when you fight Broly, first you fight him with Goten, and win, then with 
 Trunks, and win, then with Goku, and win, then with Vegeta, and win, then with Gohan, and win, 
 then with Trunks, and win, then with Gohan, Trunks, and Goku, and win, then with Vegeta again, 
 and win, then with Goku, and win, then with Goku and win one last time to finally win. Wow that 
 was terriblely long and somehow even though I totally crushed Broly in majority of those fights 
 some how he always managed to beat me and I would have to fight him again on another character.
 
  
  So battles are long and drawn out for no point and you constantly find yourself doing the same 
 thing over and over again. You win a fight yet you lose, and you get to fight them again and again. 
 This also leads into the horrible story telling aspect of the game. I've seen shadow puppet shows 
 with more detail than this. You basically end up reading 99.9% of the main story and occassionally 
 the characters will act out something like Frieza then struck Vegeta down in a powerful beam And 
 then you just see Vegeta go Gah! and fall over. No attack, no sound efftect, no action, just his 
 character falling over from a battle pose. Then from time to time you get these fight scenes between 
 characters that lack some serious sound effects and you often feel like you are watching an old 
 DragonBall episode (action wise) It just leaves more to be desired.
  
  This one is a sad attempt to keep the series alive and I could go on for a whole lot longer as 
 to why this is such a terrible game. The fighting system is ok but its so overshadowed by so many 
 other things that its a lost cause. Not to mention how the computer can pull off so many cheap 
 moves while you find yourself constantly struggling with the controls or fighthing to make your 
 character do the desired move instead of what he is constantly doing. I'd highly suggest passing 
 this one up and hope that Budokai 3 finds it way onto the Wii or Gamecube because thus far that 
 is the best one in the series. I gave this one a 1.5, mostly for effort and pity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited that there was gonna be a new DBZ game and all, and I got it for Christmas, but 
 let's face it, the storyline is so boring that you don't want to play anymore when you cleared 
 a saga or hard mission. I WAS expecting that every characters would have his own superpowers and 
 fighting styles, but since they put sooooo many characters in they were LAZY and they put almost 
 the same powers with every characters. The ONLY different power is their DEATH MOVE. This game 
 dissapointed me and I'm glad my game broke down!!! hahaha.... anyway this game is not worth buying 
 and I only recommend it to forgiving DBZ fans.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  the game it self is solid ,but how many times have we seen it..... to much.
  
  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is fun. but it gets boreing. blasting a kamawayawave is great! everything 
 else u just go right down or left up? ya know. the camera still has problems. the story is overtold 
 and boreing. [more on that in the SOUND] but if i had to rate the game play i would give it average 
 at best. i will admit, even though it wasnt that fun, i put a lot of hours in it. and it does go 
 over the hole dbz story.
  
  GRAPHICS: ya know i like the graphics, it is what u expect. to bad the cut scenes are not as animai 
 as i would like them to be.
  
  SOUND: good music and battle noises. the voice actors sound bored ......... and i dont blame them............ they 
 probually did this 1,000 times over! VALUE: if u like dbz and u are forgiveing.... get it. to tell 
 u the truth i dont own it. irented it for 10 days and beat it. but try it.
  
  
  till next time. im reidwii1. later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  There isn't much to say about this game. If you like other dragonball z games there is no chance 
 that you will not like this one, because it is better than the past dragonball z games. If you 
 don't like dragonball z games you probably won't like this one. This game has tons of characters, 
 over a hundred in fact. People who you would never had expected made their way into this game. 
 The story is extremely long, so it will keep you very busy for a very long time. You won't stop 
 playing until you beat it because it is so addicting. When you do beat the story you probably won't 
 want to play it anymore. But now there is a new tournament mode, much more fun than the old ones, 
 and there is a even multiplayer tournament mode. Then there is a new mode which is the most fun, 
 I won't spoil it but I didn't expect it. This game is great, if you like dragonball Z. If you like 
 dragonball z, have a wii, go and get this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  DBZ BT 2 is what DBZ fans have been waiting for for so many years. The Wii controls are great and 
 really put you into the intense action that is deeper than one might expect. There's tons of ways 
 to own opponents, with huge combos and massive blasts that are right out of the show and movies. 
 The control system is great fun once you've mastered it (and it isnt' that tough to master, nor 
 is it clunky like GS says) . I honestly really don't like playing with a pad now that I've been 
 playing it on the Wii mote and nunchuk. Flicking to dash, the back and forward motions to Kamehameha 
 opponents, etc. just make this game a true DBZ fan's dream. And you can do all of this as pretty 
 much any character from DBZ, and many from Dragon Ball the original and GT (the good characters 
 from GT that is) . Ever wanted to do the Original Kamehameha as a MAX POWER Master Roshi? Here, 
 you can do it. Ever wanto to launch a massive spirit bomb as Goku at Frieza? Doable. Ever wanted 
 to lock in a Kaio Ken powered kamehameha against Vegeta's Galick Gun on earth in that epic battle? 
 You can relive countless memorable Z moments, and even make your own. I've already had so much 
 epic and memorable battles in vs. mode versus my friends that I could buy the game for just that. 
 The only thing the game really kind of lacks is a more refined adventure mode. There aren't enough 
 cutscenes that signify important points in the story mode. For example, I can't see how Goku destroys 
 Turles and the Tree of Might, but rather I have to read about it. That sucks, but most DBZ fans 
 have probably seen that before, along with all the other moments that aren't visually portrayed 
 to you, so it shouldn't hurt the true fans. Some of the voice acting isn't in sync with the animations 
 either, i. e. facial expressions could've been a bit better, or the motions and dialogue mixed more 
 fluidly. I can't explain all the little things that make the game ridiculously awesome. But go 
 out and rent it to find out for yourself if you have doubts. If you're a true DBZ fan however, 
 you shouldn't hesitate if you already have a Wii and friends to play with. You definately won't 
 get the best out of the game if you play it alone, but it's still awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3dbz2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The game has a nice variety of characters that can keep you playing for a very long time. Although 
 the graphics aren't that good and the cuts scenes are very poor, the gameplay is great and even 
 better if you really get into the game.
  
  The controls are easy to learn, you either move the wiimote up, down, left, right, out and back in, 
 and the same motion again except while waving the nunchuck. The attack combinations are entertaining 
 and the fights are very fast especially when you are able to chase the opponent down after knocking 
 them very far away.
  
  Also, the change in landscape like when you hurl a character into a building or a hill the object 
 just gets completely destroyed (you could also blow it up) . When you use an extremely powerful attack, 
 the entire scene changes and a new battlefield is set up.
  
  Only major downside is the graphics... i think that they could have improved that a bit more. Plus 
 the charging is odd.... it doesn't have anything to do with the real thing but nothing to get angry 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid_rock995
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  For all of you who transfered from PS to Wii, the Gameplay on the Classic Controller feels relatively 
 as comfy as the PS controller. And those of you who, like me, are movement adept at first and get 
 challenged as soon as you pick up the controlls it is easy to align yourself and get into the game. 
 Naturally the Wiimote and Nunchuck is a bit sketchy the Classic makes it so much easier and quicker 
 to do moves, to evade and to teleport.
  
  So for those of you transition players moving from Playstation2 to Nintendo Wii, this game is a 
 must with the Classic Controller if you don't have time to learn the movements. The only drawback 
 is that the manual doesn't show you the Classic Controller controls.
  
  - Bird 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prostatus35
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Good: Easy controls, Lots of Characters., Big enviorments, Character replicas, Transformations
 
  
  Bad: Big Enviorments, Charcters are just transformations, You have to play evry battle of the DBZ 
 series.
  
  Charchter are replicas of the ones off the T. V. Shows and there movies are to the graphics makes 
 it fill like just anouther DBZ battle of the show. Charcters can also tranform in battle this is 
 a new feauter for the Tenkaichi seris. Over 120 characters. A lot of characters for a fighting 
 game. This would be true if they most of the charcters wasnt just diffrent transformations of the 
 same person. This being said that still dosent mean that its a bad thing. For instans if i wanted 
 to start the battle as SSJ4 Gojeta I dont want to go threw all the transformations of goku it would 
 take years but in actuality thair is only about 50 or so unique charcters.
  
  Big Enviorment is the double edged sword of DBZ: BT2 because i myself dont like it at all. For one 
 hand to hand combat is over in an instant because of special moves. For two thespecial moves are 
 near ot IMPOSSIBLE to heat some one with. With the big enviiorment all you have to do is get back 
 far enough (witch is not very far at all.) and you can dodge even the most strongest attack. On 
 the outher hand my friend likes how easy it is to dodge attacks hit your opponite and Dragon rush 
 after them for an easy victory. (These tactics are not good ones by the way fight like a gamer 
 and you would win 41-3 (onest to god life like score) like i did. )
  
  The last thing is that is that it will take you at least 3 days straight to unlock avry one because 
 of the extrmely long story mode. You have to fight avry single match in story mode this is a PAIN!!! 
 At first you got your 2 litter pop and $0.99 bag of doritos and your good to go your going to beat 
 DBZ: BT@2 tonight. Three days later jou are still in the fFrezza saga after like 100 battles with 
 freza the ginue force and friza hitchman. I think personally that the story mode could have been 
 a lot harder fighters less times fighting the same person!
  
  All in all this game is worth baying for the Nintendo Wii The multi-player could be hours of fun 
 once avry one is unlocked and ready to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bushnate
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  The best aspect of the game is the long storyline that pretty much covers the entire story line 
 of DBZ and GT series. It IS disappointing to absolutely crush an opponent in the fight part only 
 to find out that so and so was too powerful for you and beat you up. The actual fighting is pretty 
 much repetitive, the AI isn't overly complicated, and the moves get old. I enjoy picking it up 
 when i'm bored and playing a few rounds before i move onto something else. Sometimes it is pretty 
 satisfying to knock an opponent through a few mountains and buildings. I'd recommend it for any 
 DBZ fan or any fan that wants to get an overview of the DBZ saga. But the story cut scenes are 
 bad and seemed hastily put together compared to other parts of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthur_n64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  From 120 (more or less) playable characters, all the DBZ history and an interactive gaming way, 
 for many reasons this is the best Dragon Ball game in all Nintendo history (I don't know for XBOX 
 or Play Station) because of its interactive gaming, new way of fighting and new history. The most 
 surprising of the game is all the modes it has and the gameplay. The deception... short Dragon Ball 
 GT history and almost none Dragon Ball (Kid Goku) gaming. Out of it, the game overpasses expectations 
 and really makes you stay hours in front of the TV. I would like that in general, the gameplay 
 was explained first to understand it and maybe less movies and more GT. Thank you and buy this 
 game really Best in Series . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiPlayer16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game, Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2, is one of the better game released for the wii. 
 It has dozens of playable characters (go Trunks with sword!) , every character has a voice over, 
 and a long story mode. I think that this is kind of a DBZ version of Mortal Kombat, but better. 
 its main fault is the graphics, there not very good at all. If your not a big fan of fighting games, 
 then rent it first, but I strongly recommend getting it. This is a great game even if your not 
 a DBZ fan, I hate the movies, but loved the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merv818
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I'd give it a ten just cus i like it so much but due to the Attributes I gave it 9.8. WHAT the 
 fuk why do they want 100 words fuk that,
  
  I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE 
 DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ I LOVE DBZ . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistergalaxy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball: Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a simple flea on the back of the video game dog. I never 
 imagined a tv show with such quality like the one of Dragon Ball Z could go so low on the videogame 
 world. Graphics were the first thing that surprised me. Its a new gen console... NOT A NINTENDO 
 64 FOR GOD'S SAKE! I know the Wii is focused on the controld but please lord at least it could 
 have been better than the Sega! Anyways, apart from that the controls were really cool. Doing a 
 Kamehameha was a really enjoyable moment as well as doing the Masenko. The sound was the sound 
 of Dragon Ball: Z so I can't argue against that since it was... mmm... Ok. Not good but ok. The 
 game had 3 levels of difficulty but none of them was tough. I got disappointed with the challenge 
 the opponents were. The game had loads of characters but even though with so much it was'nt enough. 
 The story got too changed just because of unavailability of some characters. Disappointed... anyways. 
 This is a good game. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I have already written a review for the PS2 version of Atari's latest and most ambitious Dragon 
 Ball Z title, and I thought that game was pretty good, although it did share a number of small 
 design flaws. I rated it an 6.9/10.
  
  Having recently purchased a Wii, and looking to fulfill a craving of DBZ (I become a little nostalgic 
 now and then) and try out the Wii remote's capabilities on something more than Wii Sports, I moved 
 to rent this version of Budokai Tenkaichi 2 for a week. Unfortunately, while using the Wii remote 
 with BT2 is an innovative idea, the game is considerably difficult to get the hang of on any difficulty 
 above Easy . This drains the challenge factor and thus the fun factor as well for some but not 
 all gamers.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Stop HITTING me already 
  
  It's not that the Wii remote doesn't RESPOND or that it doesn't DETECT but that the controls feel 
 very awkward. In the space of time it takes to remember what buttons do which actions, the computer 
 AI manages to destroy my poor Goku utterly. Well, not utterly... but I have a hard time enjoying 
 myself when while playing this game with the Wii remote because my reactions are slowed down by 
 being required to manipulate the controller properly.
  
  Energy attacks are fun and eventually settle into being just mildly amusing, but in the heat of 
 combat against a modestly intelligent computer, it becomes grating to be smacked about because 
 you cannot unleash a Kamehameha Wave quickly enough all thanks to the need to properly align one's 
 fingers on the B button trigger while pulling back the Wii remote and Nunchuck at the same time.
 
  
  It's very hard to describe what it is that makes the Wii remote so unsatisfying in this game, but 
 I'm willing to bet it has something to do with the speed of reflexes needed to play decently coupled 
 with the time it takes to line up the controller with the opponent, pull back my hands, and blow 
 the enemy away. Maybe it's all just underwhelming due to the need to check the Skills List screen 
 repeatedly for every character in order to figure out how to pull off their attacks correctly. 
 Or it could be that while energy attacks are entertaining, punching and kicking feels like a chore 
 with the remote: boring and uninteresting.
  
  On a high note: Tenkaichi 2 can be played with a Gamecube controller which takes considerably less 
 time to figure out opposed to the Wii remote. Playing with a Cube controller immediately makes 
 this game fun, worthwhile, and possible to play on higher difficulty settings. Another, small and 
 curious plus is the smoothness that the Wii plays this game. I couldn't get over the feeling I 
 had the first few hours of playing that the load times were much shorter and the gameplay smoother. 
 Except with explosions of course, which tend to lag the frame rate briefly.
  
  +Innovative use of the Wii Remote and Nunchuck
  
  Small +Game seems to run smoother in this 
 version
  
  +Gamecube and Classic Controller compatible
  
  -Wii Remote takes lots of getting used to and can be boring to use on higher difficulties because 
 of the quickness of the AI and the dullness of repeated punching and kicking to defeat the unblastable 
 (or opponents to fast to be hit by energy attacks spawned by Wii Remote motions)
  
  Small -Explosions tend to cause minor lagging
  
  -It becomes tedious to memorize or repeatedly 
 refer to the Skills List screen when playing as one of the nearly unlimited characters because 
 one needs to figure out how to wield the Wii Remote in order to launch that character's energy 
 attacks.
  
  STORY
  Oh my GOD... 
  
  This is a rediculously long game. Not Final Fantasy long, but repetitively long. Some gamers and 
 DBZ fans will probably appreciate the lengthy storyline, but casual players will be turned off 
 by the required completion of about 95% of the Dragon Adventure mode in order to unlock all of 
 the characters.
  
  You will HAVE to complete the frighteningly long series of sagas and movies in order to increase 
 your measly starting lineup of characters to its amazing 120+ potential. Playing story mode features 
 such exciting things as flying over the colorful world, landing at random spots on the world map, 
 and moving about five feet once landing to either:
  
  a) Recieve a useless tip from a random DBZ character
  b) Add another, usually not-so-popular 
 character to your fighting roster for the next battle
  c) Fight a random, usually weak opponent
  d) Find money in small amounts e) Find a Dragon Ball 
 (rare) f) Summon Shenron/Porunga, the wish granting dragons if you have obtained all seven magical 
 Dragon Balls
  g) Activate the next story event from whichever Saga/Movie you are currently playing
  
  That 
 seems like a lot of possibilities, only it's not...
  Landing on the World Map isn't exactly engaging, but the intermissions it fills in between story 
 battles does offer many chances at saving one's game. Overall, Dragon Adventure mode offers everything 
 that a Dragon Ball Z veteran could want, and everything that casual gamers hate in its rediculous 
 completion requirement in order to tap into Tenkaichi 2's full potential.
  
  +Long and mostly detailed chronicling of the entire Dragon Ball Z mythos
  
  -Flying around 
 the World Map is unengaging
  
  -Being required to complete nearly the entire, massively long story in order to obtain all of the 
 characters is a drag
  
  SOUND
  Screaming+Punching Hamburger+Lasers= Tenkaichi 2's sound effects 
  
  Dragon Ball Z has never 
 been known for being subtle and the sound effects certainly attest to that. The wind hisses when 
 a character powers up, buildings and mountains explode loudly, and energy attacks scream through 
 the air. Really, everything about this game's sound can be summed up in one word: Extreme.
  
  This is a noisy game, albeit a goofy science-fiction movie sounding game. The only real downside 
 to the sound effects are the punching and kicking clips which are stale and boring to listen to 
 after a while. The characters talk and growl and scream in pain. They often have phrases to shout 
 out whenever you launch and energy attack or win/lose a fight. The English Funimation dub voices 
 are classical for American DBZ fans but become grating on the ears quickly. The Japanese voices, 
 I find, are far softer on the ears.
  
  +Loud and exciting sounds
  
  +/-Kinda cheesy sounding
  
  +/-Voices are annoying in English after a while but sound relatively 
 alright in Japanese
  
  -Punches and kicks sound uninspired
  
  MUSIC
  A little from Column A, a little from Column B... 
  
  The music in the American release of 
 Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 does not, unfortunately contain any of the music from the Funimation 
 dub or the Japanese version of the anime. Instead, the developers insisted on including several 
 all-new song tracks that are uninteresting for the most part. There are a couple of good-sounding 
 tracks but most of the others are dull or seem strangely out of place for a Dragon Ball Z game.
 
  
  +A few good songs
  
  -A lot of dull ones
  
  -None of the series' original music, except for the Japanese and possibly PAL versions GRAPHICS
 
  Ooh, pretty... 
  
  Cel-shade graphics are supposedly more difficult to design than your typical video game graphics. 
 I don't doubt it. The graphics in Tenkaichi 2 are vibrant, colorful, and fun to look at. Enviroments 
 are huge and interactive and deliver a sandbox sense of gameplay. Upon seeing the large number 
 of buildings dotting the Ruined City map you may be overcome with the desire the destroy them gleefully.
 
  
  The characters look great. I think that these may be the best looking graphics in a DBZ game ever. 
 Energy attacks are usually different colored versions of the same attack but look flashy and cool 
 anyway. It can be especially fun to unleash an ultimate attack on your enemy and watch as a massive 
 orb of glowing energy descends upon them with explosive intent.
  
  Some arenas are uninteresting when compared with others. Kami's Lookout and the Supreme Kai's Planet 
 are two maps that do very little to enagage the player. The Dying Namek and Glacier maps, on the 
 other hand, lack many destroyable objects but are unique enough to keep the eyes entertained.
 
  
  +Large, vibrant arenas to fight on
  
  +Great-looking characters
  
  +Energy attacks are colorful and fun
  
  -Some maps are dull compared to others
  
  VALUE
 
  
  Story mode is insanely long but also MUST be completed in order to truly enjoy this game and so 
 the replay value drops. There are World Martial Arts and Cell Games tournaments to enter and win 
 money in. Money can be spent to buy character upgrades that can add to the long-term gameplay value 
 and there is a Mortal Kombat style Ultimate Battle mode where you must defeat a series of opponents 
 under different settings.
  
  +Tournament and Ultimate Battle modes add something extra to gameplay.
  
  +Money that you win 
 can be used to create stronger and better characters
  
  -Story mode has very little replay value beyond a few What-If? scenarios due to the requirement 
 of completing nearly all of it to obtain all of the characters, transformations, and fusions
  
  ENDGAME
  
  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 on the Wii has its ups and downs, and were 
 it not for the odd control layout when using the Wii Remote the game would be nearly great. However, 
 thanks to the Classic Controller and Gamecube controller options, BT 2 recovers points.
  
  Wii Version vs. PS2 Version?
  
  The Wii version seems to run smoother than the PS2 game, but 
 also lags on big explosions. Characters seem just a little brighter and sharper on the Wii version 
 also. The option of teaching yourself how to use the Wii Remote more effectively than I could is 
 also a nice added bonus, made more so because you don't HAVE to use the Wii Remote to play the 
 game if you don't like the feel of it. My vote goes to the Wii version for sheer added options 
 and slightly better looking graphics.
  
  Gameplay 6/10 points gained for different controller options as opposed to Wii Remote exclusive
 
  
  Graphics 8/10 Cel-Shaded graphics look really great
  
  Sound 6/10 Exciting enough to be forgiven for stale punch and kick effects
  
  Value 7/10 Due 
 to required completion of hellishly long story mode to gain all characters, fusions, etc.
  
  Tilt 6/10 Fair, although hindered by some casual-gamer unfriendly design flaws
  
  Difficulty: 
 Hard for me when using the Wii Remote as it probably will be for any casual gamer. Just right when 
 using a Cube or Classic Controller.
  
  Learning Curve: About 1 to 2 Hours when using the Wii Remote, possibly longer. Obviously not the 
 same case with the Cube or Classic Controllers.
  
  OVERALL: 6.7/10 Lower than my PS2 review although this version is easily superior thanks to the 
 different controller options. My experience with fighting the computer with the Wii Remote hindered 
 the score a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShakeNBake1491
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  For those looking for a fact-paced, action game, Dragonball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is right up your 
 alley. With it's rock-solid lineup of 120+ characters, you're guaranteed to be playing this game 
 for a good long time. It's a must-have for any fan of the Dragonball Z series and even breaks the 
 barrier and can satisfy those who couldn't care less about it.
  
  There are many modes in DBZ: BT2 that make it worth picking up, the World Tournament, Story Mode, 
 Duel Mode, and Ultimate Battle Z mode.
  
  The World tournament is self-explanatory, you fight a series of opponents and climb up the tournament 
 ladder and win money in the championship. The Story Mode takes you through the Dragonball Z universe 
 from the first episode of Dragonball Z to the last of Dragonball GT. You will need to complete 
 this mode in order to unlock all the characters.
  
  The Duel mode allows you to fight either a friend or the computer with anywhere between 1 to 5 
 characters. Even allowing handicap matches of 1 on 3 for example.
  
  Finally, the Ultimate Battle Z mode has a list of predetermined Z-Fighters for you to take on, 
 sometimes with stipulations such as a survival mode.
  
  There is also a Practice/Training Mode for you to hone your skills, and an Evolution Z mode which 
 allows you to power up your favorite warrior in order to make him stronger, offensively or defensively, 
 faster, have more health, or power up his ki and special blasts. Though the controls require training 
 to get used to, it will become almost second nature once you figure out how everything works. If 
 you stilll find yourself having trouble afterwords, you can use either classic or Gamecube controller 
 as a second option.
  
  Overall, some of the 120 + characters are transformations or later versions of the same fighter, 
 you will still enjoy unlocking and mastering your favorite warrior. There is much depth to the 
 game and it will take you around 35-40 hours in order to beat every single apsect of Tenkaichi 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamanu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  I personally think that atari did a great job on making this game. I chose to buy this and two 
 other games for my wii on release and boy was i glad. from the reveiws people had given it i was 
 not expecting much but once i got into the story i started to love it and really its quite addicting. 
 Its fairly challenging but always entertaining although this is one of those games that unless 
 your freinds have it once you beat it it is going to start collecting dust on your shelf. The whole 
 dragon ball z series is really underapreciated and i think this games deserves its props! BRAVO! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doobs87
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The last DBZ game I played was the original Budokai on PS2, and after playing this one, it's great 
 to see how far the series has come. I was a fan of DBZ when i was 12 or so (many years ago) , but 
 that doesn't mean that this game is less enjoyable to a total DBZ neophyte. The flashy action and 
 crzy explosions could appeal to anyone, though the controls... maybe not so much. Yes, they are 
 very convoluted, which works to the game's disadvantage in multiplayer, because someone who's never 
 played before will have trouble just jumping in and throwing energy balls around. For the rest 
 of us though, an hour or so of learning and the controls will become very manageable. It's too 
 bad about them though, as they mask startling depth. You may think that this game is shallow with 
 only one real attack button, but there are so many options at your disposal during a fight. Things 
 like teleportation, energy blasts high speed combos, and just general destruction really contribute 
 to the presentation, though the voice work from the actual voice actors is very rote. At least 
 the sound effects are cool, and the graphics are really excellent, with a great cel-shaded look 
 and a relative lack of slowdown. This game is also packed with content; apart from standard dueling, 
 practice, and tournament modes, there's an RPG-esque mode that takes you through the whole DBZ 
 canon and allows you to customize your characters. You'll be busy for a long long time. Easily 
 one of the best DBZ games ever, and recommended for fans of the show or otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golden_Flames
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  i only had nintendo systems there for only played budokai 1 and 2 so this was a big thing for me. 
 it was almost impossible to get a wii but when i got home from school my bro bought me and my bros 
 it and i started playing tenkaichi2.
  
  What i liked about this game:
  
  the controls for this game is extremely easy! it takes about 15 minutes to learn how they work 
 but once you get it, your on your way.
  story mode ROCKED they out in about every single movie, they tried there best to fit it in with 
 the story so give them some credit :)
  the graphics were intense, i like the earth exploding scene. and i like how namek looks when you 
 do your powerful attack.
  the characters combos were insane, so great and perfect... i like how they spent the time for each 
 character to have there own combo styles.
  the water looked real and so did the stages.
  
  What i didn't like about this game : (
  
  not all the characters were in it, they could 
 have added more stages (HFIL stage for example) other than that this game was perfect
  
  ---------------------------------------
  as you can see i rate is a 10 there for completely worth 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vote4Wii
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  After purchasing my Wii I had $100 left over for two (2) games. I am a big fan of the Wario Ware 
 series so Smooth Moves was already one of my choices. I knew since I only had enough money for 
 one (1) more games I had to put a lot of research into it. After reviewing the list of Top Wii 
 games I found nothing of interest to me. I have a couple of friends who are Dragon Ball Z fans 
 and they convinced me to consider buying the Wii version. I logged onto Gamespot, read the review 
 and saw a low score of 6.5. I was very confused to see a beautiful 9.0 player rating right below 
 it. I read some reviews and bought the game. Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is worth every 
 last penny! I am not a big Dragon Ball Z fan and I found this to be one of my all-time favorite 
 games. Try renting this game or borrowing it from a friend I guarantee you will enjoy it. Non-stop 
 action with the long story mode and lots of other cool and intense modes to choose from. Only minor 
 downfall this game has are the controls. No, they are not as hard to learn as everyone says but 
 they do take some time. There is a training option that DOES teach you the controls. Multiplayer 
 is a blast and the only downfall is your friend will also have to learn the controls, but teaching 
 him/her the basics is a breeze. After playing through the game and reviewing each attribute I give 
 Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 a...
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walkerctranger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I have heard many mixed reviews of this game, some saying its awsome, others didnt think so, and 
 I have pretty much rented every game for the wii, so I decided to play this one, and I found it 
 to very cool fast, and alot of fun, some problems that got in the way alot, like the times where 
 you have to mash buttons for 2 minutes at a time, but the good thing about these periods was that 
 you were doing some awesome combos that kept you entertain whilst youre fingers are about to fall 
 off from the button pressing, but thing coolest feature was the special moves where you would do 
 a hand gesture simular to the hadukan speacil move in street fighter, which i can only imagin is 
 every dream for dbz fans, so even if you are not a huge dragon ball fan, you will still find a 
 fast fun and original game here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  The wii's first fighter is a good one. but you wont be failing your arms around here like most people 
 think. Most of the game is still same ol butten mashing. Thats mostley a good thing. Super attacks 
 are fun to pull of acutely takeing your arms back then forward to pull of a power beam is cool, 
 however takeing the wii mote up off the screen to block isn't. There are some cool combos to pull 
 off a lot of them involve the A button and the analog stck or even swinging the wii mote, needless 
 to say it's a steep learing curve. Good thing you can use the classic controler that makes it like 
 the ps2 version. With cool fighting you get so much content. 120 chariters, storey mode that follows 
 the series, rpg elments, highly destrutable arenas from the tv shows, and modes. The only othet 
 complaint I have is the diffculty leavel on 1 player, one fight is to easey the next is so hard. 
 Fighting fans give this a rent it serves well as a hold over till MK, but fans of the shows buy 
 it if you have not already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matojo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  disagree with gamespot this game is awesome, brutal powers, extreme punchs etc and a lot of destruction 
 lol i give it 9.5 XD when you make combos is awesome to see the character sending the other to 
 hell! flying them make a quick move and PUFF your behing him and send him to the other side of 
 the wolrd lol aweseome a Must Play and have, if you like fighting games and even if you dont, you 
 gonna love this one trust me, i buy it the same day that i see the trailers etc, lots lots of combos 
 +++ powers+++fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2
  Ka... me... ha... me... HA!... ... ... X 10!
  
  Presentation (10%) - 6.5
  Controls (17.5%) - 7
  Variety (25%) - 9
  Audio (7.5%) - 8.5
  
 Depth (15%) - 8.5
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) - 8
  
  OVERALL - 8.03
  
  My Review Policy: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Multiplayer Importance: Medium.
  
  Previously played game in the series: None.
  
  Television set-up: 19 Sylvania CRT, SDTV 480i, composite cables.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay Outline
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Dragonball 
 Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a fighting game based off the anim&eacute; series. You and your opponent 
 fight until one of you loses all your health.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 45%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  You can 
 jump in and just have a fight, but until you've learned the game, that's not going to be a whole 
 lot of fun. It will take a sincere effort to learn the intimacies of the battle system. You'll 
 also need to make it through not just the single player campaign to unlock all the characters, 
 which is an important part of the fun.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 6.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The visual style and animation is near cartoon perfect. It really is in most ways good enough 
 to use for an actual cartoon, as seen in the few in-engine cutscenes scattered throughout the single-player 
 campaign. It isn't just the character models and movement, though; it's the effects that match 
 the series. Vanish attacks and Kamehameha's have never looked better.
  
  As for the gameplay aspects of the presentation, the pause before special attacks is rather important. 
 When you prepare to do certain moves, it zooms in on your character for a short animation; this 
 gives a short opportunity to counter. Ultimately, however, having some other indicator would have 
 been more practical and less of an annoyance, as you have to wait through the animation, which 
 can vary in length. Hearing Vegeta say, The Saiyans are a true warrior race! Don't underestimate 
 us! five to ten times in a fight can be especially grating.
  
  There's a serious absence in the production values of the storytelling in Adventure mode. The adventure 
 mode is broken up into Scenarios, then further subdivided into Chapters. For each scenario there 
 is a single short explanation of the entire scenario, right up to the final Chapter, even though 
 you've yet to play through any of it. For each Chapter there's an in-game cutscene that is just 
 characters standing an talking for a few lines before a fight. There is the rare legitimate cut-scene, 
 but the overall package is rather underwhelming.
  
  The fact that the game jumps between the animated series and the movies can cause some continuity 
 issues as well. The Dragonball movies themselves have continuity issues, but it doesn't help when 
 the game, for example, substitutes Androids 14 and 15 with Androids 18 and 19 in the Super Android 
 13 scenario.
  
  The biggest problem with the storytelling is that it undermines the series. If you aren't that 
 familiar with Dragonball Z coming into the game, Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is more likely to make you 
 dislike it than to become a fan.
  
  A significant barrier to entry in the game is the very poor tutorial implementation. The game is 
 very daunting to jump into, and the game leaves it up to the player to choose to go into Training 
 and go through each individual little tutorial. Those tutorials are essentially reading before 
 you get placed into practice mode until you quit. It's incredibly unintuitive, and leads to ignorance 
 of more advanced techniques.
  
  The visuals make this game so much more appealing had the design been poorly implemented. At the 
 same time, there are obvious failures in the presentational design that should have been addressed.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 7
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The conceptual control scheme works for the game. It's not overzealous, nor does it implement unreasonable 
 use of the motion sensing. You dash with the nunchuck motion, move with the analog stick, strike 
 with A, block with down on the D-pad, and B is multi-purpose and mostly for Ki attacks (special 
 attacks that require power up) . An innovative little concept is that you can move your cursor off 
 the screen to perform special attacks, which is quick and effective. There are many more control 
 mechanics, that are too extensive to list them all out here.
  
  When you block, you move the analog stick up or down to block high or low (leave it as is to block 
 middle) . If you block correctly on a powered-up smash hit, your opponents blow will bounce off 
 and cause him to be staggered. If you block the opposite (high on low, low on high) , the attack 
 with connect. If you're only partly off, the blow will break up your block and put you off-balance.
 
  
  The issues arise in execution. The nunchuck motion is hardly foolproof. You have to strike down 
 or upwards with it to dash, but to stop is to bring it back to normal position. The problem with 
 this is that you must hold your hand in the awkward post-strike position if you want to go very 
 far. You can adjust to this, but it can still be temperamental.
  
  There is also a strange bug that will cause you to be stuck in the defensive position so that when 
 you press the analog stick to move, you just block high or low. Then you have to either hold A 
 to move until it corrects itself, or pause and unpause the game. This can be a serious problem 
 in a tough fight. Another problem is that there's no clear indicator of when you can perform another 
 Ki move, as you can't simply attack successively. There are other instances in which your option 
 to use a Ki attack is unavailable, but it's not made clear, making it seem unresponsive.
  
  There are three different control mechanics for performing Ki techniques. One is to cursor-out 
 (move the cursor off the screen) to a certain direction; this is the most responsive and simplest 
 to perform. The next is to move the Wiimote back, then forward, which is used mostly for straight 
 beam attacks such as the Kamehameha. The last is to shake the nunchuck twice then thrust the Wiimote 
 forward; while it sounds convoluted, it's actually quite responsive. Unfortunately the last two 
 conflict a little in the very few characters who have both (I can only think of one) as I find 
 myself performing the Wiimote only move when I want to use the shake the nunchuck one. It would 
 have been nice to have had the option of doing the full two-hand motion to do a Kamehameha, but 
 perhaps that's a bit too over-the-top.
  
  There is also the option of the GameCube controller for those who are interested, but I am not 
 going to critique that portion of the game, for I have no interest in learning another control 
 scheme. And do not take my criticisms of the controls as a concession that the GCN controller would 
 be a better option; the most significant flaws would likely appear in both options, and I'd also 
 not expect the game to feel as rewarding.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 9
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Budokai Tenkaichi 2 piles on the variety in sheer DBZ content. Just about every character with 
 a name in the series shows up in the game in some form, and if that character has fought in the 
 series, chances are that he or she is playable, too. Almost every playable character also has an 
 alternate form. For example, Goku has various Super Saiyan forms. These forms can also be transformed 
 into during battle.
  
  While there are many characters, the actual difference between each one is subtle. The most noticeable 
 difference in character attributes is actually rather counter-intuitive to the series. Anyone who 
 knows anything about Dragonball Z knows that speed is proportionate to power; the stronger you 
 are, the faster you are. This is hardly the case in Tenkaichi 2. Rather, character speed depends 
 more on the size of the character, which are seemingly segmented into small (the children) , medium 
 (Goku, Vegeta) , and large (giant ape) . Movesets vary, but stay similar in structure across most 
 characters. Many seem quite alike, but you're likely to find, much like most fighters, preferring 
 certain characters.
  
  The complement to the characters is the Z-Item system. The Z-Items are equipped to the fighters 
 to improve their stats. These items increase in level as experienced is gained through fighting. 
 The variety in the items, and categories of stats, are very extensive. You can upgrade Health, 
 Attack, Defense, Speed, Ki, Blast 1, Blast 2, and Ultimate Blast. There is also Item Fusion, which 
 allows you to fuse certain items to either create new Z-Items or unlock new characters.
  
  The story mode is just about as extensive as the character list. The game plays through the entire 
 Dragonball Z series, the entire GT series, and all thirteen Dragonball Z movies. Along the way, 
 you'll fight just about every battle that occurs in the series, unlocking those characters as you 
 go.
  
  Alternate modes include Ultimate DBZ, World Tournament, Duelling and Dragon Library. Ultimate DBZ 
 lays out challenges in a Mortal Kombat style layout -- fight through the tower until you reach 
 the top. There are several Ultimate DBZ stages that unlock different things, but it's really just 
 an excuse to fight and fails to mix it up. World Tournament has you fighting in the three different 
 tournaments from the series in a tournament tree. Friends can join into the tournament, which features 
 random drawing. Duelling is the straight-forward free-match; you can have any number of fighters 
 in a match from 1-5 vs 1-5. Dragon Library is an extensive list of biographies and backstory for 
 the characters and scenarios in the game.
  
  All that's lacking in variety is something other than straight-up beat your opponent. Every mode 
 is basically pound your opponent into submission.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 8.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The voice-acting carries the audio. From what I can tell, the entire voice-cast is in the game 
 with many lines. The cutscenes are voiced excellently and the ingame audio from the characters 
 is even better. Before each match, each character says a little clip, which are context sensitive 
 to whom they're speaking; it's a really nice little touch.
  
  The music is appropriate but pretty empty and forgettable, and disappointing particularly when 
 it comes to battle music. Where's the intensity?
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 8.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  There are many ways to go about fighting in Tenkaichi 2. Fighting in close is good for characters 
 with good speed, but may have a hard time against giants who aren't stunned by punches. The next 
 style is integral to the extensiveness and uniqueness of the fighter, which is to rely on your 
 Ki attacks. Each character has three Ki attacks, two of which are categorized as Blast 2, the other 
 is that character's special move, or Ultimate Blast.
  
  There are two types of Ki attacks: rushing and blasting. Rush attacks have the character fly towards 
 the other combatant for a short distance, and if contact is made, triggers a sequence of attacks. 
 Blasting attacks are ranged attacks such as the Kamehameha. Ki is charged by holding 'B', and how 
 fast that goes depends on the character and whatever changes to the Ki attribute the Z items that 
 character has equipped do. When fully charged, you can perform the Ultimate Blast, which could 
 be ranged or rush.
  
  A wildcard in the gameplay are the Blast 1 stocks. These are used for unique manoeuvres such as 
 a protective barrier or activating transformations. While a nice little addition, outside of rare 
 instances, you have to go very in depth before their uses become practical. It's always good to 
 see a fighter than is more than a combination of button presses. Every aspect of the fighting system 
 has a legitimate aspect in battle and needs to be kept in conscious thought while playing. Blast 
 1 stocks, Ki meter, health, distance from each other, how much Ki do you, and more importantly, 
 your opponent, need to perform an attack and so forth.
  
  The unfortunate drawbacks are mostly due to the imperfections apparent in the control scheme. Since 
 defence is quite reliant on quick precise reactions, the often relatively imprecise control mechanics 
 prove problematic, making Blast 2 attacks overly powerful. With practice, physical comboes are 
 a remedy to this. Still, even if perfect, Blast 2 attacks are still a little overpowering for how 
 quickly you can gather Ki.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Budokai Tenkaichi 2 has several things going for it. The single player with regard to a fighting 
 game is rather lengthy and spans into multiple modes. It's great for DBZ fans to get to challenge 
 all the toughest enemies in the biggest (and, well, all) battles while offering a challenge with 
 three different difficulty levels (five in Duelling) .
  
  The character system works well for the multiplayer. Instead of being balanced equally, the various 
 fighters' capabilities are based off their relative strength in the series. While you can still 
 win with characters that have no business even scratching the other more powerful characters (Krillin 
 vs. Frieza, for example) , but it makes for a good option for evening the odds against a friend.
 
  
  Unlocking everything is a pretty lengthy process as well, as it dives into the unexplained Dragon 
 Fusion. All the game tells you is that you can fuse Z-items. You choose two Z-items and King Kai 
 tells you that you can't fuse those two. Rather annoying until you realize that the fusions have 
 a logical basis in the world of Dragonball Z. You choose related items to create a valid fusion; 
 an artificial moon card can create a Giant Ape Saiyan, for example. It's another thing that's great 
 for DBZ fans and downright frustrating for anyone else.
  
  There are some strange things and some annoying things in the story mode. First up is the obvious: 
 the battle objective. Before each battle you'll get one of two objectives: either win the battle 
 (most often) or the occasional Survive as long as you can . The problem is that you're constantly 
 getting Win the Battle followed by a cutscene that says The Z-Fighters were no match for the awesome 
 power of blah blah blah . While you can't really go on losing all the time (as happens in the show) , 
 it's a weird situation.
  
  Another weird thing is your enemy's power-level. The power-levels tend to jump around based on 
 how powerful your enemy should be in relation to your character and no how powerful the character 
 should be in context. While there should be an increase in power-level when our enemy transforms, 
 it just doesn't work that way.
  
  An annoyance in the story mode is the constant switching of characters. The Z-items are integral 
 to your success, but you only have so much Zeni (money) for Z-items while all these different characters 
 are showing up. Another issue with the constant switching of characters is that you have to fight 
 with really poor fighters in some instances (I'm looking at you, Hercule) , which can be utterly 
 frustrating.
  
  The last and most hurtful to the experience of the story mode is that chapters often consist of 
 fighting the same enemy over and over, even without change in form. There was one chapter that 
 consisted of fighting the same enemy, without hyperbole, ten times in a row. That's it, nothing 
 else. The same fight ten times.
  
  The last little issue is with the AI. While the AI can be quite effective in mixing up their moves 
 and being a bit unpredictable, there are certain behaviours that are straight dumb, annoying and 
 shallowing. At the start of each match there is a three second time of no-combat in which you can 
 move around into a favourable position. During this time, the AI will either fly up as high as 
 possible and wander aimlessly trying to lock-on, or just stand there and let you start the match 
 right behind it. Another issue is that when you're high up in the air and the AI is down low, odds 
 are that the AI will fly directly below you and punch at nothing until you go down and fight it, 
 which can be exploited with a rush attack.
  
  There's just a lot to do and a lot to unlock, as well as a fun multiplayer game here. Unfortunately 
 when you reach the end of your collecting and finishing everything, there isn't anything to hold 
 your interest as the difficulty doesn't get nearly hard enough for once you've learned all the 
 nuances. Similarly, the multiplayer itself is partially hurt by the fact that the learning curve 
 is so steep.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 8.03
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  When it comes to Dragonball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2, my entire review is rather irrelevant. All 
 it comes down to is this: If you're a Dragonball Z fan, this game is for you, get it, love it; 
 if you're not, forget it, it's not worth the hassle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakara
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  how do get the fox mask in order to get granpa gohan? anyway this game rock my socks best game 
 ever and whoever says it sux u suck i almost got all the charcters except granpa gohan i dont know 
 to get the fox mask its hard to get im getting slow in my old age i only got 67% of it done i got 
 alot more to go goku is my favorite charcter in the game and t. v series vegeta would be my second 
 so yeah if any one of u guys have an answer for me about the fox mask let me know ok my e-mail 
 is riddlecody@yahoo. com e-mail me if u want i dont know how i got here but any ways yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is so addictive. i don't own the game but i rented and played it pretty much every minute 
 of my free time. there are so many characters to choose from! i do not see how gamespot gave it 
 a 6.5
  
  The story mode unlike the other dbz games will keep you occupied for hours and it recaps the dragon 
 ball, dragon ball z and dragon ball gt series. play as heroes and villians, fight everyone from 
 vegeta to ss4 gogeta.
  
  In ultimate battle z mode you fight a certain order of enemies to gain exp. some of them have conditions 
 though. like maybe you need to survive on 1 health bar or not be able to use an evolution z character!
 
  
  you can also buy and earn items to make your character stronger. you can also combine z items for 
 whole new characters! i made ss4 gogeta basicly unstoppable! as you gain exp and level up you gain 
 more health for when you use your custom character.
  
  You can also fight in 3 differnet tournaments ( cell games, hercule tournament, and martial arts 
 ) to earn money. the harder the difficulty the more munny you earn. there are novice, adept, advanced 
 and master tournaments.
  
  well thats about all i have to say about this game. but plz just buy it, if tour broke then rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tec2030
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Dragonball Z: Budokai series since it's inception. Each game they seem 
 to get better and better. This is no different with Dragonball Z Budokai: Tenkaichi 2 for the Nintendo 
 Wii. This game is the fastest paced fighting game I've played in a long while, and to those who 
 think the game is mediocre compared to the previous games, you have something seriously wrong with 
 you. This game is far more superior than it's predecessors.
  
  First off, just the scale of the game is amazing. Over 100 unique characters, each with unique 
 moves, all in over 16 huge 360 degree fighting environments. Now the storyline pretty much is the 
 same from the previous games because it is based off of the anime. Although the storyline takes 
 a complete backseat to the fighting overall. You totally forget there is a storyline when you are 
 in the fight. Everything is so fast that you are just belting out Kamehameha's left and right trying 
 to kick Vegeta or Brolly's ass.
  
  This game is just really amazing and you would be stupid not to buy it if you are a fan of fighting 
 games or Dragonball Z.
  
  And don't worry for you wimps who are too lazy not to learn the new control scheme... it comes with 
 GameCube controller support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DVF44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a good game. Very lengthy and a wide variety of fighters. 
 The story mode takes a good time to get past yet it isn't quite clear. The basic sagas ( Sayian, 
 Frezia, Cell, Buu) are easy to understand, but the movie and GT sagas are hard to follow unless 
 you've watched them. The graphics are less than to be desired as they resemble the graphics from 
 from the Playstaion 2. The controls take some getting used to but once you get the hang of them 
 they're pretty easy. Training will help you get used to them. Training mode is a bit difficult 
 and confusing and you might have to learn some controls on your own so you should practice before 
 you start story mode. There is not much point in playing other than story mode or with a friend 
 unless your a die hard fan who needs 100% completion. Also there is not much replay value Even with 
 its flaws Dragonball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a great game and a must buy for all the hardcore 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chao_Of_Blades
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good the game is quite long about 9-12 hrs to beat most of it but not 100% so the real question 
 that should be asked more often is 'what do we do once we beat the game?' well nag your friend 
 to get it and soup up your characters and battle your customs to your hearts content. But this 
 game actually does require a bit of stratagy and good reflexes at some points. But i found it too 
 easy to be cheap in this game ex: using the same attack over and over hitting your opponent then 
 charging then hit him again and so on.
  But if your friend is doing this to you because they hate to lose i have two strong words rush 
 them yes with strong physical attacks you should have them on the run if yeah do that it worked 
 for me anyway. So anyway, this is a solid combat game with lots of choice that will leave you saying 
 in the end OHHH YEAH ITS FUSION!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ControlFreak0
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Here we are again with the latest incarnation of Dragon Ball Z: this time a sequel the what was 
 essentially Budokai 4. While Tenkaienchi 2 builds on the odd over-the-shoulder view of the original, 
 it just promises so much and delivers so little.
  
  When I first heard about everything this game had to offer, I was amazed. Full cut scenes reenacting 
 classic battles from all three Dragon Ball series plus full voice acting and a roster of over 100 
 fighters. Sounds impressive. But this is where you stop being impressed and start realizing the 
 truth. The story mode that reenacts the battles, really are just a bunch of annoying spoken-out-loud 
 word bubbles with character models standing behind them. Whats even worse about the story is that 
 you dont even have to follow how it went in the anime. When Goku is supposed to be beat up by 
 Vegeta, you can beat the snot out of him instead and the story continues as if you lost. Makes 
 no sense.
  
  Additionally, some parts dont even reenact the scenes properly. Gokuis supposed to die at the 
 beginning of DBZ from a powerful attack from Piccolo, sacrificing himself to defeat Radditz, but 
 instead he merely died from exhaustion after you beat Radditz. Thats some great tribute for fans.
 
  
  The roster is very impressive still, albeit misleading. There are actually less than 100 fighters, 
 and really when you figure in the amount of transformations they each have, then you get the 100+. 
 You will fight with series regulars like Goku, Gohan, Vegeta and Buu to the more obscure characters 
 like Pikon and the Saibamen. Even Master Roshi and Yajarobi are playable (although why you would 
 play as him, I dont know) .
  
  The controls for the Wii version of the game really are difficult to grasp and t took me forever 
 to learn them. So much so that I gave up on them because they were so frustrating and just plugged 
 in a controller. Thankfully, the game is compatible with both the GameCube controller and Classic 
 controller, both of which handle nicely, although I have my personal issues with the Classic.
 
  
  Graphics are standard anime-esque style with nice cel-shading, but I always like to think about 
 what if they used to Wind Waker engine
  
  In the end, DBZ BT2 is just basically DBZBT1 with some more characters and a bigger story mode. 
 It DOES cover through DBGT, after all. In short, if you love all that is Dragon Ball Z and can 
 put up ith some flaws, then this game might be worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, when I began playing the game I felt really weird. The controls were so diffitcult at first 
 and I sucked, big time. I became a little bit impatient, so I didn't played this game for a little 
 while. I resumed playing after that and practized a lot all of the movements, until I finally mastered 
 them. Believe me, once you learn the controls, hell, that is what I call fun!!! For a Dragon Ball 
 fan (like me) I can only say this (in the weird case you don't have it) : go running right now to 
 your closest gaming store and buy that game!!!! Score for DBZ fans: 10!!! Best game of Dragon Ball 
 evermade!! Now, for all the other gamers all I can say is to give it a chance, since this game 
 is not meant only for fans, since this is a great fighting game. Gamespot really underappreciated 
 this game, with the exscuse of confusing or jerky controls. Ok, maybe they are lazy to learn the 
 movements (and I don't judge them) and to master them, but they never make a review with the classic 
 controller or the gamecube controller!!!! Even though there are no tutorials for this controllers, 
 learning is extremely easy (I figured everything out in 20 minutes) . So this is your decision: 
 Wiimote (RECOMMENDED for DB fans who will sacrifice time and patience to learn) or Classic or Gamecube 
 controllers (casual players, DBZ fans should try it too!) .
  Just for the record, this is probably one of the best games for the Wii now (definetely worth your 
 50 bucks) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildprivate
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay was really long but also very fun. The style with wii remote and nunchuk makes one 
 of the best and most fun dragonballz games there is. The characters look almost exactly like a 
 cartoon but every once in a while you see a tree or something that looks horrible. The sound sounds 
 really good its mostly people talking, screeming words and their blasts blowing stuff up. This 
 is not worth $50 but i dont think any game is I would but the second you see a sale or a price 
 drop. Even if you don't like dragonballz this is an excellent fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Casual_Gamer_23
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  After spending an entire night of trying to learn the controls for DBZ: BT 2, I was extremely frustrated 
 and decided to trade it in. I told the clerk at EB Games that the controls were terrible and that 
 I was completely let down. He told me that it wasn't the controls that were bad, but rather the 
 tutorial. He said he experienced the same inital reaction to DBZ: BT 2 that I had. He explained 
 to me how to actually play the game, and strongly suggested I reconsider trading it in. I decided 
 to take his advice and give it one more chance. I'm glad I did. This game is by far one of the 
 most innovative, exhilarating, and entertaining Dragon Ball experiences I've ever had. GAMEPLAY:
 
  The gameplay is simply outstanding once you learn the controls, and believe me it does take a 
 while, but it is extremely worth it. It's more than just mimicking the characters' motions, DBZ: 
 BT 2 incorporates all aspects such as flying, dodging, counterattacking, and more into the Wiimote 
 and Nunchuk that delivers an incredible package.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Cell shading at it's best. I absolutely love the art style of Akira Toriyama and having DBZ: BT2 
 done from a cell shading perspective really brings the anime to life. Atari captures all of the 
 signature trademarks of each character that made them so memorable to begin with.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is great as long as you switch the settings to display the original Japanese 
 voices. I've watched the entire Dragon Ball Z show in subtitles, so any other way to me is just 
 agonizing. I'm really thankful they included this option. VALUE:
  DBZ: BT 2 is a game that offers tons of modes that will keep you busy for a very long time. There 
 are multiple difficulties, items to collect, places to explore, and not to mention you can play 
 through the entire DBZ saga! BOTTOM LINE:
  If you are a DBZ fan and own a Wii DBZ: BT 2 is a MUST. Usually Gamespot hits the nail on the head 
 when it comes to reviews, but this time they couldn't hit the broad side of a barn. If you need 
 any reason why this game is so good just look at all the other 766 reader votes. And if you're 
 like me and are contemplating trading it in, give it some more time. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvolvedAnt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game to have fun battling my brothers and friends. I ended up playing the entire 
 story line to unlock all the characters, and found it extremely well done and very enjoyable. The 
 story goes from the first episode of DBZ, all the way to the end of GT, and also includes every 
 DBZ movie, and extra storys that are 'what if' cases. I've played many Dragon Ball games before, 
 but this is the first one where I really felt like I was a part of the DBZ universe. I have not 
 seen every DBZ movie, so playing through them in this game was rewarding in itself besides the 
 character unlocks.
  
  The controls are very unique, involving moving the nunchuck and wiimote around, and takes getting 
 used to. Luckly the game comes with a tutorial / training mode that teaches you everything you 
 need to know. Once you finish the tutorial you can jump right into the story and really enjoy the 
 game.
  
  All the songs go really well with the game, and you can tell they put the extra effort into making 
 each song match what was happening in the story, as well as keeping the DBZ song style. The animations 
 are all smooth, and even with the enormous number of unique characters in this game (all playable) 
 everyone of them moves exactly as you'd expect and their moves match what they could do in the 
 series.
  
  There is a lot of extras like tournament mode, and ladder games, each which offers rewards including 
 zeni (DBZ currency which can be used to purchase z-items that raise your characters stats) and 
 fusion items.
  
  The only thing I wish is that the game had a cooperative mode where you could play with your friends 
 in a battle against the strongest enemys.
  
  Overall, this game is a must for any one who is even slightly a fan of DBZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoon670
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'll admit, I've been a fan of dragonball since the very beginning, I own Budokai 1 
 (GC) , 2 (PS2) , and Tenkaichi 1 (PS2) , as well as this, so by now I'm used to the series. With that 
 in mind, this review will attempt to tackle the game without doing what some other reviews *cough* 
 armored core series *cough* are given simply because they are the 7th and 8th sequels with a similar 
 battle system.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  STORY MODE: For those that know the story there isn't much really to say here. For those that don't, 
 basically it revolves around a few central characters, in particular, Goku, Gohan, and Vegeta. 
 The game does a good job explaining the basic story but assumes that the player has at least some 
 literacy on what exactly a kamehameha is, and the like. The story follows from the beginning of 
 DBZ when Radditz lands on earth and comes after Goku, through the Majin Buu Saga with Some stops 
 into the GT storyline, primarily for SSJ4 Goku and Vegeta and Syn Shenron. Surprisingly, the Story 
 mode also offers the stories from almost every side movie that was made for DBZ, and fit them into 
 the storyline as best possible. TOURNAMENT MODE: Tournament mode is basically a way to get extra 
 money to buy items that pump up your characters, that's all I've really used this mode for. It 
 is an interesting mode though, as up to 4 people can enter a tournament thats a number of rounds 
 equal to the difficulty setting, starting at 3 on the easiest mode. There's three tournament modes 
 in this mode, but really it just changes the setting, some slight rules (such as if ring out works) 
 and the difficulty of the ai and prize money.
  
  DUEL MODE: This is another multiplayer mode, basically two or more fighters battle it out as practice, 
 with no benefits to fighting in this mode. This is the standard get used to fighting mode, and 
 includes a pretty in depth tutorial that I highly recommend going through.
  
  OVERALL: For a fighting game with giant energy blasts and super high speed action, Tenkaichi 2 
 is really good, the controls are very fluid, though the ai can provide a decent challenge, if a 
 bit unfair challenge in some battles. ---- 9.0
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Tenkaichi 2 are astounding. Though the number of levels is rather limited, 
 the levels look great, and more importantly so do the mass numbers of characters, almost every 
 character has at least one other form that can be transformed into, some with 2 or 3, or in the 
 case of goku and vegeta (as a team) you can get upwards of 7 or 8, all of which can be switched 
 real time in the middle of a fight. the models look exactly like the anime counterparts, and physically 
 change shape and textures as they get beaten down. The closer to death Vegeta (scouter) is, the 
 less armor he has left and the more cuts and cloth tears he has. --10.0
  
  SOUND: The sound follows all sound effects and similar music to what appeared the in the anime. 
 The voice acting is pretty well done by the original voice actors in most cases, and theres an 
 option to change over to the japanese voice actors as well. The only thing I don't like about the 
 sound is that there is little variety. ---8.0
  
  VALUE: For the price, Tenkaichi 2 delievers more than its worth, I've played probably 30-40 hours 
 so far, and I have a couple story missions to go, and about 15 characters to still unlock, for 
 the price this will have you playing for a while. 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordHitman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this is the best game for the Wii. Zelda was WAAAAY to easy and this was challenging. 
 The graphics have been updated and look great makes it look like the anime. Almost all characters 
 from GT Z and original dragonball series. Alll have thier own signature blasts styles and is accurate 
 to the DB series. I recommend this game for anyone that likes action and fighting and explosions, and 
 definately for Dragonball fans. The story covers all toward dragon ball Z but unfortunately in 
 the GT sagas only the 3 main ones are playable. The explosiveness of the fights are highly detailed. 
 Do not listen to gamespot on this one the controls ARE FINE. they are not insane they are quite 
 easy to figure out. This game is with no doubt the best game on the Wii as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyblademastor
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I overall, thought this game was just good. Not great, not superb and definitely not perfect. This 
 game needs to be treaked to find perfection. For one thing, the computer I versed were very predictable 
 and easy to fend off and blast to oblivion. I was expecting more of a challenge while versing these 
 computers. The story line of this game was pretty much a summary of every DBZ saga to ever come 
 out. What grinded me gears about this was that everytime you completely annihilated your oppenent, 
 the game said that you still lost in the storyline. To fix this, they could either tweak the storyline, 
 or make the enemies utterly impossible to defeat. What I liked about this game was how many different 
 characters were attainable and how it finally got immersed in the GT saga. Also, how many options 
 you could do in the game, such as adventure, tournament, etc. etc. (although it gets somewhat repetative. 
 The graphics are moderate for a next gen system. Compared to those of the 360 and PS3, there's 
 no competition.
  I would recommend buying this game only for DBZ fans, and I would recommend renting it just for 
 a good time. Overall: 7.7 GOOD ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryman814
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game both two weeks, hoping to test out the Wii's new motion-sensing controls with 
 a fighting game. The controls were not that much of a problem, but I can see how some people may 
 get turned off by them. The biggest problem with this game is that it is not for everyone. If you're 
 not an Anime fan, you won't understand who everyone is unless you get primed on the DBZ storyline. 
 There are too many characters involved and thus, the casual fan of video games will get turned 
 off rather quickly. Also, I would have to say that the game becomes repetitive after a while. While 
 the character movement are cool at first, the super combos just get used over and over again. So, 
 if you're a fan of anime/DBZ, you will probably love this game. But, for others looking for a good 
 time, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugexe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe that Gamespot rates all Wii games so low! It's almost like they're handicapped. 
 Anyway, this game is quite the game. I was very nervous considering all the other DBZ games are 
 for the most part crap. I was pleasantly surprised. The controls are wonderful. This game shows 
 that the Wii will revolutionize fighting games because of the fact that you finally get into the 
 game instead of button mashing. The graphics aren't the best. Mainly this is due to cell shading 
 which has never been very good in most games, especially in the DBZ series. Overall the graphics 
 are actually pretty good. They are much improved from the previous games. Everything seems very 
 smooth. The voice-overs are pretty good. It's not choppy or glitchy or anything. They're about 
 as good of quality as you would get watching the tv show. The value on this game is so high. It 
 is so much fun and doesn't get boring. Multiplayer makes this game so much fun. You have the ability 
 to either both use Wii remotes, both use Gamecube controllers, or have one person use the remote 
 and one use the controller. Overall this is a great game for any gamer, not just fighting game 
 fans. I proudly give this game a 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I was amazed how they did the control scheme for this game. I actually debated getting this because 
 my cousin, said the controls were terriable from what he had seen of it thus far. Im here to tell 
 ya it's for easy, and controls much better then he thought. This game can use 3 controller's. Wii-mote, 
 Classic controller and Gamecube controller. Now at first I tried the Gamecube controller, and it 
 actaully made the game clumsy and aggravated for me. I had a hard time understanding the review 
 G4's X-play gave this game, and the score Ignwii gave it, I was like no way its so hard! Then I 
 tried it with the Wii-mote and I was like Whoa!!!! No way! The Wii-mote as we all know is motion 
 sensor based, and it pans off great! The graphics look for seemilar to the show it's self. I was 
 a fan of the show in the mid 90's, then it became the same thing over and over. If the game I don't 
 get the same feeling for. Ive played the Gc DBZ's in the past and thought they controlled all right. 
 DBZ on Wii is a perfect blend. I mean just about anyone can play it. Heck my Mom and my Wife have 
 both played and had fun. the Wii-mote has two possible way's to the play the game .Mimicking the 
 Z fighter's is fun, but takes to long to get the move's out. However; hold both buttons in at the 
 same time and gently moving the remote toward's and back releases a quick and deadly move. Yeah 
 basically point in click. G4's X-play called the Wii version of Tenkaichi 2 fighting game of the 
 year. It may not be the best fighter, but you can have great graphics and lame game play. But DBZ 
 onFinally we have a fighter to hang to, that controllers like nothing else on the market.. Wii 
 has changed the way fighting games are played. Game companies can now use this game as an example 
 to improve the simplicity of the control's and the feel of the game.
  
  A game shouldn't be hard to control and DBZ isn't. I recommend this fighter for any Wii owner. 
 The game isn't enough for me to become a huge fan of the show, but it did bring back some great 
 90's memories for me. Again people it does have a teen rating, but any one can pick up this Wii 
 title and have fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valor22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is not only beautiful to the eyes but very satisfying at times when you blow your opponent 
 100 yards across the map then blast him away with a special. The story mode gives everyone familiar 
 to the series a sense of nostalgia but is sometimes disappointing with the use of extremely repetitive 
 maps and fighting situations. During the story mode if you give yourself a little bit of a challenge 
 by playing on skill level 2 or 3 you will come across battles that make you want to quit and throw 
 you controller at the screen, don't get obsessed with the battle just set the difficulty to 1 for 
 that challenge. If the battle still seems to be to much of a challenge don't get frustrated just 
 look at the fight from a different perspective and the win should be yours. The games myriad of 
 characters will keep players experimenting with the different fighting styles of characters. Although 
 some of the specials seem very similar from character to character most fighters have a very different 
 style of physical fighting, whether your the kind of person that likes short quick punches in a 
 long series to do a lot of damage or if your the kind of fighter that likes huge slow attacks that 
 do tons of damage if used correctly you'll find your perfect match. I have to admit the use of 
 the wii remote and nunchuck makes for doing special blasts a little tricky at times. Other than 
 that the game's shear excitement makes up for all other downfalls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waker16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe Gamspot gave it such a low rating. This game is a major improvement over the first 
 Tenkaichi. The mechanics are great with the Wii remote; I had a blast using hand motions to launch 
 special attacks like the Kamehameha and Final Flash. One of the biggest and best changes is the 
 ability to transform during combat instead of just choosing the transformed character (which you 
 can still do if you want) . Also you can change the voices to Japanese to get rid of the English 
 cast; the English voice actors don't sound like they try sometimes, but you have to understand 
 that this is the sixth or seventh game they voiced in the same series. The best thing is it has 
 exactly 128 characters. One hundred and f***ing eight characters!! That's nuts (even though half 
 are transformed characters but they do have a different combo system on each one) . So if you have 
 a Wii and like DBZ, even the littliest bit, go run to the store and buy it! It's a must-have for 
 fans. X-Play gave it a 4 out of 5 and the Best Fighting Game of the Year award for it on the Wii 
 for it's mechanics. If they say it's good (since they always rate low on anime games and dislike 
 some of them) , it's freakin' good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1n0yMar1o
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Dragonball Z game in the whole series. The in game transformation , is great because 
 if you pick the normal character like Goku, you can turn to all of his transformations, and you 
 can also level down to his first form. Unlike in other Dragonball Z games you have to pick the 
 transformation you want to be, and you can only turn to that one transformation. I call that Limited 
 fun . But this game has no stop to its madness!! You can also do the fusion in game, but you have 
 to have both characters in you team. The story mode covers all Dragonball Z myths, and The only 
 problem is that in story mode, the condition is to win, but after the fight the cut scene after 
 usually will say your character was overwhelmed by ____'s power, and lost, even though you won.
 
  
  So if you haven't picked up this game yet run to your closest video game selling store and buy 
 this DBZ!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerCZW
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm usually very unbiased when it comes to what the Gamespot editors think when they review 
 a game, but I've finally been able to play some of the Wii games and I wasn't expecting too much 
 do to their average rating of the game. First off, it is clear that the reviewer has very little 
 to absolutely zero knowledge of the show, or they just didn't like it, because them saying that 
 only the most hardcore of fans should own this is absurd.
  
  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is by far the most comprehensive DBZ game to date as it is also 
 the most realistic comparison to the show both in the pacing of the game play and the graphics. 
 The 3rd person over the shoulder camera angle may jar you at first, but it only enhances the experience, 
 especially with the Wii's control scheme. You not only feel right in the action, but you almost 
 feel like you are your character and that pulls you into the game on ways you can't fathom without 
 trying it. Now, if you are stubborn, you may instantly reject a lot about what this game has to 
 offer due to the controls for hitting some of the advanced attacks, moving fast, flying, and other 
 more complicated features than pushing the 'A' button. However, this seems to be the popular trend 
 in reviewing the Wii games now a days, but the fact of the matter is that the people reviewing 
 it should have expected this from the get go. Maybe they just aren't that good with the controller? 
 Nevertheless, the Wii is way different than any Paddle type controller you've held over the years 
 and you better expect it to take you a little while to adjust to the game play... and I don't care 
 how much you've played PC games with a mouse and keyboard.
  
  As far as the amount of content goes, it's unreal. They follow every major battle (and some solely 
 made for the game) from the very beginning of Dragon Ball Z to the ending of Dragon Ball GT and 
 every feature movie in between. If you don't watch the show, that's probably in the neighborhood 
 of 400 to 500 episodes of coverage and a dozen and a half or so of full length feature movies. 
 They even have the two special eposodes featuring Goku's father Bardock and Future Trunks' storyline 
 before the android saga. Considering that the game developers left out a few cut scenes, it's really 
 insignificant. I was not expecting any cut scenes in the entire game from the Gamespot review, 
 let alone any that were audio-centric rather than text based.
  
  So, all in all, DO NOT TAKE THEIR REVIEW FOR WHAT IT IS... especially if you were looking forward 
 to this game coming out for as long as I was. I played it. I loved it. And there is nothing more 
 satisfying on this earth than pulling back your Wii-mote and releasing a Kamehameha right into 
 the face of your opponent.
  
  ... that's what she said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristopher22
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  This title is the most exiting game of Dragon ball z in our generations I recomend this game of 
 all gamers an specialy on Nintendo Wii and the price is respetable and the game is fun and dificult 
 and 120 characters is a lot and its all We encourage you to try to get your review right the first 
 time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChUyItO1210
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  So, one day I'm playing Budokai 2 in the GC, it is a very cool game. If you want to do an attack 
 you must do a combo by hitting the other character. Then I go to a friend's house and we started 
 playing Budokai Tenkaichi 1 for the PS2 I was expecting it to be a great game, MISTAKE. It was 
 awful if you want to do an attack you just have to press a button and the control pad up, down, 
 right... it was very simple and got me bored after a while.
  
  After that day I never played a Tenkaichi game until 2 or 3 days ago. It was Budokai Tenkaichi 
 2 for the Wii. This is a very spectacular game. If you want to do a Kamehameha you need to do all 
 the action with your hands. Another attack and you swing your Nunchuck twice and the Wii Remote 
 once. It is very cool. Gameplay:
  The controllers aren't difficult at all. It took me less than half an hour to get used to them. 
 Graphics:
  The graphics aren't something spectacular, but at least they are better than before and after all 
 graphics aren't the only thing that matters.
  
  Sound:
  The sound isn't that bad, well I mean the mouth of the characters keeps moving and words just don't 
 come out. That is the only bad thing, but when you translate from Japanese or whatever language 
 it is in into English well, it takes less time to say things.
  
  Story: The story mode is just great. There isn't another word to describe it. You play the exact 
 same way things happened in the cartoon. You play all the sagas and even movies. IT IS JUST GREAT.
 
  
  I really don't know why GameSpot is giving so underrated scores for Wii games. But seriously, this 
 game deserved much more than a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hulio-Sanchez
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a shallow repetitive fighting game. The fighting is dull, 
 and all of the moves are basically used with each character (with some slight changes here and 
 there) . One of the main reasons that the score is not higher is because of the unnecessary loading 
 screens, loading times, and minigames . In the story mode, you fly around ( minigame ) to different 
 places, and fight --Loading Time. You then pick the order of the characters you will use (very 
 unnecessary) -- Loading Time. You fight (for 2 minutes) -- Loading Time. The process repeats itself 
 for a very, very, very long time until you finish the story mode. It was said that there will be 
 over 100 different characters. Each Super Saiyan # counts as a character (times that by almost 
 every charactrer that has a different transformation) . Also the gameplay during multi-player are 
 extremely laggy, the controls are confusing, and the game is just altogether BORING! The game is 
 worth renting, but definitely not buying. Do not waste your money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This otherwise addictive and enjoyable title suffers from an easy single player mode and sometimes 
 frustrating controls. Its actually enhanced on the Wii, with the said certain flaws arise exclusively 
 on the Wii. As it can be sometimes frustrating to block or execute some moves, but ultimately its 
 a better alternative to button mashing. Button mashing however still exists quite effectively and 
 the game is somewhat shallow in the fighting mechanics.
  
  The single player mode is massive and spans the majority of the series, however it is very repetitive 
 and sometimes very boring. As well as these flaws its overlinear to the point of frustration. Example 
 being i just got a perfect victory over Cell and yet im unable to stand up to his 'awesome powers'. 
 Gamplay - 7
  Albeit shallow its ultimately satisfying and fun. Offering excellent multiplayer and a great new 
 layer to the gameplay with the Wiis controls.
  
  Graphics - 8
  A smooth and gorgeous game that is nearly on par with the show itself. While its not technically 
 stunning, or even mildly amazing on an artistic level its stays true to the series and accomplishes 
 exactly what the designers were going for.
  
  Sound - 7 Tends to be repetitive and unfitting, the sound tracks all sound pinned on. However the 
 voice acting is for the most part great and the sound effects are decent.
  
  Overall - 8.2
  This game is nothing to laugh at, withs its massive character lineup and equally 
 massive single player outing its a game that will keep you entertained well worth its money. DBZ 
 fans will defiantly need to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleitonSL
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Pretty cool game, it deserve a better score, and also if they say story poorly told, i dont care 
 because i already know the story. Much simpler controls, and doesnt require lots of pressing the 
 buttons, i really like that...
  Pretty cool game, it deserve a better score, and also if they say story poorly told, i dont care 
 because i already know the story. Much simpler controls, and doesnt require lots of pressing the 
 buttons, i really like that...
  
  Pretty cool game, it deserve a better score, and also if they say story poorly told, i dont care 
 because i already know the story. Much simpler controls, and doesnt require lots of pressing the 
 buttons, i really like that...
  Pretty cool game, it deserve a better score, and also if they say story poorly told, i dont care 
 because i already know the story. Much simpler controls, and doesnt require lots of pressing the 
 buttons, i really like that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Budokai is an awesome game. It only got a 6.5 but i think it is far more better than 
 that. The graphics in this game are pretty good. The only thing that can be improved in this game 
 is the controls. These controls are very complicated. I dont have this game but I have played it 
 many times. It is very hard to use your Kamayamaya powers with Goku and Vegeta. I was frantically 
 trying to press every button desperately trying to do that move. That is the only thing that could 
 be better. A great thing about this game is the wide selection of characters, There are many characters 
 to unlock. As you do campaign mode more and more characters become playable. Each of these characters 
 have their own unique and special powers. Another great aspect of this game is that it has to do 
 with the entire Dragon Ball Z series. It is a very long game with massive playing environments. 
 This is also what makes this game very fun. This game is very long with a lot of adventure and 
 a lot of players to play as and enemies to defeat. Overall I think this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProximaMinor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I am in no way a huge DBZ fan, I enjoyed the series and respect it for what it brought to the world 
 of anime and its success. Most DBZ games are horrible cash ins that would make even the most daft 
 of gamers cringe in utter disgust. There really are only two exceptions to this, that would be 
 DBZ: B3 and DBZ: BT2 (the game in which I will discuss) .
  
  I was incredibly reluctant about purchasing this game, a big factor being that Gamespot gave it 
 a pretty terrible review and I didnt want to sift through a million reviews weeding out the extreme 
 DBZ fan boys who love everything bearing the name, and those that hate DBZ so much they just write 
 it sucks a billion times in a single review. Seeing as its really the only fighting game for 
 the Wii right now, and the character roster is larger than any other fighting game ever created, 
 I pretty much told myself, whatever, Ill just get it.
  
  And I have not been disappointed. Fighting games are the games I enjoy the most, so my standards 
 for what fighting games are good is fairly high. At first when I started to play the controls were 
 a bit odd and I didnt really grasp the concept of blocking and countering all that well, and at 
 times when I would try to rush in I would accidentally try to grab leaving me vulnerable, and then 
 inevitably getting beat up. Also in this game you fight with the camera behind your character instead 
 of a standard side view. This is actually implemented extremely well.
  
  After a few minutes in training and getting accustomed to all the moves and how the control scheme 
 worked I figured I was ready to undertake the adventure portion of the game. The adventure mode 
 is enormous. You fight various opponents and watch as the story unfolds. Now, if you have never 
 watched the series, its not really a big deal; but, the way the game progresses, it will feel 
 pretty flaccid and sped along. This is mainly due to how much information and content they cram 
 into the adventure campaign. If you have watched the series you will find the story set at a nice 
 pace, considering you can fill in the small gaps by yourself. The character roster is just incredible. 
 If you like variety in your fighting games, this game is for you. There are over 120 characters 
 to choose from, so it will take a while to get sick of all of them.
  
  The stages are sweet, you have complete control over where you can go and everything is pretty 
 much destructible. Its quite a bit of fun smashing your opponents through cars and mountain sides 
 and then busting a special attack as they lay on the ground. Also some of the stages are fairly 
 lack luster, but then some of the other stages are insanely cool, so its kind of hit and miss, 
 but all in all the stages are very well done. The animations are great, but at times can get repetitive. 
 When you completely destroy a battle field using an ultimate attack, it shows a really bland scene 
 of a portion of the planet exploding. But other than that everything is pretty awesome.
  
  The music is OK, its a little boring or out-of-place at times. Its definitely one of the weaker 
 aspects of the game.
  
  The graphics of the game are great, they are cell shaded, and contain quite a bit of detail. All 
 the character models look great. There are many different modes in the game to keep you occupied 
 for a while, tournament mode being my personal favorite. This game also contains RPG elements, 
 much like the ones found in DBZ: B3.
  You gain items (Z Items) which you can equip to make your character stronger. These items also 
 gain experience and when they level they increase the ability of the item. You can also fuse items 
 together to unlock hidden characters, more powerful items, and other things. In conclusion, there 
 is almost more content that I can really write about. The game has a deep fighting system without 
 being overly complicated. It is marred by a few flaws, but not enough for me to tell someone not 
 to buy this game. Even if you hate DBZ, but enjoy fighting games, you will find your moneys worth. 
 A few things I whish they would have added:
  Fighting online
  Instead of digitally animated cut scenes, they should have put in original scenes from the show. 
 A few of the stages could have had more detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is very long compared to the others so you won't be getting
  bored quickly and even when your done with the story mode
  There are so many characters to play 
 with (120+) this game should keep you busy for some time.
  
  The controls can be very difficult at first to learn but once you get the hang of them you'll find 
 it works out very nicely making things like teleporting
  really easy. Also the controlls on this game make for very intense fighting
  espcially on 2 players 
 .
  
  I'd have to say my favorite additions to this game are the teleport combo also seems the teleport 
 dodge has been improved.
  which makes the fighting seem much more fast pace making it seem more
  like the anime. The other 
 being the Tag Battle which you can have up to
  5 vs 5 .
  
  The graphics are much better in this one for instance you can see the characters hair blowing backward 
 when shooting off a blast I think the biggest change in the graphics are the area's which are very 
 nice to look at
  also the area's are a bit bigger then in the previous game
  
  The music in the game is more upbeat unlike the past games
  where most of the music didn't seem 
 to belong in a fighting game.
  The sound and voices are good like always
  
  Also you can now transform in battle
  Which should please some players that were turned off by 
 BT1's lack of that.
  
  Well I could keep going on but I say just go pick up the game yourself if you enjoyed any of the 
 past DBZ games you'll love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emo_sucks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  DBZ Budokai Tenchaichi 2 for the Nintendo's new baby boy the Wii is the fifth instalment in the 
 series but ventures off in a few ways. for the better in my opinion, way better.
  
  The control scheme has been revamped for the Wii. Allowing you to block, dash, and initiate your 
 favorite character's moves using the motion sensitive contol scheme. Essentially, you just point 
 the Wiimote at the screen, then move your cursor off in a designated direction and bring it back 
 to preform the move. It sounds simple, and it is. but putting your arms above your head and thrusting 
 them down to do a spirit bomb, or tucking your arms back and thrusting forward to do a kamehameha 
 is just fun. The story mode is both good and bad. Well, good and terrible i should say.
  It goes through the entire story of our buddy Goku all the way from dragonball to dragonball GT. 
 Fans will love the huge amount of content. Anyone else will notice that the story is told terribly 
 and the cutscenes are clunky and just not fun at all. Between big boss battles you just roam around 
 the same map fighting the same XP gaining battles over and over.
  
  For me, the best part about this game is the behind the back camera system that gives you access 
 to the very pretty stages that give new meaning to the phrase desructible enviroment . Trees, buildings, 
 rock formations, cars, and even Master Roshi's house are just waiting for you to slam your oppoent 
 through. And it never gets old Another upside to the game is that not all the finishing moves are 
 cut-scenes. Most projectiles are just fired off and can be dodged or warped away from. This adds 
 the ability to form your own combos, and makes this more than just an exctention of a TV show. 
 Its a real fight.
  
  Overall this is the best game in the series. The story mode sucks, and the characters are greatly 
 unbalanced. But this is the only fighting game out wich really lets you move in a 3-D space, and 
 the only DBZ game that requires some skill to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2
  1-2 players Published/ Developed by: Atari/ Spike
  Rated T for Teen
  
  Pros:
  + True to DBZ in that it has all the correct voice-actors from 
 the series
  + The best presentation I have ever seen for a game. All the menus are crisp and clean with characters 
 actually telling you what everything is. Top notch.
  + Characters from various DBZ series such as Dragon Ball, Dragon Ball Z, and Dragon Ball GT.
 
  + The fighting engine is well adapted to the style of DBZ fighting from the show in that it takes 
 a behind-the-fighter perspective and consist of charging up, as well as flying, and so on. + The 
 Adventure Mode lets you play through various DBZ series and movies from Dragon Ball Z to GT and 
 more.
  + Battlefields are destuctible and there are nice dust affects that you get when you slam the enemy 
 into the ground. It looks like what you would hope a DBZ game would be.
  + Plenty of modes to play with such as a Tounament mode, a Evolution Z mode (think of climbing 
 a tower by beating enemies similiar to what was in the old Mortal Combat games) , a duel mode, a 
 mode that allows you to customize characters, as well as a mode that allows you read through a 
 profile of all the characters and events in the game.
  + Z items are what is used to allow you to customize your characters and the game. They offer various 
 side-effects and there's enough of them to keep you interested in this game for quite awhile.
 
  + The character models are excellent. All the effects from special moves, etc. look top notch 
 also.
  + The control takes a bit of getting used to with the Wii controls but once you get into it you 
 can basically use any character in the game.
  
  Cons:
  - The classic controller is compatible but difficult to use because the game doesn't offer any 
 explanation of its use. It's a nice add-on to try out but I felt kind of lost when I tried to use 
 it and just went back to the nunchak instead.
  - The stages/backgrounds are true to the DBZ universe but seem fuzzy to me, particularly in camparison 
 to the awesome character models. Certain levels though do look really cool, I just wonder if they 
 were done that way on purpose. Most of the time you're not looking at the background mind you. 
 I only noticed when I was watching someone else playing.
  - Some Dragon Ball characters are in the game but why wasn't there a section in Adventure mode 
 that covered it? Why weren't there more characters from Dragon Ball? Dragon Ball was my personal 
 favorite and I was dissappointed that there wasn't anything devoted to it in Adventure Mode. I 
 personally didn't care much for anything past Dragon Ball Z.
  - Adventure Mode sometimes has you (as is typical in DBZ itself) fight the same character repeatedly. 
 - Adventure Mode features some decent cut-scenes that utilize in-game graphics but I think it would 
 have been better if they could have actually gotten real cuts from the actual show and put them 
 in instead.
  
  Final Comments: DBZ Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is great DBZ game that will please any DBZ fan. Not only 
 is the game pleasant to watch but its actually a lot of fun to play. The Wii controls, though a 
 bit vague at first, grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_Of_Hope
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was so easy to pick up and start playing that even 3 of my friends who barely or never 
 touched a fighting game (Other then Super Smash Brothers and Super Smash Brothers Melee) have played 
 it and liked it!
  
  Wide choice of characters, so many that I finaly got them all.
  
  Almost all the fights from the story and the movies are included.
  
  Sadly. Only 2 real fights 
 from GT have been added. Baby Saga and Shenron Saga... Which have both been cut. In other words... 
 You better have liked Z because that's what the most part of the game is about.
  
  Other then that, Great graphics on the Wii. Controls are surprisingly easy to master. All you need, 
 is to practice your stategy while fighting!
  
  I've played all DBZ Bodukai (1,2 and 3) Except the first Tenkaichi. But to me... This is the BEST 
 of the series!
  
  Good luck and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Nintendos joystick and Mario 64 changed the industry when they debuted back in their time. Sony 
 made some waves with their Eye Toy camera and Plays Boxing Chump gave me a good workout. Now Nintendo 
 does it again with DBZs Wii-mote setup making me feel like an  
 Kamehameha acting role-player.
  
  Hide behind rocks to avoid fireballs, throw your deadliest attack to put earth in ruins, dash toward 
 each other and have one of those punch for punch bouts that are so fast you cant see them on the 
 show, teleport behind the opponent to get an edge; these are just some of the small details that 
 are in this game.
  
  The controls are hard; seriously, this 3D fighter makes you wrap your head (and hands) around the 
 shockingly deep control system using nearly every button on the controls. Youll probably get through 
 the whole game and not know how to do a lot of the things (I still dont know how to teleport to 
 dodge, sometimes it just happens) .
  
  The story is one of the games strong points. It covers the ENTIRE Dragonball Z series including 
 the movies (except for two or three) and the Dragonball GT series, although the latter is somewhat 
 skimmed through without that much detail.
  
  What makes these games a memorable experience though is the multiplayer. The experience is as good 
 as ever, especially since there are so many characters to chose from, lots of levels to pick, and 
 the fact that you can use Gamecube controllers to play with means that you dont have to go and 
 buy more Wii-motes; for Mr. No Job (me) .
  
  Other little things to know about is that, while I dont think anybody has complained too much 
 about this, there are lots, and lots, and lots of load times, and while none of them are over 10 
 seconds long, they happen at least once, sometimes twice, every 10 seconds whenever your not fighting; 
 and if your looking to speed up your learning time with the controls then you should play against 
 a friend while theyre using a GC controller, youll learn in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superion74
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  As a casual fan of DBZ, I picked this up after seeing the demostration of a rep using Wiimote &amp; 
 nunchuk executing classic dragonball moves. I discovered that the controls do take some time to 
 get used to, but with a comprehensive training and practice mode, I was able to get used to the 
 physical aspect of move execution, and I'm having fun doing kamekameka and other classic dragonball 
 attacks.
  
  Once I get used to the controls, I soon got into the story mode and discovered that it emcompasses 
 DB, DBZ, and DB GT. You can relive the storyline and be an active participant using various iconic 
 characters, and upgrade each fighter with Z-items that level them up and make them the way you 
 want them to be. With 3 different difficulty levels, you can adjust according to your skills and 
 can make the game easy or hard, depending on your preference.
  
  So it is boggling to me that Gamespot would only give this game a mere rating of 6.5. I think the 
 review probably got frustrated by the unique controls of DBZ, and since he didn't adjust the difficulty, 
 he assumed the AI is too predicable for his liking. Anyway, get this game if you are a fan of DBZ, 
 or just a gamer who wanted something interesting instead of the same old gamepad, because using 
 Wiimote and nunchuk is definitely an one-of-a-kind experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braingoo2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  If you think Wii sports is a work out try doing some of the moves in this game in rapid sucession. 
 This game is great. To be honest im not to familiar with the content. I have played some of the 
 other DBZ games and have seen an episode or two so I knew the style of game I was getting into. 
 The single players game is great for leanrning your skills and unlocking more characters. But get 
 a few buddies together and try to teach each other the moves and you are in for a good time. Some 
 of these moves are quite intricately done and are very satisfying once acheived. Exspecialy on 
 a live oponent. Some of these moves are devestating. This games is much like excite truck to me. 
 Alot of people looked at it and passed it off as just a simple game. But both have alot more depth 
 than are first appearant. Spend some time with it and the whole game will start to grow on you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I have not played Dragonball Z Budokai Tenkaichi or Budokai 3, but I have played the first 2 Budokai 
 games and the abysimal Sagas. This is a much much better buy than those games. The gameplay works 
 a lot better than what I had expected with the wii, and while not perfectly responsive, works well 
 for the most part. The wii version actually lets you act out your characters moves using the wii 
 mote. It takes a little getting used to, but it's really fun. The cel-shaded graphics are nice, 
 nothing extroardinary. You'll never really get the time to observe the surroundings because you'll 
 be absorbed into the fights which are making Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 The most explosive 
 fighting game ever made! I've heard the wii version's graphics are better than the ps2 versions, 
 but I have not played the playstation two version so I can't really use that. Once again, you won't 
 even be paying attention to the graphics.
  
  The game really shines in the value department with 120 characters, some just upgraded forms, and 
 60 hours of storymode gameplay , though I doubt that, is definitely enough value. The games voice 
 acting was pretty good, but not great. The music isn't bad, but there's nothing good about it. 
 Here's the worst part of the game. Story mode. While many of the fights are fun and there are some 
 new sagas that weren't in previous games, it's just told so badly, almost to the point where it 
 pissed me off. It's the same story, as before in all of the games, this time they didn't really 
 even bother to try with the story. You fight the useless battles to win only to find out that your 
 character lost, and then the annoying narrator that's in the show says all the important action 
 lines which you don't get to play. There is alot of dialogue and some is voiced but alot is left 
 for you to read, which isn't bad, it's just that it was sloppily written, bad grammar. Kinda how 
 you might think about my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meedak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  I've played about 3 hours of this game and it's really great. The multiplayer is really awesome, 
 even with the characters that come standard with the game. Once you get the hang of the controls, 
 they're really great and add an element of actual skill to a fighting game, meaning button mashing 
 won't get you anywhere. The controls don't take long at all to grasp, just go through training 
 of the parts you don't understand and you should be fine. I was incredibly disappointed with the 
 rating this game got, because the only reason I stopped playing was because it was 4 in the morning. 
 Anyways, great game, replay value and multiplayer. Brings back great DBZ memories! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remy_Labue
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  DBZ: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a sequel of a spin-off of the original Budokai fighting franchise that 
 Atari established in 2002. Back then, all fighting games were exactly the same. They gave you a 
 side-view perspective in versus matches that lasted multiple rounds. This was the norm since the 
 dawn of the fighting genus, the release of Kung Fu. Budokai was no different. It seemed that the 
 traditional outline of the genre was never going to change, and the only thing developers were 
 going to improve on was the graphics. Fighting games were doomed to exist as a cesspool of clones, 
 all being the same game with new characters and titles, never to be taken seriously as a genre. 
 
  
  Then, a glimmering light of hope appeared on the horizon when Atari announced that their fourth 
 installment of the Budokai series was going to be a spin-off called Tenkaichi, a fighting game 
 with a behind the back, third person view and full range control. Finally, someone was thinking 
 outside of the box. Atari made good on their promise in 2005 and the game was well received. The 
 fighting genre was saved to punch, kick, and grunt another day, and with the release of its sequel, 
 the legacy lives on with a vibrant shine that would make other fighting games jealous. 
  
  This is the story of seven Dragonballs that, when collected, would call upon a Dragon that could 
 grant one wish. Tenkaichi 2 follows the lives of Goku, his friends, and the hardships they endure 
 as they use these magic spheres to help save the planet from adversary after adversary. Some enemies 
 come in hopes of making a wish, some come to enslave the human race, and some just come to destroy 
 the planet for no good reason. All the while, Goku waits in anticipation for his next big challenge. 
 The earth threatening battles all pretty much start and end the same way. Good guys get beat down, 
 a few characters die, good guys train and become stronger, bad guys get beat down, the dead characters 
 get wished back to life with the Dragonballs, and the world keeps spinning. As repetitive as 
 this sounds, it never got old in the show, but in video game form, the story does get a bit monotonous. 
 It doesnt harm the game much though, since a majority of its players will be Dragonball fans 
 who will expect the storyline to be just like this, and wouldnt have it any other way. 
  
  DBZ: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 packs many different challenges in its arsenal, and if youre anal about 
 getting every last unlockable, and complete 100% of the game, like me, it will not disappoint. 
 Game modes include Dragon Adventure, Ultimate Battle Z, Dragon Tournament, Dueling, and Ultimate 
 Training. Dragon Tournament provides a total of three series based contests to choose from, including 
 the well known World Martial Arts Tournament, the Big Tourney (a variation of the Martial Arts 
 Tourney promoted by Hercule) , and the Cell Games. Each tournament comes with four difficulty levels. 
 Dueling mode lets you battle against a computer or human opponent with your choice of unlocked 
 characters and environments. Ultimate Battle Z pits you against multiple groups of characters in 
 varying ladder matches. 
  
  The tutorial mode starts by giving you a text explanation for each of its sections, then throws 
 you into a match with a motionless opponent to practice specific controls. Its very detailed, 
 and in turn, is very long. Expect to spend over an hour in the tutorial mode alone, but itll be 
 completely worth it in the end. I suggest that you start here if you play this game. 
  
  The story mode is where the game really shines, and, in some ways, disappoints. Every single saga 
 and movie in the Z series is here for your fighting pleasure, and most of the sagas and movies 
 in the GT series are also included. It would have been nice to finally see the original Dragonball 
 sagas in here as well, since a lot of the characters from that show are unlockable in this game 
 anyway, but even with its omission, the story mode is extremely long. To add more to the gameplay, 
 Atari also fitted each saga with three different difficulty levels. So if you play through it on 
 the 1st level, you could always play through it on the 2nd or 3rd level. 
  
  Story telling in-between the action is a flaw throughout the entire story mode. While the size 
 of it is dauntingly impressive, the cinematics that moves the story along are horribly done. The 
 animation is almost non-existent, and most of the story telling in done through text. For example, 
 Vegeta disappears and reappears behind Goku, at which point, Goku falls to the ground. From this, 
 were supposed to discern that Vegeta knocked Goku unconscious, even though his arm didnt move. 
 Character voices are done by the shows original voice actors, as always is the case in the Budokai 
 franchise, but some of the dialogue is either missing, or the timing is off. Atari also takes a 
 lot of short-cuts in telling the story, by skipping a lot of the plot and keeping the bare minimum 
 of info the player needs to understand, which still falls short at points. It would have been nice 
 to see well animated CG sequences in-between the fights, done in the style of the wonderful intro. 
 
  
  One of the issues I had with the story mode, was that they didnt play out like they did in the 
 show. The original Tenkaichi included a Z Battle Gate, which was essentially an abridged version 
 of the Tenkaichi 2s story mode, and it forced you to complete the classic battles from the show 
 the same way they did it in the series. So, as an example, in the show, Gohan finished off Cell 
 with a Kameameah wave, so in the Z Battle Gate, you had to finish him the same way. I miss this 
 a lot, and wish they wouldve left the win requirements in the franchise. Sadly though, the only 
 requirements theyll give you during the story mode, are to either win the fight, or survive as 
 long as possible. If you do manage to win though, and they werent supposed to according to the 
 series, then the following cinematic will show your fighter face down on the ground, with the enemy 
 gloating as he stands over your limp and lifeless body. This is horribly confusing to anyone who 
 might not have seen the show. 
  
  Tenkaichi 2 promises over 100 different characters to choose from, but this may be a bit inaccurate. 
 The game counts Kid Gohan, Teen Gohan, The Great Saiyaman, and Super Gohan as separate characters, 
 even though they are all Gohan. Also, Kid Goku, Goku, and Super Saiyan 4 Goku are considered separate 
 characters, so when its all said and done, there may only be about 80 or 90 characters to choose 
 from. However, even though they are the same character in different forms, they have completely 
 different moves, and control differently. You can feel the difference in speed and strength between 
 Goku and Super Saiyan 4 Goku easily, and this is a wonderful aspect of the game, especially in 
 story mode, where you are forced to start off with regular Goku, and gain Saiyan levels and transformations 
 as you progress. 
  
  The gameplay is enhanced even further by allowing you to transform during the battles. You can 
 literally start a fight with Goku, and finish it with Super Saiyan 3 Goku, and every time you transform 
 with your character of choice, the move list changes. This is very difficult if the struggle is 
 short, but becomes achievable once you have a large percentage of the fighters equipped with a 
 full set of +10 Z-Items. If each combatant has six or seven health bars, the fights can last quite 
 a while. Youll smile uncontrollably when you start a tag match with Kid Trunks and Goten, and 
 finish it with a Tree Blast from Super Saiyan Gotenks. 
  
  The RPG elements of Tenkaichi 2 are a little difficult to understand at first, but once you get 
 the hang of it, it adds great elements to the gameplay. Throughout the game, you collect Z-Items 
 that you can equip to your fighters to change that combatants stats in some way. For instance, 
 the Health +10 Z-Item will increase a characters health stat by 10 points, and if that is the 
 only Item equipped at the time, then that fighters level is now 10. If the character you choose 
 to fight with is a lower level then that of his opponent, then you will gain experience if you 
 win the fight. If you gain enough experience, the Z-Items that are equipped to that character are 
 increased to the next level. So, if you had a Health +6 Z-Item equipped when you leveled up, then 
 it should now be a Health +7 Z-Item. Which means, technically, its not your avatar thats leveling 
 up, its the Z-Items themselves. 
  
  The graphics are not any better, or any worse, than the first Tenkaichi. The cel-shaded characters, 
 the colors used in action sequences, and the animation in the fights all work seamlessly together 
 to mimic the style of the anime. The same graphics worked well with the Budokai franchise, and 
 it works well now. I hope that in the future, the graphics are improved on a bit. The opening cinema 
 for Tenkaichi 2 is wonderfully animated, but it doesnt look any better than whats being done 
 in-game on the next-gen consoles, so making the entire game look like that shouldnt be too hard 
 with todays hardware. 
  
  The environments are wonderfully destructible here. Enemies can be slammed through buildings, rock 
 formations, pavement, or anything else that gets in your way. Youll fight in the air, on the ground, 
 and underwater. The levels are more than big enough for a fighting game, and sometimes, can be 
 a bit too big when you cant find the opponent and search isnt pinpointing them either. The drawback 
 to the huge levels are the giant force fields enclosing the area on all sides. There has to be 
 an edge to the world, but they should have found another way to limit movement, because the big, 
 blue web ruins the ambient feel of the world. They make the levels feel much smaller and more confined 
 then they actually are. Also, there are only a few levels to fight in, and they get a bit repetitive 
 after a while. 
  
  Role-playing Dragonball geeks unite! The gameplay was designed with die-hard fans in mind. The 
 melee attacks, teleporting, targeting, guarding, energy shooting, powering up, and switching teammates 
 are all done with the face buttons on the Wii-mote, but everything else involves movement in some 
 way. Flying is done by pointing the Nun Chuck up or down and holding C. A rush is done by flicking 
 the Nun Chuck towards the screen. But the real fun is in the blast attacks. Each character has 
 3 blast attacks to use at their disposal. Each attack can use a certain number of stocks, or a 
 specific amount of energy, and each uses the unique cursor out control scheme. To use a blast 
 attack, you must hold Z and B together, move the cursor off of the screen in a certain direction, 
 then bring it back in quickly. For example, after gathering energy with Goku, you have to cursor 
 out to the top of the screen, then back in to shoot a Spirit Bomb. You can easily do this with 
 a quick move of the wrist, but whats the fun in that? If youre a nerd like me, youll raise both 
 of your hands in the air, and bring them back down with a force that will knock any unsuspecting 
 roommates comatose. To shoot a Special Beam Cannon with Piccolo, youll bring the Wii-mote to your 
 forehead, and then point it at the screen. And if youre a huge nerd, youll scream the name of 
 the attack along with the fighter. Im surprised my girlfriend hasnt left me yet after getting 
 this game. Of course, none of this is required to successfully complete the attack, its just fun. 
 
  
  The fighting is fast-paced, and the camera rarely ever gets in the way. There are a few times however, 
 when you get stuck on the web or a wall, where the camera will spaz out a bit. Its not very often 
 though. The frame-rate does slow down at points, but again, not so often that its annoying. These 
 few flaws are easily over-looked and made up for by the fun of the brawling. On top of being really 
 fun to control, some of the stronger blast attacks will even initiate a space view cinema of the 
 earth with a giant explosion covering half of it. When you get back into the fight, youll find 
 that the environment has been completely altered. If there were any plants in the level, including 
 grass, trees, and flowers, you just destroyed them, and youve left lava and rock in their stead. 
 
  
  Multiplayer is available in the Dueling mode, however the best course of action is to avoid it 
 like the plague. Its not fun, its frustrating. Due to the behind-the-back camera perspective, 
 split-screen is required. Which cuts your cameras area of view, not to mention, the screen you 
 can cursor in and out of, in half. This title would have been perfect for online multiplayer, but 
 I suppose Nintendo decided that none of its launch titles need to use this new feature of the 
 Wii. 
  
  The sound in the game is on the same level of production as the first Tenkaichi in the series. 
 The dialogue is a little played out, but on the other hand, its nice to finally see the character 
 recognize their opponents at the start of a fight, and even call out their names. The sound effects 
 are a little repetitive, and if I hear Gotenks call his rival a dummy one more time, I might drill 
 a hole in my head. The music is top-notch, and never gets old. It goes well with the action being 
 played out on the screen. 
  
  In the end, Dragonball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 not only has a very long title, it also keeps the 
 spirit of the fighting genre alive with its virtually limitless amount of gameplay, wonderful 
 control schemes, and marvelously scripted in-game action sequences. With a further fleshed out 
 story, online multiplayer capabilities, and better graphics, this game could have been perfect. 
 With these characteristics omitted though, it still continues to be one hell of a fun and solid 
 game. This is a must have for any DBZ or fighting fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sage215
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Well there is not much to say about this game. Its a nice addition to add to the Nintendo wii lineup 
 but the game lacks any type of attention. The controls seems awkward at time but you will get used 
 to once you become familiar, the fighting is ok but the hasn't got any better instead has stayed 
 the same since the first. The Ai is predictable even in harder modes you can't really say this 
 is a fight games its more like smash brothers with dragon ball characters. In my opinion the only 
 way to make a dragon ball series a good games is to let capcom have the license and follow the 
 same fighting concept they did with Marvel vs Capcom 2. The DBZ series is better as a 2d fighter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarac2003
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  So far I have been dissapointed in GameSpot's review, especilally the Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 one. DBZ T2 is the best DBZ game and thats saying allot. Game Spot has review the other DBZ games 
 with O. K scores, which I agreed with, but now they are just stereo typing it. DBZ T2 has approved 
 over the first one. This game has about 120 different characters to play with and tons of combos 
 with characters. The only problem with this is some characters have the same moves and combos, 
 which can get repetitive. The levels and characters look allot better than before, and even the 
 beams are allot better. You can also transform and play tag team mode in this game which makes 
 1P and 2 Player allot funner. The story mode is pretty dull as usual, but its still promising. 
 The lack of the Japenese soundtrack made the music kinda cheesy and the voice acting is off, but 
 the power moves sound really cool. With the customazation and combos in this game, its a must buy, 
 enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chirloc
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The first week or two of play will be a lot of fun. but you'll soon face some pretty hard oponents, 
 and this is where the game is majorly flawed. You'll become the victim of unblockable combo after 
 combo. Sure you'll eventually surpass the computer, it just takes some time. Then you'll be the 
 one doing the unblockable combo after combo. The hardest enemy in the game will be reduced to a 
 punching bag. The novelty is lost fast. Sure the game contains over 120 characters, but who cares? 
 So i can play with almost every single character in the db universe. The game is still reduced 
 to who can pull off the first combo. These aren't like MK or soul calibur combos, these are the 
 combos of a db game, broken and boring. And its really all the gameplay is made out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I am a DBZ fan believe me i even went through the dying hair gold phase for a while. I have played 
 most of the other DBZ games that has come out. But again no matter how many ppl they have in the 
 game the game makers fail to make another good DBZ game. Gameplay sucks cause its same thing over 
 again. Really i been put off by them since Sagas for the XBOX. That could have been a great game 
 but the game devs that do all the DBZ just DO NOT have the heart for the story and universe that 
 is DBZ. I would like to see a mix of Sagas with these fighting games but not with repition and 
 with a better story to it and more of a open world to explore and destroy. That would make a good 
 DBZ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I dont c y gamespot gave this such a bad rating. it angers me and wants to make me sock them in 
 the face haha. but i can control my anger, because people like different games. but i'll tell u 
 what i think about this game. I think the controls for the wii r great. the blast feature controls 
 really pull it together too. i feel more involved in my dbz game. and the story mode is actually 
 long, and pretty good!. so if u like dbz, or if u like fighting games, and u love wii mote features, 
 this is yo game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripmaster504
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  It culd of been better than it was but i still think it was wrong to give it the score it has rite 
 now because it was clearly better than the 1st one. I would say get this game if you are a dragonballz 
 fan but for those people who like fighting games should get it to because it has over 120 playable 
 characters which is alot of characters to play with and more arenas to smash your opponents in. 
 But it has the same way to find dagonballs but they have a certain place to summon shenron which 
 i thought was pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, the game is much better then what they are saying, control wise i didnt find it that 
 hard, mabye they had their Sensor bar malplaced =)
  
  the graphics are fine, sound is fine, gameplay is very very good, and the sheer amount of content 
 is dazzleing.
  
  the attack functons are very fun, kicking but then unleashing a super powerfull attack that knocks 
 your enemy trough a mountain and it crashes on him.... man thats awesome!
  the cell shaded graphics are quite nice and the battle effects and particle effects make the game 
 very fun to watch, though the only downside is you might get a bit tired after a few hours of play, 
 but hey your loosing weight! hoorah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farrow099
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  DBZ BT2 on the Wii is damned fun... I too have had my share of Wii mote dissappointments; Tony 
 Hawk and Red Steel both have HORRIBLE controls. Infact there are only a few games I have found 
 work with the Wii Mote. DBZ BT2 is one of them! (Although this title also allows you to use your 
 GC controller if you so desire; But its just not as fun!)
  
  But the Wii mote works great with this game, and there are a TON of moves, counters, combos, super 
 moves, etc which you will learn over time. Or through the LOOOOONG set of training tutorials!
 
  
  The fighting engine is the most in depth and intuitive of any Dragon Ball game I have ever played. 
 My brother and I threw this game in and dukes it out for hours before we even knew we could do 
 super moves or counters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I should start off by saying I've played this game more on the PS2 than the Wii, and in a way I'd 
 say that's a good thing for this review. Coming to the Wii version first I might have been overly 
 harsh in the biggest single issue in this game: control. The Wiimote is not poorly utilized here, 
 it's actually an obstruction, but having played the PS2 version, I recognize that the basic control 
 structure already stunk. It's a pity, because this one area you'd think the Wiimote would shine 
 in, but it's following a trend of 3rd party ports that treat the Wiimote as something to be overcome, 
 not embraced.
  
  That said, it's definitely playable on the Wii, and looks nearly the same between the Wii and PS2... 
 with an edge to the Wii. The game itself is a vast improvement on Tenkaichi 1, with a much more 
 fleshed out story mode. I understand that GS was critical of it's repetitive nature, and constant 
 battling, and frankly as a review site they did the right thing... but since almost everyone looking 
 at this game as a player is a DBZ fan of some sort, there is more to it.
  
  DBZ the anime wasn't exactly shakespeare, but it was fun. Much the same can be said of DBZ: BT2. 
 It delivers action that will make a fan of the show happy to play it... but ONLY fans of the show. 
 I liked DBZ when I was much younger, and I really enjoyed Budokai 3... This game was not so much 
 to my taste, so my tilt relatively low... however this is a fan targeted game, and given the demographics 
 it clearly caters to, it's flaws are technical, not in the gameplay. Bottom line: if you're a fan 
 of DBZ who wants more DBZ gaming (even if Tenkaichi 1 pissed you off) this is worth a rental, and 
 maybe a buy. It is filled with a staggering number of characters, so the obsessive fan could spend 
 a very very VERY long time with it. If you're NOT a fan of DBZ, or are looking for some sprawling 
 adventure fighting game... or a brilliant use of the Wiimote... stay away. Stay FAR away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoftheflame
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The move comination can be an advantage or a disadvantage with this game. When I first saw them 
 I thought What the hell does that mean? but I got used to it.
  
  I got this game as a birthday present, and at first I did not know what to think. The Dragon Adventure 
 mode is where one flaw is, with evolution Z, but I was expecting a Goku obsessed version (like 
 in Budokai 2) but it was accurate and even had the Garlic Jr. saga which is my favorite. Then in 
 regular Dueling, where the biggest annoyances of the game was the fact that some characters have 
 less health than others, and the andriods and Meta-Cooler and Mecha Frieza can't charge up ki. 
 But the fact that who can have a battle of up to five characters on each side almost makes up for 
 that. Nothing different in world tournament and options, haven't started Ultimate Battle Z, who 
 the hell is the marshmallow ghost thing in the shop, and I hope I'm not the only one who thinks 
 King Kai is a little too excited when it's time for item fusion.
  
  All in all This game is the best yet in the series. With over 100 characters you can't go wrong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Why Gamespot has not made a review for this title is beyond me, but I am sure there is good reason. 
 Titles such as these must be reviewed meticulously and from my experience so far this can be a 
 very long and engaging title.
  
  Gameplay:
  First things first, this game has a ridiculously high learning curve. For a game in this day in 
 age, this is the type of game that will be a complete hit or miss with most people. If the player 
 manages to overcome the high curve, and the pains from flinging one's arms aimlessly at the screen, 
 then he or she will be rewarded with a very frustrating difficulty level. Once a considerable amount 
 of time has passed within the game though, there is a whole lot of reward to reap out of this title. 
 For starters, the training option is very thorough and precise as to the controls of the game. 
 While the way that it was executed is somewhat complicated to follow, the training really gives 
 the player the barebones to how to begin to master the game. As mentioned before, my arms hurt 
 after the first couple of hours, expect some pain to come out of this, but for those who don't 
 like the notion of having to do physical movement there is also the option to play the game with 
 either the Classic controller or the Gamecube controller (including the Wavebird obviously) . The 
 only drawback to these two options is that the buttons are not explained anywhere other than for 
 the Wii remote, so figuring out the buttons for the regular controllers will merely steep the learning 
 curve even farther. The main reward for using the Wii remote is that you will be able to feel proud 
 that you have mastered a completely different system which is truly unique: shake the Nunchuck 
 to perform some actions, shake the Wii remote to do others and use a combination of the aforementioned 
 to perform special attacks. I must say that the Nunchuck will feel very unresponsive at first, 
 but just as every other new generation title, it's merely a fact of getting used to or getting 
 around the controllers (aiming the Nunchuck straight down or up works better to fly than thrusting 
 it up/down) . The experience is definitely much more immersive than any other fighter game that 
 I have ever played, and more often than not, I confused the buttons in my left and right hands 
 (their actions that is) . Eventually though, as the game progressed I felt much more comfortable 
 and I was able to pull off amazing combos with the right timing. One of the few issues that I noted 
 with the game is that there is a collision detection bias, meaning that the CPU will often hit 
 you from a distance farther than their punches reach, yet that never seems to happen to the player. 
 Also, it is very easy to get stuck in corners of the level specially when starting off as the coordination 
 required to aim your punches and look at the environment doesn't develop until quite some time 
 into the game. As for the difficulty level, there is a level adjustment, but at times it seems 
 that 1 is far too easy and the jump to 2 is considerable (easy and normal respectively) . There 
 is also a 3 difficulty setting for all those hardcore fans that feel that the game is not challenging 
 enough, but I would say with great confidence that level 2 will provide more than enough difficulty: 
 I felt very frustrated at times as I saw the CPU rip right through me over and over again and often 
 with the same pattern attacks. Again, being able to overcome this seemingly impossible to overcome 
 obstacle really rewards the player satisfactorily. To add to the collision detection error though, 
 there is also an instance where charged smashes clash: these could have been polished up a little 
 bit in terms of execution. For example, when a high hit intersects with a low hit, the characters 
 merely flinch and a white bash appears at the top and lower parts of the action; it would have 
 been nice to have seen both characters take damage and fly outwards. The devil is in the details, 
 and overall if you start looking too much into details you will find out that this game can be 
 improved to superb levels. Nonetheless, the gameplay is really solid and let me emphasize very 
 rewarding. There is a simplicity to the controls but with that simplicity the developers have managed 
 to make a more complicated system: easy to learn but hard to master. Graphics:
  Although overall this game looks very well and the cell shaded art is performed magnificently, 
 all it takes is a small glance at some of the textures used in the levels and it becomes noticeable 
 that other than the characters there really aren't any outstanding graphical elements to the game. 
 This should be taken with a grain of salt, though, because most of the time the player will be 
 focused on the action and not the level, and all of the power ups, attacks, effects, and waves 
 of different characters are very well realized. Every now and then there will also be an astounding 
 Blast that will riddle the whole screen with colored strays that will not fail to disappoint even 
 the hardcore fans. All of the effects are nicely executed and are deserving of praise. On the other 
 hand though, I did find some issues when the camera closes up too much to the player and the character 
 goes into ghost form (you can see through it) , the framerate lagged during those instances and 
 didn't stop until the ghost effect stopped. This doesn't happen often enough to detract from the 
 gameplay but it does happen, and I'm not too sure whether it&amp;#8217; s caused by hardware or 
 software conflict. Also, it is very obvious that the Wii version is a straight port from the older 
 generation consoles, since there really doesn't seem to be anything that would graphically push 
 the Wii hardware. Overall though, the graphics won't disappoint unless you have an issue with cell 
 shaded art.
  
  Sound:
  All of the punches, blasts, and yells sound amazingly in a surround environment, but sadly there 
 is no true surround sound support for this game. While there isn't anything completely revolutionary 
 or astonishing about the effects in the game, they are all well performed and add just that much 
 more to the gameplay. As would be expected though, some of the rhymes for the menus in the game 
 are short and repetitive, and to add to that nuisance, there are characters in each menu and they 
 do a lot of talking... and I mean a lot. This is fine, but sometimes it gets in the way of the 
 gameplay and in some few instances there are the characters that have a very obnoxious voice and 
 listening to it every time you need to access an item can be frustrating. There is also a very 
 nice feature though, that allows for the Japanese dub to be used, but I found that this was even 
 more obnoxious in many more places than the English dubs. During battle, the background music will 
 not stand out very much, since most battles are fast paced and riddled with punch and blast noises, 
 and that's not necessarily a bad thing either. Some of the tunes are ports from the original series 
 as well, but they have been altered usually in some way or form. The narration is probably one 
 of the better done voiceovers and all characters have voiceovers during their scenes in the story 
 mode. This is both a good thing and a bad thing because while they used most (if not all, I'm not 
 too sure) of the original actors, sometimes the acting seems forced and again, sometimes the player 
 might not want to hear a particular character's voice. All scenes are completely skippable though, 
 and you can advance through the text without listening to the voiceovers as well. Value:
  There aren't any original clips from the series in this game like there have been in past instances, 
 and as a matter of fact, in many parts the plot of the sagas has been changed or altered in order 
 to make it easier to follow. Sadly though, there is a lack of development of plot, and often I 
 found myself wondering what happened to character A or where did character B come from or what 
 was character's C function (I'm not a hardcore DBZ fan but I've seen a fair share of it and I still 
 had some issues following the story) . Also, the only characters to appear in the mini cut scenes 
 are those in the game, and the scenes are very slow paced. This could be a turn off to many players 
 to just skip the scenes and start fighting, but for those who like Dragon Ball this might not be 
 too big of an issue. There is also a ridiculous amount of characters, and although many of them 
 are just modified stats characters, the difference still feels like a completely new character. 
 For example, Trunks is somewhat of a weakling at first (with his sword) , then the second Trunks 
 (no sword and able to go Super Saiyan) is very nimble and strong. Super Trunks is completely bulky 
 and horrendously strong but also much slower than any of his other versions. Of course, most players 
 will probably opt for the strongest characters in the game, but there is a fair chance to match 
 up mismatched characters as well (except for Hercules... he is far beyond useless) . Also, in an 
 attempt to level out the playing field, there is a new leveling system that allows for the player 
 to equip items to the characters that will allow the character more Attack, Defense, etc and also 
 some items that have special effects like Energy consumption halved and what not. Along with these 
 items there is a new Z-Item Fusion function that allows for the fusion of different items to allow 
 for new unlockables (mostly characters) , but the whole system seems awkward and helps more to detract 
 from the fast paced action rather than to add to it. Thankfully, most of the times are paired up 
 with their respective fusions, but expect to spend precious time searching for the right items 
 to pair up for that one enhanced character (like Ultimate form Frieza or Meta Cooler) . In conclusion, 
 Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is a very fun and addictive game, once the steep learning curve 
 has been overcome. It is nice to see that the Wii hardware is really starting to pick up with games 
 such as these, and this game delivers a moderately polished but highly fun product, that if you 
 manage to get a couple of friends into, you will have endless hours of fun. Even for a single player 
 game, there is plenty to do, and I must say that after 20 hours of gameplay I have barely hit the 
 50% mark in the campaign mode. This game is definitely worth giving a try and a must buy for anyone 
 who loves Dragon Ball, fighting games, or merely wishes to experience some of the fun that the 
 Wii is making possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertoast_GT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The Dragonball Budokia series had a bit of a rough start with DBZ B1, and B2, but really started 
 to heat up in Budokai 3, with more characters, better controls, beam struggles, and many other 
 cool features. Sadly, it was a PS3 exclusive... That all carried over to Dragon Ball Z Budokai 
 Tenkaichi, also only for the Playstation 2. None the less, it was a very popular game among DBZ 
 fans, and fighter fans alike. It had a few downsides, mostly concerning bad camera angles. Trees, 
 buildings, and large land masses blocking your view.
  
  Now comes Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2, and at last, Nintendo console owners get a taste 
 on the Wii. This brings up a few downsides however. The Wii remote elements of the game, while 
 fun at first, tend to get repetitive and slow during a serious fight. Luckily, we are able to use 
 a Gamecube controller, there is a downside to that too however... The controls for the Gamecube 
 are almost totally unexplained. The only way to see how the controls work for the gamecube controller, 
 is to go into the controller options menu and view them there. If you go to check out how to do 
 a special combo attack, you can check the skill list, but it only explains it for Wii remote, and 
 Nunchuck. I would have liked to see it work with whatever controller you are using. So people new 
 to the Budokai series will have a very hard time using the Gamecube controls.
  
  But seasoned Budokai veterans should be able to learn the setup fairly quickly.
  
  The gameplay 
 is well done, and bad camera angles don't come up nearly as often as they used to. And there are 
 TONS of characters to unlock. Quite a few of them are unexpected. The fighting mechanics are well 
 done. Battles are fast paced, and quite fun. There just as fast paced as the show.
  
  The graphics are good, but the game still seems to be a PS2 port. so there very limited. Though 
 a slight bloom effect has been added to the Wii version.
  
  (I myself am a big fan of the bloom effect.) The Character models are done well, but the environments 
 have I am also a PS2 game written all over them. Low polygon counts, and blurry textures gave that 
 away. I do like that there are destructible environments as usual.
  
  The sound is nearly flawless. all of the DBZ sound effects and voice actors seem to be here, and 
 do a great job with there parts. The reason I said ALMSOT flawless, is the music during battles. 
 The music seems to be random techno, and a bit of jazz. I don't dislike those genres of music, 
 it's just that they dont seem to fit the DBZ style all too well.
  
  The presentation is well done, and sticks to the stories of the series fairly well. However some 
 fights just don't match at all. For instance, When Goku returns from training with King Ki, the 
 first thing he does, is beat Nappa with ease. In DBZ BT2, it is a very difficult fight.
  
  Over all, it's a very nice package, the flaws are few and far between. IT would have been nice 
 to get a gamecube controller skill list. And a classic controller skill list, (if the game supports 
 it. I don't have one to test with.) A very well done game over all, it has small flaws and is limited 
 by the PS2's graphical capabilities, but it's a very fun title, and the best game in the DBZ series 
 to date. First time reviewer, (could you tell?) --- ^_^
  Supertoast GT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just spent almost 2 hours training as Vegeta with Yamcha, and my arms (Especially my elbows) 
 are sore! I should have taken suggested breaks every 30 minutes, but I got caught up in the DBZ 
 game.
  This game gets a big smiley face :-)
  This is the way Dragon Ball Z games were meant to be experienced!!! It is just great! I hammered 
 Yamcha (Of course, I am still learning) After two hours, I am getting the knack of Dashing in, 
 then up before I reach my Opponent, Then quickly down again, while attacking... What a killer move 
 (Learned it by watching Goku!) IF I sound fanatical, its because this game suits the Wii controls 
 soooo well. I have about Six Wii Games now, not including Wii sports, and I got to tell you, This 
 one makes the best use of the controller abilities (Although I have not played Zelda yet... it is 
 still in the wrapper... waiting to get done with another RPG game before opening that one.) This 
 game with the Wii controller proves that a new way to game is upon us! I would like to also thank 
 Atari, for really taking the time to understand the capabilities of the Wii controller.... other 
 games missed the mark, this one did not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunoisbigboss
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Dragonballz Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is an instant classic and easily the greatest dragonball z game 
 ive ever played. The wii version is obviously a new twist in how the game is played but it just 
 makes it more fun even though it is alittle hard to do special moves like the kamehameha and the 
 spirit bomb. The roster is awesome to with all those playable characters you will never get bored. The 
 flashy moves and attacks play well with the already great looking graphics. The all new ability 
 to become a great ape is a great addition to the gameplay as it finally lets the player use the 
 strongest ability of the saiyans, even though their size is reduced significantly to fit the screen. The 
 story is long and its not an easy one either which is good for players who like a challenge, it 
 also lets you sort of change the outcome of some events in the story. This game is a must have for 
 fans of dragonballz its AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marionette_Lime
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure if I wanted to get this game or not. I'm a big anime fan but I'm not too fond of 
 DBZ... I would have to say the selling point for me was the 120 characters... i mean, come on, sure 
 some suck, some are almost the same, but each each one is different in one little way or another, 
 anyway, the graphics are just awesome, i personally think better then any of the other DBZ fighting 
 games. music, sound effects and voices are all done very well, voices stay true to the series and 
 can be in either japanese or english (which i wish they would have done with Naruto &gt;.&lt; oh 
 well) i didn't like using the wiimote for it at first till i went through the training and learned 
 the controls, now I absolutely love them, I actually feel like i'm doing the kamehameha. i don't 
 think there's any other fighting game that has a 50+ hour single player mode so even if you don't 
 have any friends who like fighting game or DBZ this game still has ALOT of value and if you do 
 have friends who like fighting games then that just makes it all the better... overall, IMO this 
 is the BEST fighting game ever made!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well we have now the new DBZ and my opnion about this game is that you should cehck out this game 
 the story is the best you could have seen compare with the other dbz games this new has all the 
 best moments of the saga beside the huge history you have 100 playable characters dont wait to 
 see somenthing amazing with all of them some of the are very similar (they use the same techniques) 
 . Also dont wait to see some espectacular graphcis (the graphics are the same of the ps2 version) 
 and well it will take you some time to learn the curve with the wii remote but after yo master 
 the controler you will plenty of good time with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOBmaster2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game like a week ago, I been playing it for the entire time. I only have the Ps2 
 version of the game. I been playing the WII version at my friend's house. it is pretty fun and 
 i want to trade the PS2 for the WII so bad after playing it at my friends house. The characters 
 are Just awsome. The story mode is much more better than the first tenkaichi. And in this version 
 you can actually buy and sell Z items at the shop. There are much more skills in this game than 
 tenkaichi 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fucus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  if you are a fan of dragon ball Z you 'll love this game. the graphics are great for the wii. the 
 problem is that if you compare this to any of the newer systems you wont be that impressed, but 
 if you have seen this anime, you'll enjoy the animation.
  
  i would really encourage to go through the training mode first - that made a huge difference in 
 my enjoyment!
  
  give this game a chance until you can at least chnge to super saiyen 2 and can do an ultimate attack 
 you'll appreciate this game even more! i haven't even had a chance to play zelda because this game 
 is so addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_windsoul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is overall very good, it is alot of fun if you haven't played the other Dragon Ball Z 
 Budokai games, it is overall the same, the only difference is the gameplay, it is cool for a while 
 when you do say kamehameha, or spirit bomb but it gets pretty plain but not boring once you play 
 for like 8 hours of it, you only get 3 good blasts and 2 not as good ones. The control schemes 
 are pretty much the same for everyone. sometimes the land scape blocking your shots are pretty 
 annoying. Overall if you look at this game by itself you'll see pretty good in it. but looking 
 this game compared to the other ones, there is some but not much improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-Unit456
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:9
  I gave this a gameplay of nine because you can't get a better Dragonball Z game than this. It is 
 the best in series and it is on the Wii. You can generate your own characters and send your friends 
 the passwords to them. Isn't that cool? I thought so.
  
  Graphics:7
  I gave the graphics a seven because I thought the graphics were just too cartoony. Almost, but 
 not quite... still a good game!
  
  Sound:9
  I gave the sound a nine because you can really hear the kamehamehas on you Wiimote and when you 
 pull back a huge noise comes out!!! So cool.
  
  Value:9
  I think is game is pretty valuable because you can't get a better fighting game than this (other 
 than SSB and Soul Caliber) and it is just amazing how much game modes you have and a lot of non-dbz 
 fans are interested in trying it out.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:9
  I gave this a nine because I think this game just plainly deserves it. Why do you think it took 
 a while to make it? I thought so. Very good game with lots of fans cheering on with their nice 
 reviews and a game for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The budokai series has been a good one. Each one has been progressively better, combining furious 
 fighting with character customization. This one however, sets the bar high, and I mean HIGH. It 
 takes the tenkaichi formula from the previous games, where theres open, destructible environments 
 with the fast and satisfying fighting from the originals. It works, but overall the last one had 
 flaws because it left out a lot of customization and you couldn't transform. These problems have 
 been fixed however, but they went an extra mile and added loads of content and great wii controls 
 to make this one of the BEST FIGHTERS EVER. I'm not joking. Theres a HUGE single player game which 
 spans the entire series. There are DOZENS upon DOZENS of playable characters, which makes MK: Armaggedon's 
 roster look puny. As I said before, now you can transform in-battle to make quick work of your 
 foes. Theres a tournament mode... an items shop, a character customization mode... there's just 
 SO MUCH CONTENT. The fighting in the game is superb, although you will need to pay attention to 
 the controls to master it. It's great to wave your arm to do a hellzone grenade as piccolo, or 
 to thrust your arms upward for goku's mighty spirit bomb. The graphics, although they imitate the 
 show perfectly, are not up to wii standards. The sound however, is spot-on, full of sound effects, 
 voiceovers, and music right from the show. Without a doubt, this is one of the strongest wii lauch 
 titles. Make no mistake, whether you're a DBZ fan or not (I for one, am not) this deserves a spot 
 in your collection . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hghpandaman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I remember in fifth grade.... my friend Alexander and I would run around pretending to shoot a Kamehameha 
 out of our hands just wishing we could see the satisfying energy mutilate the other person. Finally, 
 the Wii and Atari have answered my prayers!
  Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is.... despite the liscence.... an extremely good fighting game. 
 Although Dragon Ball games are usually doomed to fail, I hope this one succeeds and spawns many 
 sequels....
  First of all, the graphics in this game are very reminiscent of Toryama's (the author of the manga) 
 artwork. Every character has been created with the show in mind, every miniscule detail accounted 
 for. Although these graphics don't look like a nex-gen system's, the cel-shaded effects are beautiful. 
 Another touch that really captures the chaotic battles of the show are the destructable enviorenment. 
 Watching Goku take his own son and hurl him through a giant rock followed up by many blasts is 
 extremely satisfying.
  The graphics are not the selling point of this game, but rather the new controls. I'm usually not 
 a fan of one on one fighting games unless i'm killin my buddies, but the control scheme on the 
 wii makes it fun enough that the single player, unlike the other fighting games, is not a chore 
 to play through. The controls work as such... you have a retical on your screen which is controlled 
 by the wii mote, and the nunchuck controls your basic movement. The real fun ensues when you are 
 performing signature moves which require you to mimik the movements seen in the show. If you don't 
 wish to act like a fool, the game also offers the option to play with a gamecube controller.
  This game is also packed to the brim with features. Over 100 characters to fight with, full voiceovers 
 in both english and japanese, 3 tournament modes, many difficulty levels, character biographies, 
 voice samples, music tracks and player.... the list goes on. If you like dragon ball Z, or if you 
 ever liked dragon ball Z or if you just got the wii and want a good brawler to kick your friends 
 butts in Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is totally woth your money!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  When Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi was first release only on Playstation 2, the controls would 
 drive you insane, end of story. Now, Budokai Tenkaichi 2 is on the Wii and the controls couldn't 
 be easier to pick up and play.
  
  The Good: Amazing graphics, nice soundtrack, difficulty setting, destructible environments, player 
 damage, 120 characters to play as, nice pick-up-and-play controls
  
  The Meh: VO, cutscenes, fighting in general, no 4-player
  
  The Bad: Controls difficult to 
 fully master, very tough A. I. on medium and hard
  
  Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 (now referred to as BT2) follows all of Dragon Ball Z's storylines 
 from the Saiyan Saga to Cell, and even a little into Dragon Ball GT.
  
  Gameplay: Just like in BT1, BT2 still revolves around you flying through a big open environment 
 to blast your opponent into oblivion. The PS2 controls were outrageously difficult to learn, but 
 with Nintendos innovation, the Wii, controls are much easier to grasp for a first timer. Using 
 the Wiimote and nunchuk, you would hold down two buttons then make specific movements with the 
 Wiimote and nunchuk to unleash special attacks, the A button is simply used for melee attacks, 
 the B trigger is used for Ki blasts, the C button is used to control altitude, and lastly, the 
 Z button is used for charging Ki. Throw in some combos and button combinations and you got grapples, 
 special Ki blasts, Ultimate moves and much more. Graphics: The graphics in-game are simply amazing 
 and stay true to character designs and costumes. The environments are lush and green or dark and 
 barren. If a character is low on health, you will see the character accumulate damage all over 
 their body. Very smooth textures and anime drawings in the menus and cutscenes.
  
  Sound: The game boasts an amazing 30-song soundtrack and lots of VO work, while the soundtrack 
 is amazing and matches the environment or scenario, the VO could still use a little work.
  
  Value: 120 characters to unlock, a lot of stages (dont know exact number) , Ultimate Z mode, 
 2 player battle, and 8-player tournaments make this game worth your $50
  
  Tilt: I love Dragon Ball Z, and BT2 just helps me boast it. Many other DBZ fans will love it as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2DragonZ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Among the launch titles I got for my Wii, I have been playing this 
 the most next to Zelda. Although it's a next generation console game, but you can't tell much of 
 a difference about the graphic comparing to last generation's PS2. What makes this port a next 
 generation is the unique gameplay. At first it might feel geeky to mimic the movement of unleasing 
 each character's ki blast, but after a few hours of playing, it turns out to be a satisfying experience. 
 By performing the actualy pose of kamehameha, watch Goku perform the the same is quite awesome. 
 Shaking the wii Nunchuk will perform a dash attack, which adds excitment to the game when you try 
 to dodge an opponent's ki blast by shaking the controller in panic instead of simply pressing a 
 button via PS2's controller. The content of the game is quite massive, there are so many modes 
 to play plus hundreds of the beloved Dragon Ball characters waiting to be unlocked. But the real 
 fun lies in the multiplayer mode, grab a friend and start performing all sorts of ki blast against 
 each other is chaoticly fun. Just make sure not to let your wife or kids see you doing it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
