-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Driver: Parallel Lines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/driver4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of side missions.
 The frame rate stays pretty smooth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Flat story makes everything uninteresting.
 Wii controls are kind of a mess.
 Shameless GTA knockoff.
 &quot;Enhanced&quot; realism gets in the way of the rest of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 204 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Reflections
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Driver: Parallel Lines is a mediocre GTA clone with a dull storyline, second-rate gameplay, and 
 subpar control. 

  Driver: Parallel Lines wasn't a good game when it came to conventional consoles over a year ago, 
 and putting it on the Wii hasn't helped matters at all. This Grand Theft Auto clone suffers even 
 more because it's been shoehorned onto the Wii and is saddled with some annoying control shortcomings. 
 Not that sketchy control is the game's only problem. It's almost completely uninspired and devoid 
 of the little things that make these sorts of games entertaining. The characters fall flat, and 
 the story is uninteresting. Add to that some pretty drab mission design, and you've got a title 
 that simply can't add up to a game worth playing.  

           Driver: Parallel Lines has a very 'Grand Theft Also' feel to it.      

  The action 
 opens in 1978. You, as an 18-year-old named TK, have moved to New York City in search of excitement. 
 You're pretty good behind the wheel of a car, and you quickly catch on with a crew of criminals 
 looking to make it big. This being the late '70s, "making it big" eventually turns out to mean 
 "starting a cocaine empire." But, as these things normally go, stuff doesn't pan out quite so well 
 for TK, and he gets locked up for 28 years. This fast-forwards the game to the present day. TK 
 gets out of the joint in 2006 with revenge on his mind, and the story picks up from there. It's 
 a potentially interesting premise that falls apart because none of the individual characters are 
 very compelling or likeable in either era.  

  The gameplay in Driver puts you in a big, open city that's broken up into three areas by bridges. 
 There are a few side missions, like races and repo-man jobs, which earn you money to be spent on 
 car upgrades. But considering that the cars are as disposable as you'd expect from a game like 
 this, spending money on engine upgrades seems like a waste of time, and consequently earning money 
 usually isn't your goal. Instead, you'll follow the story path by taking on a variety of regular 
 missions. Most of them are, as you might expect from a game called "Driver," focused on operating 
 a motor vehicle. You'll get into races, collect packages, and even steal a car, fit it with a bomb, 
 and then drive it back to where you found it so the owner will receive an explosive surprise -- unless 
 he played GTAIII, in which case he'll probably see this now-ancient mission design coming from 
 a mile away. Some missions require you to do things on foot, which forces you to deal with the 
 game's lackluster targeting system. The aiming and looking functions are both somehow assigned 
 to the Wii Remote, making things skittish and more difficult to manage than they should be. You 
 can target and fire forward out of vehicles, too, but this is only useful when you're chasing someone... which 
 isn't all that often. Considering that you get into some pretty hot spots with lots of bullets 
 flying your way, and that most of your enemies are crack shots, fumbling with the targeting becomes 
 very annoying.  

  At least if you fail, you won't have to retreat very far. When you die or otherwise fail when on 
 a mission, you can quickly hit a button to try again. Many of the longer missions have checkpoints, 
 too, so you won't have to do the early parts again and again if you're having trouble with the 
 final leg of a scenario. It's pretty handy, and cuts down on repetition.  

  There are a few minor police-response systems in the game that stand out because the other games 
 in this genre handle things a little differently. Police cars drive around the world, and you can 
 see them on your minimap, complete with Metal Gear Solid-style vision cones. Doing stuff like speeding, 
 running a red light, or causing a collision while in the cops' vision cone activates them and raises 
 your heat level. You actually have two different types of heat to deal with. Normally, if the cops 
 see your car while you're in the middle of some heinous act, the heat meter for your current vehicle 
 rises as you speed away. But if the cops see you get out of that car, the heat is all on you, and 
 they'll chase you regardless of which vehicle you're driving. Unfortunately, the cops really aren't 
 very difficult to avoid, and they aren't very smart either. Usually, turning down an alley in plain 
 view is enough to completely confuse them and cause them to give up the chase. Stopping off at 
 one of your safe havens totally resets your personal heat level, too. Cops occasionally turn up 
 in missions to potentially give you a harder time, but just as often it seems as though you simply 
 can't find any cops on the streets when you're on a job. Overall, the police presence is more of 
 a hassle than anything else because it forces you to drive slow, stop at stop signs, and other 
 "realistic" stuff that isn't entertaining in the least.  

           The Wii Remote and Nunchuk are amazing pieces of equipment, but you wouldn't know that 
 from playing Driver: Parallel Lines.      

  The Wii version of the game is about on par with the Xbox version of the game, and it looks OK 
 when you're running in 480p. The frame rate is solid and the environments look pretty good, though 
 the characters look sort of goofy when you're out of your car. There are some interesting visual 
 tricks here and there, too, like the way the entire HUD gets redesigned and modernized when you 
 switch from '78 to '06, or the way TK's walk animation changes from a ridiculous, swaggering strut 
 in '78 to a toned-down, more normal-looking walk in the present day. On the audio side, the game 
 doesn't sound very good. Most of the voice acting isn't really worth listening to at all. Music 
 plays when you're in a vehicle, and there's a decent array of licensed tunes, but as you might 
 expect, the '70s music is a little more entertaining than the also-ran and out-of-date-sounding 
 stuff you hear in the game's 2006 setting.  

  Driver is a very by-the-numbers GTA clone. While stuff like having to obey speed laws and stop 
 at red lights arguably makes the game more realistic, it certainly doesn't make it any more entertaining. 
 With unexciting driving physics and lackluster on-foot control, playing Driver: Parallel Lines 
 isn't very satisfying, and the game's monochromatic storyline isn't strong enough to make the trip 
 worthwhile.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  Driver: Parallel Lines tells the story of "TK" who is a Driver-for-Hire in New York City. Early 
 on in the game TK gets framed for a murder and is sent to prison. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty typical GTA style stuff. There are your fetch missions in which you must 
 go find a car or retrieve a person. There are some cool missions scattered in the side missions. 
 One thins I found cool is the way they save your cars for you. There are garages located around 
 the city where you can story your vehicle and upgrade it. In the GTA games some people might be 
 reluctant to upgrade their cars in case they get wrecked and all that money goes to waste, but 
 in Driver, if your car gets wrecked then it gets towed back to the garage and you simply have to 
 pay for it to be repaired. I found this cool because I could upgrade my car and not have to worry 
 about it wrecking. You can also buy ammo and get your wanted stars taken away at the Garage. 
 
  
  The Audio is pretty good too, the voice acting, although not great, is good and can sometimes draw 
 you into the game. The music is cool, but at such limited songs in can get kind of repetitive. 
 I did like how the music changed for the two different time Eras. 
  
  The length of the game is good although I found that they almost tried to stretch it out by sometimes 
 making the missions at opposite sides of the city so that you would have to drive for a couple 
 minutes to get there.
  
  The graphics are fairly good although there is nothing particularly exciting here. The cutscenes 
 are a little fuzzy sometimes, but there is nothing to really complain about. 
  
  The controls for the Wii do take a little time to get used to, but they work. The way it works 
 is you use the Nunchuck analog stick for steering. Nothing special there but you do have to press 
 the Z button to accelerate and the C button for stopping which can get a little annoying . One 
 thing I never got used to was the Handbrake turns in which you would pull the Nunchuck back or 
 to the sides to perform a Handbrake turn. This doesn't sound that bad but when you are in a race 
 and accidentally hold the Nunchuk to the side it can be infuriating. The aiming is simple just 
 use the Wii Remote to aim and shoot. 
  
  Overall, this game is a fun GTA Clone and you'll probably have more fun with it then you would 
 have thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurezan
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  
  You know... Some people might think by picking this up that it's half decent. It's a driving game. 
 [or so it seems.] To be precise, this game is a bad version of Grand Theft Auto. Almost everything 
 you do is mirrored after that hit game. If not for the free roam in this game I probably would 
 have put it down as soon as I got it. That part is remotely interesting... But only a little bit. 
 I mean if I was asked which one to get: a $60 GTA game or this? I'd happly pick this. (Because 
 of the price.)
  
  Then again, if you enjoy swearing which doesn't need to be there. [They swear way to much.] As 
 well as people thinking they're cool walking around. And countless similar pedestrians...
  
  Then this game is for you... 
  
  (It just... isn't my style I guess.)
  
  
  Visuals: 
 Are pretty good... Nice 3D.
  
  Sound: Just plain annoying. 
  
  Gameplay: Horrible. 
  
  Rating: 4.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  driver was a hit back in 1997 for the ps1 later released on gbc that didnt let you get out of your 
 car well your in luck because 2 -4 does, 
  
  the graphics are not the best out there but it is good looki ng, much better then any gta game 
 before it, and the explosions, their just so gta iv loooking
  they arent as loud but they get the job done, and the drivin mechanics, are great alot better then 
 gta ivs , everythin but the city is better, 
  
  the city is the same ny as seen in xbox and ps2 versions , it doesnt have any different mission 
 the control scheme used is a bit frustrating but once you stop lifting that nunchuck youll be fine, 
 the nunchuck is the handbrake 
  
  just so you know why your car stops, the story is long,. i havent finished let alone touched it. 
 i just have fun driving around running from the cops and so on , but itll take you in to 2006 era, 
 i dont know whats different , cars and such but other wise it has got some good replay value, those 
 looking for gta liek games on wii and wishing to get a chance to play this, if you never owned 
 a ps2 or xbox or psp this is your chance 
  
  im giving this a 8.4.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  driver parallel lines is a very fun game with great missions, a suspensing story line and addictive 
 free roaming.
  
  You are probably thinking that this is a gta clone and is therefore bad but actually is it the 
 complete opposite and is pretty fun. By the the way there is no gta on wii so this is as far as 
 you can get to being gta (also godfather and scarface)
  
  Graphics: good best i have seen on wii so far
  
  Controls: good (dont have to use wiiremote to 
 drive, it is all in the numchuk)
  
  Gameplay: addictive and cool (you also switch time periods in the game. for variety nice feature, 
 1978,2000)
  
  storyline: good nice twist
  
  overall: you should defiantly give this game a rent and see if you like freeroaming and if you 
 do I would say buy driver parallel lines, scarface and godfather blackhand edition. 
  
  P. S dont listen to anyone who gives this a bad review because they are comparing this to GTA and 
 are not saying the goods and bads about this game WHICH IS NOT GTA!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-man246
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is the absolute worst game i've played. the controls are bad
  gameplay bad
  story bad.
  this game could have been a good game but it is dissapointing to see the only gta 
 clone on wii is this hopeless. if you want a good solid violent game for wii just get scareface 
 or the godfather. rent this game for a day and you wii be sorry.
  
  the graphics for this game are also hopless. i'd honestly prefer a n64 game over this, the graphic 
 glitchy on this game. first 5 minutes playing this it went haywire
  
  storyline: i'm can't tell you about that because i returned it same day i bought it but from what 
 i've heard it is a total letdown
  
  gameplay: the gameplay on this game is worse than the graphics. if the developer wanted this to 
 be the next gta well then he is is on crack cause this is no gta
  
  sound: the sound is just like every other game but just a tad worse than average
  
  this game 
 sums up to be the worst game ever and gets a rateing of 2.0 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comelstr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all the controls are really good i have not had any problems with the wiimote. You drive 
 with the Nun-chuck which is easy. You use the mote part to move the camua.
  
  The Story is decent but i dont care about the story. Back in the day when i played hte NES i dident 
 care about the story i just wanted to win the game.
  
  The Graphis are Decent but i dont expect much from the wii sence the wii cant have HD Graphis and 
 it looks just as good as the xbox version. But a little bit less not much less.
  
  The sound is good the guns you use are good and some of the music is decent.
  
  The Main part 
 of the game is the gameplay. The game play is very good you drive around and shoot random douchbags 
 in the face whats not to like. The framerate is Excellent i had no slow down even thought you are 
 in a huge map and theres not a lot of load times and thats a good thing.
  
  All in all this is a good game of the Driver games altough i wish they had some online play but 
 you cant always have what you want in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pudlis16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Driver for the wii got a low score on gamespot, But I kind of liked it. But first, Let's talk about 
 the good and the bad.
  
  The Good: The 70's era feel is cool, It's darn fun shooting with the wii-mote, and some of the 
 songs in the sound track are catchy. The huge city can be fun to explore aswell. I know that gamespot 
 hated the story, but I thought the 70's theme and the revenge and whatnot was really cool. Also, 
 the game had a great frame rate, and the controls were fun.
  
  The Bad: The graphics aren't too great, and they're only a few faces for civilians, so you'll run 
 into what looks like clones all over the place. The biggest problem was that some of the songs 
 from the Ps2 and Xbox versions did not appear in the Wii version, which was a total letdown for 
 me.
  
  All in all, This game is worth buying for me, though renting it first isn't a bad idea either.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese5000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all: controls are not an issue, I like how you drive with the nun-chuk and shoot with 
 the wiimote, however It's annoying how you can't shoot behind or to the side when driving, only 
 in front. No split-screen or multi-player minigames is a dissapointment. No online multi-player 
 either : ( . It is, in all, a GTA clone, but I don't mind that because it's still a great game. 
 The storyline is very un-interesting, but it doesn't ruin the rest of the game like gamespot said. 
 I like the idea of the felony on the car and on you ( if the cops see you get out of your car, 
 they chase you [ duh ] , but if they dont see you get out they'll still go after the car) The graphics 
 are AMAZING for the wii, but compared to more powerful in the graphics department consoles AKA 
 ps3 and 360, not so great graphics.
  
  
  OVERALL very very good game for the wii, definately worth getting, if you're not sure you want 
 it, rent it, you might [ probably will ] want it. If you were looking forward to GTA IV being on 
 the wii, but were dissapointed it wasn't. GET THIS!
  
  if you get this and find it not fun and hate it, you don't have good taste in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7arek
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Well there isnt a whole lot to say about Driver: Parallel Linesexcept it sucks. Im sorry, Im 
 not a huge GTA fan to begin with, but at least I can sort through the crap. From the graphics to 
 the controls, theres nothing really great about this game. Though there are a lot of destructible 
 items in the game, most of them feel very generic. Also, youre character doesnt really feel like 
 he has a ton of life in him either, almost all of his movements feel stiff, from his scrawny legs 
 to his strangely ridged hair. Not to mention the ugliness of the city and other characters, I know 
 its the Wii... but come on! Alright, now for some positives about the game. One thing that I really 
 liked about it was the gun controls. When you were just running around it was pretty simple, like 
 Scarface and Godfather. However, when youre in the car your head pops out the window, and you 
 control it in like a Third/First-Person mode. Its cool. Also, the music is good, the cutscenes 
 dont look terrible, and there IS a storyline. Alright, now for the controls. I have to say, Ubisoft 
 did some creative things with this game. Like, theres the idea where youre right hand controls 
 all the gunplay, and the left controls the driving, I liked that. What I didnt like was how the 
 idea was actually implemented. Sure the turning with the nunchuk is cool (its what I wanted in 
 a driving/shooting game) but its not very precise, and it could have been much better. Well anyway, 
 in the end the Wii has better GTA clones to offer, and this just isnt worth your money. Though 
 there were some creative things done with the controls, I just cant recommend this game, no matter 
 how hard I try, this is a prime example of a crappy PS2 port with waggle and there's no way I can 
 support it. If you want an open-ended game do yourself a favor and pick up Godfather or Scarface, 
 leave this one on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparkzFisher93
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  So this game came out for the PS2 and Xbox a few years ago and like a few games it was bound to 
 come to Wii. Well it did and... well... it wasnt worth the wait. If you've played Driv3r then you 
 will know that that game was hard as hell. This game is alot better. Actually the game might be 
 too easy at parts. The games controlls are really really bad. I dont think ive see a Wii game with 
 these bad of controls. The games graphics arent terrible. Lets just say it looks better thatn GTA 
 III. The sound in the game is the worst. The voices in the game would sound better on a DS. However 
 were the game fails it makes up in... well... nothing at all. The story line to the game is good 
 though. It would make a great movie. Plus some of the missions are really fun. So if you like the 
 Driver seris then buy it. IF you just want a free roam game for Wii get Scarface or The Godfather. But 
 when this game gets to be $30 or $20 you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well it is not. This game may look like it but when you go dtraight to it they are different. First 
 up is the gameplay. Most of the missions make you drive. That is why it has driver in the name. 
 The controls work well for the most part but you will have some problems with driving. You must 
 keep the nuncuck straight while you drive or you will have problems. This is a game without that 
 many controls problems and I am happy about that. The graphics are pretty good. It looks great 
 how your car will have the egine wide open when you crash into other things. The sound for the 
 weapons and cars sound really nice. The game is going to last you for a while. Not to mention it 
 has 2 timelines. First is 1978 and then you will play in 2006. There are side missions, weapons 
 and cars to unlock. This game is very good in my opnion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ukgamecubefan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  A good game to play worth owning if you have a Wii the controls are the best so far and loading 
 times beats the PS2 version out right, some of the, missions seem a little punishing at first but 
 thats because things have to be done in time and it feels like there is never enough time on some 
 of the missions, but you soon come to realise that this is to help you speed up and improve you 
 driving skills.
  
  There's nothing more satisfying than smashing your head through the window of your car and pointing 
 your wiimote at the screen and firing at anyone in your way.
  
  I especially like the wanted system if the cops dont see your face then you are not wanted but 
 if they see your driving recklessly then the car is wanted, if you speed your way into a ally when 
 they lose you get out of the car and walk with the pedestrians the cops drive right passed you 
 with sirens and lights blazing.
  
  Then when no one can see you break into a new car and do it all over agene.
  
  Graphically 
 this is smother and faster than the PS2 version, so driving fall speed down an ally way hitting 
 boxes and rubbish bins is smooth and rarely takes a slow down in fact its only slowed down on me 
 once, when there were many cars chasing me at speed down an ally, but it was hardly noticeable 
 as it was a mille second at most.
  
  Good game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I am going to make this review short and sweet.
  
  First off this game has good graphics but they could have been better, after all the game was made 
 for one of the next-gen consoles.
  
  The sound was done pretty good except for one problem, when the cops are chasing you and they say 
 what type of car your driving and what part of the city your in, it sounds like its not put together 
 very well.
  
  This game definetly follows the main idea of the previous games. It's sort of like GTA except your 
 not trying to take over a city and you do more driving than gunning.
  
  Here is a big problem. For some unknown reason, a few days ago my data got reset and I had to start 
 all over again, which is quite annoying. So I advise you to save your data to an SD card if you 
 just did something really important and hard in the game and you wan't to be safe rather than sorry.
 
  
  So, to wrap this up... um... well anyway.
  
  Zaphack out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dearyth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  This is my first game in the driver series, so I have nothing substantial for a real comparison. 
 I have only played for a couple of hours so an in depth review is not yet possible. So far the 
 game looks nice, some nice blur effects and particles, wii games are definately starting to look 
 better. Since everything takes place in such a vast city the framerate isn't always as smooth but 
 never gets in the way of gameplay. Sounds aren't anything special but they do their job, ingame 
 movies look good. Some people have been **** about the controls but I haven't had any problems 
 with them whatsoever. I picked it up and started playing, no problems there. The slowmo camera 
 when you crash and the amount of blur can bet set in the options menu so you can turn it off when 
 it starts to get annoying. Now I admit I'm easily pleased, but it's just great fun to finally play 
 a game in this genre on the wii. Driving around, doing some races, shoot stuff, it's all good fun. 
 I can't tell you anything about the game length, nor if the missions get tedious after a while, 
 but if you enjoy gta games and aren't expecting to be blown away, this game will certainly entertain 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blabberpoet
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The good: Very big city to drive around in.
  
  The bad: Take a game thats entirely about driving, make the driving parts uncomfortable, glitchy 
 and unrewarding, take into account that you're basically adding stuff onto a port and what do you 
 get?
  
  Reason number 32245 of why Ubisoft is seriously dropping the ball on this whole Wii thing.
  
 
  Seriously.
  
  One thing about video games that you can notice is that the fun ones make you want to play the 
 games for different reasons. The more reasons the better. You need incentive to keep you going.
 
  
  In Driver: PL for the Wii, there is no incentive to play, be it well or badly, short of going through 
 the motions of following somee subpar storyline of revenge in the Big Apple. As a wheelman for 
 different crooks, you make money completing different objectives. This money can be spent on upgrading 
 cars that you'll rarely ever use because they get damaged quickly driving around in bogged down 
 traffic (seriously, the NPCs in this game drive at around 15mph) and because it gets expensive 
 you dont bother anymore. And forget trying to blend in with traffic becuase the Z button mapped 
 to acceleration is not pressure sensitive.
  
  Driving badly mostly just damages your car that you may or may not care for. The slow motion effect 
 of running into other cars just slows down gameplay and gets real frustrating, real fast. Theres 
 police patrolling the city but you can only alert them by speeding. So drive on the wrong lane 
 all you want cause the fuzz wont say squat. And when they are on your tail, expect the same ant 
 swarm behavior we've seen since it was implimented in the Need for Speed franchise. One thing this 
 game has going for it is the size of the environment. You get a rendition of Manhattan and Harlem, 
 the Bronx, part of Brooklyn and Queens, New Jersey, Coney Island and Rikers Island, and the draw 
 distance is pretty impressive. But for all its size and organic flavor, the city is empty. Outside 
 of running into things, which you'll do a lot of, you cant interact with NPCs beyond driving over 
 them, getting jobs from them, or on foot, shooting and punching them. There are pretzel and doughnut 
 stands throughout the city but no one ever had the idea, it seems, to use those as healing stations, 
 where you could use all this money the game throws at you for something practical.
  
  The biggest control issue is that tilting the nunchuck left or right will turn the car left or 
 right, but so will pressing the analog stick. So this leaves you wondering sometimes why your car 
 is slightly leaning left or right, then you'll realize your hand leaning (which is a way I've come 
 acustomed to playing wii games) is doing you a disservice. Then you'll jerk your hand back to some 
 normal position but you'll find that this action triggers a handbrake U-Turn. Its like those idiots 
 dont have the game tested by human beings. This wasnt a launch title and it still feels like a 
 rushed out port.
  
  The shooting parts of the game feel mostly good. But the the sounds of whatever comes out of the 
 gun you're shooting just feels very PS1. Flat sounds and a soulless 2006 soundtrack really kill 
 the vibe in the audio category.
  
  So now I know, that if Gamespot or IGN dont have a review of a port 5 days after a release, especially 
 if its from Ubisoft, to not touch the game with a ten foot pole fitted with a condom. A definite 
 skip. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
