-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EA Playground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/eaplayground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great breadth of games that will appeal to many age levels.
 Tetherball and Kicks are intense and engrossing.
 Multiplayer is good fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Many games lack lasting appeal.
 More difficult CPU opponents can feel cheap.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EA Playground puts forth a family-friendly assortment of games with a few absolute gems. 

  At first glance, EA Playground likely won't bear much similarity to any playground you've encountered. 
 Vibrant green grass covers the ground, children with massive heads frolic on pristine play structures, 
 and there's nary a scraped knee in sight. Thus, you encounter EA's vision of an idealized playground, 
 one in which everything is controlled with button presses and wiggle waggles. The games available 
 herein cover a wide range, from Dodgeball and Tetherball to Slot Car and Paper Airplane Racing. 
 Some are generic, while some actually manage to capture a kind of fun that is indeed reminiscent 
 of the game's namesake. These few standout games, along with the breadth of the other activities, 
 make EA Playground a game worth a recess.  

  The game starts with that liberator of pent-up energies, that klaxon of freedom: the recess bell. 
 You are loosed on a small playground area populated by frolicking children. There, you can challenge 
 a few select children to a competition in the game of their choice. Each offers an initial challenge 
 and three subsequent dares. Victory will earn you the currency to purchase power-ups, the right 
 to challenge tougher competitors, and the freedom to access the three other playground areas. This 
 currency (marbles) can be exchanged for power-up stickers offered by the playground don -- The Sticker 
 King. These stickers go in your sticker book alongside the golden stickers you earn the first time 
 you best a new opponent. Collect 'em all, beat all the dares, and face off with the Sticker King 
 for playground supremacy. Now how 'bout them games!  

           Dodgeball: It's way more satisfying when your friend is on the receiving end of your throw. 

  Dodgeball, the game EA sees fit to promote most heavily, isn't the strongest game in Playground 
 but still manages to be fairly amusing. You can scurry around, roll dodge, throw, and catch. Hits 
 can be scored strategically by throwing when an opponent is about to throw or has just thrown the 
 ball, though an unlockable powered-up shot or random toss can score just as often. Computer opponents 
 are merely passable and don't make for engaging foes. The real fun here is the heated multiplayer 
 matches that can seesaw back and forth for quite some time, making victory all the sweeter.  

 
  Wall Ball pits you against an opponent as you take turns smacking a ball off a wall with your 
 open palm. Any fun this game might have offered is compromised by the fact that you don't control 
 your character's position; the only things you control are when and how high you smack the ball. 
 The only thing you control is when and how high you smack the ball. There is a fun game in which 
 you do this, but it's called Tetherball. Even power-ups scattered on the wall can't liven up this 
 bland game, which is neither fun nor particularly challenging.  

  Kicks is a soccer-volleyball hybrid that pits teams of two against each other as they try to volley 
 and kick the ball over the tennis-height net and into their opponent's goal. Footwork is out of 
 your control, but you won't miss it because you'll be busy timing your passes, shots, defensive 
 jumps, and diving saves. The power-up stickers unlock the full complement of power shots and defensive 
 gambits, which really flesh out this game into something substantive and enjoyable. This is one 
 of the best games in here.  

  Tetherball is the game's other gem. Try to wrap the ball-on-a-rope around the pole clockwise while 
 your opponent tries to do the opposite. Your moves consist of a few different types of smacks that 
 can change the height of the ball, speed it up, or just simply prevent it from passing. Constantly 
 swinging your arm is alternately wearying and invigorating; a miss can deflate, while a well-timed 
 strike -- especially your second or third in a row -- will elate beyond reasonable measure. When played 
 against the tougher kids or a human opponent, Tetherball feels almost primal in its intensity. 
 It's not much of a stretch to imagine the ball as your competitor's head as you both try to outsmack 
 each other for the win. This game is totally raw and totally fun.  

  The other three main games are less directly competitive in nature and clearly aimed at a different 
 demographic than the aforementioned four. Slot Car Racing challenges you to zip around the track 
 grabbing power-ups, avoiding slowdowns, and shifting lanes as necessary. Computer opponents are 
 almost nonexistent until the very end, and when it does finally decide to compete, it feels a bit 
 cheap. The decision to keep the cars in slots is an intentional dumbing down of the car racing 
 possibilities, and its limited appeal will likely hold only for younger players. Dart Shootout 
 is an on-rails suction dart shooting game in which you blast away at targets, minion-level children, 
 and eventually the boss kid who can actually take more than one powered-up dart. It's mildly amusing 
 but intensely unoriginal.  

  Paper Racers is probably the best of these three, though it still falls short of compelling. Imagining 
 the Wii Remote is your paper plane, you maneuver around obstacles, grab items, and boost when necessary 
 as you are propelled ceaselessly toward the end of the narrow course. There is no delicate balancing 
 act of lift versus velocity because your plane is always moving. There is also no real penalty 
 for plowing through trees or rocks and such, only slight disorientation and loss of time. These 
 last three games offer only superficial thrills and, therefore, feel as if they were included specifically 
 with younger children -- who might not enjoy a tough Tetherball match -- in mind. Given that, they 
 offer competent filler and an accessible alternative to the more competitive games.  

           Tetherball: Like a slap fight without all the tears and stinging cheeks.      

  There's 
 a bit more in the way of amusing filler to be found around the four playground areas. Bags of marbles 
 are hidden in plain sight all around the grounds, providing a fun seeking game for young kids and 
 providing the means to buy more power-up stickers. Bug Hunt is a tougher seeking game, challenging 
 kids to run about, swiping up butterflies with the Wii Remote before time runs out. Basketball-bouncing 
 tests and free throw stations round out this auxiliary collection of mini challenges.  

  From the competitive ball games and the more individual challenges of Paper Racers or Dart Shootout 
 to the exploratory fun of discovering marbles and hunting bugs, EA has put together a collection 
 of games that can reasonably appeal to a diverse age range. As you roam around from challenge to 
 challenge, a swing of the Wii Remote will make your character high-five his or her opponent. This 
 goes a long way toward creating a playful tone, and it's clear EA has really tried to establish 
 the Playground as a place of fun and possibility. While it can't compete with a real playground, 
 EA's version is a decent rainy day alternative.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  The problem with EA Playground is that it gets boring after a while. The first few times you play 
 the game, it seems that it isn't that bad, but it really gets tiring and frustrating. The game 
 is unique and there are some fun sports to play such as dodgeball, but it gets boring, trust me. 
 Plus, the computer opponent is very tough to beat. That is also another frustrating thing about 
 the game. One good thing is that it is fun at parties and with four players. It is a good competitive 
 game. 
  
  The problem with EA Playground is that it gets boring after a while. The first few times you play 
 the game, it seems that it isn't that bad, but it really gets tiring and frustrating. The game 
 is unique and there are some fun sports to play such as dodgeball, but it gets boring, trust me. 
 Plus, the computer opponent is very tough to beat. That is also another frustrating thing about 
 the game. One good thing is that it is fun at parties and with four players. It is a good competitive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The good: cute graphics, tons of options, Satisfying music
  The bad: Tedious controls, games are too easy, boring and short, Multiplayer is the only real fun, 
 buying stickers gets annoying easily, music is kind of repetitive
  
  Game-play: 6/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 5/10
  Tilt: 6/10
  Average Score: 6.6/10
  
  EA Games 
 has made many wacky and mixed games liek the Harry Potter move liscensed games and whatever. Now, 
 they're giving the children excitment with EA Playground, that's right, a game on the playground. 
 You get to select single or multiplayer, but you'll obviously choose multiplayer because of how 
 boring the single player is.
  
  The game basically gives you information when you start a game. There are games like Nitro kart 
 racing and basketball. Nitro Kart racing is too easy and doesn't offer much of a challenge. Basketball, 
 however, is kind of challenging, and offers good fun. 
  
  A problem with the game starts with the controls. The game is controlled by the D-pad, which gets 
 kind of frustrating walking. When you're playing games, the Wii remote is used. Many times the 
 controls are perfect, and sometimes they're terrible. This gets very frustrating as the game doesn't 
 choose when to be too easy or very hard, but overall it's very easy.
  
  Graphically, the game is decent, I mean, the movement is good. The backgrounds are beautiful, with 
 childish color in between. The music isn't half-bad either, and offers some catchy songs. Overall, 
 however, sometimes the music is annoyingly repetitive, likely to the point where you'll find the 
 options and turn it off.
  
  When you win a game, you get cash. And what will you buy? Stickers for your book. At first, the 
 idea might seem pleasant, but colelcting stickers easily gets tiring, and you'll probably keep 
 all your money to yourself. It's kind of like Wario, except you don't pick your nose or scratch 
 your butt.
  
  EA Playground is one of those ups and downs games that holds itself right in the middle of the 
 scale. It's a shame EA didn't really put some challenge into the game, but the game has decent 
 graphics and music. Older gamers will want to skip this game or rent it, but younger audiences 
 will have a blast with it. Still, if you love EA, this isn't really the game you'd expect from 
 them, and there are better multiplayer games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiiWiiNumber2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  EA Playground for Wii was always either too easy or too hard. One minute I think I'm pretty good 
 at one of the games and the next I'm struggling as hard as playstations game sales. Also I think 
 it is so stupid that you have to do every mission to face the boss. Keep in mind though that this 
 is only in the adventure mode. Some of the games are absolutely fantastic!!!!!!!!! So my advice 
 is if you are going to buy this game do so as a multiplayer game. I gaurantee you that the adventure 
 mode is shockingly bad though. I hope this reveiw has given you an idea on what the game is like. 
 May I just say though before I finish that I have to use up the rest of my words even though I 
 am done my reveiw so bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i 
 i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike0193
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. yeah its a bit childish, but don't judge it on its cover. THere is a nice selection 
 on games. There are some completely never before seen games put here. THe games could get hard 
 in single player when you do some special dares. The game has a fun mood and many things to do. 
 THere could have been more games put in it however. But i love playing with friends. Dodgeball 
 is my favorite game, but i love the rest too. This is a great Wii multiplayer game. THis game is 
 super fun, espeacially when playing with friends ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Similar to a lot of Wii games, EA Playground features a collection of mini-games. The only difference 
 I found is that these games are really aimed for the younger crowd. The game are too easy and the 
 game itself is short. A great game for younger children though!
  
  MY +++
  
  Good selection of games (which get "harder" as you go through the game) .
  
  Fun games.
  
 
  Decent multi-player mode.
  
  MY - - - 
  
  Controls to walk around are a little crazy.
  
  Games are too easy for adults (would have been 
 nice for something a little more challenging - but on the other hand, there have to be some games 
 for the little ones!)
  
  
  
  I would have given this game a 5.0 from my perspective. However, if I were younger, I know I would 
 enjoy it much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duckman-Drake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Playground is filled with school yard games and my favorite dodge ball. Its fun but the computer 
 player should be harder. Great for younger kids under the age of eight. All around not a bad game. 
 Fun to play with kids. Great game if you want to keep your little siblings entertained. Good interaction 
 and a lot of moving around fast pass but way to short of a game. EA needs to make more games for 
 the wii so people can get involved and move around. I think it should get 7.0 (seven point zero) 
 thanks and keep making games EA. Duck-man out. PEACE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfgr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is really fun, great for kids, very nice garaphics, and perfect for the 
 wii control, I played with my 7 year old daughter and she really liked, she plays it every day, 
 and remember something, it is a game that is competitive, but not violent, I think that this is 
 the kind of games that you want for your kids, isnt?, some games are better than others, well, 
 like any other game of this kind, graphics have beautifull colors and the gameplay if not excellent, 
 at least, good and easy. I think that all the games in there, will make your kids play for long, 
 and if they play multiplayer, even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_0f_Hyrule
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great game for the wii/ Mostly just mini-games and walking around. The mini-games are very highly 
 addictive and very fun. Especially slot car racing, tetherball, and dart gun fight. Very entertaining. 
 Might sound childish but its not. The graphics are good. The sound is good. The gameplay is Great. 
 Also has good multiplayer. I enjoeyed playing around with my friends it was pretty fun. Collecting 
 golden stickers was fun too! Great game for the Wii. Great game for the family! Get it if you are 
 bored!
  
  The Bad: The bad is probably the controls for moving around. its kinda crazy!! Also, the kids speak 
 gibberish when you're talking to them, and I found that kinda weird!!! On the other hand the game 
 was fun!!!!! 
  Score: 9.0 out of 10 
  
  - Link_of_Hyrule - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  EA did it again releasing a crap game. What is the problem with these guys. They are releasing 
 more try-out games then good games... Just by releasing a lot of superficial games with some good 
 games doesn't make the bad games look better ...
  
  I have the feeling this game is released just to have some budget of the Wii hype but nothing more. 
 The ideas made into mini-games just don't do the trick. If you have like 500 of these stupid games 
 on one dvd it's maybe worth buying it for the moments you want to play something simple with your 
 friends for like ten minutes.
  
  I played this game through with my GF in multiplayer mode in like 15minutes. And that's it ... 
 a rip off ... DON'T BY THIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Yeah my kids love this Game with all the Games to pick from slot racers Dodgeball Paper Racers 
 Tetherball Kicks Dart shoot out Wall Ball . Lot to pick from and the whole Family can join in on 
 the fun. Playground has nice Graphics good sounds. Little to easy i think for Adults if you are 
 a All Pro Game Player. But the little one s just love it and my kids been playing for hrs and thats 
 what counts. So if you have some kids buy playground you cant go wrong lot there for them to enjoy 
 and for 39 bucks how can you go wrong there. so go out and buy it and enjoy with the Family. Thanks 
 Mars 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
