-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Elebits
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/elebits/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is an addictive blend of shooting and puzzling.
 Cute art style.
 There's a nice level-editing mode that lets you trade levels with friends online.
 Some very cool power-ups.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very easy to play, to the point where it's tougher to fail a stage than it is to complete it.
 Multiplayer is a jumbled mess.
 Graphics are chunky and drab looking.
 Awful voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Action
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This hybrid of a shooter and hide-and-go-seek works best as a demonstration for what the Wii's motion 
 sensing technology -- though it's not a half bad game, either. 

  If you're looking for a game that demonstrates the kinds of crazy gameplay the Wii is capable of 
 producing with its motion sensing controls, Elebits may be right up your alley. Functionally it's 
 a first-person shooter for younger audiences, and the goal is less to shoot and more to capture. 
 Think of it like Ghostbusters, except that instead of ghosts, you're capturing teensy creatures 
 called elebits. Each world in the game is littered with tons of elebits, and many of them are hiding 
 from you. You use a unique capture gun to not only snatch up the little buggers, but also move 
 objects around the environment. It's as though someone at Konami got hold of Half-Life 2's gravity 
 gun and concocted a fairy tale around its technology. The result is a slightly repetitive but oddly 
 engaging mix of shooting and puzzling that isn't challenging but is pretty fun.  

          They're cute, they sound like kittens, and we farm them out for slave labor to create energy. 
 Nope, can't see anything wrong with that.     

  You're on the hunt for the titular elebits because, according to the game's lore, elebits are the 
 sole source of power for the world. These cute creatures give off a unique type of energy that 
 renders nuclear power, natural gas, gasoline, coal, and just about every other power source obsolete. 
 Evidently, the elebits are cool with us siphoning off their energy to drive cars and power lamps -- at 
 least until one fateful day, when all of the world's power shuts down after a powerful lightning 
 strike. Enter Kai, a whiny brat whose parents happen to be some of the world's foremost elebits 
 researchers. When the power outage occurs, Kai's parents take off to discover the cause, leaving 
 Kai home alone. Kai's parents generally ignore him in favor of work, and he's pretty bitter about 
 it. This event is the last straw, and Kai is determined to figure out what's going on. When he 
 realizes that all the elebits have gone rogue, he snatches up his dad's capture gun and sets off 
 to save the world. This story is told through some periodic bits of narration that pop up in between 
 story missions. These scenes are done with still-frame art that looks quite nice, but the voice 
 acting is horrendous. As if Kai weren't whiny enough through text dialogue, hearing him speak is 
 like a needle through the eardrum. Granted, the story is rather incidental in the grand scheme 
 of things, but there was an opportunity for some Katamari Damacy-like craziness here, and the game 
 doesn't take advantage of it.  

  To recapture all those wayward elebits, you'll be using the capture gun to search through various 
 areas around Kai's house and town. The capture gun itself is capable of lifting objects in the 
 environment and moving them. If you notice a desk lamp or a trash can shaking a bit, that probably 
 means there are some elebits hiding underneath. Just move around with the Nunchuk's control stick, 
 aim your targeting reticle via the Wii Remote, press A or B to fire, and hold the button down to 
 use the energy beam to grab hold of the object. From there, you just fling the object wherever 
 you like and reveal those precious elebits. Once they're revealed, you fire off quick shots at 
 them to collect them. Of course, if all you did was pick up objects, shoot tiny creatures, and 
 repeat, the game would become monotonous extremely quickly. It's good, then, that there's a touch 
 more strategy to it than that.  

  The game measures the number of elebits you collect in electrical wattage, and you need to achieve 
 a certain number of watts to clear a stage. You're also under a time limit, ranging from five minutes 
 to 20, depending on the level. One of the better tricks the game has is the way it forces you to 
 not only collect overall watts, but also collect power for your gun. Certain types of elebits provide 
 power exclusively for your capture gun, but the only way to access them is to power up certain 
 types of appliances found in a level, like a flat-screen TV, a phone booth, or a branded Epson 
 printer. You need to boost your gun's level to pick up heavier objects (and reveal more elebits) , 
 but you also have to hit a certain overall wattage target to be able to power up these objects, 
 so what you end up with is a nice balancing act between achieving the main wattage target and working 
 to level up your gun.  

          Elebits hide in everything, so it's best just to shoot or break every object you come in 
 contact with.     

  It's the same balancing act throughout nearly all of the game's stages, but occasionally the game 
 throws in some seemingly arbitrary rules for certain stages, such as limiting the number of furniture 
 pieces you can break or forcing you to keep your rampant destruction to a quieter noise level. 
 There's not much explanation for why these rules are in place. Being loud doesn't scare off all 
 the elebits, nor is anyone around to yell at you if you break too many vases. The rules are seemingly 
 there to try to add some variety to the objectives, but they just get in the way.  

  That's mainly because the best thing about Elebits is its ability to let you run amok. This is 
 probably the best "make a mess" simulator you've ever played -- you can throw junk all over the place 
 and lay waste to any environment. Granted, making a mess is less a priority than collecting all 
 those cute elebits, but as you power up your gun and get the ability to pick up bigger objects, 
 you can really have a field day, picking up cars, buildings, and just about anything that isn't 
 nailed down in the later stages. All these objects sport full-on physics, so there isn't much you 
 can't grab onto and throw about. Of course, those physics aren't always spot-on. There are some 
 goofy movements to some of the larger objects in the game. Everything looks like it has the same 
 weight and consistency to it when it hits the ground, whether it's a plate or a semitruck. Certain 
 smaller objects break apart, but a lot of them don't. Also, having to use the capture gun beam 
 to open doors is beyond annoying. There's just not a lot of realism to the physics, but considering 
 the fantasy vibe the game puts off and the fact that it's more about making a silly mess than it 
 is moving objects around realistically, it's easy to forgive the occasionally wonky physics.   
   

  As fun as the physics can be, the in-game graphics leave a lot to be desired. There's certainly 
 a charm to the game's look -- the cuteness of the worlds and the elebits -- but technical performance 
 gets in the way quite a bit. Environments are colorful, but textures look extremely drab and muddy, 
 to the point where Elebits looks like a first-generation GameCube game. And even with these low-res 
 visuals, the frame rate seems unable to keep up with what's going on in the game. This is less 
 of an issue indoors, but the second you get into any of the outdoor levels, the game chunks up 
 severely. Charm goes a long way, but not enough to forgive the one-two punch of dingy textures 
 and bad frame rates. The voice acting is the worst part of the game's audio, but the rest of it 
 is quite good. The soundtrack is nicely varied and features some catchy electronic tunes, and the 
 kitten cries of the elebits as you capture them are rather cute, if a bit disturbing.  

          The physics engine lets you do some pretty kooky stuff with the various objects scattered 
 throughout a level.     

  Elebits is a pretty breezy game. Since the bulk of the gameplay is hide-and-go-seek with a laser 
 gun, the challenge is less in shooting stuff and more in simply finding all the necessary elebits. 
 But even that isn't especially tough. Elebits don't do much to run away once they're found, and 
 it's just a matter of pointing and shooting at them. A few elebits do attack you, but they aren't 
 typically the collectible ones anyway, so all you really need to do is avoid them. You'll bust 
 through the game's story mode in under six hours and fail maybe one or two stages during the entire 
 course of the mode. This applies to the few boss fights that pop up as well, which are perhaps 
 even easier than the normal stages. Bosses have very specific, very easily discernable patterns 
 that become obvious right away, so they're good for little more than a quick distraction from the 
 usual tasks.  

  Though the game is simple, there's an oddly compelling quality to the action. Hunting elebits becomes 
 addictive after a while, especially once you start picking up some of the neat power-ups that let 
 you target multiple elebits, or attract them to one spot, or vacuum them up en masse via a whirlwind 
 that sends all the inanimate objects in close proximity into a crazed frenzy. You also have the 
 option to go back and play any stage over again to try to achieve a higher score, and there are 
 score attack and challenge mode options as well, which impart some new conditions on old stages. 

  Once you've completed the story mode, there's a four-player multiplayer mode to mess with. This 
 mode lets you and up to three other friends go at it in a level, both competing and cooperating 
 to catch elebits. It's a strange and screwy mode in the way it tries to balance competitive and 
 cooperative play. Only the host player can move around, so that player is in control of what displays 
 on the playing field, but everyone is competing to score as many watts as possible, so you basically 
 have to both rely on and compete against the host player. It's pretty sloppy, a fact made all the 
 more visible by how chaotic the multiplayer gets in four-player mode. It's near on impossible to 
 see who is shooting what in this mode, and because only one player gets to move the camera around, 
 if you get in the lead, you could feasibly just stand still in a spot where there are no more elebits 
 to collect and wait out the timer. That's not just dumb; that's broken.  

          The level editor is a nice touch.     

  The game's edit mode is more enjoyable. This 
 mode lets you build your own levels to play around with. You can only use the basic single-player 
 stage designs, but within them, you can place objects and elebits just about anywhere you'd like. 
 The system is relatively easy to use, and best of all, you can trade created levels with your friends 
 via the WiiConnect24 system. Granted, you have to have someone's friend code in order to do anything, 
 and there's a weird limit of one trade per day imposed, but otherwise, this is a cool addition 
 that definitely gives the game some legs.  

  You'll come away from Elebits with an interesting mix of reactions. The motion controls are nicely 
 done, and the puzzle nature of the levels can be quite addictive. But as cool as Elebits can be, 
 it's rarely the  game  part of it that really stands out. Elebits' technology is what drives it -- the 
 combination of the motion controls and the hearty physics engine turns what is, in essence, a pretty 
 simple kids' game into something greater than the sum of its parts. It's certainly not going to 
 be for everyone, but any Wii owner on the hunt for something new and original would do well to 
 give it a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (84 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shadowcliff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Pros/cons below.
  
  
  A game shop moved in to a vacancy in a shopping center near my house, so I brought a few games 
 in to trade.
  I glanced at the Wii games - not a huge selection - and decided that Elebits had a chance. It was 
 a bargain at $15, but it was used.
  I brought it home, popped it in the Wii, and started playing.
  
  I noticed right away the ease 
 of use; there isn't much to it. Basically you're picking up objects to find Elebits, which are 
 little electrically-charged entities that make electric things work. You use the Nunchuck to move, 
 and to look around you point your Wii remote at the edge of the screen. You pick up and move objects 
 by pointing at one, holding B or A, then moving the remote - capturing works by pointing at an 
 Elebit and tapping B or A.
  
  Now your capture gun can only pick up a certain weight. To improve it, you have to capture enough 
 Elebits to turn on appliances, which outputs charged Elebits - in turn giving you more pick-up 
 power.
  
  The satisfaction comes in picking up objects. Usually the larger the object, the more amusing it 
 is to fling it around. In later levels you're picking up cars, houses, and buildings; and if you 
 can upgrade your gun enough, you can move the moon!
  
  The missions can be very hard due to the amount of Elebits needed in the time limit provided. Sometimes 
 other limitations are implemented, like noise level and object breaks, which make the mission harder, 
 but not impossible. Basically, if you are using the right strategy for the level, it shouldn't 
 be too hard.
  
  Replay value is good because you unlock new missions by achieving different objectives in each 
 level. Graphics aren't half bad; I'd say remeniscent of Katamari for PS2. They fit the fun, frantic 
 environment you're in (of course I'm a more casual gamer so graphics aren't my top priority) .
 
  
  I'm not giving this a 9 or 10 because the story isn't very interesting, and the base game only 
 lasts for 30 missions. There is an edit mode, but unless you're really familiar with how to use 
 it, it's hard to do anything. Also, you can't use all of the objects you unlock - you can only 
 select three categories.
  
  
  
  PROS
  ---------
  -Gameplay is engaging, unique
  -Simple game, little or no learning curve
  -Missions keep you occupied long enough for the game 
 to last you a while
  -Challenge and Time Attack missions add more life to the game
  -Great value, even at retail pricing
  -Satisfying
  
  CONS
  ---------
  -Storyline is boring 
 and cheesy at best
  -Edit Mode is hard to use and limited
  
  
  My first review on Gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovehunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  Well, this game offers fun and fluid gameplay. Stages are unique and are well diversified. And 
 the music is pleasant. There are a lot of stages and and unlockable items and modes that offer 
 unique challenges in easing or increasing difficulty. The capture gun is fun but be carful using 
 it, it can be hectic when you are throwing a ton of stuff aroundand are trying to find and shoot 
 at elebits. 
  
  When you play you start off at the lowest power level and must find and shoot elebits to unlock 
 certain objects' switches so they also produce more elebits. You can also find elebits by opening 
 cupboards, doors, under opbjects, and inside objects such as vases and flowerpots, etc. And different 
 colored elebits offer different results like wattage, upgrades for your capture gun lifting capabilities, 
 and unlocking modes. There are also items within each stage to assist you in capturing the elebits. 
 
  
  Story is O. K. but not as bad as what has been said about it. Other than that this game is fun. 
 Get it. It's cheap to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtno132
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  I got this game A while ago, And I loved it, It felt a little stupid and boring at the beginning, 
 but it gets better.
  
  The gameplay is simple, you have to capture Elebits to produce electricity and turn on machines 
 like TVs, DVD players, vacuum cleaners etc.. to finish the level, you can pick up some interesting 
 power ups to help you out
  
  What I liked about this game is that you can customize your own challenge level, and share them 
 with others
  
  the story I kind of stupid, and with annoying voice acting.
  
  The graphics are OK, but they wont impress you at all (a 6/10)
  
  bottom line:
  I think Elebits 
 is a really great game, and it is very addictive to play.
  but many of my friends found this game boring, it depends on your taste, If you are looking for 
 a fast paced game I wouldn't recommend this one.
  ----------------------------------------------------- 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Elebits, as a game is not that great of an idea, but Elebits as a Wii game is freaking genius. 
 You play a little boy who it tasked with restoring the power to his home and later the entire city. 
 You do this by capturing the Elebits (small electric Pikmin-like beings) and slowly powering on 
 all electrical devices in an area. 
  
  You use a capture gun to do the catching, and to rearrange furniture and plant and knick-knacks 
 throughout the levels. The Elebits are hidden underneath and inside many if not most of the objects. 
 Each level is timed and you must collect a certain wattage of Elebits within the time frame. Different 
 Elebits give you different wattage, what the Elebits are doing affects the amount of wattage you 
 get from each Elebit. This may sound silly (and it kind of is) but by the time you get to chapter 
 10 you are hooked and you feel like a sleuth detecting, freeing and zapping Elebits into your gun. 
 
  
  The game play is very easy to get used to. It is done in a First Person perspective, but it's not 
 like other FPS. literally anything in the room can be interacted with, and the more you play the 
 more you realize this. By the end, you find yourself comfortably picking up House with your capture 
 gun. Elebits is long, so you can get your money's worth out of the game, and that is not mentioning 
 the numerous other bonuses, like edit mode. There is very little blatantly wrong with Elebits. 
 The story is interesting, yet poorly executed, and the voice acting is laughable. Neither of these 
 things take away from the experience of Elebits. 
  
  At first play, Elebits will probably seem very hard and frustrating, but once you get used to the 
 gameplay, the level will start to get really easy. Each level has many more Elebits than what is 
 needed to clear it, so you will find yourself letting the fast one go. 
  
  Overall, Elebits is a very strong Wii title that can only be made for the Wii (I'm sure it could 
 be made for other consoles, but it would be uncomfortable and silly. Now that you can pick up Elebits 
 used and/or cheap, there is no reason for Wii owners not to grab it when they can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hush_the_Noise
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to classify a game like Elebits. It takes your basic action/ first person shooter mechanic, 
 and throws everything else you'd associate with such out the window and invents a totally new formula. 
 Some people may look at it's technicolor art style, heartwarming story, and cuddly characters and 
 see it as a baby game. (The same fate suffered by great games like Yoshi's Story.) But it's plot 
 is fairly solid and the gameplay is extremely fun and addictive. The main idea is to search a variety 
 of everyday environments, such as the multiple rooms of the protagonist's house, the surrounding 
 neighborhood and eventually, a massive theme park. You are looking for power-generating creatures 
 called "Elebits," with which humans have been living alongside for thousands of years. (I won't 
 give away why our hero has a qualm with these adorable creatures.) You use a unique device called 
 a "Capture Gun," which fires a tractor beam that not only captures Elebits, but allows you to throw 
 things, press buttons, pull leavers, among other odd jobs. That's what makes this game so fun. 
 Throwing your neighbor's house around, trashing every room in the hero's own home, causing chaos 
 wherever you end up, all in the pursuit of Elebits, who insist on hiding in every little nook and 
 cranny of the often huge levels. That's where things can get frustrating. As you recklessly throw 
 everything that comes to hand, the environment can get messy, quick. This poses a problem, as Elebits 
 can hide under things, and their presence is only indicated by a brief shake of their hiding spot. 
 Another problem is that some of the objects that special "charged Elebits" call home require a 
 complex action to activate, and you aren't really given enough clues as to what those are. (It 
 took me a looong time to figure out how to work the microwave.) Others need you to place a specific 
 item from the surrounding area, which can be hard if you've already completely trashed the place. 
 But, the whole is greater than the sum of it's parts, and everything comes together in the end. 
 And it's all tied together by a touching story played out between the first-person shooter missions 
 with a series of incredible cut-scenes that are part animation, part still paintings. This is among 
 my all time favorite games, and never got the publicity it deserved. I believe everyone from beginners 
 to hard-core gamers like myself can enjoy this game. So go on. Make yourself a terrific mess. And 
 as the ads for this game said, if the visuals were anymore realistic, you might get grounded for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedKing911
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game looked really fun at first. It sounded cool to I mean enslaving an alien race for your 
 own benifit was a neat concept. After the first level the real game became apparent and I was seriously 
 disapointed after spending fifty bucks on a game that was horrible. It felt like you were doing 
 the same thing over and over again and it never got better. The actual gameplay was horrible and 
 your characters winey voice made me want to drive a nail into my head. The story line was dumb 
 and didn't give you any fullfillment or sensation other than wanting to kill yourself to make it 
 stop. The bosses were repetitive and you knew what was coming the entire time. This game just flat 
 out put me and everyone else in a horrible stance on videogames. This game was bad and i seriously 
 don't recomend this to anyone over 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is about a where a man tells his child a bed time story about a child who hates elebits 
 and then the power goes out. So then that child who is named Kai must use the capture gun to capture 
 the elebits to restore power. So what you must do is try to capture the elebits and the more you 
 capture the more stronger the capture gun gets and more power is restored. But then Kai finds who 
 is behind the power out Kai thinks it's a ghost but at the end of the game he defeats it and it 
 is revealed to be a lonely elebit who just wanted friends so Kai and the lonely elebit become friends 
 and then Kai no longer hates elebits ending the bed time story. This game has such great graphics 
 and the voices are good as is the animation scenes the only problem is that the boss fights can 
 be hard sometimes it took me months to beat the last boss. This game gets a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  If anyone remembered, i got Eledees (named Elebits elsewhere from UK) a long time ago. It was one 
 of the very first Wii games i got. I spotted a deal of buy 2 Wii games for 35. I chose Eledees 
 and Kororinpa; in my eyes, those were the only games worth the price. That was, ooh, almost a year 
 ago? So why did i take so long to complete this game and complete it? Well, this game has flaws. 
 The biggest flaw is the pacing structure and lack of variety in gameplay that is usually used to 
 hook game players and so other games would easily tend to steal your attention away from Eledees. 
 That is not to say this game is all bad, rather, the significance of this unique title is easily 
 dwarfed.
  
  The story of the game is presented in an unnecessary tone as it would be for children - the voices 
 in the cutscenes would make anyone cringe. The still images used however are quite beautifully 
 hand-drawn. You are 'Kai', a young boy who dislike 'Eledees'. Eledees are these small beings that 
 contain some form of energy which is used to power everyday things in the modern society. One day, 
 there is a sudden power outage. Kai, home alone, decides to get things right so that he can watch 
 TV. It just so happens, Kai's parents are researchers of the Eledee phenomenon. Kai uses his dad's 
 capture gun to put things right and seeks to capture all the Eledees amidst his dislike and frustration.
 
  
  The premise is simple. You are a boy armed with a capture gun and you seek out 'shooting' these 
 Eledees much like a first person shooter. You control your movement with the nunchuck and you capture 
 with either the A or B button. Although the game is simple at first, the maps become grander in 
 scale. Small puzzle elements do well to keep things a bit different. For example, to open doors, 
 you shoot, hold the door knob and twist the wiimote. You can push buttons, flip switches and it 
 all ultimately rewards you well with more Eledees coming out of hiding. The game becomes more complex 
 as you go along by imposing certain criteria such as keeping noise down to a minimum or having 
 a limit on the number of items you're allowed to break. When you have captured a sufficient number 
 of Eledees the power of your capture gun increases and eventually you'll be able to move humongous 
 objects (like the moon? :D) . It is only in the latter half of the game in which things become really 
 exciting; theme parks, Eledee bosses, stadiums filled with hundreds of objects would have you throwing 
 things around like a madman. The bosses are good highlights of the game and are varied, and extremely 
 satisfying upon completion. The scale of things become grander and grander as you progress. This 
 game actually pushes the Wii's CPU as the framerate would stutter in these huge open areas filed 
 with hundreds of objects. It's quite impressive, if not for the archaic lighting and low textures, 
 then for the sheer amount of things happening on-screen at once.
  
  Although, graphically unimpressive, the experience can be quite special with hundreds of objects 
 being flung around the screen all the while backed by well-suited soundtracks. The game almost 
 becomes an aural experience in itself: rhythmic beats and booms create a distinctly quirky atmosphere 
 and even becomes nicely muffled when you activate some noise-cancelling powerup. However, the zapping 
 sounds can be grating to the ears and the overall sound-effects are plain and uninspired. I found 
 that the game uses the motion controls in small doses and when it does, it does it in a unique 
 way - it definitely brings variety to an otherwise plain shooting gameplay. The game does have 
 flaws; you can't move through objects, so when you're in a cramped space with items everywhere, 
 it can be difficult to get away. Personally, i got headaches after extended playtime. There are 
 certain exploitable glitches, for example, even if you can't lift up a heavy object that's blocking 
 your path to an area, it is possible to knock it out of the way with a lighter object. Bizarrely, 
 some objects can defy gravity by hovering in the air if you carefully remove a supporting object 
 just underneath it.
  
  The game is quite full of content. There are Konami-centred easter eggs littered thoughout the 
 game that'd be unnoticed by all but the most core gameplayers. The Edit Mode is a decent attempt 
 at some 'community' online creativity although limited in variety due to the gameplay mechanic 
 (goal is to capture Eledees) . And there is enough tweaking in the settings to have a mess around 
 in, be it experiencing no gravity or just basically creating huge domino chains. You unlock different 
 game modes as you complete missions. Most noteworthy of the unlockables is the challenge mode which 
 are really fun or extremely frustrating depending on how well you fare against high difficulties. 
 You will also unlock 'maps' and 'objects' which can be used in the Edit Mode. There is also a multiplayer 
 mode for up to 4 players but is only limited to maps you've played - it does not allow you to use 
 this mode to advance through the game as though it is co-op.
  
  While the game is full of content, the flaws can detract you away from the game. I spent over 10 
 hours on this game and found it quite a good challenge. The ending was quite sweet and the artwork 
 in the storytelling was great. While, there was a lot more to play of the game even after the story 
 mode, the appeal was somewhat easily lost to me. Overall, i got the game quite cheap (17) and 
 it was reasonably valued. These days, the game can go for 10, and that price is well worth it. 
 If the look and appeal is just not doing it for you, a rental is highly recommended because this 
 game does provide some unique gameplay elements as well as providing something different from all 
 the other games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfclee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  this is one of the most boring games i ever played i only went through three levels and was almost 
 dead with bordom. after watching the previews and looking at other reviews i was disapointed with 
 the result, watching blobs run about is not fun at all.
  it is a simple game only good for children and people who think watching paint dry is a sport, 
 i didnt like it at all and as far as im conserned it is a stay away game.
  the only good thing on the game is the easy to learn concept of the controls and the storyline 
 is easy to grasp but is nothing special. with this game you wont be playing it for long as it gets 
 boring to easily. it is like hide and seek but with a zapper twist.
  a 7.5/10 for the graphics and easyness of it.
  not a great game as it gets boring to easy but 
 ok if your just on it for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Elebits may seem like a game for the younger group, but it can be insanely fun, no matter your 
 age. The concept is simple: You point at stuff, throw it around, and zap these little alien things. 
 SImple, right? That is pretty much what Elebits is about.
  
  You play as Kai, a young kid who's parents are Elebit researchers. Suddenly, Elebits start going 
 crazy. You then make your way through your house, your yard, neighbourhood, and even an amusement 
 park. The story in this game is shown through child-like drawn animations. This game has some of 
 the worst VO and story, but you're not going to be playing this for a story.
  
  Elebits is a basic game to learn. You point the Wiimote at the screen and use the nunchuk control 
 stick to move around. The A or B button (either one) can be your trigger, which you use to shoot. 
 You wield a capture beam. You can pick up objects with it to reveal elebits. The whole point of 
 this game is to get a certain amount of watts (each different colour elebit has a different watt 
 count) before time runs out.
  
  Thankfully, that's not all there is. There are a wide variety of elebits, some that can make a smokescreen, 
 and some that can teleport. Also, by using electrical devices, like the T. V, oven, toaster and 
 more, you can power up your gun so it can hold heavier objects. Once you get the minimum amount 
 of wattage, you activate the device by pressing a button or in other ways ( putting a turkey in 
 the oven, bread in the toaster) you find yellow and pink elebits, which power your gun.
  
  Also, sometimes there are requirements in stages, where you can't make a certain amount of sound, 
 or break any objects. There are also items that you can use, like a radar to track elebits.
  
  Overall, Elebits is a good game. With special elebits to catch, innovative boss battles, secret 
 items, challenge and eternal modes, and more, there is a ton of replayability. I recommend it to 
 anyone with a small child, or even a small child in a big mans body. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  There's nothing else really like Elebits. You play as Kai, aa young boy who accidentally releases 
 Elebits into society and needs to go capture them. Elebits are adorable, tiny, Pikmin-like creatures 
 that supply the world's electricity. Using a vacuum cleaner-esque capture gun, Kai destroys environments 
 hoping Elebits are hiding under parts of the scenery.
  
  Konami describes Elebits as a mix of a shooter and hide and go seek, which is the most appropriate 
 description that can be given. The Elebits hide from you, often under various parts of the level, 
 and try their best to evade you. Everything in Elebits is interactable, meaning that if a cup is 
 on a desk, it can be moved and the desk can be moved too. There are power ups that are earned that 
 let you pick up heavier things, but by the end of the level, nothing will be in its original spot 
 and the level will be unrecognizable. The interactivity presented in Elebits is easily the game's 
 best feature. Every single little thing can be thrown by the capture gun and anything may be housing 
 an Elebit.
  
  There are more than twenty levels in Elebits, and the difficulty ramps up steadily throughout them. 
 In each level, you are given restrictions that must be considered. Some levels don't allow you 
 to break more than ten things, some forbid loud noises and others have you avoiding bullets from 
 miniature tanks that serve no purpose other than to increase the difficulty. Towards the end of 
 the game, the levels are extremely difficult and shred any theory that says Elebits is a children's 
 game. Also given to you before each level is a certain amount of watts required to clear the level, 
 offering an arcade element to Elebits as high scores can serve as motivation for replays.
  
  Visually, Elebits is pretty mediocre. The style is cute, but on a technical level it's nothing 
 special. There are also horrible frame-rate drops that occur when things on the level get really 
 hectic, which is atleast twice a level in the later parts of the game. When it comes to audio, 
 Elebits is also pretty bland, except for the cutscenes.
  
  The voice acting during Elebits' cut scenes is among the worst in video game history. You can tell 
 that the voice acting was done in-studio in Japan. First off, you can tell that Kai is being voiced 
 by a girl. It's not that I object necessarily to a boy sounding girly, I just think he should sound 
 more like a girly boy than an actual girl. His parents' don't sound any better either as the voice 
 actors all have ridiculous pitch fluxuations and terribly over-expressive ways of saying even the 
 most simple of things. The cutscenes are very pretty visually, with water-color like images, but 
 they go completely unnoticed thanks to the horrible voice acting. Luckily, Elebits' plot is somewhat 
 weak and the cutscenes are few, but when they do come, it's time to hit the mute button on your 
 television.
  
  The only other problem Elebits has is the way you can't shoot between gaps of an object. Your capture 
 gun senses every object as a bubble, and everything within this bubble is part of the object. This 
 means that if you want to shoot between rails of a gate, you can't because the gap between the 
 rails is in the bubble and therefore part of the gate itself. This is only a minor problem, but 
 hopefully it'll be fixed if Elebits 2 every happens.
  
  Other than those few problems, Elebits is really cool and shows how shooters can be on the Wii. 
 The game uses the Wii Remote to point the capture gun and the nunchuck is used for moving, crouching 
 and standing on tippy-toes. It's a blast to pick up objects with the Wii Remote and then throw 
 them far away with the quick movement of a wrist. When you get power-ups, particularly the homing 
 gun, the Wii Remote stands out even more as the best way to control a first-person shooter, even 
 when it has hide-and-go seek elements to it.
  
  Overall, Elebits is an awesomely unique experience that can only be done on the Wii. It's hectic, 
 it's a frenzy, and it's flat-out ridiculous in the best way possible. There are a few problems 
 with the game, but they're fairly minisucle and are completely overshadowed by the hugely interactive 
 levels. If you don't like shooters, buy Elebits since it's also a form of adventure game. If you 
 don't like hide-and-go seek, buy Elebits, it's a form of shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseynut2004
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is an average game that brings a new style of gaming to the Wii. However, if you do not 
 like the hide-and-seek style of the game, it can get boring in a hurry. The purpose of each level 
 is to collect Watts (Which you get by collecting Elebits) in a certain amount of time. The lack 
 of unlockables adds to the boredom; there's only a book of objects that shows which objects you 
 have picked up, a room full of Elebits you have collected, and a movie theater. Also, after the 
 first few levels, the game starts to get harder, then harder, and harder. By the time you get to 
 level 15 - 20, the game gets so frustrating that you'll want to break your wiimote. There is no 
 real substance in this game, and the storyline is not outstanding either. This is a mediocre game 
 which, if it was polished up, might be a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Hehe this game is so neat. Basicly you are some loser whose parents hate you. They are scientists 
 and you get blown off by them one day when they go and investigate something and leave you alone. 
 Hey at least you can watch T. v... or can you. The power goes out because thes little tiny power 
 source guys. You grab youre dad's capture gun and start shooting these Elebit's. You pick up things 
 and throw them around and you can destroy the whole house. Once you catch alot of them you power 
 on crtain appliances and electric things. After that you catch these special ones and they make 
 you be able to pick up heavyer things. As you go through this game you have alot of fun destroying 
 the house. I have only played like 3 hours total so far but im nowhere near the end of the game. 
 But in the end of this review i pretty much like the game alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok first im gonna name the flaws of this game. Repetitive often alike levels and weird music.
 
  
  here are the basics
  
  controls:9.5 out of 10. The controls are pretty good and it feels realy realisic
  
  gameplay:9 
 out of 10. Fun for about 5 hours but gets kinda annoying
  
  graphics:8 out of 10. They are bad but good enough for this game
  
  
  overall:8.5 out of 
 10
  
  The game is realy fun and a great rent or to borrow. The game is waaay too long as I stated earlier. 
 There are 30 levels!!!!! Some of the levels take 30 minutes to beat so its kinda long. I found 
 I would go back and play the first 10 levels a lot. After that it was kinda boring. I suggest you 
 rent this if you have a short weekend commited to playing some games or if you are soooo bored 
 of mario galaxy or those other good games. I highly recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Eledees (Elebits) is a game about a child who wishes electricity was gone so his parents would 
 spend more time with him instead of working the kid does not realise that his TV or anything in 
 the house would work.
  
  Now this leaves you to find the electricity which are called Eledees now you this gun with you 
 go around the house and fire at the Eledees. It is a game of hide and seek you go around picking 
 up objects around the house with this gun which is pretty fun. The controls are really good for 
 the Wii and offers the Wii's full use of the control system. You will be timed to do each stage.
 
  
  The main problems with this game is the music which sounds like it is looped over and over which 
 you get tired of hearing it. Then the voice acting is terrible they just sound like robots and 
 have no feeling to the words in what they are saying.
  
  It's worth checking out which i would only pay about up to 19.99 for the game because that's all 
 I think it is worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  
  ...::The Good::...
   Cute Art Style
   Physics Engine is top notch
   Addictive Gameplay
   Level Editing and being able to send levels to friends is a nice touch
 
  
  ...::The Bad::...
  xTerrible Voic Acting
  xCutscenes are told through Stop Animation
  xMultiplayer doesn't work that well
  
  Konami's 
 snatch 'em up Elebits (or Eledees for you Europeans) demonstrates the kinds of crazy gameplay the 
 Wii is capable of producing with its motion sensing controls. 
  
  The game starts off with a young boy named Kai lying in bed about to go to sleep. He's father is 
 finishing off reading him a story these mysterious creatures called Elebits (aka; Eledees) which 
 are the source of all electronic energy. Kai's father and mother are Elebit researchers and never 
 spend time with Kai, instead they are exploring the on-goings of these Elebit creatures. Kai wakes 
 up to find his parents gone and wishes for all the Elebits to disappear. Right at the moment a 
 lightning blot strikes his town sending the Elebits awol. Kai remebers that his father has a captured 
 gun in his study which he uses to snag Elebits, takes it, and goes out blasting the little buggers. 
 The story isn't very engaging. In order to the move the story along, the game uses some stop animation 
 clips. Full-motion cutscenes would have been nice, but luckly the drawings are quite beautiful, 
 and enjoying to look at. Unfortunately, these clips are accompanied by some terrible voice acting 
 that somewhat spoils the experience. 
  
  Moving on to the games visuals, Elebits looks generally good for a Wii launch title. The game has 
 a very "cute" style to it and I think Konami managed to successfully deliver this cuteness without 
 abusing it. The frame rate is mostly solid, though at times when the action gets hecktic, the frame 
 rate drops significantly. But doesn't get to the point where the game is un-playable. The presentation 
 is solid, the user interface is nicely designed, it is user friendly to a great deal. 
  
  Elebits soundtrack isn't memorable, but features some nice tunes which fit well into the tempo 
 of the game. I should also note that each mission does not have it's on soundtrack. Before the 
 level begins you have the option to choose any track that you've previously heard to play on that 
 level, nice touch especially if you dread a certain tune. Sadly there is no SD Card compatiblity, 
 that would have been nice. Sound effects deliver nicely, form the sound of your capture gun, to 
 certain power-ups that phase out the BGM.
  
  Finally the gameplay; this is where its all about. If you are the type of person who loves in-game 
 physics (or physics very similar to Half-Life 2's engine) and tossing things around like a mania, 
 then you will love this game. The physics is very robust, and ties well into the game theme, you 
 will be trying to find these little pesky elebits all over the place, and in order to do so, you'll 
 need to move objects around, and collect a certain amount of them before time runs out. Each Elebit 
 is worth a different amount of Watts, this depends on two things: The Elebits colour and the Elebits 
 mood. If the little creature is crying or running away you will get less Watts when captured, whereas 
 if you capture it when it's happy (when a heart appears above it's head) or when it's sleeping, 
 you will get more Watts.
  There are also a lot of cool power ups, some change your Capture Gun into a vacuum cleaner that 
 lets you suck anything in your sight up, others change your Capture Gun into "Homing-Mode." In 
 other words, it locks on to every Elebit in sight. 
  
  To control Kai, you use the analouge stick on the nunchuck. Turning round is like in most FPS type 
 games; you point to the side of the screen and Kai will turn. You can't jump, but that really isn't 
 necessary. While the controls are solid for the most part, you might need a steady hand at times. 
 Although the learing curve isn't steep at all. There are also some quirky moments where the physics 
 will be a bit weird, and in some rare occasions where the controls won't be as responsive. 
  
  Elebits will only take you around 7 hours to complete all of the main missions. Yeah there 
 are challenge missions to complete and the rare Pink Eledees to snag and other extras, but these 
 tough tasks don't add much. You could get a fun 15 hours worth of gameplay from Elebits, but only 
 if your a high score fanatic and a 100% Perfectionist.
  Mulitplayer can get a little over the tough and laggy but can give half an hours worth of fun with 
 your mates. 
  
  To sum up, Elebits can be a tad hard to play for new-comers in the Wii FPS genre, but the tutorial 
 shuold help reduce the learing curve. Elebits does deliver with innovation, especially for a Wii 
 launch title. I recommend you give this game a rent if not already.
  
  7.5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Eledees is Konami's first wii game and unlike many developers they haven't simply made some cheap 
 knock-off and tacked on motion sensing controls. Infact the motion sensing controls are key to 
 the game. It actually feels like the game is built around them and not the other round which makes 
 a nice change.
  
  I'll start with the story which is told in the form of a storybook. Your character a young boy 
 named Kai and his parents are scientists who conduct Eledees research. Eledees are small cute creatures 
 who all harbour a mysterios form of energy much like electricity. They live in harmoney with humans 
 but Kai has grown to resent them because his parents are to busy conducting their research to pay 
 any attention to him. However one day there is a large lightning strike in Kai's town and all the 
 power goes out. His parents go to their research lab to try and etermine the cause leaving Kai 
 who is 10 at home on his own. Believing that it's the Eledees fault he takes his Dad's capture 
 gun and starts trying to catch the Eledees who have begun to behave very strangely indeed. The 
 game starts in Kai's house but will take you all accross town as Kai attempts to catch the Eledees 
 but he learns that in the end he needs to catch them to save them and not to get revenge.
  
  The previously mentioned wii remote controls focus around the capture gun. It is controlled 
 by pointing the wii remote at the screen and wherever you move it the cursor goes to. You shoot 
 with A and hold it down to lift objects up. Character movement is controlled by the thumbstick. 
 One of the first things you notice is the games graphics. They are all very cute and bright bit 
 at the same time very basic. They could be better but it doesn't hurt the gameplay. The gameply 
 is incredibly fun. Each level has a time limit and is completed when you capture a certain amount 
 of Eledees which is measured in Watts. Completed levels can sometimes be replayed in challenge 
 modes which is a neat feature to extend the games lifespan.
  
  Levels may seem small but when you reach certian amounts of Watt's doors open and items are energized. 
 Once something is energized it means you can shoot a switch on it or perform an action on it to 
 send yellow and red Eledees flying out. Collecting these increases the power of your capture gun 
 so that you can lift heavier objects and reach new areas at times. It's a very well implemented 
 system and one that you won't have a problem with.
  
  Everything i've said so far is good and largely that's true of the main game but it does suffer 
 from problems. Levels can feel repetitive even when different types of Eledees, mini guns and tanks 
 that shoot at you and failures from breaking too many objects are added into the equation. At times 
 the gameplay can also feel unbalanced difficulty wise and frustrating. But these are rare occurances. 
 The other problem with the story is the voice acting. Kai is incredibly patronising and even children 
 which is clearly the games target market could be annoyed by it. Don't despair though it's only 
 in cutscenes so doesn't ruin the game. Infact whilst the game is aimed at children it will appeal 
 to all ages and anyone looking for some simple fun.
  
  That's the story covered but what else does the game offer. A multiplayer mode for one thing. Up 
 to four players can hunt for and capture Eledees at once. The set up for it however may be unorthodox 
 but once you get accustomed to it there isn't a problem. The set up is as follows, player 1 uses 
 the wii remote to shoot and the nunchuck to control camera movement whilst the other three players 
 only use the wii remote and can't control camera movement. One obvious advantage of this set up 
 is a much bigger view for every player rather than the usual quarter of a screen. This is especially 
 useful for someone with a smaller TV like me.
  
  At any point in game be it story mode or anywhere else you can take pictures by simply pausing 
 and clicking on take a photo. These can be seen in your photo album or sent to friends via the 
 games Wiiconnect24 feature. Photos aren't the only thing you can send either. Custom levels from 
 edit mode can also be sent. That's right there's an edit mode. Using items, Eledees and locations 
 from completed levels you can create your own levels and as well as sending them to others you 
 can play them at will. It uses a simplistic interface but that's not a problem as there's no point 
 over complicating something if you don't need to.
  
  So there you have it. Eledees is a simple yet enjoyable shooting game that whilst being aimed at 
 kids is accesible by everyone and it may have some obvious drawbacks but none hold it back from 
 being a great wii title and one that anyone looking for that something different should buy now 
 and thank me later.
  
  Score=83% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicykit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Interesting storyline and concept. Overall a fun game to play since you can wreck the place by 
 throwing stuff everywhere. A bit dizzy to look at the screen in the beginning but once you are 
 used to the navigation, it's quite fun. There are 30 missions all together and most of them are 
 quite easy. But some missions are a bit hard since the elebits are so small... need good eye to 
 catch them all. I rented the game first but then I can't finish it since I can't play 24/5, in 
 the end I waited for a sale and I got it at 14.99.. woohoo. Recommend to buy when on sale. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidominance
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  So elebits, or eledees in Europe is a game from Konami. The best way to describe is probably by 
 calling it a "Cute First person gravity gun shooter". I am going to split this in depth review 
 in the following categories; Story, Visuals & Presentation, Gameplay, Audio, Value & Lasting appeal 
 and a final verdict.
  
  1. The story starts with a kid named Kai who was about to go to sleep and his father reads him 
 a story about these mysterious creatures called Elebits (aka; Eledees) which are the source of 
 energy, somehow, he ends up having a beam gun and its his mission to collect all these little cute 
 creatures who are spread all over the place using the gun, the story isn't especially engaging, 
 its kinda there. In order to the move the story along, the game uses some stop animation clips, 
 the drawings are just beautiful, and it'll make you want to watch more, unfortunately, there is 
 only a handful of these clips, and they are accompanied by some mediocre voice acting that somewhat 
 spoils the experience. Since this isn't an RPG, the story doesn't do much harm as you would think, 
 and you will care less and less as you proceed, at least at the very end there is a nice twist, 
 make sure you re-watch the intro clip again after finishing the game to understand the whole point, 
 you can do so in the Extra mode, there is a really cool CG animation clip as well, and I wish if 
 konami did more of these. Story-wise (6/10) . 
  
  2. Visuals & Presentation: The game looked generally good and very fitting to the Wii, the graphics 
 looked solid for a Wii launch title. As for the style, well, as mentioned it's cute, and I think 
 Konami managed to successfully deliver that cuteness without abusing it. The frame rate is mostly 
 solid considering the amount of chaos that occurs at any given time. However, things can go a bit 
 rough from time to time, but thankfully its not the frequent to the point that will make the game 
 unplayable. The presentation is solid, the user interface is nicely designed, it is user friendly 
 to a great deal. As far as visuals go, I believe elebits doesn't disappoint. (8/10)
  
  3. Gameplay: This is where its all about, if you are the type of person who loves in-game physics 
 and tossing things around like a maniac (just like me) , then you will love this game. The physics 
 is very robust, and ties well into the game theme, you will be trying to find these little pesky 
 elebits all over the place, and in order to do so, you'll need to move objects around, and collect 
 a certain amount of them before time runs out, there are also a lot of cool power ups, my favorite 
 has to be to the vacuum machine power up where you suck almost everything in sight, while your 
 elebits meter fills up in no time. you will use the nunchuk for movement, and aim with wii remote, 
 just like any standard Wii shooter. The controls are solid for the most part, however, you might 
 need a steady hand, and a bit of knowledge in first person shooters, otherwise, the learning curve 
 will rise sharply, almost to the point of frustration. There are also some quirky moments where 
 the physics will be a bit weird, and in some rare occasions where the controls won't be as responsive. 
 But because I know my FPS, I found this game very enjoyable. You also need to make sure that you 
 are standing in a very suitable angle and your gaming place doesn't have any weird lighting setups 
 because this game is entirely based on the pointer functionality, so if you're setup is not well 
 prepared, this game might well be useless, consider fine tuning the wii's sensor bar settings in 
 the Wii menu. 
  
  4. Audio: While the audio is not that sophisticated, I certainly enjoyed it, and it fits well into 
 the tempo of the game. It is also worthy to note that almost if not all missions have their own 
 sound track, which certainly makes things feel fresh, you can also choose which track to play before 
 playing the stage, which is a neat feature especially if you are tired of a certain track after 
 repeating the same level again and again. The sound effects are probably even better than the sound 
 tracks, I especially liked the sound effect that involves silencing the background music when getting 
 a certain power up. All in all, it delivers in audio as much as it delivers in video. (8.5/10)
 
  
  5. Value & Lasting Appeal: This is where the game falls short, I've spent 17 hours playing the 
 game, but only because I got stuck in 28th or so mission, which happens to be the toughest of all 
 - I recommend to check the FAQs to finish it- , otherwise, if you are a skilled first person shooter 
 player, you can finish all 30 missions or so in just over 5 hours, provided you don't repeat missions 
 a lot, this is also because the game only gets challenging for experienced gamers at the very last 
 missions only. However, there is still more to it, you have a well rounded edit mode, where you 
 can make your own stages and play them and send them to friends (I still didn't figure out how 
 you can send levels) , and the more objects you discover the more objects will be available to use 
 in the edit mode, and there is also loads of unlockables. Also, the ability to take screenshots 
 when playing in levels is neat feature, especially when you want to capture crazy moments. The 
 game also includes a multiplayer mode up to 4 players simultaneously, which is quite unique, from 
 what I tried, one player will control the camera and movements, whereas the rest of player have 
 to focus on collecting the elebits, the objective of all 4 to collect as many elebits in the given 
 time. It can get a bit unbalanced, but I think it can provide some good multiplayer action. I believe 
 only one player will need the nunchuk , which is cool for gamers who only own one nunchuk but more 
 than wii remote. In terms of replay value, the game has a lot of things to collect and whatnot, 
 and certain levels have doors to unlock, so there is certainly room for replaying the missions, 
 so it does have a somewhat decent replay value to its short main story mode. All in all, (7/10) .
 
  
  (Final Verdict) : 
  
  The game can be frustrating for those who never played a first person shooter before, but it comes 
 with a tutorial mode which should help reduce the learning curve. Otherwise, this is certainly 
 a game worthy of your attention as a Wii owner, as you probably have heard, the Wii is all about 
 innovation, and this game certainly delivers upon that theme, especially since there weren't that 
 many Wii games that successfully delivered in the Wii launch lineup . It might be short, but most 
 likely you'll enjoy it while it lasts, at the very least, give it a rent, especially if you're 
 a loner just like me, a rental will be more than enough to beat this game in two sittings or three. 
 By the time you read this, there will be many good Wii games out such as Super Mario Galaxy, so 
 this game in no way will take the priority of the other better titles, but if you are done playing 
 them, and are looking for some Wii games you might've missed, Elebits is certianly for you.
  
  (For those gamers who agree, please rate this review, thanks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jpleblancfinal
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The way the controls are implemented are good for a first attempt. Some of the controls sound good, 
 but do not integrate that well. story is a little boring and the script is some thing you would 
 find in brany or power rangers. Now the good parts are the mulity player which lets one to four 
 people control movent. And another plus is the creat-a-level mode which is a little limeted but 
 is nice. But in the end this is a good first attempt and a crative implemented of the pointer in 
 a game. And this is deffenintly made for kids if some of the missons seem a little harder then 
 they should be.
  
  So if you are looking for a game that has substanc your probubly not going to find it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can you say about a game where the object is to make a complete mess while looking for 
 cute little dudes you get to zap?
  
  Different, would be one way to describe it. In all my years of gaming I've never played a game 
 like it nor would I ever have fathomed it. A simple idea backed by fun gameplay and a cute story 
 is sure to be a winner; if not with us old timers, then with our kids.
  
  You start the game off needing power. Power for lights, coffee makers, dvd players and so on. The 
 one way to get this power is by capturing these little Elebits who hide all over the place. You 
 may have an objective like capture 1200W of Elebits before the time expires . Basically the only 
 way to find them is by tossing household items around as you try and get them to stop hiding. You 
 will start off being able to move hardly anything in your search for power, but as you progress, 
 your capture gun grows in power and is able to lift larger objects. Whether you are tossing a wardrobe 
 or a toothbrush around there is one thing for sure, they could be anywhere!
  
  Different gameplay elements are added as the levels get more difficult. For example your objective 
 might be something more like capture 2500W or Elebits while not exceeding 80db, and only breaking 
 a maximum of 5 items . Of course it is worded more appropriately but you get my drift...
  
  Elebits is definitely geared toward a younger audience, with very childish voice acting, cutsie 
 graphics, and frag free environment. But even still I must admit, it is fun in small doses.
  
  The music was very annoying, you'll probably find yourself opting for yor own tunes after a 
 short while...
  
  The graphics are ok for what the game is. Nothing impressive here, though not anything overly ugly 
 either.
  
  The controls work well as you use the nunchuck to move yourself around in 1st person view. You'll 
 then use the A or B button to zap any Elebits you see, or hold A or B to pick up an object and 
 toss it across the room.
  
  The gameplay was pretty good save for a few minor annoyances.. nothing that the 5 year old age bracket 
 that should be playing this game would pick up on anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is a HUGE disapointment. When i bought it i thought it was going to be a great game according 
 to game spots review. When i played it it was really boring. There was nothing to do but to shoot 
 fat characters also known as Elebits. The story line is also really lame it's about a boy who is 
 home alone and the power goes out all around town and your job is to restore the power to the city. 
 A plus side is that the controls are easy to learn, so this is a game for people who want to pick 
 up and play. The boss battles are some what chalenging but rather easy to beat. A GINORMOUS downside 
 every level you are on a time limit which limits the exploration per level. There are also an abundance 
 of ways to interact with household items. This game is also short so instead of buying it right 
 away, you should instead rent it first and if you enjoy the game then you should buy it therefore 
 if you dont like it you will save your money. In conclusion this game is not worth while to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Review: Elebits (Wii)
  
  I took one look at the cover art of Elebits and I was instantly reminded of Pikmin. Will this game 
 even hold a candle to that great series or will it prove to be a short and disappointing game with 
 cute little critters?
  
  Story:
  You are a young boy of about 10 years and younger stuck indoors during an electrical storm, when 
 the power goes out. Your parents run off to restore power to the city, and you are left at home 
 for your own safety. Having nothing better to do you blame your problems on the Elebits a small 
 electrical life form that your parents study and you bear a grudge against for that reason, so 
 you blame them for the power outage. Take out your father's zapper to hunt down all of the Elebits 
 you can find and take you your frustrations.
  
  Graphics:
  This game looks good, but the game's look reminds me of Chibi Robo with all of its details and 
 similar art style (in game graphics wise) , though in a different Point of View (first person and 
 you are taller) . Which considering the level of detail in each stage since you are essentially 
 ransacking rooms is actually quite impressive mind you that all of the items in the room, this 
 title probably wont be a graphical powerhouse for the Wii, but the graphics are good enough to 
 keep you interested and in the game.
  
  Music &amp; Sound:
  The music and sound effects from the game are good and enjoyable while playing an interregnal part 
 in finding those Elebits so you can catch them in your zapper. Each item has their own sounds, 
 though when you break something you get the same breaking sound, which can be annoying early in 
 the game as you don't have to worry about breaking anything while searching for Elebits. If there 
 is a gripe here it is that the Voice acting is absolutely bad... like skip the cut scenes bad.
 
  
  Control &amp; Game play:
  What surprised me was how well Elebits controlled, mind you that after playing Metroid Prime 3 
 Corruption (currently playing) , you quickly notice how much tighter the controls for Elebits could 
 have been, but considering that this was a launch title and this was the tightest controlling game 
 that I had played since Zelda that should tell you how tight the controls are for this game. About 
 the only concerns about this game is that there are only a few levels, and after a while the game 
 play does get a little boring, but when this game is effective is when you are just playing it 
 for a short period of time. Or a quick fix in-between what ever else you are playing.
  
  Design &amp; Fun Factor:
  While everything else was a well done package including the control 
 scheme, what really sets this game off is the competitive multiplayer, which is a blast, to see 
 who can ransack the house better, you know without potentially getting arrested. There are things 
 to unlock and goals to reach, which will keep you playing each stage to see if you can complete 
 the goals better, which you won't mind since it is that much fun to do.
  
  This is a game that most everyone should enjoy, but the childish art style may turn some off, rent 
 this first to see if you like, but for those looking for a different type of gaming experience 
 will find them selves right at home with Elebits.
  
  Graphics
  8/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  Fun factor
  8/10
  
  Tilt
  8/10
  
  Average score
 
  7.8
  
  Elebts:
  
  Pros:
  Great control
  Fun game play
  Fun multiplayer
  Interesting unlocks
  
  Cons:
  Gets old after a while
  Graphics are good but could be better
 
  Voice Acting could have been a lot better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningbugx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  The game has a simple story of a kid hunting down Elebits, tiny creatures responsible for electricity. 
 The kid hunts them down after a lightning bolt strikes the nearby amusement park. The lightning 
 bolt caused the elebits to quit powering electronics and become mischievous.
  
  The game play is great as you start from a single room and work your way up to larger rooms picking 
 up, shaking, and breaking items to find the elebits. For some objects, you are activating them. 
 The controls work great. The graphics are fine for 1st generation Wii game.
  
  But I end at the part of 1st gen Wii game. The game does slow down when many objects are moving. 
 I imagine the reason for the slowdown is that it is a 1st gen Wii game. Thus a second Elebits game 
 made in 2nd generation Wii game quality should be able to handle the processing better and allow 
 the objects to have more activity instead of showing the clothes being stiff as a board.
  
  But I give this game an 8.5 because it is, most important, fun. The controls work mostly good, 
 just have to remember to twist the wiimote left a little before turning an object right. The controls 
 may have problems rotating objects to fit in certain puzzles. The game provides a challenge in 
 puzzles as well as combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  OK... were do i start on Elebits... ive had the game for about two months now and i still havent 
 beaten it... The game is fun, but getts very boring after about 40 min of Gameing.... But i can say 
 once i start a level i have to finish it... Its pretty Addictive.... The story mode is Horrible... Buy 
 the game and see for yourself.... The gameplay is pretty fun with the ability to use a gravity gun 
 to lift different things... The multyplayer is Pretty fun .. but the Screen stays whole.. and both 
 Lasers Shoot Randommly around..... Elebits is ok but to me its a Waste of Money... Rent it First... Even 
 if you were looking forword to this game i still say rent it first.... RayMan Ravvin Rabbids is 
 a Better Game.... Its True... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koldewyse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is a whimsical, casual gamer's release for the Wii. Not being a hardcore release like Twilight 
 Princess, and not a completely untraditional game like WarioWare, Elebits lies somewhere in the 
 middle range, appealing to mostly everybody. Although it's not a game that you can play for hours 
 on end, it's a fun little game that you'll keep coming back to.
  
  The storyline follows a kid who steals his parents' zap gun and captures Elebits to restore the 
 power after a storm has passed. Since there's no real movie sequences to illustrate the story, 
 the game developers have beautifully drawn storybook art that corresponds to the narration. Surprisingly, 
 this is no real hindrance to the game and fits well into the whole semi-childish style of Elebits. 
 However, the real trouble comes with the narration itself. Remember Baten Kaitos, released on the 
 'Cube a few years back? Now, imagine that, times fifty. The voice acting is painfully horrible, 
 something that reminds you of story-time for kids at the local library. It's surprising that it 
 made it to the world market with such crappy voice acting. However, this doesn't really affect 
 gameplay, since the voice acting only comes far in between the gameplay and is somewhat balanced 
 by the great game art.
  
  The graphics are above average. Nothing is going to blow you away, but there's no spots in the 
 game where you really wish that the visuals were scrapped. The graphics during gameplay are quite 
 nice and have their own style, their own pseudo-realism. Something about them echoes Katamari -- the 
 vibrant colors, the cubish tendencies in everyday objects. And, as mentioned before, the story 
 art during narrative scenes are simply superb.
  
  The soundtrack is quite mediocre. Each stage has its own theme, but they're forgettable, upbeat 
 ditties that suit the overall mood well, but are not aural masterpieces. Nothing will stick out, 
 which may be a good or bad thing, but I tend to believe it's the latter.
  
  Even though this game's other departments may be lacking, the gameplay is what makes it good. You, 
 the player, control a zap gun using the Wiimote, and with this gun, you zap Elebits. Elebits hide 
 in all kinds of nooks and crannies, and it's your job to push away furniture, hardware, and as 
 you grow stronger, houses, trees, and cars, to find them. This physics engine is what that draws 
 the Katamari references to Elebits. The simple fun of throwing around various objects with your 
 Wiimote keeps you coming back to this game. There are no mistakes in the engine to be spoken of, 
 and the gameplay works flawlessly. This is the game's strong point.
  
  This is a fun game to waste your time if you're a casual gamer, and like games in the style of 
 Katamari. However, the small things are what sets this game a step below such legendary games as 
 Katamari: the poor voice acting, the lack of a definitively edgy style, the lack of a good storyline, 
 and the lack of great background music. Where Katamari seemed to have excelled, this game has settled 
 for mediocrity. However, if you can dismiss these nitpicky little items and focus on the gameplay, 
 this game is a decent one.
  
  I'd suggest you rent this game, or try it out at a friend's house before you buy it. You may find 
 this game really boring if you don't enjoy the style. If you do, though, this is quite a fun game 
 to play.
  
  Pros:
  + Nice concept
  + Good story artwork
  + Nice, casual fun
  + Level-editor that lets you exchange levels with friends
  + Good physics
  
  Cons:
  - Horrible 
 story
  - Painful voice acting
  - Quite easy
  - Multiplayer completely sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  When you think about the Wii, you think about new franchises that can base their new gameplay around 
 the Wii's design. Elebits is one of the first titles to do so. The game is a bit of a mixed bag 
 though, if you were to compare to the Katamari series. While the idea is interesting, it's multiplayer 
 concept is terrible. Way too chaotic, and lacks fun because you have no idea what you are doing. 
 The single player experience is definitely the more interesting aspect of the game. You need to 
 examine your surroundings and pick and choose what to interact with. The game is all about interacting 
 with your environment, so if you want to try out a game where you can do many different things, 
 while adding in a competitive spirit, this game has it. The graphics are also quite nice. While 
 simple, its design is very clean and has a nice glow to it, giving it a vibrant feel. There is 
 another drawback to this game though. The voice acting is horrendous and so is the dialogue. But 
 my major gripe is with the multiplayer. Not fun at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beamstah
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  After reading many player reviews I thought this game was going to be a lot of fun. I suppose a 
 lot of people had fun playing it, but I found it a bit tedious. Not only that but the game has 
 a time limit in which you're required to do many things so the game is played frantically. And 
 after playing a level for 15 minutes theres no real desire to play it again if you failed.
  
  Its not a bad game but not really all that either. Definitely rent first.
  
  An ambitious 
 attempt though in the end not worth full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetroid8
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  GAmeplay: basically you walk around a small area with the Ninchuck fire a laser at things with 
 the Wii mote as you fire you pick that up and throw it hoping that little creatures known as elebits 
 will fall out if they do you shoot the lazer at them capturing them bringing up your score witch 
 you get to a certain point before time runs out while trying not to make to much noise break to 
 many things or something like that. It is surprisingly fun turn a neat little room into a gigantuan 
 mess with your uh capture beam .
  
  Graphics: Not the best but not really bad its the Wii.
  
  Sound: Voice Overs are amazingly terrible 
 and may make your ears bleed but everything else is great from the crys of the Elebits to plates 
 crashing on the floor. Music immerses you into the game.
  
  Value: Replay value comes from trying capture every Elebit and game mode for each level as well 
 creating your own levels and trading them.
  
  Tilt: The game is actually quite original. For what little story there is it is definetly unique 
 as are game ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Wow, I bet no one expected Konami to pull this out of their hat. A very strange game indeed but 
 it is rather good. Eledees are strange creatures who produce electricity and the people have become 
 friend's with them.
  
  you play as a 10 year old boy called Kai, who has grown to hate eledees because his parent's are 
 eledees researchers who spend more time with them than him. one night a freak lightning storm cuts 
 all the power of in the town and Kai blames the eledees, so he gets some kind of cool gravity gun 
 and proceeds to hunt them down.
  
  the gameplay is fantastic as you explore the levels, chucking stuff, capturing eledees and causing 
 mayhem. as you start the level your gun is basic and can only lift certain objects, so you go and 
 find some power eledees to level up your gun and hey presto, you can lift heavier things. the graphics 
 and sound are okay but can be quite bland and uninteresting, especially when you step outside, 
 so these are the game's major weakness really. it has good value with a lot levels and the clever 
 creation system, as well as the multiplayer mode. this is certainly the most innovative game on 
 the Wii and an essential purchase if you like a bit of variety in your games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Like most people, I completely ignored Elebits, I thought it was some kiddie dumb shooting game 
 with no depth, something I wouldn't want to play. But after some recommendations from some friends 
 around here, I decided to rent the game and I am so glad I did. This is an overlooked gem of a 
 game for the Wii, its maybe the best example of what the Wiimote could bring to gaming. The best 
 way I can describe it is that its a Katamari like game where the object is to look for elebits 
 rather than pick things up. The reason I say its like Katamari is cause they both share the same 
 quality of building up something in order to be able to grab or roll over bigger stuff. When you 
 start off in Elebits, your gun can only pick up small objects. As you grab regular elebits you 
 earn more watts, these watts can then power up devices which give you power elebits which charge 
 up your gun, once you charge up your gun you can pick up larger objects to find more elebits to 
 charge more devices that leads to picking up even bigger stuff. So its that Katamari feel, at first 
 you can only pick up a vase or pen but later you will be picking up cars and even larger onjects. 
 Its fun, its addicting, its what you want in a puzzle game. To keep things fresh in the almost 
 30 levles the game constantly throws in new rules to keep things fresh like don't break objects, 
 or having zero gravity. These rules do impact the way you approach a level, for example in stages 
 where you can't make much noise you wont be flinging objects around with reckless abandon. You 
 will be very careful in that level, in the next level you can go crazy, so its that variety that 
 keeps things interesting. Some of the devices you power up act as a mini-puzzle. They start off 
 simple enough like put the toaster in the oven but later you have puzzles that are as large as 
 a theme park ride. You can just skip them but if you want the highest ranks and unlockables you 
 will need to pay close attention to everything in the level. Thats one aspect that surpirsed me, 
 the depth each level has. There are also boss fights, most of them are rather easy but its a nice 
 diversion from the usual missions.
  
  Elebits looks like a kids game but believe me the game is hard if you try to master it. Sure you 
 can run by all the missions just to pass them really quickly but why do that. Trying to get an 
 S rank in each mission, or finding the three hidden pink elebits is very difficult and takes a 
 lot of skill. I have played for about 20 hours in the game and I haven't even come close to unlocking 
 everything. To put things in perspective, each mission has a score attack mode, an eternal mode 
 and a challenge mode to unlock, there are 29 stages, do the math. The challenge stages in particular 
 are excellent, they usually consist of a small objective that is hard to accomplish, its very different 
 from the main game. In eternal mode you can play the level forever until you find all the elebits, 
 I haven't tried to do so but I hear thats an extremely hard challenge. So there is plenty to do, 
 plus there is a level editor to make your stages. But since the Wii has no online network you can 
 only share with your friends which ruins the whole mode. With an online database of all the created 
 levels this game could have had near endless replay value. The wiimote is one of the reasons this 
 game succeeds, its just so easy to grab and manipulate practically anything. Remember how cool 
 it was using the gravity gun in HL2 for the first time. Imagine that same type of mechanic but 
 now with the ability to manipulate the object in a 3D space as easy as you would if it was in your 
 hand. Grab a vase, bring it toward you, turn it upside down and see if elebits come out. Some puzzles 
 require you to put toast in a toaster, or open an oven a put a turkey in. Its not identical to 
 real life but its a type of control I have never experienced before. The potential for that type 
 of percision control in other genres is incredible. Imagine an adventure game where you can pick 
 up and manipulate any object in 3D space just by moving your hand. The game is not perfect, there 
 are slow down problems when you go to outdoor environments. Also I feel like toward the end of 
 the game they just throw you in large cluttered maps and you start to miss the precision gameplay 
 you had in the earlier levels, it does get better in the last few levels though. I'm not saying 
 this game is better than Katamari, I think that game is easier to get into and a bit more addictive 
 which is what a puzzle game should be striving for, but its like it, I think the same people that 
 enjoyed one will find enjoyment on the other. I guess the price could be an issue, I personally 
 wouldn't pay $50 for a puzzle game, I think the $20 for Katamari was perfect, but thats up to you 
 and what you expect from a game, I suppose there are many people that would say Elebits is completely 
 worth it.
  
  All I know is that I had a blast with the game. I plan to buy it when its cheaper later on, something 
 I almost never do when I rent a game. Its a shame so few people even noticed this game. It appeals 
 to gamers like you or me, it can appeal to those that just like a game like Wii sports, it should 
 be a decent hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdrofl
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  I can't help but think of Katamari a bit, a world in which you can interact with almost all surroundings 
 if you get powerful enough. Katamari-like graphics and the gameplay is good clean fun. The simple 
 gameplay and the way it eases you into the interface is like walking on a cloud of awesome while 
 drinking a nice warm cup of rainbow. They do change the missions up a bit and add some challenges 
 which increases the replay value. Honestly, I have been giving some bad reviews lately to some 
 games that should have been much better, but their interfaces were broken. I'm happy to say that 
 this is the first game in almost a year (other than Super Mario World for VC and Zelda) that hasn't 
 pissed me off, and that's actually saying a lot. I'm easy to piss off by way of my video games 
 apparently.
  
  This is a can't miss for any Wii gamer. My only complaint is it's too much for the little Wii. 
 It's probably too much to ask for Sony to make a pointer interface and have Konami release it on 
 the PS3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 14, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Upon trying Elebits, I was impressed with the quirkiness of the game. I really enjoyed being able 
 to move everything in a room around and go hunting for Elebits. The controls are pretty responsive 
 overall and don't have many flaws except for a few. The first being that trying to rotate any object 
 you have picked up, or turning a door knob to push a door open are very awkward motions. They actually 
 place a good deal of strain on your wrist and just don't feel right. The other part of the gameplay 
 that was rather difficult was trying to insert items into other items. For example, putting food 
 into an oven. Trying to do tasks like this were near impossible whether it was trying to find the 
 correct item to put into the object, or just trying to insert it properly. These actions proved 
 difficult to do.
  
  The only other grief I have with the game was the voice acting. Like the new Sonic, the voice acting 
 in this game is targeted for children under 7 years old. It is absolutely terrible to listen to. 
 The rest of the sound in the game is just fine however.
  
  Overall, Elebits has many elements that make it a fun game. It just doesn't reamin fun for long 
 enough. It's well-worth a rental and I would definitely check it out one weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminggeek
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Well it didn't take long for this gem to be overlooked. I think it was overlooked before it even 
 released. Perhaps the concept was too out there, maybe the presentation tricked people into dismissing 
 the game as a shallow, pointless made-for-kids effort, maybe the reviews were too harsh? All I 
 know is that the game that won the TGS 2006 special award is very special in its' own minor way, 
 perhaps in the way Trauma center is. But I see a reluctance from Wii owners to go near the electrically 
 charged little beasts. It took 7 months for the Ele (dees) to reach Europe. I assume that it took 
 so long because they had to row over and use their tiny little arms to man the oars.
  
  At first I thought the game had excellent mechanics, but was a little shallow. My opinion changed 
 over time. The best way to think about Elebits is as an arcade game. It really feels like you've 
 fed a few coins into a machine, the time limits kicks in and you're using this amazing peripheral 
 in your hand to get the most out of your money before the timer runs out. It's been an exciting 
 time to play a game like this that actually uses the controller as much as something like Wii Sports 
 does. It really has a very rewarding, eye opening revolutionary control mechanic. It feels like 
 direct interaction with the gameworld. Previously looking at footage I thought it could be approximated 
 on PC, but after playing it, no. This could not be done on PC. It really uses the Wii controller 
 as a 3-D mouse to give you really fine control over your enviroment and is completely beyond a 
 dual stick controller. Once you've plucked through a couple of missions you find yourself doing 
 really crazy things, zipping through levels, using complex interactions within the game world. 
 It actually uses the wii controller to sense depth so you will find yourself pulling and pushing 
 items in and out of the screen, rotating objects and this isn't some random gesture control, it's 
 fine tuned and accurate and very satisfying. You can actually fling items into the air and then 
 catch them mid air in a delicious juggling act. I found myself lifting up a microwave, stacking 
 it on boxes, flipping open the door, grabbing a pizza, feeding it into the box then turning it 
 on, all the while zapping elebits at the same time. To put its control in some perspective, you 
 can actually feed a CD into the slot of a disc shredder, in a 3-D space with no camera assistance, 
 plane switching or automatic button pressing. Once you get further into the game it becomes a lot 
 more complex, items have to be used in order or activated through different ways like a puzzle, 
 elebits become harder to find, your gun has to be powered up to lift heavier objects, you wrap 
 your head around the power-ups which are really neat, either luring, shocking or deafening the 
 little beasts, you have limitations like not causing noise (careful with those pot lids) and not 
 breaking things (watch out for the vases) And of course rooting through the environment causing 
 chaos never gets tired.
  
  Almost everything in the environment can be manipulated with a fine degree of control, talk about 
 design depth. The only problem is that it uses the pointer, which means that you can't physically 
 turn your wrist with the full range of desired motion, as the pointer must remain trained at the 
 screen. It's a minor annoyance and probably wont bother you more than a couple of times. There 
 is a level editor mode where you can act like a 3-D game designer with the wii remote and it really 
 gives you time to manipulate the objects in a 3-D space which is just trippy with the controller. 
 You can place objects in mid-air in suspended animation and then build things, like spell out your 
 name in blocks. And there is this visible line that goes from the end of your controller to the 
 point in the TV which shows how the game is translating your every little movement into action. 
 These levels you create can be sent to friends to mess about with. It adds longevity to the title. 
 What's startling about Elebits is how it's game design in one fell swoop shows what a controller 
 can offer to gameplay as opposed to the traditional view of what other hardware related performance 
 upgrades can offer. Both approaches have benefits the other doesn't IMO. The makers of Psi-ops 
 playing this game would have a field day with the mechanics, it makes the gravity gun in Half Life 
 2 look like a blunt instrument. But I would have really liked the game tooled around a first person 
 detective game or a crime scene investigator game. Some reviews took issue with the cutscenes, 
 which are not FMV or real time but largely 2-D artwork, slightly animated to give them life. Apart 
 from the subtitles and slightly hokey voice acting, I find the presentation and illustrations bewilderingly 
 beautiful. The st-yle reminds me very much of Odins Sphere. Take a look at an example here
  
  A lot of hooplah has been made about the graphics, but whilst simple they are also very stylistic 
 and aestetically beautiful, with some really nice, soft lighting and bright colours. Unfortunately 
 the outdoor areas look nowhere near as nice and suffer from frequent slowdown, not even because 
 of the complex physics going on. Even when everything is stationary, in some outdoor sections slowdown 
 is apparent. The physics of larger objects isn't as satisfying as the smaller ones either, being 
 a little floaty. Otherwise, those who believe that the Wii can't do physics would do well to play 
 this game. Because of the control method you can constantly shift the environment, watching the 
 constant recalculation of cause and effect on the fly, with a huge number of objects of different 
 mass and weight all affecting one another. Some of the later levels really mix things up, gravity 
 has gone haywire and you'll find yourself gazing about like you were on a spaceship, watching objects 
 float by, listening to the trippy, hip and really-catchy chill out tunes the game pumps out. Elebits 
 has been like a breath of fresh air to me, a giant injection of pizazz. It's astonishingly new 
 and I continually marvel at the mechanics. The mechanics could and should be applied to a different 
 genre of game for my tastes, with a dark storyline and a more laid back investigation/puzzle feel. 
 And the time limits and basic get elebits objective do limit the game. But my, the potential is 
 certainly there for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uber_Antwerp
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Imagine combining Pikmin and an FPS. That's Elebits for you, and the combination works suprisingly 
 well.
  In the game, you pick up little creatures to fuel your house. As you do so, more areas become accesible. 
 The ability to throw items in the house around was a great deal of fun and should be used more 
 often in video games. The physics of the game also work very well. A toaster thrown across a room 
 falls realistically. I do think it is a little strange, however, that all items appear to be invincible. 
 A knocked over TV doesn't shatter, which would certainly be very entertaining. It would also be 
 nice to have some more advanced sound than simple music and the squeaks of the Elebits. The graphics 
 surely aren't the best in the world, but they are respectable. The added robust level designer 
 also helps in increasing the value, and the new concept brings something fresh to the Wii console.
 
  
  -Uber_Antwerp- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Little creatures will envade your television as you insert the disc into your Wii system. These 
 cute little buggers are elebits, who are stealing electricity from the planet, and it is up to 
 oyu and your ray gun to determine the fate of the world's electricity. From a 3-D FPS standpoint, 
 you walk around with your raygun in one hand, and your analog in the other. You topple over anything 
 in the fully destructable enviorments and find the elebits hiding so you can capture them to store 
 energy. There are many different types of elebits, each with there own attitude that makes the 
 game even more interesting. This is a very fun game worth a try for all ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staffmaster123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I got this game as a easter gift I thought, oh no... this is gonna suck .I felt embarrised 
 having it. As soon as I saw the picture of it on the disc channel I got scared. I started to play 
 it... and realized its actually a decent game.
  The game is bassicly a hide and seek game. You take your trusty Capture Gun and grab and throw, push, drop 
 or open any object in the room in order to find Elebits .I wont spoil the story for you so ill 
 go on with the gameplay.
  
  The game is interactive in everyway. The game is chaotic but fun and joyful. I wouldnt say this game 
 is a thriller! I say its something to play when you got nothing to do.
  There are different types of elibits for different scores. The goal of every level is to find a 
 specific amount of watts .Each Elebit counts as watts .
  Theres alot of misions in this game and even bosses! The best part is after you beat a mission you 
 can edit that level in edit mode. Kinda like a create your own level thing. You can send your level 
 to other peaple or friends too.
  
  Ussauly this game is fun for kids, but adults may find it a challenge as well.
  Fun for kids, frustraiting 
 for adults.
  All around I say this game is fun for peaple with simple pleasures and lots a patience. Not thrill 
 wanters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idnuf636
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are bad. Blocky. Enough said.
  Gameplay: The gameplay can be fun, but the difficulty balance is WAY off. For example: even in 
 the beginning the first level was really easy then the next was drastically harder. So here you 
 are 20 missions in, and 19 was easy and this ones impossible. Also, this is a game that you play 
 on and off because you cant beat a mission by far then you come back later, and you can beat it.
 
  Sound: Joyous, ok, nothing special.
  Value: Let say this, 20 missions took 6 and a half hours.
  Tilt: Fun, original game that in some 
 missions, you have much more freedom and fun to mess around with things like when everything in 
 the town is floating.
  Other: Also the voice acting sucks large balls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Elebits is fun. It has a really bad story, but that's okay. The gameplay has it where it counts 
 and the graphics and sounds are well enough. This is short and sweet for many reasons. If you haven't 
 played the game, and you're looking for a week of entertainment, rent it. It's a game that kids 
 will enjoy, so get it as a gift. The multiplayer is.... conflicting. Any extra features are really 
 just there to fill up empty space. Rent it for the interesting gameplay. The physics aspect is 
 interesting, and going back and exploring more of the level and being able to turn on more things 
 adds a lot to replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimkabrhel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  When I finally got my hands on the Wii, I wanted to a game that really showed what the new Wii 
 controller would do, so I purchased Twilight Princess and Elebits. I knew that Elebits would be 
 a game I could pick up and play more easily because ofthe mission style of the game. Once I started 
 playing, it took me about an hour to become accustomed to the movement of the cursor and moving 
 around the enviroments. The first few missions are relatively easy, to allow you to get used to 
 finding the Elebits and learning the power-ups, but once you get into the more advanced missions 
 where you must stay quiet or not break too many small objects, there is a notable increase in the 
 challenge level, and it's welcome. Now that I've gone through the later missions, the difficulty 
 increase is steep, but it's not too much. I think this will turn out to be an underappreciated 
 title from the gameplay perspective. It's a lot of fun. The graphics are decent, but not outstanding. 
 And while the music is repetitive, some of the tunes are quite catchy, especially if you enjoy 
 dance/ambient/electronica type tunes.
  I haven't spent much time in the customization modes, but not that I've played through the single 
 player mission, I'll definitely go back.
  If you own a Wii, give this game a shot, you'll get hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game has a unique art design that fits it good. The elebits remind me of pokemon alot and 
 the gameplay is fun. This game doesn't have much going for it after you beat the game. Sure there 
 are unlockables, but it really isn't very fun with these extra add-ons. The create your own level 
 thing is spot on, my only problem with it is that is limits your use of items and you can't put 
 Elebits in items and there are no energy elebits. This is definetly aimed at a children's level, 
 but don't think older kids won't have fun, this game is fun for all ages. The Story and the voiceovers 
 are so terrible it makes me want to burn the game. The ending is one of the stupidest ending I 
 have ever seen in a game and the voiceovers make the little boy sound like a girl. Anyway this 
 game is really good if you can get over the bad storyline and voiceovers. Oh and the bosses are 
 REALLY REALLY EASY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Now, i did not know what to think when i first saw this game, but something about it drew me in. 
 and i have to say, Elebits did not let me down.
  
  Elebits is a Quirky FPS, but you dont Blast Zombie's or Alien's, you catch Cute little creatures 
 with a Capture gun. Your gun can lift Objects, like Boxes, Tables, cars and even later on, the 
 Moon, around to uncover these little scamps. as you collect more, you unlock other Areas to Explore. 
 Power Elebits Power up your gun as you catch more, allowing you to move Larger things.
  
  As you move On through the game, you got through your house, then out into the streets and into 
 town, and you end up at a Huge Amusement park with Bright Lights.
  
  You can team up with up to 3 more players, however you all play on the same screen and only Player 
 1 can move.
  
  Elebits is one of the first games to Support WiiConnect 24/7. You can make new levels using the 
 editor and send them to people on your friends list.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Really fun, at time you have to be extra careful, at others you can just whip thing around like 
 a mad man!
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Not bad, but it look like a Gamecube game.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  The VO is Horrid, Music is overly Cute, the sound effects could be better.
  
 
  Value: 8/10
  its a Good Price for a good game
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Total: 8.8
  
  Rent or Buy?
  Buy, dont let this slip through! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  The story in this game never grabs you, or makes much sense. The graphics and sound won't inspire 
 either, but the art is cute. The reason to get this game is the Katamari-like game-play, although 
 it's clumsy. Unfortunately, the 'hoops' might not be worth jumping through to enjoy this game. 
 Multi-player is fun, but is like frantic chaos, rather than good competition.
  
  I wanted to like this game, but I just couldn't keep playing it. The game grows in complexity, 
 and you have to beat each stage in a certain time limit. There's strategy to getting the most energy 
 possible in the time limit, but if you get stuck, it can be hard to keep trying. Unlocking more 
 modes for each level should be easier, especially the unlimited time mode.
  
  If you dislike time limits, you might not like this game. You can't have much fun moving objects 
 around when you have to find more Elebits. You can move bigger objects when you get more power, 
 but by the time you gain that power, you'll have little time left to use it. Unlike Katamari, you 
 don't get the same feeling of accomplishment from increasing your energy.
  
  This game could have been so much more, and maybe some will find value in this game, but I can't 
 avoid the reality of it's limitations. From the lazy tutorial to the linear storyline, it just 
 wasn't enough fun to play. I am looking forward to a sequel to Elebits, however. But this game 
 is just mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porphyrous
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 20, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Of all the Wii release titles, little attention has been given to Elebits, Konami's hybrid game 
 that meshes the run-and-gun action of a 1st person shooter with the exploration of a 3D platformer. 
 It's a shame, because Elebits is better than many of the games getting all the kudos to date. Only 
 some frame rate issues keep it from being among the top echelon of launch titles.
  
  The premise of Elebits is a tad odd. In the Elebits universe, power of all sorts -- whether it's 
 cars, TVs, or toilets -- is provided by Elebits, little sprites that came to Earth with a lightning 
 bolt and who are in a happy long-term relationship with humanity. (I seriously get the impression 
 that the game's creator was inspired by the imps in Terry Pratchett's DiscWorld novel series.) 
 The protagonist is Kai, a 10 year old boy whose parents are famous Elebits researchers. Kai is 
 a bit put out over his parents' obsession with the little electro-gremlins, and questions their 
 devotion to him. When another big lightning bolt darkens the town, we discover that the Elebits 
 have gone rogue and so nothing works. Kai's parents run off to the lab to find out what caused 
 this to occur, leaving Kai to fend for himself. His hatred of Elebits is exacerbated when he discovers 
 he can't watch his favorite TV show with no power. Kai takes matters into his own hands, gets his 
 dad's capture gun (sort of like the ecto-guns in the movie Ghostbusters) , and starts hunting the 
 feral Elebits scattered around the house.
  
  The game itself is organized into stages. Each concentrates on a different part of the house, and 
 in Story Mode each room has goals for your Elebit-bagging mission. Usually you must collect so 
 many watts of Elebits in a specified time, but that's only half the game, as we'll see. Everything 
 in the game is accomplished with the capture gun -- even non-Elebits related tasks like moving 
 items and opening doors. Suspend your disbelief for a moment (since it seems easier to turn a doorknob 
 with, say, your hand) for the sake of the game because this really does simplify matters. With 
 the capture gun you have one mechanism for manipulating your world, since even on a Wii there are 
 limits to how many things you can make your body do at once (e. g. Madden NFL '07) .
  
  When you're negotiating a stage, you'll encounter two basic types of Elebits, what I call wattage 
 Elebits, and what the game calls power Elebits. Wattage Elebits contribute directly to your goal 
 in the stage. These are usually found on, in or behind things in the rooms. When you first enter 
 a room, most of them are asleep. As the action ratchets up, they get more animated. The other type, 
 power Elebits, relate to how strong the capture gun is for moving objects around. On power stage 
 1, you can move light objects like pencils, pillows, and small toys. Power Elebits are found within 
 electrical appliances in the game. Each gadget has a set wattage activation level. So if an electric 
 drill is set to 300W, then you must collect that much in wattage Elebits in order to activate it. 
 Once the threshold is reached, you turn the device on by targeting its on switch with the capture 
 gun and pressing the A button -- and the device will just barf out power Elebits all at once. Mop 
 'em up, and after a couple of devices cleared in this fashion, you'll get up to power stage 2, 
 which might let you move potted plants and cans of paint. By the time you get up to power stages 
 4 and 5, you're literally throwing large furniture around the room.
  
  If it sounds like the stages would get a bit messy, you're right. Usually by the time you clear 
 a stage, the room looks like a tornado hit it (or, conversely, my son's bedroom in its natural 
 state) . This can pose a problem in later stages, since some of them must be cleared without breaking 
 too many things or making too much noise. If you've ever thought trashing a hotel room would be 
 loads of fun, then this aspect of Elebits is going to be your own guilty pleasure.
  
  Since only wattage Elebits advance you to your goal of clearing a stage, you have to hunt them 
 down pretty thoroughly in some cases to get enough. Power Elebits don't help you directly, though 
 they do increase the strength of the capture gun, and so they help you reach your wattage goals 
 by allowing you to hunt down wattage Elebits behind increasingly heavy items.
  
  This game uses both the Remote and the Nunchuk controllers. The Remote is your capture gun. You 
 aim it at the screen and shoot with either the A or B buttons, whichever you prefer. To capture 
 an Elebit, simply zap it. To move an item, zap it and drag it by moving the Remote. If you understand 
 click-dragging a mouse in Windows to select items, then this action comes naturally. To release 
 an item, let off the button. When you do this, the item will have whatever momentum you imparted 
 to it when you grabbed and pulled, so depending on how you move the Remote, you can move the item 
 anywhere from a few inches to across the room. Items that look breakable -- like cups, vases, and 
 knick-knacks -- usually are, but don't worry about glass shards. Broken items clean up themselves 
 after a few seconds.
  
  The game interface tells you whether or not you can move an item by outlining it in blue when you 
 hit it with the capture gun if it's light enough to move, or outlining it in red if it's too heavy. 
 The game's display will also indicate the item's weight, and each time the capture gun is upgraded 
 it tells you the maximum weight it can move. This lets you do a quick triage of a room to see where 
 you should concentrate first. Once you activate some appliances and suck up power Elebits, get 
 ready to move books, tables, and desks with the flick of a wrist, because wattage Elebits are hidden 
 everywhere. Getting them all in the allotted time is quite a challenge, though not necessary to 
 clear a stage.
  
  Doors and knobs on faucets pose one of the few interface difficulties I encountered. To open a 
 door, you have to target the knob with the capture gun, and then rotate the Remote to unlatch it. 
 It takes a bit of practice to do reliably, but it's necessary, because several stages require you 
 to navigate multiple rooms or turn on water spigots and similar things. I doubt it could have been 
 done any better than they did here, but it still takes some getting used to.
  
  Looking around the room is accomplished by aiming the capture gun where you want to look. When 
 you reach the edge of the screen, your perspective rotates around your location in the room. Think 
 of being surrounded by a sphere and that's where your lines of sight reside.
  
  Meanwhile, the Nunchuk controller is your movement around the stage. The thumbstick moves you two-dimensionally 
 around the room and through doors. The Z and C buttons let you crouch down or tiptoe up, respectively. 
 You need this ability because Elebits like to sleep under desks and on top of tall items.
  
  Your quest is assisted by several Elebit-specific devices scattered around each stage. There 
 is an Elebit cookie , which is like catnip to the Elebits, and an Elebit stun ball that knocks 
 any Elebits within range out cold so they can be swept up without having to chase them down. They 
 don't work for long, and honestly aren't necessary to clear early stages. To activate one, you 
 zap-grab it and then shake it vigorously. Be careful though, because like most other items in the 
 game's world, it has weight and momentum and will likely fly across the room when you let go of 
 it.
  
  Overall, the gameplay is fluid and fun, and the learning curve isn't too bad. Soon you'll be doing 
 the peek-around-the-corner manoeuvre with your gun sight leading the way and charging down the 
 hall, blasting Elebits as you go. Your level of freedom even allows you to climb into closets and 
 look behind things, though sometimes getting back out takes some jockeying (just as it would in 
 real life) . It all feels pretty natural and intuitive after just a couple short sessions with the 
 game.
  
  The graphics are above the average I've seen in Wii games to date. The intro movie is mostly done 
 with still illustrations -- which are in a style that strikes me as a cross between anime and Precious 
 Moments -- but fall a tad short of what I've come to expect from intro movies these days. It sets 
 up the basic premise of the game, though the voice acting is quite dreadful. Kai sounds like a 
 woman trying to sound like a little boy, saying things and phrasing them in ways no 10 year old 
 ever would. The father sounds totally unnatural, like someone doing a voiceover for a Discovery 
 Channel special.
  
  Once within the game, the menus are pretty and intuitive to navigate. The rooms are richly rendered 
 and quite detailed. Scrolling is perfectly smooth and I haven't seen any rough edges anywhere. 
 Simply put, it's a great looking game. The Elebits themselves come in many different shapes and 
 colors, each having their own personality and states of emotion, and your score is sometimes based 
 on how they're feeling when you zap them. Some people might find them too cutesy . . . well, what 
 do you expect from pixie electron imps? Just zap them before you get close enough to see any detail. 
 The main gameplay glitches I've seen (well, not me playing, but watching my wife, who is way ahead 
 of me in mastering the game) involve some frame rate issues in the higher levels. When a lot of 
 Elebits are moving at once, you can notice the game slow down, sometimes significantly. It happens 
 frequently enough to earn a loss of a point on the graphics score. And she also reports some loss 
 of control of the analog joystick on the higher levels, which require a game reset to clear up. 
 This happens only rarely and is always correctable, though annoying to have to stop and reset the 
 game and go back where you were.
  
  The sound fits the game, nothing more and nothing less. The capture gun emits a typically zappy 
 sound, items bump and crash as you throw them around, breakables shatter and tinkle when you flip 
 them around the room, and the Elebits mewl like kittens. The sound track is a nice electronic jazz 
 collection which makes the game feel a bit more upscale than it would otherwise.
  
  Once you've cleared stages, there are quite a few activities that will extend the life of the game. 
 You can perform stage challenges, where you see how fast you can clear stages, or how much wattage 
 you can rack up. But it will take awhile to get through all the original stages anyway. Provided 
 any game is worth $50 these days, the gameplay in Elebits at least feels like its earning its retail 
 price.
  
  The bottom line on Elebits is that it's a solid, good-looking, and fun game that will appeal to 
 a wide age range, as long as the cuteness of the characters and the Elebits themselves don't put 
 you off. Fanboys might not want to be caught dead admitting to liking a game like Elebits, but 
 even they might play it on the sly, when no one is looking. It's one of the most underrated launch 
 titles and well worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is based off of a pretty cool story, the voices may seem kind of annoying as the cut-scenes 
 are told in the form of a kids show I suppose... but beneath the flaws that everyone seems to pick 
 out and flaunt everywhere, its a really neat game! Totally original, graphics are that of a high 
 class gamecube game, enviroments are slightly familier to your own house probably lol, and yet 
 original!
  
  The concept of this game is that Elebits have gone wacky one night and your parents are lead scientists 
 in the study of Elebits. Elebits power everything even your TV (which when TV goes out, thats when 
 you have had enough and start your wacky adventure!) and then of course your parents have gadgets 
 for catching Elebits and what not, so your dad has some random gun in the house which you have 
 access to. You then have to capture the Elebits by shooting them to start powering up stuff. Simple, 
 original and fun concept!
  
  The graphics are gamecube graphics most deffinitly (we don't need no bloody photo realistic graphics 
 for every game) but they look nice, a little blocky, but nice. The effects and Elebit animation 
 is simple and quante. However the excellent artwork cut-scenes are so cool, very stylistic and 
 colourful. Very warm colours too, I thouroughly enjoyed the cut-scene graphics even they the story 
 is played out in the form of a child show.
  
  The gameplay, which is a big topic for Wii games, is great. As you may know the big thing is chucking 
 furniture around the place and breaking stuff. However there are restrictions placed, not everything 
 that you want to break, breaks, you can't through the TV through the window... the destruction 
 is good, but you will find yourself restricted whilst throwing crap everywhere, as your having 
 fun its almost like you just abrubtly run smack into a concrete wall and the fun stops. Theres 
 enough though to keep you happy, I say all that bad stuff in respect for hope of a sequal which 
 could have more destruction options.
  
  The sound, music is great, a cool feature is that you get a new song every new level! However, 
 this is where the kiddyness comes in, the voices during the cut-scenes are childish, its a women 
 playing the main boy's voice, but she talks like hes 3 even though he should be roughly 9-12. The 
 voices make it childish, just get passed the cut scene voices....
  
  Overall: I like this game, I like the arcade gameplay, level editor, new songs every level, fun 
 to throw a plasma TV across the room. I like the bonuses you get and the powerups and the gameplay 
 gets fast paced. Its an excellent game for the Wii right now, worth buying, but for the casual 
 gamer rent it first to see if its features make it worth a buy for yourself. But if you got some 
 cash &amp; a Wii, need a game then get Elebits. Right now its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murlow12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is a charming blend of action/adventure, first person shooter, and puzzler all rolled into 
 one. And the best part is that Konami's latest adventure has not given in to the current blood 
 and gore video game fad -- this game is appropriate for gamers of all ages.
  
  The story begins with a massive power outage that affects the entire city. You play as the main 
 character, Kai, a child who is determined to restore the power, while at the same time find out 
 why the Elebits have stopped supplying the city with electricity. The only way to restore the town 
 to normalcy is to capture as many Elebits as possible using a capture beam (aka the Wii remote 
 ) .
  
  You control all of Kai's movements using the nunckuk controller's analog stick. Veteran FPS players 
 will feel right at home. Where the game strays from the traditional path -- and really shines -- is 
 in controlling the capture gun. The player points the Wii remote at the screen like a pointer, 
 using the trigger to fire the capture beam. For novice Wii players the controls may take some time 
 to get used to, but after a few minutes you will wonder how you ever played with a traditional 
 controller.
  
  Gameplay begins inside Kai's home, where you dash to capture all of the Elebits before moving into 
 the city. Most players will find that picking up furniture with the capture gun and tossing it 
 around is an absolute blast. Gamers that love to make a mess without worrying about the consequences 
 will love Elebits. Although the main objective stays consistent (capture Elebits) , the game rarely 
 feels repetitive due to innovative level design and 20 different kinds of Elebits. Different color 
 Elebits have different powers, such as making your capture gun stronger or restoring more electricity. 
 Violence in the game is almost nonexistent, but a few of the creatures will harm you if you are 
 not careful while exploring. There is never any blood, however, and the harm never seems real.
 
  
  Elebits was a launch title for the Nintendo Wii, and therefore the graphics do not seem to push 
 the hardware to the limits. Though the visuals appear to be just above a top-end XBox title, the 
 beautiful colors are easy on the eyes. The sound is also pleasing, as the music is varied for each 
 of the games 25 missions.
  
  Even after completing the single player mission, Elebits still has a lot to offer. There are several 
 modes to choose from, including eternal mode (no time limits) and score attack (try to beat the 
 high score) , as well as a multiplayer free-for-all.
  
  Though Elebits is slightly on the easy side, and may be somewhat repetitive for some, it is a highly 
 innovative title that showcases what we can expect from the Nintendo Wii. Gamers of all ages should 
 grab their capture guns and give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is the first game for the Wii I've played all the way through. It's the story of an androgynous 
 boy named Kai, whose parents are scientists specializing in the study of Elebits, these little 
 electrical things gremlin-things that make electricity work. Then something crazy happens, the 
 Elebits get out of control, power is lost to the city, and his parents leave to investigate. Meanwhile, 
 Kai hates Elebits and decides to do some investigating of his own, using his dad's capture gun.
 
  
  Each level gives you a goal to capture a certain number of Elebits within a certain time limit. 
 By pointing the Wiimote at the screen, you can use the capture gun to either zap Elebits or lift 
 objects they may be hiding behind. The most fun part of the game is going into a living room or 
 a garage or wherever and just tearing the place up with your capture gun. Eventually, the gun gets 
 powerful enough to lift cars and even houses and just toss them away like nothing.
  
  The game's biggest problem lies with the arbitrary limits imposed on you. Like Don't break more 
 than 6 objects or Don't make too much noise. This game is a make-a-big-mess-simulator that fails 
 you for making a big mess. Elebits would be a great way to show non-gamers there's more to Wii 
 than bowling and tennis if it didn't constantly fail them for either running out of time in a level 
 or for dropping too many vases.
  
  Additionally, some of the small tasks you have to do in a level are poorly spelled out and unnecessarily 
 difficult to accomplish. In order to increase the capture gun's power, you have to activate certain 
 objects in each level. Sometimes this is done by simply pushing a button or turning a switch, sometimes 
 not. I dare you to get a CD into the CD shredder. And I never did find out what object I was supposed 
 to Insert into the microwave to get it going. Don't even get me started on the buckets-and-snowmen 
 puzzle.
  
  Elebits is a fun game, don't get me wrong. There are some levels where gravity has been switched 
 off and you can cause mayhem to your hearts content. I'd recommend this as a Rental, or as a Buy 
 when the price drops to $20 or below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodleduh7
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's not THAT good of a game. Not a complete waste of money, either, but I wouldn't advise 
 paying $50 for a game where the main character sounds like an undeveloped 5 year old girl and all 
 the characters seem to speak like they have cerebral palsy. Your mother and I... are very... worried 
 about... you. The concept is great, but it could have been much better. I would have loved it if 
 I could have picked up a streetlight and smashed it through a nearby house window. But everything 
 seems indestructible in this game, save for the glass items. And don't expect to lift houses like 
 in the screenshots. The best I could lift was a 5 ton giant dresser. Yes, a DRESSER. Skip this 
 game and buy Rayman Raving Rabbids.
  
  By the way, try opening a door in less than 5 seconds. I dare you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Don't really know what to say. You hunt little electric creatures, and as you catch them the lights 
 come on, which is shortly followed by various appliances being activated, which you use to catch 
 power elebits which make you lift heavier things, whcih lets you catch more elebits and activate 
 more appliances. Yeah, its pretty repetitive. But its fun none the less, and brings a smile to 
 your face when you throw a bookshelf across the room. The time limits and regulations get a little 
 annoying, but other than that their are few problems in the game. It's short but interesting, and 
 the replay value is okay. If you like the idea, rent it or buy it or play it somehow. If not, don't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macpoule
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Elebits The story opens up with a huge lighting storm that made every Elebit insane. You are Kai, 
 a 10 years old boy who hates Elebits. His father and mother are scientists that study Elebits. 
 As the story progresses, Kai eventually goes further in his town capturing Elebits with his Dad's 
 Capture Gun. The graphics isn't the best element in this game. They are okay. The single-player 
 campaign is fun for its mission-like theme. The bosses are cool but easy if you know how to beat 
 them. There is a total of 29 short to medium long missions which are completed by the number of 
 watts you collected from the Elebits. Elebits' gameplay with the remote is really great. The nunchaku 
 for moving, C for stretching and Z for crouching. The remote for pointing, A or B for activating 
 the capture gun. Opening doors and closet doors is just easy. You just press A or B and twist your 
 Wiimote. The object's sounds are great like the sound for an object breaking is really real. Voice 
 acting sucks. Kai's voice acting does not look like a 10 year old boy. In this game, what is really 
 fun is to make a mess in the room or in the town or in the amusement park. Almost everything can 
 be moved in this game. Elebits has tons of replay value. Twenty-six missions have four modes to 
 it: Normal, Time Limit, Eternal, and Challenge. So, it does, 26x4=104 missions. It's very long. 
 There aren't only missions but an Extras mode where there is: Elebits' Room, Edit Mode, Photo Album, 
 Objects Viewer, and Movie Album. Edit Mode is where you make your map with an already made map 
 fo=rom the single player campaign. Photo Album is where you view your photos and your friend's 
 photos. Movie Album is where you take a look at the in-game cut-scenes. objects Viewer is where 
 you take a look at the objects you zapped with you Capture Gun. Each object has a little description. 
 And at last but not least, the Elebits' Room is where you take a look at every different type of 
 Elebit you captured. Each comes with a description. Elebits is a good game with lots of replay 
 value, but with descent voice acting and passable graphics. I recommend this game to people who 
 likes to have tons of fun and replay value. And to those who likes Hide-and-Seek games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TPMX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me have a try at this.... review thing here.
  
  Elebits, if you want a summary in one sentence, is Katamari Damacy meets supreme lack of gravity 
 meets animal entrapment. The story is about this boy named Kai, who has two parents that work on 
 figuring out Elebits, small creatures that power everything electrical in the world. One day there 
 is a lightning storm and Kai's parents run off to investigate the lack of power (great parenting 
 there guys) , leaving Kai angry that he can't watch his favorite show. He then takes (see, great 
 parenting) his father's Capture Gun, a ray that can manipulate the enviroment by lifting, turning, 
 flipping, and powering objects and goes out to capture the Elebits. It's not a thrilling story, 
 but at least it gives a reason for causing millions in property damage.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  This is where Elebits shines most. The basics of the gameplay is lift up 
 things, capture Elebits, power up electronics (Toliet Energized!) , get special Elebits that power 
 your capture gun, level up and be able to pick up heavier things, rinse, lather, repeat. The fact 
 that it's so simple and how it's presented makes it charming however. There's a joy to picking 
 up bikes, cars, whole houses, even moving the moon itself to capture these little creatures who 
 resemble a bad second-banana chibi anime character (ooh, the list goes on and on) . Just one problem: 
 After getting all the Rare items in the game, it becomes excessively easy.
  
  Multiplayer: 7/10
  
  I like to separate multiplayer. Multiplayer is an odd mix of cooperation 
 and competition, putting one person in charge of the camera and having everyone just grab what's 
 on the screen. Also, when one person gets a power-up, everyone gets it. While a major ass will 
 just get one Elebit then turn to an Elebit-free zone for the rest of the time, it's decent. I prefer 
 the camera-switch option, which switches the camera to another player every few seconds. You need 
 a Nunchuk per person though, so it's best to have that. Without it, not as much fun for your guests, 
 but fun either way.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The game sports brilliant hand-drawn scenes that make you wonder if the best artists from Japan 
 came together to draw this stuff. Then we go to the normal game. True, it's basic graphics, not 
 extending to anything too outrageous or having a truly cool item, but the graphics never glitch 
 up. Even when you're throwing around 50 things at once (Vac Laser anyone?) each item keeps its 
 shape. No special graphics, but they don't suck.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  You will want to kill yourself listening to the cutscenes. It seems that they didn't try to voice-act 
 right. It always seems like they're reading the script for the first time. Personally, Kai is annoying 
 and sounds like a girl. No, not in a little boy way, in a little girl way. The music is good; not 
 good enough for a soundtrack, but not annoying. The Elebits are actually the only good voice-acting, 
 sounding like little kitties (the light scream when you capture them will drive PETA members nuts) 
 and very cute.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  This game is really really replayable. There are many things to unlock and simply the joy of chucking 
 crap around is better than anger management classes. The Challenge missions will, however, bring 
 you to cause real harm to people regardless if you got the new wrist strap or not. Whether or not 
 that's a good thing is up to you.
  
  Final Evaluation
  
  Elebits is just fun. That's all. Only the growing number of violence-loving, GTA-playing video 
 gamers would find something seriously wrong with this game. It has its faults and weaknesses, but 
 if you have some extra money go out and buy it. If you don't, then that's okay too.
  
  Overall Score: 8.5/10
  
  Kai's pair hasn't dropped yet. Knowing his voice, they will.... at 
 age 32. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game is a really fun little shooter. No blood, no gore, no swearing, awseom gamplay, just 
 the kind of game i emerged into society to find. Well i gotta say tho the story is ok but it would 
 be so much better if people that knew how to act were talking. But once you get past that its a 
 realy good game. My favorite part is just watchiong the elebits run around, see how they react 
 when i throw crap at them. Well the gravity engine in this game rivals that of half life (2) but 
 its not as good. Everything kinda floats around out side when you chuck it. Its not so much as 
 a bad thi as it is an annoying thing. Like you throw a car straight up in the air then it takes 
 about 3 or for seconds to start decending. But overall i like this game, if i wasnt so entranced 
 with truama center second opinion i would have beat this game long ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  When Elebits was first showcased at E3, people were skeptical of the game. Although it seemed to 
 have a unique storyline, viewers questioned whether Elebits would feel more like a tech demo than 
 an actual game. Now that the game has finally been released, most opinions have changed. Yes, the 
 game does show off the wii-mote's capabilities very nicely, but it also manages to give us some 
 really awesome gameplay. Elebits is definitely one of the better games currently available for 
 the Nintendo Wii.
  
  The game starts you off with an animated cutscene. You hear the voice of a young boy, who tells 
 you a bit about his family life. His parents are scientists, and they study these little creatures 
 called Elebits. Elebits are the source of most of the planets energy, and without them, no electrical 
 appliances would work. Even so, this little boy shows a dislike for the Elebits, because if they 
 didn't exist, then his parents would spend more time with him. Suddenly, the power goes out in 
 the whole city. Now its time to start gathering Elebits!
  
  The first level is fairly small, but it gives you a chance to get used the the control scheme. 
 The wii-mote's pointing feature works very well with the gameplay. To lift an object, you simply 
 point the wii-mote at at, and then hold either A or B. If you want to throw the object, just swing 
 the controller in the desired direction and release the A button. You can also shake objects and 
 open doors with the wii-mote's unique controls. Just about every wii-mote function is utilized 
 in Elebits, and they all work very well.
  
  As the player, your goal is to collect as many elebits as possible before time runs out. But doesn't 
 that get boring after a while? Well, not exactly. Collecting more and more elebits will give you 
 more watts. Once you collect enough watts, some of the appliances will turn on. By hitting a switch 
 on the appliance you can release dozens of energy elebits, which make your gun stronger. As your 
 gun grows stronger, you will be able to lift heavier objects in your search for the elebits. To 
 aid you in your search, there are various power-ups in each level. Examples of these power-ups 
 are the vacuum gun, the elebit attractor cookie, and the homing attachment. Some of these power-ups 
 are great fun, while others may seem useless.
  
  Some of the appliances require specific actions before you can turn them on. You cannot turn on 
 the oven until you put the turkey in, and you cannot turn on the DVD player until you put a DVD 
 in the slot. These little challenges make the game more difficult, because you might have to go 
 searching through the level for a DVD or a turkey. This might not be an easy search if you threw 
 all of the objects onto the floor.
  
  To give the gameplay a little variety, Konami also added some restrictions to the levels. In some 
 stages, you will lose if you break a certain number of objects, or if you make too much noise. 
 Although some players like the challenge, I felt that it kind of took the fun out of throwing the 
 objects all over the place and making a mess. Variety is also seen as you progress through the 
 story mode. You start off in a kid's room, lifting small objects like books and toys, but by the 
 end of the game, you'll be lifting houses and cars! The changes in the levels is great, but the 
 gameplay does get a bit repetitive after a while. There is also a multiplayer mode in the game. 
 I think it hindered the overall gameplay though, because you cannot go off on your own in the level; 
 you must stay right next to you partner, as though you were just one character.
  
  As far as graphics and sound go, both aspects are pretty good. There are some really colorful visuals 
 in the game, especially when you use the homing power-up. As levels get larger graphic detail decreases, 
 but there are also a better variety of objects to experiment with. There are some frame-rate issues 
 when there are many on-screen actions simultaneously, but they don't affect the gameplay too much. 
 The sound is really nice too. Each level has its own unique soundtrack, which fit the levels very 
 well. You might have some light jazz if you are on a noise restricted level, while other levels 
 contain more energetic music.
  
  Overall, Elebits is definitely one of the best games on the Wii right now. If you enjoyed the telekinesis 
 powers from Psi Ops, the whimsacle gameplay from Katamari Damacy, or even the collecting aspect 
 of Pikmin, you will have fun with Elebits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is quite possibly one of the most bizarre games I've ever played. You're the son of two 
 scientists who research Elebits-tiny creatures that contain electrical current, and power everyday 
 household utilities. When all the power in the city goes out, it's your responsibility to go around, 
 searching high and low for the little guys, and to capture them using your father's ray gun. It's 
 a simple, stylish, fun and quirky little game, and if you're looking for something to pass the 
 time until Mario Party 8 and Metroid Prime, I'd recommend pickig yourself up a copy of Elebits. 
 The gameplay can get a bit repetitive, but it keeps things fresh by placing you in new rooms and 
 environments. Graphics wise, it doesn't reach it's full potential which is rather disappointing, 
 and the music might make your ears bleed. Overall, a pretty decent little game. Not great, but 
 as aforementioned, will hold you over until second and third quarter when the hard-hitting titles 
 come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acerazer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  With the addition of the Nintendo Wii to the world of video games, it would come to be expected 
 that people can play games like never before. And with this new technology will come games and 
 gameplay that has never really been seen before. And Elebits is a great example of this situation. 
 In Elebits, you have to use your capture gun to capture itty bitty little Pikmin-like creatures 
 called Elebits to restore power to your town. You can capture these Elebits and add them to your 
 wattage by just shooting (capturing) them. Like in Ghostbusters, except they come to you more willingly 
 than a ghost would. But with your capture gun you can also move objects, and this is where the 
 Wii's revolutionary controls come into play. You can use your remote to capture and lock on to 
 objects and then throw them in virtually any direction you want. You can then create some messes 
 and ultimate havoc on your environments like never before. If you can capture enough of the little 
 Elebit buggers, you can even move the moon on its axis and throw entire buildings around. Definitely 
 cool. Frankly, the story pretty much sucks, though there seemed to be a lot of potential with it. 
 But just being able to throw things around and seeing how many little Elebits you could get makes 
 going to the next level entirely worth it. Graphics are decent, but in large messes there is very 
 noticeable slow-down. The sound and crunching noises are both solid and enjoyable, but those Elebit 
 squeels will haunt me for life. Some replay value and unlockables to be had, but overall it would 
 just get way too repetitive for anyone to sit through and unlock silly bonuses after initially 
 finishing the game. Also, the multiplayer is not really that good and seems kind of rushed and 
 broken. But moving the moon on its axis and then getting rewarded with Elebits has to be one of 
 the most rewarding gaming experiences I've had in a while. And for that, I shall always remember 
 Elebits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: False_Reality
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I now don't know why I even put this on my wishlist for the Wii back a few months ago. Oh, well, 
 maybe it was all the cuteness that the Elebits exhibited? I don't know. I just realized now that 
 this game may be cute graphically and story-wise, but it's a disaster in all other aspects.
  
  The Wii remote is very hard to control and shoot, in my opinion. The whole scheme of it all 
 is just... well, disastrous. There's not much to say. It's balnd, boring, and has no real meaning. 
 You're just shooting these little electricity-supplying creatures so a little boy can watch his 
 favourite TV show.
  
  It's... just, I don't know. A letdown. : ( I was really expecting better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is okay but i just hate aiming. i have bad motor skills so its hard to get my hands to 
 stop shaking. its a cutsy first person shooter were you shoot these little guys called elebits 
 who help keep the electricity running. and you have to destroy them with a zapping gun thing and 
 you use it by moving the wii mote around and the b button the zap the little guys. i really like 
 the look of the game its all shiny and cuddly and the rooms are very cool. thew sound is not that 
 great. theres rarely music at all the voice acting is bad and the squealing noises the elebits 
 make kinda disturb me. you can move the furniture around to find the lil' guys and thats a very 
 fun thing to do. but all the clumsy controls ruin it. the game is very awsome when you can make 
 your own levels it can really show out your creativity. its just cool fun. i wasent super happy 
 with the game and i feel sad that i spent money on it. but it tells me in the future not to buy 
 shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Elebits. Cute little creatures that your character, Kai, hates. He thinks they are wrecking the 
 world. So one night when his parents go out he take his dads capture gun and starts zapping. When 
 i play this game i usually try to press the A button as much as possible and worry about actually 
 aiming and the elebits later. Although, this does make my arm very tired after a while but it still 
 doesnt get old. The game is well made overall, but does have some downsides. Sometimes opening 
 doors is frustrating becase the dont open right, or when you open them they start closing. I found 
 this was the case with drawers also, but none the less this is a fun game for all ages and very 
 easy to learn how to play. Graphics are fairly good , seeing how its for the Wii and not the 360 
 but its still very fun and controlls are very responsive. As for my beginning, should i feel guilty, 
 no. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  That's how I see it. This game caught my attention as soon as I saw it on TV. I saw a commerical 
 and I looked it up to see what this game is about. I was really happy with what I was seeing on 
 the screen. You're going around looking for these little creatures called Elebits and you have 
 to catch them with this lazar gun so you can have enough power to turn on electronics in your room. 
 Which is pretty cool. I look at a couple of reviews for this game and from all the action of tossing 
 objects around and shooting those little creatures all over the screen made me buy this game. Sure 
 enough I wasn't disappointed with my purchase. In each level you have to come up with a certain 
 amount of energy Watts to move to the next level. So you have to move things around open doors, 
 move objects, and walk around the room to find these little elebits all over the place. Also you'll 
 be timed while you do this. So you have to complete each level with certain amount of Watts at 
 a certain time to move on. It's a pretty fun game to play and it does get tough as you move up 
 in the levels. The controllers are also very respond very well to your movements of your hands 
 compared to Redsteel. I had some difficult times with the Wii remote moving it around in other 
 games. But the controllers are pretty tight in this game. This game is a definite buy and you won't 
 be disappointed with your purchase either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katamari
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Elebits are little creatures that contain energy. It is your job to capture them with a special 
 gun and collect that energy. Elebits are then converted into energy (watts) to produce power. They 
 power your gun and the more Elebits you capture the more power your gun receives. You are able 
 to level up your Capture gun. The more powerful your gun becomes, you are able to move and toss 
 around larger objects. Also, the more Elebits you capture the room you are in becomes brighter!! 
 You can also do things like open doors to other rooms or turn on household appliances. Power Elebits 
 hid in the appliances and when you capture them that is when you level up your Capture gun after 
 reaching a certain point. You use your nunchuk controller to move /look around and your remote 
 to aim and shoot/capture Elebits. The levels get harder as the game progress's and each level gives 
 you a certain amount of time to complete. Also, on some levels you will have restrictions placed 
 upon you such as you can only break so many items or you have to keep your noise level down. The 
 graphics in the game are okay and the music is not memorable. The sound is what you would expect 
 if you actually started throwing things around in your own house. The game shines with the controllers. 
 Konami has made good use of the remotes sensitivity. You twist the remote to turn a door handle 
 and then push the remote towards your TV to open the door. Don't ask me why this is cool (to me 
 anyway) but it just is. There are also little touches in the game like seeing the Wii sitting on 
 a desk!! The challenges increase with each successful completion of a level adding to the value 
 of the game. Overall, I like Elebits. It reminds me a litte bit of Katamari Damacy, with its timed 
 levels and the ability to throw more stuff around as you power up (like rolling up larger stuff 
 as your ball got bigger) and I mean that as a complement. The game play may be found to be to repetitive 
 for some, but, Elebits makes good use of the Wii's capabilities. It certainly is a game I will 
 explore more in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I enjoy this game and play it, but it is strongly repetitive. yeah, later on, some new features 
 add up. Noise and breakable objetcs, but the noise system is kinda glitchy. some stuff can be trow 
 around witout making ANY noise, and others been put donw gently and make a LOT of noise. Anyway, 
 one thing that I really liked about the game is it's replay value. I mean, once you find every 
 3 pink rare elebits by stage, it unlock new gameplay for the level. 3 replay gameplay and one challenge 
 mode. It's great that stuff can be unlocked by finding stuff or completing under a amount of time. 
 also, level editing is a big plus to the game. The bad thing is that you might get sick of finding 
 elebits after 1 hour each time you play, and some level can be like 16 min to complete. Your hand 
 might hurt after playing to long, cuz you will press B or A more then 2000 times lol. anyway, the 
 game is kinda easy to ''finish''. but getting all the stuff, completing all the challenge mode 
 and finding all pink elebits... GOOD LUCK. that is one of the great thing about the game. Ok graphics 
 aren't the best and look cartoonish, the physique systeme is not alway proper to the weight of 
 stuff but even then this game remain good. Rent it first i'd say, because some people might be 
 deceived by it. IF you like hcallenge this is for you. Also, there is bosses stages :D (nice!)
 
  there is a lot of different elebits also, and it make the game funnier. I haven't played multiplayer 
 yet cuz i just cant get my second nunchuk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speed_Wolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This Game is like Halflife2's Garry's mod + a Seek and shoot game in one!
  This game is good for all ages (even when in the story your a little boy) Because you can fling 
 around all the stuff you can see and find these little Things (Some look like picmin) That hide 
 under stuff that you fling, and Run away when they are found then you try to shoot them. Now lets 
 say you hit some of them but then most of them go away and you think where did they go? They went 
 to another hide away in someones boots or in the fridge!
  The part i think is really cool in this game is the edit mode. Have you ever played Sims? its almost 
 like that, buy and move around Beds, books, any thing you can think can be in your house or even 
 outside. Once you made you newly furnished room, hallway or any other room you can think of, you 
 can save it to play over and over with friends or with yourself, you can also send the room you 
 made to you friends online so they can get the taste of the adventure you made! some objects in 
 the game have a button you can press to make them turn on, or move ,or make a meal, once the timer 
 runs out (only on some items) your meal is done, and what do you know Elebits came out! Some items 
 have a goal like a basket ball hoop, first you need to find a basket ball, then bring it to the 
 basket and make a dunk then some Elebits will come out! And some have both a button and a goal 
 like a microwave find some popcorn then put it in and push the button and in no time you will have 
 pop-Elebits. There are some power ups in this game to, to homing missiles to a vacuum. To me this 
 game is worth buying, so if you get it have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gweeql
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  So as of right now, there isnt that many games out for the Wii. So I decided to pick this one up. 
 The story is very simplistic, and kind of halfbaked. I liked the movies in the games, even though 
 they werent in motion. The artwork was good. Basically you have X amount of time to collect a certain 
 wattage in a level. It plays like a first person shooter, but you can see the hand only a target. 
 Kind of like Ghost Recon is first person. There is a few types of Elebits to collect in the game. 
 Elebits that make your gun stronger, and able to pick up bigger objects, and elebits to increase 
 wattage to turn on say a TV or toaster oven. Sometimes the enviroment needs to be used to turn 
 on something like putting a piece of toast in the toaster first. Basically the gameplay is repetitive, 
 you tear apart the enviroment to collect elebits, by picking things up and shaking them, turning 
 objects on once the right wattage is aquired. Elebits basically hide under things, and you zap 
 them up. The game is pretty damn easy, so dont expect a challenge here. You can unlock other things 
 once you beat the story level like time challenge and what not. I beat this game in about 7 hours, 
 and I really didn't find any replay value in this game. The story is fun while it lasted, but its 
 way too short consisting of 29 levels, I only had to retry 2 levels, and like once on the last 
 boss. Give it a rent chances are you'll beat it in a few sittings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JubJub677
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The object of the game is to take a capture gun and you go around capturing little critters (called 
 elebits) . The point of capturing this thing is that you are trying to regain power in the city. 
 The single player is a little weak. With the stupid sound and break meter. It kinda wrecks the 
 fun. But what sux is that you are going to have to play single player to unlock the levels for 
 multiplayer. But once you get that done you will have a great time playing this game. Get four 
 player going and it is mess of fun. Thing fyling around trying to cach those little critters. So 
 once you get passed the single player your in for a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thor1981
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I was on my way home from work and decided to rent a Wii game. They didn't have the title I wanted 
 to try (COD3) , so I decided on Elebits. Many others have mentioned a similarity to the PS2 cult 
 classic Katamari Damacy. and I agree with this comparison to a point. It does have this wacky, 
 colorful, quirky, presentation that makes you think Oh those crazy Japanese! What'll they think 
 of next? But a few issues here and there mar that feeling from lasting like Katamari did. For one 
 thing, it's short. I breezed through it in mere hours. As far as duration is concerned, I can't 
 see this being worth $50. Maybe if I had a second remote for multi-player, but alas, they are tough 
 to find right now. Working doors in the game is often problematic. You grasp the knob with the 
 A or B button, then turn the Wiimote like you would a knob. Cool idea. However, you really have 
 to open the doors slowly to avoid flinging them open so hard that they close themselves again, 
 thus wasting precious time. The time limits are often a hindrance. There is no real purpose that 
 the game provides for the time limits you are subject to in each of the stages. I found that as 
 soon as I got my gun charged up enough to move heavy objects, the round ended. Lots of opportunities 
 for destruction wasted. The graphics, I thought, were fine. The style of the game is simplistic 
 and colorful, much like a children's TV show. The sounds and music are serviceable, if not memorable. 
 The voice acting is God-awful. The child (you) named Kai is obnoxious, and his father talks. in. 
 a. halting. sort. of . voice. He honestly comes across as being mentally challenged. But such things 
 are trivial in this game, which is very light hearted and charming. Past those qualities, there 
 really isn't much left to recommend this game for a purchase. Rent it, then forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Elebits that hasnt already been stated? Nothing really. Its innovative, 
 its interesting, its fun, and it can get boring.
  
  Elebits starts out as an interesting game. When you get past all the story elements, moving objects 
 with a sort of gravity gun can be pretty fun. The more Elebits you capture, the stronger your gun 
 gets, the heavier objects you can fling around like they weigh as much as a feather. Graphically 
 it looks pleasing. The colors and effects that are used clearly wrap you in the game. And the sounds 
 range from books falling off shelves, to that very expensive vase that your mom told you not to 
 play with breaking on the ground. And youll have to trash almost everything in the house to get 
 the Elebit you need.
  
  Here comes in the problem. Unlike how most of us have seen from some of the promos, Elebits isnt 
 the adventure game you thought it would be. Instead it has you placed in different locations in 
 your house to capture a certain amount of Elebits in a set period of time. Instead of opening up 
 the entire house, it keeps you in sections and restricts you. You think youll find more Elebits 
 in your room? Sorry, youre stuck in the hallway and thats final.
  
  Elebits also have a tendency to break things and run away from loud noises. So several missions 
 youll have to restrict the amount of noise you use trashing a place or having to watch out for 
 that expensive vase. Also, once you get to the highest level gun, you may have the power to trash 
 an entire house, but once you do, its not as fun anymore, leaving you spending your last couple 
 minutes very bored.
  
  Elebits tries to tack on a cooperative multiplayer hybrid in where youre helping to trashing the 
 house but against one another capturing Elebits. Also, instead of using a split screen, up to four 
 players are on the same screen, with one player controlling both the camera and movement, leaving 
 the match somewhat in the favor of the person in control of the camera. Theres also a level editor 
 mode where you can create your own multiplayer level and actually send it to other Wii friends.
 
  
  With sub-par levels, restrictions in where you can go in the house, and enjoyment that will last 
 as long as it takes you to replace the batteries in your Wii Remote, Elebits is defiantly not what 
 we were hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I never was really a fan or hyped about Elebits when I saw it coming for the wii. The only reason 
 I have it is because it's part of my walmart preorder package. I know an idiot who preordered this 
 game seperately and was all crazy about it so I decided to put it on my list. So I got it and played 
 a bit of it and here's what I think.....
  
  It's boring. The novelty of being able to destroy a room in search of the little guys is sort of 
 cool and awesome at first, but it wears off quickly through the timed levels. Basically what you 
 do in every stage is capture all the visible elebits until you have enough to power some electronic, 
 then you turn it on and soon are able to lift heavier stuff, wait for the lights to go on, and 
 just find more elebits. I'm sorry but I find this yawntastic.
  
  It's also very very kiddy and childish. I'm not against these types of games, but c'mon Konami 
 could of atleast tried to make Elebits's story somewhat barable by someone older than 5. I'm all 
 for Mario, and Kingdom Hearts, and Animal Crossing or whatever, but I just couldn't stand this. 
 The voice actors are kind of annoying and the story sucks so far. It looks like a gamecube launch 
 game, not a wii launch game. There's not really any probems, it's just too simple and no texture.
 
  
  On the plus side if you enjoy the game, there's a lot of value. You can replay all the missions 
 over again (can't see me doing that though) , you got muliplayer I think...., there's this useless 
 section that gives data on every item you can move in the game which is a lot, and soon it will 
 have online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrino
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I can't say this is a review because I wrote it after playing for less than an hour. I doubt I 
 will play it much longer. Why? Time limits. I can't stand them. I can't think of a game I like 
 that use time limits more than once or twice in the game. The first few levels of Elebits uses 
 them and I am assuming (I may be wrong) the rest of the story mode levels use them as well. Other 
 strange things I noticed...
  
  The screen is not full wide-screen for some reason about 100 pixels are cropped. From what I understand 
 the Wii does not have true wide screen anyway (it more like a stretched 480P but its still a bit 
 annoying.
  
  The voice acting in the first few cut scenes is horrifically bad. The gameplay itself is not bad. 
 Its kind of fun to use the Wiimote to manipulate the environment but so far I don't like the control 
 mechanic a few games are using in which you need to move the Wiimote into and away from the screen. 
 It just does not work that well and its difficult to do if you are sitting back. Its also a bit 
 difficult top open cabinet at the right speed so that don't close shut on you. Moving things around 
 in the game does take quite a bit of fineness which I suspect younger player may have trouble with. 
 I only mention that because I feel the game is targeted at younger players.
  
  As an adult gamer I am walking away with a pretty bland impression of the game but later levels 
 could certainly prove challenging and fun but I won't get there due to the controls and time limits 
 of the early levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I was kind of disappointed with Elebits. To me, the game had so much potential, but the 
 final product just wasnt as fun as I was anticipating. For some reason, I didnt have as much 
 fun as Id hoped with Elebits. For one, the storyline was complete garbage. It probably would have 
 got a higher score if theyd just had no storyline at all because this was so bad that I was almost 
 offended. But storyline aside, the gameplay itself was decent, but the restrictions that they gave 
 you took away from the fun. I didnt really like how there was a time limit on each level, and 
 a lot of the levels had really stupid and pointless restrictions on them, such as not being able 
 to break a certain amount of objects (which was kind of dumb, since some of the levels had no gravity, 
 and so by touching something that wasnt breakable, you would start a huge chain reaction that 
 would break stuff and ultimately force you to restart what youd been doing for the last 10 minutes) . 
 The gameplay wasnt necessarily bad, the problem was that for some reason I just didnt have 
 a really great time when I was playing it.
  
  Graphics: Elebits is an alright looking game, but it seems like everything that you see in the 
 game could have also been done on the Gamecube. Ive noticed that quite a few of the Wiis launch 
 titles suffer from this, and it wouldnt be a problem if they looked like high end Gamecube games, 
 but the thing thats concerning me is that these look like average Gamecube games, which isnt 
 very acceptable for a next-gen system thats two to three times as powerful as last gens consoles. 
 And on top of that, Elebits suffers from huge drops in framerate whenever theres a lot of stuff 
 going on. The physics in the game were pretty nice though, but overall, I wasnt too impressed 
 with the graphical aspect of Elebits.
  
  Sound: The audio in Elebits was decent, but it wasnt particularly great or even very good. There 
 arent really any memorable musical pieces from the game, its all kind of instant stuff that youll 
 forget once youre done with the game  not the type of stuff thatll get stuck in your head. The 
 sound effects are pretty nicely done, but again, they arent anything fantastic. The one thing 
 that I really loved about the sound though was the Japanese song that plays during the credits. 
 Thats the type of thing that I want to download and listen too. But other than that, the rest 
 of the audio is basically just mediocre.
  
  Value: Elebits is a short game. A very short game. It took me approximately 8 hours to get from 
 start to finish, but thats because I got stuck on one of the last levels, meaning itll probably 
 take the average person around 6-7 hours to complete. There are a bunch of other modes and unlockables 
 that you could delve into and explore if you grow fond of the gameplay, but to me this was the 
 type of game where you beat it and move on, and unfortunately, beating the game wasnt particularly 
 lengthy or satisfying.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Elebits was a disappointment. The game certainly shows off an interesting use of 
 the Wiimote, and its great to see that companies are coming up with interesting and unique ways 
 of using it, but I just didnt find Elebits to be very fun or exciting. Its disappointing, since 
 I was looking forward to this game for kind of a long time, but even so, the game wasnt a complete 
 failure. If you want to play this game, I recommend renting it like I did. Whether or not you enjoy 
 the gameplay, you can easily finish the game in a couple of days, making it not really worth the 
 full price to purchase it. While Elebits certainly has an great concept, I just found the overall 
 product to be not a very enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaadam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  What can I really say about this game? Its got the amusing factor of finding random little cute 
 creatures and mixed in with the ability to alter the environment in the way you see fit. Its the 
 perfect mix for a game that is launching with the Wii.
  
  The games tutorial basically covers everything you will need in the game so far (except some stuff 
 in boss battles) . But it doesn't cover the amount of items that you will find in the game. Which 
 is a shame cause practice with some of these items would be nice.
  
  Overall this is a very good game and I would recommend it to anyone who owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wad11656
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just... spectacular. I've been wanting this game ever since I knew the thing existed, 
 and it suprised me so much on how much of a blast it was! This game rocks!
  The graphics are phenomenal, with every single household item perfected to the very details. The 
 elebits also look smooth and unique. There are so many different real life objects, and they are 
 extremely detailed. Boss elebits also look very amazing.
  The sound is cool too. The charming noise the Elebits make when you shoot them (they don't actually 
 die, don't worry. You capture them in your ray gun.) is almost too funny and friendly to bear. Every 
 object has a different sound when you drop them, and there are nice shattering noises when you 
 drop fragile objects.
  You might want to read the instructions before playing this game, though. You have to play hide-and-seek 
 with the elebits, and once you find them, you shoot them and capture them in your ray gun. The 
 more Elebits you collect, the more watt power you have, and once you have certain amounts of watt 
 power, you can activate certain electronic devices. After activating them, different kinds of Elebits 
 come out, which charge your ray gun. Your ray gun can power up to certain levels, and the higher 
 the level, the heavier of objects you can pick up with it. You can toss all the stuff you want 
 around and make huge messes to help find those Elebits, but on some levels on the Story mode, there 
 are certain limitations to the mayhem and messes you can make, which brings in the aspect of skill 
 instead of just being able to fling the Wii remote around and press A. Once you have the amount 
 of watt power needed for a level, you beat the level!
  After beating levels, you can play all of them in multiplayer mode, which really brings out some 
 fun. You all throw objects around and search for Elebits, just like in single-player mode, but 
 this time, you're competing for how many watts you can earn in your ray gun. The one with the most 
 watts by the time the timer runs out, that person wins.
  There are also different single player modes such as Challenge and Time attack modes to really 
 test your skills in the game. Elebits is, in my opinion, the best game on the Wii to this date. 
 I love it so much, and it's so addictive! I hope you all go out there and buy it once or if you 
 have the Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: landoresurected
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  There funny. There electrifying. There Elebits. Fun little creatures that lurk in your home without 
 you knowing. They help give power to lamps, TV's, etc. but until one day when the power goes out, 
 a young boy that hates Elebits goes for revenge. As you use the Wii-Mote to find these little creatures 
 in a hide and go seek situation you will find yourself addicted to the crazy gameplay. Another 
 great thing is the replayibility. So much to do, so little time...
  
  Well anyway, this game is actually based on you destroying stuff. Yes, destroying stuff is a main 
 part of the game. So, if you are really into destroying things, finding stuff and puzzle-like levels, 
 then pick this up for your lonely stack of Wii games. I really think it will not dissapoint you.
 
  
  Buy or Rent- Buy it, it's only $60! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaloes
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I said it. I don't grasp this game like all of you. I just don't understand it, really. I 
 mean, it's pretty fun at first, but then it just gets.. well.. dumb. I wasn't expecting too much 
 from this game in the first place, and it didn't even give me that much. I don't know, maybe I'm 
 an idiot. Maybe not. But everyone has an opinion, and mine is that this game isn't that great. 
 I'm sorry to everyone who enjoys playing this game and is having a great time with it (mostly everyone 
 but me) , but I'm not on the bandwagon this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallsmartman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Great fun, I wasn't sure about this game before I baught it, but I HAD to get a New Wii game (little 
 bored with Wii Sports by now) . But it's really a lot of fun, I found the multiplayer to be a lot 
 of fun as well. It's defenately not for everybody, if you're a hard core serious gamer that has 
 no sense of quirkyness, you will probably not like this. I will be honest, if you are into the 
 standard FPS, the FPS aspect of this game will probably not satasfy you, I find that actually blasting 
 an Alien, (in Halo for example) gives the gamer a very satasfying pleasure where as zapping/sucking 
 up an alien does not satasfy so well, BUT! chucking furniture across the room as well as breaking 
 all kinds of lovely household items, is VERY satasfying.
  
  Graphics: I have heard some complaints about the graphics, but I didn't really see a problem, the 
 effects were pretty cool, as you can see from the screenshots, it's a pretty cartoonish game, and 
 it's not ground breaking, but they don't disctract from the entire product.
  
  Sound: The sound effects were fine, the important ones are distinct enough to indicate something 
 specific just took place off screen, but I found the music a tad irritating. Not that it was poorly 
 written, or that it didn't fit, it was fine, but I just found it a bit irritating. Maybe due to 
 the fact that producing music (somtimes even in games) is somewhat of a specialty of mine. The 
 good thing about it is of course, it's the one thing in the game you can change. You can always 
 turn of the music and play your own tunes on your home stereo.
  
  Value:
  To be honest, I cringe every time I pay $50 for any game that is not a mega-hit callibur. If this 
 game was $40, it would be a GREAT deal, but since it is $50, I have to say that it's neither here 
 nor there, I guess I would expect it. Thankfully I only paid $30 out of pocket because of a nice 
 little gift card.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I give it a high titl, me (20) and my dad (48) had a great time smashing the crap out of things, 
 and lauging it up. I should mention one last thing, on bit part of the fun, is the fact that the 
 controls are soo good, this game would never work with a gamepad of any kind, but with the Wii, 
 it's a snappy game.
  
  If this game captures your attention, and you are curious about it, then you should get it, you 
 will have fun. If you think it looks dumb, you've already made up your mind anyway, so I can't 
 help you :)
  
  -MW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  In Elebits, these little creatures, Elebits, go crazy one day and all escape and hide somewhere. 
 Elebits are tiny critters that give the world power and electricity. You play as a young boy with 
 a gravity gun. The gun is almost exactly the same as the gravity gun from Half Life, but you cant 
 launch things. Basically what you do in Elebits is look for small critters. It sounds blan, but 
 its anything from it. You play in small or large rooms inside houses. You use your gravity gun 
 to move objects in the house. You can interact with almost EVERY object and pick it up and throw 
 it. You look for Elebits in any places: under boxes, behind objects, inside electronics, etc. Each 
 level requires you to collect a certain amount of Elebits. As you gain them, when you hit a certain 
 amount it will enable you to activate a electronic device like a vacuum, lamp, or heater. When 
 this happens, yellow Elebits fall out, what they do is upgrade your weapon so you can pick up larger 
 objects. Controls work great and gameplay is amazing.
  
  The graphics I think are great for the wii. People were telling me that they were horrid but now 
 that Ive played it, I think there great. The environments are great looking and objects are all 
 detailed. The cut scenes are just comic strip type, which seems to be a fad for newly released 
 wii games. It has some voice acting which redeems the ok cutscenes.
  
  The sound is great. The gravity gun sounds great and when you smash objects together it sounds 
 great. The music is pretty catchy and fast paced, which meets the gameplay since your timed for 
 each level. Overall its great sound.
  
  Elebits is a one of a kind game. Its got challenging, but not too hard gameplay thats constantly 
 fast paced. The graphics I thought were amazing and the sound is great. This is a definate purchase 
 since not only does it fulfill the 50 dollar purchase, but has plenty of replay value. Its got 
 online, but its pretty lame, all you do is aim for someone. But you can take screen shots and make 
 your own levels. The level editor is really fun and you can share the levels you made with friends. 
 All these combine to make this game a really good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Elebits stars little creatures who hide from you and it is up to you to find the little critters 
 by capturing them with your strange gravity gun like weapon. Story mode is told and loosely based 
 on the creatures and their magical powers. The most fun you'll find in the game is the crazy and 
 frantic mulitplayer and the singleplayer for the unique gameplay.
  
  Pros+: Character art and graphics feel fresh and unique; Elebits are wonderful, interesting; Story 
 mode is fun for a while; Controls are responsive and work good; Multiplayer is fun and frantic; 
 The game oozes uniqueness.
  
  Cons-: Story mode is not entirely engaging; Graphics sometimes feel muddied; Voice acting is weak; 
 Muliplayer is a little tiring after a while.
  
  Overall: Again stepping into the region of Wii unique games, this one introduces promising gameplay, 
 but something is missing in the final product.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_jcfan
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The Elebits E3 pomo sold me. The music, the character design and environment seemed so reminiscent 
 of Katamari Damacy so I was hoping it would have the same quirkiness. Maybe it's unfair of me to 
 expect it to be as fun as Katamari Damacy and it probably shouldn't compare to it. Needless to 
 say, I was a bit disappointed with how quickly you can beat this game.
  
  You basically collect Elebits to power up certain electrical appliances to access more Elebits 
 (with higher wattage) and level up the strength of your capture gun. It is absolutely hilarious 
 to watch a huge computer table get lifted and shaked violently in midair to get those little guys 
 out. The physics is a bit iffy and you may have difficulty opening and closing doors and you don't 
 have enough time to be patient since there's a time limit. As you progress, you eventually move 
 unto other environments, with different rules and move even bigger things. Multiplayer mode is 
 tricky if you're in a small room. Edit mode is a great addition since you can make your own challenges 
 but you can't help but feel there should be a bit more to it.
  
  This game is undoubtedly addictive but you can beat this game in less than a day and it seems unfair 
 for consumers that this simplistic game is in the $50-range. Otherwise, this is a great game for 
 single and multiplayers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flood_go_boom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Elebits is probably one of the best Wii games out there.
  It combines the innovative motion sensitive controllers, great game-play, and a plethora of features; 
 all to make one great game: Elebits.
  
  Story: Little electricity creating creatures, called Elebits came to Earth a long, long time ago 
 in a lightning storm. Humans and Elebits have been friends since then... until one night when a 
 giant lightning strike plowed down onto the Earth and caused all of the Elebits to act strangely. 
 You play as Kai, a 10 year old boy (with the voice of a 7 yr. old girl) who is neglected by his 
 parents. His parents are world-renound Elebits scientists. He hates the Elebits, and wishes that 
 they never existed. Once the lightning struck, his wish came true. Now, its up to you to grab your 
 fathers capture gun, and wrangle those Elebits to power your house!
  
  Game-play: This is a fun, quick paced point-and-shoot game, full of objects that you can manipulate 
 with your capture gun.
  Your Capture gun is alot like the gravity gun in Half life 2. It can pick up, throw, and set down 
 objects; as well as absorb the Elebits to collect power, or watts.
  Watts are the point system in the game. The more watts you get, the more power can get to objects 
 in the game, and the more Elebits you can get from turning on those objects. You have to get a 
 certain amount of Watt's in a specified amount of time in order to clear the stage. There are sometimes 
 rules you have to abide by, like in some levels you can't break more than a specified amount of 
 objects or you fail, or you can't make too much noise (there's a sound meter on the right side) .
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Elebits are... okay. They are what we should expect from a game that is 
 marketed toward a younger audience (but trust me, anybody can play this) . They aren't bad... but 
 they're not amazing either. But you didn't buy the Wii for dazzling graphics, you bought it for 
 the great game play experience!
  
  Voice Acting: The voice acting in this game makes me want to gouge my eyes out. Its so terrible, 
 it makes K-Fed's singing sound good. And thats hard.
  The fathers is the worst of all, and it sound like he is a 2nd grader sounding out each and every 
 single word. Kai's voice is very high, and makes you think you're listening to a girl.
  
  Music: Great, fun music. The same genre for each song, but you won't be paying too much attention 
 to the music when you're searching and capturing Elebits. Each stage you complete, you get more 
 and more music to choose from. You can choose your song at the beginning of each stage.
  
  Conclusion: This is one of the best Wii games out there to date, and it definitely deserves a spot 
 next to your copy of Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess.
  
  I give it an 8.8. Now, im going to go play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkiewonder
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Some people haven't played the game and says the game suck. And they base it on the videos of point 
 and click. Wow, Way to go! It's not! You'll have to play it to experience first hand what the game 
 is about.
  
  The story started with a bolt of lightning struck the world, and people gathered and noticed little 
 lit creatures. These creatures were known as Elebits. They are a source of fire and light for people. 
 The game's plot is this. A boy named Kai, lives with parents that are researchers who research 
 elebits. One day, the whole world became real dark, No power or light! So his parents leaves Kai 
 at home by himself while they go find out what's wrong. Kai said he's not worried as he'll just 
 watch TV but soon realize there's no power. In the back of his mind, he remembers what his father 
 said that Elebits are the source of power 
  So it's Kai job now. to go hunt the elebits down! Using his Dad's Capture Gun.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Gives you a better feel of what an FPS SHOULD be. It seems konami has gotten a game to use the 
 remote and nunchuk correctly. Even with it's simple button usage. it does it's job. From Twisting 
 and turning, pushing and pulling, The game can get real interesting as you progress along in the 
 missions. Graphics: It's not WOW but it does it's job. I can say the art work in the game is visually 
 beautiful. The in game graphics are passable .Could have been a bit more colourful but hey, it's 
 better than most games out there. When you zoom in on the game, you can tell from a shirt from 
 a book. So that's a good thing!
  
  Sound: megh. Other than the repetitive sound and elebits screaming for their life, it's not something 
 you'd remember.
  
  Value: The game isn't that long if you rush. If you were just in it to see how fast you can beat 
 it and skip everything then you shouldn't be playing game.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Got good replay value. The games roughly 15-20 hours. BUT if you're a hardcore 
 gamer you'd go back and unlock all the items, the extra modes and elebits you have something to 
 do. While that's part of the replay value. There's the Level editor: This modee is godly. All games 
 should have some sort of level editor to keep the game from losing it's fun factor! if you were 
 to start the Editor and not play the game, youd probably not have any items to use. It's just elebits 
 in a room. no fun in that. But as you progress in the game you'll get items that will be added 
 to be used in the editor! now you can create a level to play. Just a fun thing to do. Or just do 
 other crazy things like a Dominoes Effect! There's not that many limits to it.
  
  Also in edit mode, you'll be able to adjust quite a few thing. Timer, Wattage to complete the level, 
 Gravity, etc.
  
  Is this game worth the money to buy? yes.
  
  Should everyone at least play it before they make snap judgement? YES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This is an offbeat arcadey puzzle-shooter. You are a boy who captures these little elebits things 
 (pretty much look like pikmin) . Sometimes you catch them within a time limit, sometimes you have 
 to fulfill certain objectives. However, although single-player features some entertaining stages, 
 the story and voice acting is horrid. The gameplay revolves around you trashing the place to find 
 these elebits, with a half-life 2 style gravity-gun. Stages are full of interactive objects and 
 powerups, making it a blast to play. It's a bit on the easy side, but still entertaining to gamers 
 of all skill levels. The graphics are nothing special, but considering all the stuff flying around, 
 it pulls of a solid framerate, and features an appealing visual style (plus, everything looks sharp) . 
 You can unlock stages and items to put in your own custom levels. You can make a good number and 
 variety of these levels, and you can even share them with your wii friends. The game features 4 
 player multiplayer, but it's not as bad as the critics make it out to be. Stick with 2 players, 
 cuz more than that will create chaos (in a bad way) . Overall, this is a strong title that flexes 
 the wii's capabilities while bringing a fresh and crazy fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwmonkeyking
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Katamari Damacy, though I know I'd love it. I believe this game fits in a similar 
 niche. It's more of a toy than a game. The fun is in figuring out whatever puzzle lets you power 
 up your gun enough to just tear through the place, leveling everything in sight, or flinging it 
 into the stratosphere. Doing this isn't always easy, with time constraints to begin with, and real 
 opposition later on from miniature tanks, cannons, and certain angry elebits. I enjoy the music 
 and composite drawn cut-scenes, and I'm almost over the voice acting. I've stopped cursing at the 
 actors and moved on to imagining them as chairs and shelf units before my mighty beam.
  
  I've owned the game for a little more than 24 hours, and played it for 13 of those. I'm not tired 
 of it yet. In fact, I'm only beginning to scratch the surface of the map editing, a feature sorely 
 missed in my other purchase: Far Cry Vengeance (edit: I returned Vengeance and bought Lost Planet) .
 
  
  So, beyond justifying the game's existence, how does it play? The capture gun gives you amazing 
 control over your environment, and moving and looking is the best I've seen yet on the Wii (granted, 
 you don't need to move very fast) . Once you grab an item, you can drag and lift it, of course, 
 but you can also rotate it, push it, pull it, or just shake it around. All of this is done as if 
 you actually had the item on a pole extending from the Wiimote. A pole made of latex. The beam 
 is very elastic, so that items near the limit of your gun's power will move quite sluggishly and 
 bend your beam quite a lot. Relatively light items (an apple or a car, depending on your guns current 
 power) snap back and forth very responsively.
  
  The elebits, as you may already know, power the modern world and come in many varieties. The most 
 necessary kind are counted as watts, and come in several forms, each with a different wattage. 
 Another sort powers your gun, also by different degrees depending on its color. Still others are 
 simply jerks, helping you in no way and flinging themselves at your face if you accidentally hit 
 one with your beam, causing damage. Collecting the power elebits, in an effort to move bigger things 
 and thus access blocked areas, is the most satisfying part of the whole mess. However, you must 
 balance your attention between the elebits that count towards your wattage and the ones that power 
 your gun. You need the power to access most of the elebits in the stage, but you also need to be 
 thorough with what you can access already or the clock will cut you short. As Obi-Wan say, Be mindful 
 of the future, but not at the expense of the present .
  
  So far, this game is absolutely the nearest to the Wii ideal of any I've played. Zelda's great, 
 Rayman's hilarious, Monkey Ball's bewitching. Each of them deserves to be on the console, but this 
 game really defines the console. It could not be done with any other hardware. You'll have the 
 Rabbids on PS2, but Elebits will stay put by its nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headrush55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  First off it has to be said that i'm 23 years old. I bought this game because the hype is that 
 you can truely see what the controller can do. With that said on to the review.
  
  In the game i found the tutorial to be way to long. It is great if you have no clue how to play 
 games at all or are very young. It's very slow and only goes over point by point. Many of the items 
 in the tutorial could have been combined or even placed into a first level perhaps. The music changes 
 through out the game which is good and at the beginning of each level you can always play an older 
 song if you like. I would have loved a different style of song (they are all very similar) .
  
  Most other reviews down play the graphics a lot. People are comparing the graphics to the likes 
 of PS3 or even PS2. You cannot do this. With the wii not having the same style of graphics as any 
 other system (besides Gamecube) you really can only judge graphics compared to other Wii games. 
 Now that said the graphics are pretty clean cut and bright and colorful (again for the kids. See 
 a patern) .
  
  I have yet to finish the game or unlock all there is to unlock. It seems that there is going to 
 be a tremendous amount of replay value to the game though which is always good.
  
  I think the best thing about this game though is, that it is a great way to destroy a room and 
 vent without having to destroy your own house. It's a great secondary game (although a little pricey) . 
 When i get frustrated with Zelda or Red Steel I can always fall back on this and just go around 
 destroying things. Overal i say rent it first and see how you like it. Inless your 12 in which 
 case have mommy or daddy buy it because your gonna LOVE this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvchris
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Elebits truly shows what Nintendo envisioned for their new system! To me, it reminds me of Pikmin 
 and Katamari all rolled up in one ball. This game uses the Wii controller in every aspect (except 
 sound) from pointing at the lil' critters or tossing EVERYTHING to twisting and pulling a door 
 open. The story is not strong at all, but I can overlook that aspect as the true idea of the game 
 is in the GAMEPLAY. Pikmin certainly didn't have an enthralling storyline, but I didn't care about 
 that either, as it made you plan out what you needed to do next. Elebits does the same thing. You 
 have to plan out what you're going to do in each level before you start. Once you are finished 
 with each level, you can choose to replay it to recieve a better score, and hopefully find the 
 rare pink Elebit . These pink Elebits are the key to different gameplay formats such as eternal 
 which lets you spend as much time as you want in the level just figuring out what you missed the 
 first time though with no time retraints. I honestly do not know how long this game is, but it 
 promises to be much longer than I originally had thought, as it has a level creator in it, which 
 you can save and send to a friend using WiiConnect24!
  
  The graphics are not exactly what you would call realistic but they suit the theme of the game 
 very well, reminding me more of the mayhem of Katamari Damacy. Literally everything can be manipulated 
 in the environment. You can pick up a box, turn the controller which turns the box upside down 
 and something may fall out of it!. Glass and pottery shatter if you drop or throw it, and in some 
 cases you have to be careful to NOT break anything, as touching one glass can result in the whole 
 shelf or display crashing down in a noisy clash much akin to Barbra Streisand sin ging! Each level 
 has a rule that can be broken a set number of times. If you go over the limit, the level automatically 
 ends. Some examples of these rules are: Don't make too much of a mess, or an invincible Elebit 
 will attack you, Dont make too much noise and Dont break anything. I imagine this would be an EXCELLENT 
 multi-player game, however noone seems to know about Wii around where I live, so I can't say.
 
  
  As this game just came out yesterday, I dont know everything about it, but from what I have seen, 
 Konami has done an EXCELLENT job in promoting Wii in the right direction! I look forward to seeing 
 sequels with the SAME graphics, and more of the same beautiful illustrative style yet with better 
 voice acting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starking777
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is very unique. You use a item called the Capture Gun to lift up items and to catch Elebits. Elebits 
 are used to power up electronic items. The main characters name is Kai and his parents are Elebit 
 researchers, your parent are never home. Kai is mad at his parents because he thinks they like Elebits 
 more then him.
  
  One day a lighting strike its and all of the Elebits start to act weirdly and start hiding. So you 
 are of to collect Elebits and to power up your home. The Gameplay is quite unqice, it acts like 
 a FPS. You can pick up items, you can do whatever you want with the items you encounter. You need 
 to collect Elebits to get watts out of them and to power up the house.
  
  With the more watts you get, you can use electronics to get Power Elebits. Power Elebits let you 
 upgrade you Capture Gun so you can pick up heavier items. So the more Elebits you get the more powerful 
 Capture Gun. The gameplay is great, it has easy controls and even better interface.
  
  The game looks great, its not PS3 grahics but its that of a really good PS2 game. There really isn't 
 alot to say about the grahics but it looks good. Sound is very nice, the music blends in with the 
 game. It matchs the gameplay and grahics. Its just sounds get and matches the game.
  
  This game has great Replay Value, its a game you can keep going back too. This game is one of the 
 best out their for the Wii right now. You can't pass up this title, with its great gameplay, graphics, 
 and very thing else. All I can say is that this is a title worth picking up. I give it a 9.1. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
