-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emergency Mayhem
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/emergencymayhem/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Driving around aimlessly isn't awful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some minigames have overly sensitive controls.
 Others are completely unresponsive.
 Almost no variety.
 Wildly uneven difficulty.
 Extremely dated graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 4.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 3.0, 61 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros.
Developer: Codemasters
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Apr 15, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Emergency Mayhem is an example of how not to make a minigame collection. 

  Emergency Mayhem proves the age-old theory that if you can't think of a good name for your town, 
 you shouldn't name it Crisis City. That's just asking for trouble. The problems facing this bustling 
 metropolis go far beyond an inadvisable name, though. Even the raging garbage fires on every corner 
 and an epidemic of nails lodged in the intestines of careless citizens aren't the biggest issues 
 here. Technology is the true enemy of Crisis City. The visuals wouldn't have looked out of place 
 on the Nintendo 64 (sans Expansion Pak) , and the motion controls vary between overly sensitive 
 and completely unresponsive. These issues make the crimes and health risks cropping up all over 
 town seem like little more than stubbed toes.  

           At least slamming into people is mildly amusing.      

  Emergency Crisis is a free-roaming 
 minigame adventure that has you take control of one of three emergency vehicles: an ambulance, 
 a fire truck, and a police car. Once you select a vehicle, you are set loose in an open world brimming 
 with people in need of help. Driving around the city in a nearly weightless car while you mow down 
 lackadaisical pedestrians and run slow-moving cars off the road is easily the high point of this 
 otherwise brutally challenging adventure. You won't be able to spend much time terrorizing the 
 people you are tasked to protect, though. With a timer quickly counting down the seconds you'll 
 have to enter missions to progress further in the game.  If  you want to progress.  

  Though each vehicle has its own specialties, they all share one common mission type: drive from 
 one point to another. While the other, nondriving missions range from extreme repetition that incites 
 carpal tunnel syndrome to nerve-racking tasks that would make a brain surgeon shake with frustration, 
 the driving missions are merely bland and unobtrusive. These are broken up into three different 
 categories: drive somewhere within a certain time limit, drive somewhere without crashing too much 
 (this is the least entertaining) , and drive somewhere without any restrictions at all. Driving 
 around the same environment over and over again is hardly fun, but it feels like a welcome reprieve 
 when you consider the other tasks that are out there.  

  The ambulance-specific missions are nearly impossible. Most of these missions have you fishing 
 various objects out of people, and they are all excruciating. The most frustrating mission finds 
 a rusty nail lodged in the belly of some foolish, foolish man. Using the pointing feature to aim 
 your Wii Remote at the screen, you have to attach the nail to a magnet and slowly wind your metal 
 foe through the victim's digestive system. The business end of the magnet has squiggly lines billowing 
 out of it to indicate where the magnetic charge is strongest. Coincidentally, this is the exact 
 size and shape of the imbedded nail. You have to engulf the nail entirely in the magnetic field, 
 sticking it loosely to your operating tool. Here's where it gets interesting. Sometimes the nail 
 will fall off if you get too close to the intestinal lining. If the angle of the nail shifts even 
 slightly, you won't be able to pick it up again. Trying to navigate through a narrow labyrinth 
 with zero margin for error just isn't fun.  

  There's no point in boring you with more details of the extremely frustrating ambulance missions, 
 but suffice it to say, they are all unforgivably difficult. When a minigame deems you a failure 
 if you simply move your unsupported hand a centimeter in any direction, there is a serious problem. 
 And though the other two vehicles don't feature these stress-inducing motion-controlled minigames, 
 they still lack even the vaguest hint of fun. Rapidly wiggling the Wii Remote to either put out 
 a garbage fire (as the fire truck) or inflate a flat tire (as the police car) grew tiresome shortly 
 after the Wii launched.  

           Why are people swallowing nails anyway?      

  Though the moldy visuals will not deter you from enjoying this game to the same extent that the 
 broken controls and repetitive mission structure do, they are still irredeemably awful. From blurry 
 textures pasted on every solid structure, to character models completely devoid of detail, Emergency 
 Mayhem is one of the ugliest current-generation games around. It's not surprising at all that this 
 game started life on the PlayStation 2 more than six years ago. Development time may have been 
 better spent bringing the graphics up to modern standards rather than implementing frustration-fueled 
 motion controls.  

  Not even a multiplayer mode can make these treacherous minigames shine. In fact, playing Emergency 
 Mayhem with more people makes the game even worse. The main problem is that you have to compete 
 in the same tired minigames from the single-player mode. The mildly fun driving missions have been 
 completely removed in this mode, replaced with one arduous task after another until one person 
 decides to throw the match and end the torment.  

  Emergency Mayhem is a complete failure. The fact that many games properly use motion controls makes 
 the problems in Emergency Mayhem even more damning. There is no reason to play this minigame collection. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Emergency Mayhem I could not wait for this game it really did just look like fun and a bit like 
 Crazy Taxi but I was wrong. Emergency Mayhem has you playing as a police driver, ambulance and 
 fire fighter which are mixed in with mini games.
  
  The game lets you drive around parts of the place called Crisis City after doing each mission it 
 will unlock another part of the city. Emergency Mayhem has a different set of mini games such as 
 trying to get the fire out which has you moving your wii remote up and down, it has you guiding 
 penguins back in the sea which has you moving your Wii remote with them, saving people from the 
 building you have a trampoline and you have to guide them to safety, it also has things such as 
 going in peoples body's and getting a fly or even nail out why in the hell would you swallow a 
 nail not a good idea to do this is very awkward you have to move your Wii remote and press A sometimes 
 the controls are awkward. There's 30 mini games and theres just to many to name also you have to 
 catch monkeys seems to be big thing in the game I don't see why (Fire fighters get monkeys) , patiences 
 (for the ambulance driver) and robbers (for the cops) this involves you running them over you can't 
 get out the car and get them you run over then thats teaching people the wrong thing as this game 
 is pretty much aimed for kids it's terrible. The mini games are just repeated over and over and 
 eventually your going to get sick of doing the same thing.
  
  The controls to the game are a little awkward you use your Wii remote to drive you press B and 
 to reverse you press A the nunchuck you steer using the analog stick on it and Z lets you use the 
 siren but only for a limited time.
  
  The game also has a major down fall as sometimes the arrow does not appear for some reason it seems 
 after doing so many missions it just disappears and you have no clue where to go and sometimes 
 it will come back. The worst thing that happened to me was you finish all the missions now you 
 have to go back to HQ I did but nothing happened and I had to go and do all 19 missions again. 
 As Codemasters released this game it should of been tested it just seems like third party games 
 on Wii are never done well, but some are though just check out the Rayman Raving Rabbids series 
 great third party game which has mini games.
  
  The directional arrow in the sometimes is just not helpful as sometimes guides you in the wrong 
 direction this is just annoying. I just want to go back to the mini games these can be annoying 
 as sometimes the controls do feel unresponsive and fails to pick up the movement at times.
  
  The dialogue in the game does get annoying as it is the same all the time if you lose a mission 
 the women is just nasty saying stuff like you suck talk about hurting a child's feelings the womens 
 says even more bad things. When the dialogue just could of been "you failed please retry you need 
 to stop the mayhem" but the dialogue gets repetitive and you will hear the same thing all the time. 
 You can also drive around on public pavements and even run them over no law enforcement will stop 
 you so this game really does live in a fantasy land.
  
  The graphics do look like Nintendo 64 graphics I don't really care because they don't look that 
 bad to me. The music sounds quite good and it really fits into the game very well. I really think 
 that this game should of been less cartoon looking graphics because that really lets it down.
 
  
  I really think this game could of been improved on to me it feels rushed and it is a bit stupid 
 no wonder this game is hard to find only one store in my town had it. If you like these style games 
 just stick with Crazy Taxi cause that game is good and avoid this one as it is very frustrating. 
 The Wii has better mini game collections WarioWare: Smooth Moves and Rayman Raving Rabbids series.
 
  
  This game was in plans in 2004 for Playstation 2 and XBOX by Acclaim since they went bankrupt they 
 lost it. Four years later and Codemasters release it which this is there version as Acclaim's version 
 looked a lot better and different to this. As I said it is quite boring and won't last long to 
 enjoy kids may get bored of it easily there are far more better games on Wii to be spending your 
 money on. This game cost me 20 pound and I feel ripped off I should of just have read other reviews 
 dam I wish I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ysef95
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is a prime example of a bad game everything about it is completely useless the missions are 
 awfully difficult and the driving is sometimes touch sensitiv (in a bad way) and the next minute 
 it's as responsive as a skeleton it's completely random
  
  Then we get to the graphics which yup you guessed it are as good as an old English cheese and ice 
 cream sandwich you really don't know how bad it looks 
  
  The only ting i like even vaguely like about this game which counts for the 1.5 i gave it is when 
 you mow people down apart from that it is rubbish DON'T BUY IT!!!!!!! 
  
  And then you find out the pric Look it doesn't matter i don't care i have already given you enough 
 reasons not to buy it honestly save yourself the frustration arguments tearsn and money if you 
 see this on the shelf just leave it ther to gather some more dust
  
  In fact i'm going to go and return it now 
  
  Hope this helps 
  
  ysef95 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
