-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Endless Ocean
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/foreverblue/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An experience like no other.
 At times it's absolutely gorgeous and mesmerizing.
 Lets you play at your own pace.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll see most of what the game has to offer in just a few hours.
 Slow pace might turn off a lot of people.
 The game's ocean isn't quite as endless as its title suggests.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 867 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Arika
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jan 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Endless Ocean is a unique game that will strike a chord with some and fall flat with others. 
 

  Considering the seemingly endless yearly parade of sports games and licensed game sequels being 
 released, you'd be forgiven for thinking that there's not much room left for originality in today's 
 video game market. There may not be much room, but games such as Endless Ocean -- in which your goal 
 is little more than to scuba dive at your leisure -- prove that there are still some truly unique 
 games being produced. Endless Ocean is also a difficult game to review because its slow pace and 
 subject matter are just as likely to appeal to people as it is to turn them off. One thing everyone 
 can agree on is that it is different.  

  Endless Ocean takes place off the coast of the fictitious island of Manoa Lai. You're a no-name 
 scuba diver for whom gameplay begins on a sailboat with a young woman named Kat. She gives you 
 all the details on what you'll be doing in your time at sea. You'll start off by exploring a few 
 shallow reef areas where you learn the game's simple controls. All you have to do is point the 
 Wii Remote at part of the screen, press a button to swim, and off you go in that direction. When 
 you see a fish or other sea creature, you can focus your attention on it and then learn about it 
 by tapping, petting, or feeding it. Once you see the creature sparkle, you'll instantly know what 
 type of animal it is, as well as a few basic facts. By interacting with the same creature over 
 the course of several days, you'll learn all there is to know about it, and that information automatically 
 goes into an encyclopedia that Kat's working on. There are several hundred types of fish and sea 
 animals in the game, so this task alone will keep you plenty busy.  

           Endless Ocean is at times mesmerizing      

  Once you've explored a few coastal 
 areas, you'll have the ability to pilot the boat. To do this, you open the map and click on a spot. 
 At first you won't have any information on the location, but once you've explored it you'll have 
 information on its name and topography. There are many different locations to enjoy, each filled 
 with different types of sea life. There's a deep abyss that will take you down more than 500 feet, 
 underwater caves filled with ruins, and loads of interesting rock and coral formations. You'll 
 need to visit these locations during the day as well as night to see certain kinds of life such 
 as whales, sharks, squid, seals, penguins, and more. Although you'll probably want to explore for 
 curiosity's sake, it's also how you advance the game's story, which is centered on Kat and her 
 love/fear of the ocean. It's not particularly engrossing, but it is interesting enough to get you 
 to see it all the way through.  

  At first you'll just learn the ins and outs of diving and be content to explore the sea, but as 
 you progress you'll be able to lead divers on personal tours, recover artifacts from the sea floor, 
 take photos for a magazine, and even stock an aquarium. You'll also befriend a few marine animals, 
 such as a bottlenose dolphin. You can name the dolphin, dive with it, and even teach it tricks. 
 Likewise, you'll be visited by a variety of animals that will suddenly appear on the deck of your 
 boat. It's cool to hang out with penguins and sea lions, but when a polar bear appears, it's a 
 bit worrisome at first. You know, 'cause there's a  polar bear  on your  sailboat .  

  Although there are actually plenty of tasks awaiting you in Endless Ocean, that's not really the 
 point. It feels as if the developer's goal was solely to create options and then leave the choice 
 of what you do and when you do it totally up to you. In fact, you don't have to do anything you 
 don't want to do in the game. Those of you who are able to make their own fun, enjoy what the game 
 gives them, and really get into the laid-back vibe of Endless Ocean will find it to be a unique -- often 
 mesmerizing -- experience. Seeing a whale for the first time, exploring ruins that have been hidden 
 underwater for centuries, and traveling to the pitch-black depths of the abyss are truly fascinating 
 experiences and are what make the game special.  

  As engrossing as Endless Ocean can be, it has a lot of faults that some people simply won't be 
 able to look past. The controls are fairly easy to learn, but keeping the remote pointed at the 
 screen gets old quickly, and every once in a while the pointer freaks out, turning your diver around 
 and causing you to lose your bearings. Most of the time it's easy to reorient yourself, but it 
 can be very difficult when you're in dark water or a cave, and your map isn't much help. Though 
 there are some interesting places to explore, there are a lot of empty, bland areas as well, so 
 after a while the diving can feel repetitive -- especially if you're playing for long stretches at 
 a time. Learning about fish by petting them is kind of silly, and it gets tedious once you've learned 
 about most of the fish but still have to at least click on them because many fish look the same. 
 There's also no real danger. Some people will enjoy not having to worry about running out of air, 
 decompressing, monitoring surface time between dives, or the fact that petting a shark you know 
 nothing about is perfectly A-OK. Others will find the lack of any sort of danger boring.  

  If you love the game and want to share the experience with a friend, or you're not enjoying it 
 and want to try to spice things up, you can dive with a partner. Unfortunately, both those who 
 love and hate the game will likely be disappointed by its multiplayer aspect; it's difficult to 
 set up and not very rewarding once you've joined another diver. First, you'll need to get your 
 game-specific friend code and send it to a friend so he or she can add you. Then you've got to 
 get your friend's code and add it. Finally, you have to arrange to be online at the same time and 
 figure out who will be visiting who. Once you're on the same boat, basically all you can do is 
 dive together, so you jump in the water and follow one another around while looking at fish -- just 
 like the single-player game, except you can't advance the story at all. You also can't communicate 
 much, either, outside of some simple one- or two-word phrases that can be displayed by tapping 
 the D pad.  

  Endless Ocean's presentation is uneven. Sometimes it's extremely beautiful, such as when you're 
 exploring a rainbow-colored reef and an enormous blue whale appears from the ocean's depths and 
 gracefully glides past. Most of the fish and other forms of sea life look and move realistically, 
 and there's a lot of variety to them. The way the sunlight dances off of the water and shines through 
 crevasses to illuminate the ocean's floor is also impressive. There are plenty of beautiful moments, 
 but there are many others that are not so beautiful. Sometimes you'll find yourself swimming over 
 endless sand and rock terrain, where one area is indistinguishable from the next, and with no fish 
 in sight. The visuals are also distinctly better underwater than above. This is a good thing, given 
 that it's a game about scuba diving, but it's also a bad thing because you spend a lot of time 
 on your ugly, aliased boat while looking at ugly, aliased landmasses.  

           and at other times not so captivating.      

  The game's soundtrack, which 
 sounds a lot like Enya or something you'd hear in a spa, is generally off-putting, but occasionally 
 it manages to make the moment, such as when "Amazing Grace" plays as you glide through the water 
 on the back of a humpback. If the included tunes aren't your cup of tea, then you can play mp3 
 files from an SD card, but you should at least give the default soundtrack a listen before you 
 decide to dive to the soothing sounds of Rancid.  

  Endless Ocean is worth a look for anyone interested enough in the game to read the review. Sure, 
 its pacing is often painfully slow, and you'll see most of what there is to see in a few hours 
 because the ocean isn't quite as endless as the title indicates. Nevertheless, when Endless Ocean 
 is at its best, it's soothing, beautiful, fun, and unlike any other game out there.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (73 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a relaxing experience and an extremely welcome change of pace among all of these 
 intense action shooters.
  
  Story puts you as a professional scuba diver in Manaurai Sea and you need to collect your personal 
 encyclopedia of marine life, take clients to dives, take underwater pictures and most of all: just 
 swim and relax after a hard day's work or after playing an intense shooter for 4 hours straight.
 
  
  Graphics are just brilliant in Wii standards, but still there are some rough edges. Facial expressions 
 are woody and the draw distance is not that great. Worse thing is that underwater world doesn't 
 feel like a big huge world, since you can swim in a very small area at a time. The game tells you 
 to turn back if you swim too far. This takes away the feel that you really are swimming in an ocean. 
 Sound design consists of a few effects and mostly there's a relaxing silence when diving. Sometimes 
 a complete silence is as good of a sound effect as is the best of music. Unfortunately there's 
 no voice acting what so ever and even the characters' lips stay still all the time. Music is also 
 relaxing and enjoyable. Everything just urges you to relax.
  
  Controls are simple, if not very responsive. Luckily you are not in a hurry at any point in the 
 game so it's not a huge deal. Most of the time you are pointing the Wii remote across the screen 
 making choices that way just like in those classical adventure games. It all feels a bit dated, 
 but still it works just fine.
  
  Gameplay is swimming underwater while taking pictures, finding items and collecting your own personal 
 encyclopedia of marine animals. This happens by focusing to a particular animal, padding it with 
 a Wii remote and maybe feeding it. This way you "get to know them" and make progress. At times 
 you are issued in diving to specific locations and taking clients into dives. All of this is optional 
 and you don't have to do anything, if you don't want to.
  
  Wi-Fi connection let's you invite a friend to join you, but it's a wasted opportunity, since you 
 can't save your collected animals and items while playing in a friend's game. For this reason Endless 
 Ocean is best played alone.
  
  After a few hours Endless Ocean can feel a little boring, but this means that it is best played 
 in small relaxing doses rather than as a gaming marathon. Some players will be disappointed in 
 that everything is so slow, but when approached with right expectations Endless Ocean is truly 
 a unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skotzmun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:16 am PT
Review:  I'm a qualified diver, but diving is a costly pastime. :-) Therefore I figured anything that can 
 help give me that weird mix of mental calm and absolute thrill that "getting wet" does is worth 
 checking out. 
  
  It has to be said, Endless Oceans actually does come quite some way towards that state of mind, 
 which is pretty damned impressive, I reckon. OK, so it isn't technically accurate - there's no 
 worry of DCS, and as for encouraging you to TOUCH the creatures (no no no no no no no no!) it's 
 a bit naughty. But, hey, I love playing Grand Theft Auto as well, and I've not car-jacked anyone 
 yet. :-)
  
  But the general ambience... pootling around, looking at lots of lovely fish and making the occasional 
 wondrous find is pretty much what recreational diving is about. While the graphics may not be hyper-real, 
 it can still make you go "Woah!" in a good way.
  
  As a game, there's not really much to do per se... but as a way to relax (and learn a bit about 
 fish) ... I love it. Right down to the polar bear on the boat deck (although he did look a bit of 
 a stoner, I have to say) .
  
  Ultimate accolade? My very experienced diving buddy who NEVER plays computer games was still happily 
 bimbling around on this after four hours. If you want to try something a LOT different you could 
 do worse than scour the second hand shelves for Endless Oceans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I have had a love for the ocean since I was young and since sadly, I live no where near an ocean 
 I need to find some way to explore my favorite place right? Well thats where Endless Ocean comes 
 into play. The minute you get past the title screen and enter the deep blue, you will instantly 
 become immersed in this world. Every graphical aspect is lush and extremely detailed, taking the 
 Wii's graphic capabilities to their max. The sound effects are great and really help to put you 
 in the role of this scuba diver. There are tons of species of fish to search for and research ranging 
 from sharks to whales to dolphins to smaller creatures like starfish, flounder, crabs.. just everything. 
 The controls are so simple that even a baby could play this game. Since it has no violence whatsoever, 
 this game is suited for any age and I'm 100% sure that anybody would enjoy this game no matter 
 what genre you prefer or what age you are.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinytoe007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  It`s got great graphics probably one of the best games on wii very relaxing and is a both gender 
 game also. My parents enjoy playing it. You can feed fish, penguins, seals, and dolphins. Sometimes 
 seals, penguins and birds appear on your small boat. you can also tame dolphins and if you are very 
 friendly to that type of fish which you need to have a three level of acknowledgement follow you 
 until you go up on your boat. On your boat you can see your treasures found, listen to music but 
 you need to have an SD card inserted in the SD slot with music in, look at the view, talk to your 
 guide, when you enter the cabin you can move your boat to a specific location, change clothes, save, look 
 at your taken pictures in the game, go to sleep and see the fish you learned and saw. Oh and outside 
 you can also dive with your friends and visit their boats.
  
  GAME PLAY:9.5
  
  GRAPHICS:8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpwasel
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  I love scuba diving, and so far, as just a Michigander, I haven't done any ocean diving yet. I'm 
 hoping, although I'm not convinced, that this game will be the start of a new genre. As there is 
 arcade style and simulation style race car games, this would very much qualify as an 'arcade' scuba 
 diving game. It is meant purely for the enjoyment of exploring around and seeing all the cool sights. 
 As a scuba diver though, there are quite a few things that are quite far from reality. I'd really 
 like to see the developers (or competing developers) of this game take it up a notch on another 
 installation where they bump up the 'simulation' end of things. Limit dive times, don't limit exploration 
 distances (let us loose the boat if we want to) , make the ocean truly 'oceanic' and not the size 
 of a large lake, limit dive times to coincide with what size air tank you have and what depth you 
 are diving. Add a dive computer so the player can track these details. Include getting bends, noxed 
 (drunk feeling from going too deep too fast) , etc... Make it real and you will have a '10' game 
 on your hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyan_Flame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I will break down the review into different sections. Gameplay, sound, graphics, online.
  
  The gameplay is rather simple, but satisfying. You are a diver and can do various activities regarding 
 the Manoia Sea, as it's called. These activities include: taking pictures of fish, collecting treasure, 
 learning about fish, guiding NPCs (not annoying actually) , and doing story related tasks. The story 
 is rather tacked on, as it's just about your partner, Katie. You do get to customize your diver, 
 if only changing his suite and hair style/color. It's very relaxing, and enjoyable. It's not realistic 
 though. Your air will never run out, unless you stay in the same area for an hour or two. There's 
 no pressure dangers, and nothing attacks you, including sharks. But it doesn't detract from the 
 enjoyment. The controls are simple, you point and the screen and press B to swim in that direction. 
 The gameplay is nonlinear as you are always discovering new fish or locales, of which include ruins, 
 a sunken ship, and a cave. The only thing you could ask for is a bit more availability in your 
 movement. As all you can do, in terms of special tricks, is spin around by shaking the wiimote 
 to make sharper turns. The only bad part about the gameplay, the boat. Your characters walks far 
 too stiffly and not much happens there, save for the story and email requests for side activities.
 
  
  Gamneplay: 9.0
  
  The sound, an enchanting voice, and choir, sing perfectly in certain places. The music, is rather 
 nice as well, but I prefer the angelic voices myself. The only downside to the music is that it 
 isn't always on, most of the time you're listening to your diver breath. Other than that, it is 
 wonderful.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  
  Endless Ocean is beautiful, at times.... Sometimes it's breathtaking to see fish swimming left and 
 right and to see the lush coral reefs. Other times, you're swimming in a rather empty space, which 
 is not so beautiful, nor does it help with immersion. The fish all look beautiful, save for one 
 or two excepts that look a bit blocky. But that's just one or two fish of the hundred or so that 
 they have.
  
  Graphics: 7.0
  
  The worst that Endless Ocean has, is it's online. You can dive with your friends, and it's fun, 
 but communication is thrown out the window. You are given only 16 phrases that you can tell your 
 partner, including: "Wait!" "Follow me!" and the best "Return to Boat". There is an underwater 
 pen than you can use to chat, but it's like instant messages, with less ink. You'll have to press 
 enter and likely continue your sentence in another writing catastrophe. Sure it's fun diving with 
 others, but it gets old after a while, and the communication is awful.
  
  Online: 5.0
  
  If you want to relax with a game, this is a good choice. But if you want to play with others, 
 better off with something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divine_donkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is simply for pure fun and relaxation. Playing it during the evenings after work 
 would certainly help you sit back on the couch enjoying the beautiful underwater scenery and also 
 the good soundtrack. Furthermore, you get to add your own mp3 files if you want to listen to a 
 different set of songs but i would recommend the original soundtrack which fits perfectly with 
 the game. The game only but also the greatest shortcoming is its non-existent storyline. Though 
 i would have guessed that it was purposely made this way in order to give people the freedom to 
 do their own stuffs and you can choose to not do anything that you dislike. But still, a good storyline 
 to accompany the freedom would have been preferred and could certainly set this game in the most 
 wanted list. Having said so, its gameplay is repetitive and after playing for the first few hours 
 you would and can expect that that all the rest to be in the similar mould. No doubt it is cool 
 to explore the ocean and interact with fishes but do be reminded that extended hours of gameplay 
 would kill your desire to play this game in the future. So i suggest that you curb your gameplay 
 to 1-2 hours a day to ensure the game's longevity and make you see through the whole game. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsta7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a very unique game. You swim in the ocean, discovering fish, wrecks, items and 
 more. You follow a story loosely, which keeps you finding more and more destinations, and even 
 after the story ends, there is plenty more to discover. Also, you dont have to play the story non-stop, 
 you can do it when you feel like it. The game has alot of value, and by the time youve mainly finished 
 it, or even just the story, you'll feel you've got your money's worth. It also has an awesome atmosphere 
 while you are playing, and you get nervous when you're diving at night when it's all dark, and 
 when you're in an open area. You also get a nice surprise and fright when you turn around and you 
 see a huge whale or shark. Endless Ocean unbelievably under-rated and brilliant game which the 
 Wii doesn't have enough of, and a game that every Wii owner should try.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY - 10
  
  You swim at a perfect pace and the controls are great.
  
  GRAPHICS - 10
 
  
  Amazing graphics, the sunshine through the water looks amazing.
  
  SOUND - 8
  
  The music is pretty good, all of the music except one track is Hayley Westenra. You can use custom 
 music through an SD Card.
  
  VALUE - 8
  
  It will last you quite a while, and its definitely worth the money.
  
  
  The Wii only has 
 a few great games, and this is definitely one of the greats. Give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  If you like your ultra violence, non-stop action or insane button mashing, then stop reading here, 
 as Endless Ocean is not for you. If, however, you want a calming and relaxing game, then you've 
 come to the right place.
  
  Endless Ocean has no real objectives as such. There are certain key things you have to do to continue 
 a story, but once that has finished, you are free to roam the ocean to your hearts content. As 
 you progress the story, more areas will become available, then there will be no restrictions as 
 to where you can go or what you can do. Endless is the perfect word to describe this game, as it 
 never ends, and you certainly won't run out of things to do. There are literally hundreds of species 
 of marine life to see, each with their own detailed description of what their behaviour is like 
 and other such traits. Not only this, but you someties recieve e-mails to take a certain person 
 on a guided dive or to take a photo of a certain creature. Do well, and you could be rewarded with 
 more diving gear to choose from.
  
  It doesn't stop there. There are certain treasures you can find along your journey. Some unlock 
 more creatures, others extra diving gear, and others don't serve any purpose at all. You can also 
 take any creature you've encountered before and place them in an aquarium, so you can get up close 
 and personal with them any time you want. Not only this, but you can also play with another person 
 thanks to a wi-fi connection, so you could dive with someone on the other side of the world.
  
  Graphically, the amount of detail is quite extraordinary, especially on the marine life itself. 
 The first time you see a blue whale, your jaw will drop, it's that good. There is a drop in quality 
 when you go aboard your boat, but it's really nothing drastic. 
  
  Hayley Westenra lent her voice for Endless Ocean, and her hauntingly beautiful voice captures the 
 atmosphere of Endless Ocean perfectly, whether it be the soothing Shenandoah or the uplifting Benedictus, 
 there's a track to suit each area of the game. Sure, you can add your own music, but why would 
 you want to? The SFX are also pretty spot on, albeit there's not really a lot of them. Dolphins 
 sound like dolphins, whales sound like whales, you get the picture.
  
  Endless Ocean has enough in it to keep any perfectionist going for a VERY long time. It will take 
 you literally months to fill in every page of the bestiary and to find all the treasures, and when 
 you get bored doing that, just go out and explore, the world (or ocean,) is your oyster.
  
  Sure, Endless Ocean isn't for everyone, and tedium could set in over prolonged periods of play, 
 but all in all, Endless Ocean is a great experience, and is a breath of fresh air amongst the gore 
 and violence that most games consist of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is one of the better games for the Wii. It's a totally different type of gaming experience. 
 Who thought diving and petting fish could be fun. Weird but fun! Diving during the night time is 
 really mysterious and at times spooky. 
  
  At $29.99, Endless Ocean is worth buying. Please note, this game is not for everybody. The underwater 
 environments and fish are fun to explore except at no time during the game is your life at risk, 
 and maybe that's the problem with Endless Ocean. It's too calm and peaceful. There's no bad weather 
 or stormy seas, the weather is always sunny and perfect! Which gets old really fast. You don't 
 even have to worry about running out of air in your air tanks. I wish your diver could have a speargun 
 or have the ability to enter a shark cage. Something instead of the ability petting fish or taking 
 pictures of fish. 
  
  
  This game needs some danger.... The ocean can rage and be unforgiving in real life, Why not in 
 the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is not really a game, but more a diving sim. It's all about diving into the ocean 
 and discovering fish, looking for fish and encountering new fish. You don't have to worry about 
 getting lost, running out of oxygene or diver's disease. Just dive into the blue while listening 
 to songs from New Zealand's sopran Hahley Westenra. You can also listen to your own music through 
 an SD-card. After a while you discover new territories, night-diving and deep-sea diving. You can 
 also train and name some Dolphins you meet. You also can take customers for a dive and get new 
 diving equipment and there are also mysterious ruins dedicated to an elder Orca-God. This together 
 makes for a very special and innovative wii-experience.
  The main downside to this game is the amount of space it requires on the wii's memory, which is 
 too small to begin with. It requires 34 blocks which is quite a lot. This is why i don't play it 
 anymore. Still, a very special game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicgamer_Tess
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  When I first started Playing Endless Ocean my first thought wasOh my god... this is beautiful" 
 And I still think it is.
  
  It's downright amazing. Still the downside of the game is that it's not as Endless as I thought 
 it'd be. It ends way to quickly in story. And I'm no fan of the tricks you can do with your Partner (s) 
 it's very boring and limited.
  
  there's not much logic when it comes to how to get info on the fish and animals. Petting and Poking 
 is not very logical but still a fun and calming way of learning.
  
  I personally would of been thrilled seeing more fishes and maybe more Mythological and extinct 
 animals as you only find two. 
  
  I have yet not tried the 2player dive. as none of my friends got the Endless ocean. but it seems 
 very fun.
  
  All in all so is this game very relaxing and much fun. exploring and poking fish is something I'd 
 do for a long while. So See you there in the depths of Endless Ocean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game comes along that tries something completely new. The gaming market 
 is full of action games, RPGs, and other genres like licensed sports games but certain games out 
 there try something really different to the point where they are hard to describe. Endless Ocean 
 is one of them. While its leisurely pace and lack of challenge may displease many people who are 
 used to the fast-pace and difficulty of other games, Endless Ocean does its job extremely well 
 and will please anyone with an open mind who decides to give it a try.
  
  Endless Ocean's premise is quite simple. It takes place in the waters of the Manoa Lai Sea (which 
 isn't real so don't go looking it up as your next vacation spot) . You play as a scuba diver who 
 probably wants to make a name for himself. You and your partner, Katherine Sunday travel through 
 the vast Manoa Lai doing all sorts of different things like salvaging items, learning more about 
 the aquatic wildlife, taking pictures to put in magazines, giving diving tours, and befriending 
 dolphins who can be your diving partners. While you're doing your job, you can even get to know 
 more about your partner's past and make groundbreaking discoveries.
  
  The game also plays incredibly simply. The game takes place underwater most of the time and you 
 swim around. You can close up on the aquatic wildlife in order to closely examine them and you 
 can also feed them, take pictures, and use your underwater whistle to call dolphins. On your boat, 
 you can check your e-mail on your mobile phone (which informs you of diving and photo requests 
 and it also lets you access new gear which is somehow magically delivered to you through e-mail 
 attachments) , talk with your partner, and sit down and enjoy the scenery (which is a bit of a boring 
 feature) .
  
  At this point, you might be wondering what this game has going for it. The gameplay features aren't 
 exactly great, the story is simple, and so on. Well, that's what I meant about Endless Ocean being 
 a unique and different game because the gameplay isn't what makes it likable and special. The game 
 focuses on immersing you in the huge and vast Manoa Lai. You can simply swim around leisurely and 
 examine corals, you can bump into huge blue whales and whale sharks that are quite astonishing 
 to look at, and really, the point of the game is to relax and immerse yourself in the ocean which 
 is something that Endless Ocean does wonderfully.
  
  On the technical side of things, Endless Ocean also excels. The graphics are some of the best on 
 the Wii (although some people who are used to the obviously superior graphics of the Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 won't be too impressed) filled with a detailed environment and fish that look like their real-life 
 counterparts. Much of the music underwater consists of songs which are sung by Hayley Westenra 
 who sings quite well and her songs really fit the mood of the game. One big thing about the music 
 however is that the game allows you to put MP3 files from your SD Card into the game and play them 
 which allows for an even larger variety of music if you don't like Hayley Westenra's which is a 
 really good option to have. The game also pretty much lasts for a really long time because even 
 after finishing the short story mode, there's still an entire ocean out there to explore and many 
 more missions to do.
  
  In the end, Endless Ocean is really a great game because it does what it tries to do successfully. 
 It proves to be an incredibly relaxing and immersive diving simulator (which is further enhanced 
 by the first-person mode) and it has some really good sound and graphics. Obviously, the game is 
 not for everyone. I cannot stress this enough. Just because I recommend it to people with an open 
 mind and I personally think it's great, many people out there will hate it and one really should 
 think carefully before making the decision to purchase this game. Otherwise, it's a great game 
 and I recommend it to anyone who wants to give it a try and thinks it looks interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatwhaleshark
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Put simply, this is the kind of game that you'll either like, or not. If you have a lot of time, 
 and like slow paced games, this is for you. If you love the ocean and want to explore it, this 
 is for you. If you like free-roaming games that don't force you to do anything, then this is for 
 you.
  
  However if you don't fit into the above criteria, then your not going to like this game. There 
 is no real danger, nor is there any real end. The "plot" only takes about 10 hours to complete, 
 and is basically only there to unlock places.
  
  This game does live up to it's name though. It really is an endless ocean.
  While the ocean in 
 game isn't actually endless, the game itself can be. There is always something to see. Besides 
 that, there is always a lot to do. Even after the plot, the player won't have near everything 
 
  "completed". See, the game has an encyclopedia of sorts, that has all the fish and other marine 
 life you've found so far. Now that book has room for over 200 species, each with 3 entries. It'll 
 take well over 10 hours to find each species 3 separate times, because you can only get those entries 
 by encountering the species in question 3 separate times.
  
  As for gameplay, the controls are basic and easy. One button to swim, another to click, etc. The 
 manner in which you interact with the marine life may be a bit unrealistic, but simple enough, 
 yet varied enough to satisfy. You got your fish food, your petting, prodding, camera, special underwater 
 pen, etc. 
  
  In summary, while I love this game, and many others do, that's because it appeals to our interests. 
 It may not appeal to yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  WARNING!!! THIS GAME IS NOT FOR EVERYONE!!! If you absolutely crave fast-paced games with action, 
 like Call of Duty 4, Halo, Legend of Zelda or various other games, then this game might not really 
 be for you! However, if you are not afraid to kick back and relax or play casual games, this game 
 is worth checking into.
  
  POINT OF GAME: This game is meant to be a relaxing game. Kick back, get away from it all and enjoy 
 the ocean in all of her beautiful and mysterious glory. You play as a scuba diver and along with 
 your assistant (who can't swim.*snickering*) , you dive down and discover various forms of marine 
 wildlife in all their virtual reality glory in a game environment that is the ocean bay surrounding 
 the fictional island of Manoa Lai. Dive, discover, learn, and relax!
  
  GRAPHICS (8/10) : Almost all the graphics while in the ocean look fantastic. The sea creatures look 
 awe-inspiring and the environments range from beautiful coral reefs to the darkest depths of an 
 ocean abyss. You may even discover a few ruins while you're down there! However, some areas are 
 not that spectacular, mostly just sand floors and the great ocean blue beyond. The animations of 
 the sea creatures look great, almost real, especially in the abyss area! Shadowing effects at night 
 with your flashlight make the creatures look even more real! The same cannot be said for the humans, 
 however. Their lips don't even move when they talk (a gaming trait that should be extinct by now) , 
 even if there is no spoken dialogue, and there is a huge lack in variety of how they just look. 
 Some people have the exact same hair color, no real variety. But, overall, the graphics are just 
 to die for.
  
  SOUND (6/10) : The music is mostly Hayley Westenra and other typical ocean-themed music. It works, 
 it really does. It may not be for everyone, but, even though I mainly listen to rock (more specifically, 
 metal) I found that I liked this music. It really is soothing. And hey, if you don't like it, you 
 can play whatever music you like in-game via San Disk! The rest of the sound is somewhat average. 
 You rarely hear any obviously noticeable sounds while underwater, save for your character's breathing 
 through scuba gear, and dolphin sounds and just plain sloshing water around you. You have to listen 
 closely to get a feel for it, which is something that I know a lot of people won't have the patience 
 to do.
  
  CONTROLLING AND PLAYABILITY (7/10) : The controls are mostly okay, but sometimes a bit cumbersome. 
 Many times, you hit the wrong button while in first-person view. Navigation controls are okay, 
 just hold down B and point at the screen and the diver will go in that direction. The games' difficulty 
 is not that hard, after all, this is a casual game we're talking about here. There are, however, 
 a few annoying restrictions while playing, like not straying too far from your boat. While that 
 may be a rule for safety in real life, in a video game, it is quite annoying that you cannot stray 
 too far.
  ENTERTAINMENT (9/10) : And who said educational video games weren't fun??? You have to interact 
 with the various marine creatures in the game, like feeding or touching them, in order to learn 
 some interesting facts about them (they are all true, believe it or not!) . While that whole idea 
 may seem a bit silly after a while, you can never really get bored at watching the wildlife in 
 action. The AI of the sea creatures is perfect! They act almost exactly as they would in real life 
 (by almost, I mean, sharks can get annoyed by you, but will never attack you. In real life, despite 
 the huge majority of sharks being harmless, they would retaliate if you annoy them to an extreme 
 degree) . You can also make your own aquarium, which can include the fish that you discover and 
 learn about. While some of the games' less than spectacular environments may degrade the experience 
 a little, overall, the game will have you glued to the TV with its awe-inspiring visuals that are 
 fun to look at. You can even train dolphins! I admit, this game is a lot of fun, but it may not 
 be for everyone!
  
  REPLAYABILITY ( 2 out of 5) : Since there's no real plot to the whole story, save for the assistants' 
 role as a minor love interest if you're playing as a male character, there is no real need to replay 
 the game all the way through. Just keep playing on the file you have. The game is meant to make 
 you relax.
  
  THE GOOD:
  - The majority of the graphics look fantastic.
  - The controls mostly solid and the learning curve is fast
  - Fun entertainment
  - Soothing 
 music
  - Interesting way to learn about marine wildlife.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Sound effects are a little hard to catch.
  - There are some less than spectacular environments.
 
  - Not for gamers who crave blowing stuff up with a rocker launcher.
  
  THE BOTTOM-LINE: This game is a whole lot of fun. This game, I will admit, will not be for everyone, 
 especially those who crave fast-paced action. However, this is a game that is, at the very least, 
 worth checking out. If you haven't played this game yet, try it out and you can either thank me 
 for saving you money by just renting or you can hate me for making you spend an additional $8 or 
 so to rent it instead of buying it right off the bat. But this is a game that people can enjoy, 
 especially if you're into marine biology or other things. I really enjoy playing this game.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 7.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  i started out liking this game and found it quite fun exploring new areas and discovering new fish 
 but then i started to get bored of moving your ship from one place to another seeing a few new 
 fish then do the same thing again and the game doesnt seem to have much of a story line which is 
 a shame becuase that would have made it better
  
  the graphichs are actually quite good especially when you go on a night dive but its still pretty 
 much the same thing over and over again
  
  it has some great songs tho which help you relax more when your playing but there nothing to stop 
 you realxing cos no fish actually do anything apart from swim
  
  you go right up to a great white shark and keep bashing him and stuff and nothing happens making 
 the game boring becuase nothing can happen apart from swimming
  
  i would have enjoyed this game a lot more if there was some danger or more and better things to 
 do then taking the same people on tours everytime to a fish it just gets boring so fast and dont 
 know how people think its good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  I never imagined there would be a game where you do nothing but explore. Endless Ocean does that 
 and more with discovering ruins and creatures you would never think existed and of course the common 
 sea animals like sea turtles and barracudas, etc. If you have your own songs saved onto an SD memory 
 card, you can use them, but it's not necessary because the songs that are provided in the game 
 are soothing and relaxing and just fits the game perfectly. The music provided in the game was 
 contributed by the New Zealand singer Hayley Westenra. My first impression of the song Prayer, 
 which is the theme song to Endless Ocean was a chill down my spine and tears running down my eyes. 
 I can honestly say that it was absolutely the most amazing voice I ever heard, and I listen to 
 soundscapes aside from rock. Hayley's amazing voice is stunning. Enough about the music. The game 
 is pretty simple: just swim around and find new creatures to fill up your encyclopedia and sometimes, 
 you'll have to be a tour guide to other scuba divers. All the creatures you find can be used in 
 an aquarium. For instance: put some flounders, a blue whale, 3 sea turtles and 2 manta rays. Unfortunately, 
 it CAN get boring since there's nothing else to do but THAT. Overall, I can say that this is a 
 great game if you just want relaxing music and stress-free gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Endless ocean is a slow game with almost no action, but that doesn't mean it's a bad game. Endless 
 ocean has a good campaign that is really hard to fully complete. You have to swim around the ocean 
 finding things such as fish, ships, underwater cities, and ancient artifacts. You can also find 
 and train dolphins to swim with you down in the ocean. the main part of the game though is to find 
 the ancient mother some kind of legendary whale that is bigger than a blue whale. You can also 
 freely swim around the ocean, walk around the boat, and go to your aquarium and add fish to it. 
 All in all endless ocean is a fulfilling game and I would definatlly recommend for slow gamers. 
 I personally don't really like the the game myself because I like shooters and action games more 
 than slow games like puzzles and mazes. This game deserves an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Games generally aimed at gentle audiences usually tend to strike a chord with some gamers, and 
 it may not, to other gamers. Endless Ocean is no exception, but it creates it's gentle underwater 
 escapist world with some great quality.
  
  Endless Ocean lands you in the flappers of a scuba diver exploring the Manaurai (Manoa Lai) Sea. 
 Endless Ocean allows you the optional choices in order to look for sunken tresures, and general 
 sea life. A scuba diving assistant named Catherine Sunday will help you look for certain objects 
 under the sea. The more objects you find under the sea, and enough pictures of those objects that 
 you take under the sea, will give you more and more points in order to unlock new tasks for you 
 to complete. The premise of Endless Ocean is a lighthearted and simple one, but its fainthearted 
 premise is more than enough for the player to search under the expanded strecthes of the Manaurai 
 Sea. Endless Ocean's concept is just enough for the player to truly make the game a immersive and 
 colourful world, and the multitude of tasks for you to complete allows you to explore the sea in 
 truly great detail.
  
  The controls of Endless Ocean generally rely solely on the Wii Remote. The player has to point 
 the Wii Remote at the diver's cusor in order to move the character in the underwater world of the 
 sea. The controls of the Wii remote used in Endless Ocean are easy to pick up and play and as respoonsive 
 and as slick as any Wii game can get. The controls of Endless Ocean, with it's slightly point and 
 click style of gameplay, also gives warm nastolgia of the classic Sega point and click games. During 
 some spots, there are some slight moments where the controls don't respond, but overall the controls 
 are solid and are generally acessible enough for the game to progess, and hint a warm memory of 
 point and click games at the same time.
  
  Endless Ocean arguably has to one of the most visually stunning and atmospheric games to ever land 
 on the Wii market. Endless Ocean's sea is lived up to it's promise, due to the fantastic lighting, 
 and generally a lively use of colour. The vibrant colour interactions of the sea creatures moving 
 under the sea, combined with the bright lighting of the undersea world, makes Endless Ocean a much 
 more colourful and prettier game than the game even starts with. Endless Ocean's techincialities 
 used in the level design are put on for great show, as well as a world of depth.
  
  In the end, Endless Ocean is a game that fufills it's purpose with some top-notch production values, 
 and a huge level of depth that will defietely strike a chord for the gamer looking for a quiet 
 heart in the gaming world.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Throughout history, there have been a select few deep-sea diving games, usually few and far between, 
 that have been generally uninteresting and grossly unrealistic.
  
  Endless Ocean breaks this cycle, by providing gamers with a unique experience, an unprecedented 
 perspective into aquatic life.
  
  The only thing that will turn off some gamers is the general lack of difficulty; it's impossible 
 to be attacked by what would otherwise be potentially hostile sea life (so if you're looking for 
 a thrilling shark chase, look elsewhere) and though enough time spent underwater will drain your 
 oxygen supply, complete depletion of it will only result in your immediate return to the boat.
 
  
  At the start of the game, you'll be able to customize your diver's appearance to your liking.
 
  Gameplay always begins on your boat.
  From the boat, you can move to any point on the map, access the game's MP3 Player (if you've uploaded 
 MP3s to your SD card) play around with your diving partner, and purchase new equipment (sent in 
 the form of e-mail attachments; how physical equipment can be obtained through an e-mail attachment 
 is beyond 
  me but maybe I'm overanalyzing) 
  These attachments include new hair, diving gear, and other equipment.
  
  Also found on the 
 boat is the WFC (Wi-Fi Connection) gate, which allows Wii Friends to visit one another, a message 
 board (containing hints posted by the associate) and a lounge chair for staring out at the ocean.
 
  
  The player will also receive e-mails notifying them of people looking for a diving partner, in 
 which case you can accept the e-mail within a week (game time, of course) or simply ignore it, 
 though at least one diving partner will reward you with a unique underwater pen that can be used 
 to map out positions that you've visited and would like to return to later (or draw funny pictures 
 underwater, wherever your creativity leads you) 
  
  A response will be sent to you after the dive is completed, notifying you of your diving partner's 
 enjoyment, or lack thereof- to get a positive, 5-star review simply make sure to find the particular 
 species of aquatic life they're seeking, and of course avoid losing your partner (which can happen, 
 in which case you need to retrace your steps and locate them)
  
  E-mails are also sent upon discovering new areas in the ocean, in the form of newsletters describing 
 the habitat.
  
  Diving partners (the first available being a dolphin) can be trained on the boat to do various 
 tricks, improving upon them depending upon the type of interaction you choose with the Wiimote, 
 as well as the force used in shaking the Wiimote.
  They can accompany you on your diving expeditions, and if lost can be retrieved by using a special 
 whistle.
  More diving partners can be found as you explore.
  
  At times, you'll find land-adapted sea life roaming around your boat, and these can be interacted 
 with in the same manner that one interacts with underwater aquatic creatures; either by pushing 
 a button to poke at it, or by holding said button and shaking the WIimote to gently rub it.
  Different animals respond to different forms of interaction, some will seem completely unresponsive 
 to your gestures of kindness until you feed them (your food supply is limited underwater but replenishes 
 upon returning to the boat)
  
  The controls are pretty simple, using the Nunchuck to move about and the Wiimote to interact with 
 the aquatic life or zoom in on objects or animals that must be observed closer; these are generally 
 hidden and are found by carefully observing the water until hearing a tone to indicate its presence 
 (upon highlighting the spot a swirl of colors will also indicate the presence of something that 
 needs to be analyzed closer)
  Fish that have not been discovered yet will show up as "???", rather than the name of their species, 
 until further interaction with them unlocks more in-depth information.
  
  Of course, the game isn't completely about open-ended ocean exploration, talking to your associate 
 will reveal the game's plot, and she'll send you on several unique missions even after the "end" 
 of the game.
  
  The game is most likely to appeal to those who have an affinity for exploring the natural beauty 
 that it has to offer, and for gamers who enjoy collecting things (in this case, underwater artifacts 
 and knowledge 
  of aquatic life)
  
  And with the luxury of an auto-swim button and the ability to toggle between third and first person 
 views, discovering the many hidden items and rare species of fish, laid-back gamers will find themselves 
 quite at home with Endless Ocean.
  
  Though its gameplay style is incredibly casual, exploring the ocean's depths can be a relaxing 
 experience for us hardcore gamers as well, who need a break from whatever else it is we're playing 
 at the time.
  
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylendal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is like no other game I have seen. From the very start, almost the entire game is 
 open to you. Only a few select areas are beyond your reach, and that ends soon. After an hour or 
 so of playtime, you are able to do everything in the game. 
  
  If you want something that will get your blood pumping, and your adrenaline skyrocketing, then 
 put this game down right now. You can't lose this game. If you want you can completely ignore any 
 sort of objectives or directions. 
  
  Why would you want to play this game? I honestly can't answer that question. I'm not sure why I 
 personally find it so fascinating. You could say that there is certainly elements of collecting 
 and exploring, but there is more to the game then that. The beautiful music, combined with the 
 fascinating landscapes draws you in, while the mysteries of the deep make you want to keep exploring. 
 
  
  With creatures like the 150 foot long Praya Dubia, or the 7 feet long, 10 feet tall Mola Mola, 
 or even the tiny Fangfish, with teeth almost the size of it's entire body. The best part is that 
 these, and every other creature in the game (with a sole exception) , are all real. All the dive 
 spots are based on real diving locales, and the creatures have realistic appearances and habitats.
 
  
  As I'm writing this, I'm looking at what I've written and realized that I can't do a game like 
 this justice in a review. It's strange, quirky, unique, and beautiful. 
  
  I understand that many people would not like this game, but I am strongly recommending that you 
 at least rent this game, because you may just find it fascinating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbodragon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Its perfect for any time you want to relax and chill out and see some beautiful 
 animation. Its fun, and there is no pressure to achieve anything. Nothing is going to eat you, 
 you wont run out of air. nothing crucial happening, you're just diving and looking around and maybe 
 IDing a few fish along the way. Some people are going to hate it, some arent going to get it, I 
 love it. Just sit back and enjoy the experience and let go of the stress of having to get things 
 to unlock other stuff to create bigger challenges etc etc. Just float and feed the fish. oh and 
 pet the penguins, thats pretty cool too. 
  
  The swim controls arent really exact, but you arent chasing or being chased so its ok if you cant 
 stop on a dime or its a little harder to get from A to B than maybe it could have been. other than 
 swimming which is point and click, the only other control is a simple scrolling menu under water 
 or the menu made up by the boats cabin.
  
  I wish the map was a little more detailed so i could see where I havent explored yet, that is the 
 biggest issue, other than that sit back and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottins
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean isn't your classic game that everyone wants. People who like action in their games 
 will not enjoy this at all. Thinking back to the game I can only remember one time of real danger. 
 
  
  Good:
  -Wii controls are solid.
  -Music selection from SD card
  -Multiplayer over Wi-Fi
  -It helps you relax
  -The story is very in-depth
  
  Bad:
  -Music 
 is ok but gets very repetitive
  -Very little danger element
  -The sharks don't feed on the fishes
  -No one truly gets the story -Some places look the same 
 to others
  
  Overall this game is good. To enjoy this game you must like certain attributes. If this looks interesting 
 rent it and if you don't like it return it and if you do buy it. It's as simple as that. I know 
 no one will read this review so if you are reading this you are probably the only one who ever 
 will. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Lets you choose your own pace.
  
  You can do what you like.
  
  Relaxing and mesmerizing and peaceful
  
  Beautiful landscapes.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Story 
 is a bit weak.
  
  Ocean not endless.
  
  Target area thing very annoying and frustrating.
  
  A few of Hayley Westenra's singing notes 
 are not quite there.
  
  
  A change from the bad quality sports and shooting games. Endless Ocean is a unique game which basically 
 allows you scuba dive at your leisure. Endless Ocean is a hard game to review as there is no other 
 game like it.
  
  You can relax in the ocean and explore, stroke fish and feed them, ride on whales and befriend 
 dolphins and train them to do tricks. You can discover facts about beautiful aquatic animals and 
 the marine life that lives in the darkest corners of the Abyss.
  
  Endless Ocean is a fun and highly addictive game and I would reccomend it to anyone. Well worth 
 buying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't really a game. There isn't any real objective. But that is the good part about 
 it. If you like open ended games, or sandbox type of games, you'll really enjoy this. And if you 
 like the ocean and sea animals, you'll really like this game.
  
  The controls are a little different at first. And this is the only really complaint I have about 
 the game. You control yourself by pointing the wii remote and holding the trigger. You basically 
 point in the direction you want to go and then press it to swim. Pretty easy, I know. There is 
 even an autoswim function so you don't have to hold down the trigger.
  
  So what is my issue? Well, this game is a relaxing game to me. I usually play it before bed, after 
 I've had my Mario Kart multiplayer fix and after bashing some heads in No More Heroes. This is 
 one of those games where I want to lay down. I don't want this game to be a physical game. Now, 
 pointing the wii remote doesn't sound like much. But you're constantly having to move your wrist 
 or hand to navigate. It just gets really old after awhile.
  
  What I wanted this game to have was an ability to plug in the nun chuck and control yourself with 
 the thumb stick. This option would have made this game a hundred times better. Then I can lay down 
 and not have to constantly point the remote at the tv. My hands, arms, and wrists can just relax 
 in any way they want.
  
  
  Other than that, this game is great. The sound is very relaxing, the graphics are great. The sea 
 animals are awesome. And with such a low cost, you would be crazy not to have this game in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VelociBlade
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 9, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought Endless Ocean a couple of days ago, thinking I had got a bargain for a good game. At first, 
 this game seems to be a good one; but as you progress, it turns out to bit a letdown. Not a total 
 letdown, But a letdown nonetheless. The fact that you have a huge ocean environment to explore 
 is ok. The fact that you can discover and stuff is good to, but COME ON! All you do is roam around, 
 discover some fish, take some photo's get some stuff, yadayadayada-DO SOMETHING EXCITING FOR ONCE! 
 I"M BORED OUT OF MY FRIGGIN' SKULL! YOU GO NEAR A GAJILLION ANIMALS THAT ARE FRIGGIN' DANGEROUS 
 IN REAL LIFE, WHY DON'T THEY FRIGGIN' ATTACK YOU!? I WENT NEAR FRIGGIN' JAWS AND HE DIDN'T DO SQUAT 
 BUT SWIM AROUND! I WENT NEAR A GIANT SQUID AND HE DOESN'T DO ANYTHING BUT FLOAT! LETS SEE SOME 
 ACTION, SOME DEFENDING YOURSELF FROM CRAP AND STUFF! THERE SHOULD BE A FRIGGIN' PLOT IN THERE! 
 YOU SHOULD DO MORE STUFF, HAVE VIDEO MAIL AND CRAP! THERE'S A GHOST PIRATE SHIP, NOW WHERE ARE 
 THE FRIGGIN' GHOST PIRATES!? THERE SHOULD BE A PLOT WITH THAT STUPID LITTLE IDOL THINGY AND THE 
 TWO DOLPHINS AND THE ITEMS! YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO DO SO MUCH MORE!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  *gasp* *gasp* Sorry about that, I mean - it's just so BORING, would it kill Arika and Nintendo 
 to add some more action and plot!? It's............. I...... the...... *pathetic spluttering* It's 
 just so STUPID it should be illegal to market a game as boring as Endless Ocean! THATS why this 
 game is a 4.5, case dismissed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Good:
   The graphics are beautiful
   There's so much to do in a unlimited amount of time
   Brilliant creature animations and sounds
 
   Tranquil music helps match the tone brilliantly
   Its a intuitive, original concept
   The game uses a clever control system by using only the remote
   Its cheap at a budget price
 
   It can only really work on the Wii with the remote
   Take nice photos of fish!
   Great production values; you can see the effort gone into developing the game
  
  Bad:
  
  Not to everyone's taste
   Graphics can be a little inconsistent
   You can play your own music off your SD Card however you can't shuffle or change the song as 
 you play, only in the sound options so you'll be listening to one song during one dive
  
  Endless Ocean, a game which has been frowned upon by Nintendo die hard gamers baffled as to why 
 Nintendo are creating was in effect is a non-game, if it is its certainly aimed at casual gamers, 
 even non-gamers. So it was with dubious anticipation as I bought the game, luckily its budget title 
 saving me less than half of what I would have to pay for the RRP of most games, already I was impressed. 
 It is a somewhat different game, its a title with a refreshing concept and is almost a new genre. 
 If your looking for a word to sum up the game then exploration will do. Basically you create a 
 character, male or female, then you go diving searching for all kinds fish. And to be honest diving 
 to see all kinds of exotic in gorgeous surroundings. From the unknown darkness of the abyss 100 
 metres underwater to the wonderful looking corals. You have your own boat which is your HQ. Using 
 the boat you can choose where to dive and search for weird and wonderful fish, of course different 
 areas only have certain types of fish, this is where the exploration idea comes in even more.
 
  As you see more fish your book of fish fills up, or the exploration encyclopaedia as I've called 
 it. The amount of fish in the game is seemingly endless, as you first flick through your exploration 
 diary you notice how many fish there is to find. You only see the silhouettes of the fish you haven't 
 seen, though you can see some are very strange. However I must stress all this exploration will 
 not be to everyone's taste. I stress that in BIG CAPITALS. The game will ultimately split gamers, 
 many different views on the game. The music and sound effects are superb though. Most of the music 
 is by Hayley Westenra but it blends in well with theme of diving under the sea exploring a seemingly 
 Endless Ocean. It suits in well. Other features include the ability to take nice, crisp quality 
 pictures or fish and save them in your portfolio. Overall I found it great, particularly relaxing, 
 but I can understand why it won't be to everyone's taste. Never the less if your willing to have 
 a punt on getting the game and hoping it'll be good then go ahead. The game reaps cleverness and 
 overall is produced and executed very well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTCgator
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  O. K. this game is good if you want to fall asleep. The story mode basically is this: you are a 
 professional diver and you walk around on you boat and talk to this dumb AI that says the same 
 thing over and over, then you go in the water swim around with some relaxing new age music playing 
 as you look around at the same dumb fish and then tickle them for your amusement. The you follow 
 this dolphin around and go to the environments that all look like what you've seen before. It is 
 very lacking in....... well........ EVERYTHING. Thats all you do so If you are a true hardcore gamer 
 do not buy this game. If you are a 6 year old girl then buy it.
  
  This game i my opinion is the most waste of time and embarrassment and if you have it burn it in 
 the fires of hell !!!!!!
  
  Now thats only my opinion if you like slow relaxing games and snorkeling and new age music then 
 you might want this game but i give it a 1.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I thought Endless ocean was a cool idea but over all it gets to you with how boring it gets so 
 fast. It is fun to swim around and it's not really worth studying animals like they want but its 
 fun to watch. But! there is a problem this game would have benefited from being on xbox 360 or 
 ps3 because it relies heavily on graphics and it doesn't meet up for a game where you just look 
 around at sea animals and such but over all it's fun to play around with i would recommend renting 
 it. But If you want to buy it you should but make sure you know what your buying ^_^. I have not 
 found any problems as in glitches but it is very VERY slow moving not because of lag or anything 
 its just slow paced. It could have been better on the 360 or something else but the wii's controller 
 really adds a feel for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roberto17_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Endless ocean is a game starts you off as a diving instructer, clients will call you and ask if 
 you would show them a specific fish underwater. From there you will get certain upgrades for your 
 scuba gear, one being that you can go really deep into certain place you normally wouln't be able 
 to go. On your boat you would be able to play mp3 music from the boombox ( you can plug your mp3 
 player into the usb) and sometimes you will see peguins and other animals on your ship, surprise 
 know one notice them getting on? your also handed with a map that you can pin point locations on 
 the map and there you go, but you have to have swim in that location in order to drive there. The 
 sea and the animals look pretty good on the wii, when you see any of the four whales for the first 
 time it's just amazing, the movment are pretty realistic and look of the animals our pretty well 
 done. When you head deeper in the water, where there is not much light and only source of light 
 is you flash light , it's become creepy when a shark comes out of nowhere, it made me think, what 
 if i was in his shoe? down there with barely any light at all and a shark pass me by, that would 
 be nuts! 
  The audio for the game is good, i mean you can't hear much underwater? and you have some artis 
 singing while your diving. The songs are very smoothing and really relaxing, right this type of 
 game. The game doen't stress you out at all, except when your diver tells you that you haven't 
 found there stupid fish yet. If there is one thing about this game that i thought needed more work, 
 is the environment. There are parts in the game were there are nothing but sand. certain place 
 our kind of dull and boring, i wish they have but more into the environment. At the end of the 
 day endless ocean is a good game if you like to explore underwater environment and relaxing while 
 doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a unique game that is simple and relaxing but definitely not for everybody.
  
  If you are looking for a challenge this game does not provide one. If you are looking for action 
 look elsewhere. If you are looking for a simple relaxing experience that can be played for bursts 
 of minutes or spans of hours read on. 
  
  Endless Ocean is a game of exploration that has a pokemon gotta catch em all mentality. As you 
 swim around the ocean you come into contact with dozens of different kinds of sea life and interact 
 with them by waggling the wii mote to pet and feed them. By interacting with the fish they are 
 added to your encyclopedia bringing you closer to getting them all. 
  
  Moments that could provide excitement such as swimming through shark infested waters fall flat 
 as the sharks ignore you rather than making you swim for your life and their is never a sense of 
 urgency to the game. Tasks are given to you via an e-mail system in the games hub (your boat) but 
 these can be done at leisure and their is never the feeling that time will run out or a task will 
 be failed. Air tanks have a gauge on them as though they could run out but even this is not a worry 
 as even long dives barely dent the air gauge.
  
  The visuals in the game are decent with some nice lighting effects and good animations on the fish. 
 However, there are also a lot of bland lifeless areas which detract from the overall feel. 
  
  Music is toned down for a sort of calming effect (think a cross between Enya and elevator music) 
 but thankfully mp3 support is in place so you can dive to whatever you so desire. 
  
  Endless Ocean is a game at its best when it tries to impose awe such as coming across whales for 
 the first time. The rest of the time the enjoyment to be derived from this game depends entirely 
 on the players ability to enjoy such a mellow experience. Online play is included but does nothing 
 to truly enhance the game experience thanks to limited communication and the simple nature of the 
 game. 
  
  Had they added some sense of urgency by limiting air, having sharks come after you or even just 
 a more structured experience with more focused objectives Endless Ocean could have been an easy 
 game to recommend. As is it is though it's better suited to a rental for those truly interested. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvdude3411
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  i mean come on, who else but some one baked off thier a** would sit around for endless hours petting 
 fish and just swiming around all the time. i belivie it is a revolutionary game for stoners mostly 
 because its exciting to them, they begin with the small fish and the first time they see the bigger 
 fish they are immediatly overwhelmed with joy, success and happiness. when you stare at your tv 
 as the first whale you see in the game swims by you get this feeling of universal peace, happiness 
 and tranquility. the extensive amount of areas you have to explore are just another thing that 
 keeps the stoners happy, that feeling that the world has no limit, even though it does in the game 
 at some point, but still its large enough. the stoners will be incredibly satisfied with this game 
 the entire 100+ hours they play it. well done guys youve made many many people happy with this 
 game. blah blah blh, getting some characters in so i can submit, blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerhardtscriven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean can perhaps not accurately be described as a game (the sharks won't eat you) , nor 
 as a simulation (yeah you guessed - the sharks won't eat you) . Nonetheless, it gets one thing perfectly 
 right: At the end of a long day at office, it is a great relaxant. 
  
  There are times that I need to kick some ass (or get it kicked) , and I fire up Unreal Tournament. 
 There are times I feel the need to make some noise, and I play Guitar Hero. But this product fits 
 the mold perfectly for those other times when I just need to kickback, put my feet up, take a deep 
 breath, and dip my toes in the water (the actual ocean is inconveniently far away) .
  
  So, here we have a product that:
  a) is not derivative 
  b) is quite immersive
  c) has great 
 entertainment value
  d) has the real ability to unwind you
  e) Is even interesting to watch when someone else plays
  
  These are some of the very qualities 
 that I look for in games. Endless Ocean delivers, and for this reason I score it high. So the sharks 
 don't eat you... so what?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolz3h
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a 'love it' or 'hate it' kind of game, actually there's not too many people who 
 would hate it. I think it's more 'love it' or 'this is the most boring game I've ever played'! 
 Thankfully I belong to the former, in fact this is one of the best wii games I've played yet. It 
 could go a few rounds with any of the wii's other large titles and hold its own, perhaps even come 
 out the victor! So what makes it so special? Let's start at the beginning!
  
  You start of by creating a protagonist (male or female) but there isn't much customisation available 
 except for a couple of hairstyles. As you play through you will unlock different clothes and even 
 more hairstyles but I personally didn't take much notice of them, and as they have absolutely no 
 effect on your performance there's not much reason to! You'll just choose what looks good and then 
 do what this game is all about. Dive and explore!
  
  After being subjected to a brief tutorial and your first diving mission (more on that in a moment) , 
 you can go and explore. The first time you dive can be a daunting experience; you'll note how slowly 
 you move and ponder whether a great white shark is much faster than you are. You'll slowly move 
 through a near empty area of beautiful blue water and pale white sand and then gasp in awe as you 
 come across a group of fish. From that moment onward you're hooked. 
  
  The fish in the game (and other creatures) are all mesmerising. Most of them are wonderfully animated 
 to mimic their real world counterparts (though they do move slower, but that fits the pace of the 
 game perfectly) and almost all are beautiful (I mean the goblin Shark isn't beautiful, but it is 
 awesome!) . The first time you see a whale you can't help but think "oh my god!" even if you're 
 an atheist! Unfortunately for the whales and most other large creatures their animation isn't quite 
 as well crafted as the smaller fish, in fact they look like they're a tad over weight and are having 
 a great deal of trouble swimming at two knots, though at their size it's understandable, but it's 
 just doesn't look right. The actual models however look brilliant. And dear god are some of them 
 big!
  
  The story isn't exactly going to win the Pulitzer Prize. You've got an angsty dive partner with 
 a clouded past and the main story revolves around uncovering why she has so much angst, and then 
 doing something about it! Doing something about it will lead you across the world. It's always 
 a pleasant experience and does its job: encouraging you to explore. In fact if you do get sick 
 of exploring there'll always be the main story there to motivate you to get back into the ocean. 
 And if you finished the main story then there's countless side quests and jobs! 
  
  Speaking of jobs, there's diving expeditions where you take a diving partner into a selected area 
 and show them a good time, photo shoots where you hunt down rare fish and photograph them. (Duh!) 
 And of course there's a multitude of side-quests (most activating by finding an item) .
  
  But all of this doesn't matter. The thing that will keep most you coming back is the ocean's itself, 
 the slow paced, magnificent, and sometimes dangerous ocean! Okay, so there isn't actually any danger 
 in the game, I think the only way to die is to run out of oxygen and you've got so much that that'll 
 never happen.
  
  The first time you enter the ruins or the abyss will be a magical experience, in fact the first 
 time I dived into the abyss is one of the most enthralling experiences I've had in a video game. 
 The dark rocks, whale skeletons at the bottom, and insane deep-sea life! And at the end of it a 
 surprise that you will NOT want to miss! And then not long after you'll be exploring another graveyard 
 of sorts. Only in this eerie shark infested place it's clear humans have met a rather wet end
 
  
  But there are a few problems; the slow swimming speed does begin to grate after awhile, especially 
 if you're just looking for particular item or the ghost ship. But this is a minor complaint. Another 
 is that the diving area is so small! 
  
  Which reminds me; whenever you find a fish you can pat it, stroke it, and feed it! The more time 
 you spend with a fish the more you find out. From the size to small anecdotal information. This 
 is fine, and will give you a surprisingly large general knowledge of marine life, but you'll want 
 to know more, more, more! Still, with hundreds of fish in the game it's understandable that you 
 don't get too much information. Besides if you ever wanted something to pique your interest in 
 marine life you'd be hard pressed to find anything better. (Only David Attenborough deep-sea diving 
 naked could have made me more interested in marine life!)
  
  The sound in the game is brilliant too. Hayley Westenra helps render a wonderfully surreal atmosphere 
 with her high-pitched pop/classical voice. The whale's and Dolphin's other-worldly voices sound 
 just as good as does the occasional groan from the ocean, and wind-like sound of a current! 
  Likewise the graphics are solid, the fish themselves look brilliant, as does most of the scenery. 
 The only main criticism is the sand itself. When you brush up against it you get a disgusting puff 
 up of sand that looks more like vomit than beautiful grains of sand. But the rocks-even with a 
 few ugly textures-and choral looks brilliant, in fact by pressing the + button you can zoom in 
 on any surface and take a look at tiny fish and behind the tiny fish you'll find beautiful plants, 
 sharp rocks, soft sand, and even cold metal on your diving boat!
  
  As I said at the beginning of the review it's a love it or hate it sort of game. If you already 
 like fish and laid-back relaxing game play, and you're pretty sure you're going to love it don't 
 hesitate, go out and get it! Otherwise I implore you to go into this game with an open mind and 
 at least give it a rent. You've got nothing to lose and you could very very pleasantly surprised!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is something else. Its different, relaxing, beautiful, educational, and so much more. 
 Of all those descriptions of this game I just mentioned, how often do you see them all associated 
 with a game? I don't think I have ever used all of those to describe one game before. 
  
  Endless Ocean is different from other game for a couple of reasons. The first that comes to mind 
 is the fact that there is no danger in the game whatsoever. You can't run out of air, or suffer 
 from pressure changes, not even the sharks will dare to disrupt the quiet peace this game brings. 
 The other factor that makes the game different is that there is no objective other than to relax, 
 have fun, and maybe even learn a little. The game gives you the option of completing objectives, 
 and will reward you for it by giving you new pieces of gear and such, but you are in no way forced 
 to do these objectives, and the gear has no effect other than to allow you to customize your looks. 
 
  
  The game is not only relaxing for the reasons I stated above but for two other reasons that stand 
 out in my mind. The first being the simple controls. Simply point the Wiimote in the direction 
 you want to go, and hold B to swim in that direction. If you're too lazy to hold B, press -, and 
 you will automatically swim. If you see an animal you would like to interact with, merely press 
 A, and then move the Wiimote about to poke, pet, or feed it. You don't even need the nunchuck attachment. 
 The other reason I find this game relaxing is nature itself, you can hear the water and waves moving 
 about, see the wildlife going about their day, sometimes it almost feels as if you're there, just 
 floating along in the ocean.
  
  This game is beautiful, plain and simple. Its one of the best looking games on the Wii. There are 
 fantastic particle and lighting effects throughout the game. The textures aren't all that great 
 at first look, but you can zoom in and see that the are actually quite good for a Wii game. The 
 creators did a good job of capturing the beauty of nature and the ocean.
  
  I do have a few small gripes with the game. The load times can be a little ridiculous at times. 
 The soundtrack is pretty lackluster, with only two songs, and they both get old fast. I guess you 
 can't really complain about ti because Arika has allowed you to put your own music into the game, 
 but for people like me who are too lazy to do that, the soundtrack disappoints. Also, once you 
 get on the boat, the graphics take a turn for the worse, as well as the character animations. The 
 cabin menu system just feels sloppy and slapped together. The dialogue between character is painful 
 at times, but luckily there's not much talking.
  
  Overall a fantastic game for those who can tolerate the fact that there's no objectives. I highly 
 recommend it to those who feel they need a break from the norm, love nature, or just enjoy great 
 games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  "Sleeping with the Fishes" takes on a whole new family-friendly meaning in Nintendo and Akira's 
 Wii exclusive, Endless Ocean. Hunting, killing and violence are passed over in favor of exploration, 
 knowledge and interaction. There is a beginning and an end, but not in a traditional sense. This 
 ocean has been designed for gamers curious about marine wildlife to explore their curiosities without 
 having to worry about beating a clock or out-muscling an opponent.
  
  Endless Ocean's "story" unfolds in the tranquil waters of fictional Manoa Lai Island. In the Island's 
 lagoon, players meet up with Kat, a young oceanic researcher whose inability to swim leaves her 
 topside on your research vessel. Her role as a guide is pivotal to learning the game's mechanics 
 or picking up a quick refresher, when needed, and providing direction on how to proceed through 
 the game's structured narrative, if wanted.
  
  Your research vessel serves as both the launching pad for dives as well as tool to communicate 
 with the outside world that provides specific diving missions and escorts, gear upgrades, and other 
 valuable information. After a fairly simplistic tutorial, the waters of Endless Ocean are opened 
 up for full exploration by selecting an area of the ocean on a map to move your research vessel 
 towards. There are no un-lockable areas; the entire ocean is made available from the get-go.
  
  There are two main and quite diverse components to playing Endless Ocean: diving in the water 
 and walking around on the deck of your research vessel. The design and player capabilities on the 
 boat are rudimentary compared to what can be done in the water. Aside from talking Kat, entering 
 the cabin to access email messages or other items, or petting penguins and who knows what else 
 that have stopped by for a visit, there's not much else to do other than walk around in circles. 
 
  
  Moments spent toying around on deck are far outnumbered by time spent underwater. Once wet, players 
 rely entirely on one-handed Wii Remote controls to guide their diver. Pointing at the screen tells 
 your diver which direction to swim in, while pressing the B-trigger sends the diver off on his 
 way. You won't want to sit too far from the screen as any move you make that sends the cursor off-screen 
 will result in your diver going nowhere. Likewise, swimming too close to objects like rocks or 
 caves add an extra degree of difficulty to the controls, much like camera issues in tight corners 
 that plague some third-person action games.
  
  Even if you decide to ignore the electronic messages sent to your research vessel, there's still 
 plenty to do in Endless Ocean: namely find new species of fish and underwater critters, study them, 
 and ultimately collect their names in your encyclopedia. If it sounds a lot like collecting Pokemon, 
 it should. Players who are easily lured into "gotta collect them all," or players honestly interested 
 in learning about marine wildlife, will gravitate towards this mode of play. A touch of Animal 
 Crossing has even been incorporated as certain creatures only come out during the day or night, 
 while others are known to appear during a single season of the year.
  
  Players hoping for an enthralling or action-packed gaming experience will be sorely let down by 
 Endless Ocean. Most of the underwater time is spent searching for marine wildlife, whether on your 
 own or as instructed by a student you've taken on a tour, or other goodies you've been asked to 
 find via e-mail. The pace is slow, and oftentimes finding a new species will take longer than some 
 levels of patience are capable of enduring.
  
  Once a new species is found, they are identified and researched for information by petting or poking 
 them, completed by shaking the Wii Remote while holding the A button. The practice is hardly a 
 fulfilling experience for finding that diamond in the ruff. Online multiplayer dives with a friend 
 spice up gameplay a hair, but with only 16 basic pre-programmed phrases to use and no headset support, 
 the experience remains solo at heart.
  
  Whether bored or captivated by exploring the ocean's depths, Akira has done a masterful job recreating 
 an almost alien-like underwater world's visuals and the deep breathing sound of oxygen via a tank, 
 reminiscent of an empowered Darth Vader. Artist Hayley Westenra's soundtrack is tranquil enough 
 to put a riled up toddler to sleep, with Akira offering players the option to use their own MP3 
 tunes via SD card. Of all the games I've played on Wii to date, this is the first where textures, 
 detail and colors scream for greater horsepower only Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 can provide.
  
  A remarkably low $30 price-tag makes suiting up to explore Endless Ocean quite the bargain. 
 Just don't expect to find a "beat this" or "punch that" videogame in the traditional sense. Endless 
 Ocean is more of a next-generation tool designed to spur interest in learning through non-traditional 
 and interactive ways. In that respect, it's succeeded brilliantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca08
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Endless ocean is a fun addictive game that will have you playing on it for weeks it is highly addictive 
 and the graphics are fantastic, for those of you who love the ocean and the life it contains you 
 will love this game. This game is a peaceful, laid back game that has no violence or gore so if 
 you are looking for an action game, don't buy this game, but for those of you who like peaceful 
 games, this is a terrific game. In my opinion this is the best game i have ever played on any console 
 ever. However the ocean isn't as "endless" as the title suggests, but still it is a wide open area 
 where you can find different types of fish all year round. I have spent countless hours on this 
 game but i still haven. t finished it get because there is so much fun to do such as exploring the 
 ocean or doing jobs for your cilents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deckiesrule
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up because I was looking for a game that wasn't too stressful- something that 
 I could kick back and play without having to be at the edge of my seat. 
  
  I love RPG's and slower paced games in between the shooters and action titles. Endless Ocean gives 
 me something to explore and enjoy in a slow pace. The controls are cool but a little touchy. I 
 wish it wouldn't stop your turns when the wii-mote goes slighty off screen. But overall it is pretty 
 slick.
  
  I don't care a lot for the soundtrack- it gets tedious. But I can listen to whatever I want because 
 of the MP3 player function in game- also a cool feature. Make the game a little more intense- go 
 shark diving while listening to slayer! 
  
  I would like to get into the multiplayer mode- but the nintendo online function is strange- I don't 
 know anyone else with the game- so I haven't played with anyone. From the pictures I thought that 
 this was going to be a 2 player game- I was sad to see that you are limited to one player unless 
 you go wifi. A player 2 function similar to Super Mario Galaxy would be cool- used to interact 
 with scenery. Oh well.
  
  I would have made a larger character creation screen as well. It is very limited- but it doesn't 
 really matter much in the game itself. Graphics are pretty cool. 
  
  overall i have enjoyed this game a lot. I think a lot of people have reviewed it without really 
 playing it through and giving it a fair shake. I think it is a good and original game. There is 
 room for improvement- but I haven't played anything I thought was 'perfect' in a long time. But- 
 if you like to explore and relax from time to time- this game is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loulou43
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  endless ocean is a fantastic and addictive game. i've never played a game like it before it calms 
 me down after a stress-full day. its full of unique features such as it is educational i would 
 of never thought that i would ever know so many fish names. its full of wonder mystery and the 
 only unreal creatures are the mega tapah and the white mother, besides those to all the other fish 
 are real the idea of items to collect is great, the graphics are the best i've ever seen on any 
 wii game. the partners are fun to train and can do lots of amazing tricks this game is great and 
 hard to get bored of. i never thought that such a game could ever exist it is a hole new type of 
 game and a great success i absolutely love the game and i can't wait for the new game. my only 
 complaint is that some of the fish are to hard to find but besides that the game is great absolutely 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics, wonderful music, custom soundtrack, you can learn about sea life
  
  The Bad: Almost no game play involved, pointless multiplayer, paper thin customization, the 
 ocean isn't so endless as the title suggests
  
  I checked out EO because of it's concept: Underwater scuba diving and interacting with animals. 
 Well this wasn't really executed as well as it could have been. You can dive under the ocean and 
 swim around fish and sea life and hold down A and wiggle the Wiimote to pet it, or poke it, or 
 even grab it and if it likes you you'll learn a new thing about that animal. The problem there 
 is that it's like two lines of info and it takes three days to learn all of the information about 
 the animal. This to me felt really stupid and kind of leaned more toward kids since that's all 
 they can probably take in. Now the graphics are pretty amazing. The game is pretty much one of 
 the only semi-next-gen games on the Wii but plays nothing like one. The way the light filters through 
 the water and the physics are spot on. There are a few other things like taking clients underwater 
 and showing them a certain fish they want to see, you can play with dolphins, but that's all there 
 really is to this game. Yes the music is amazing and you can even use your own MP3s off the SD 
 card (gasp!) , but there's nothing really exciting about EO to win it a must buy. You'll probably 
 see everything the game has to offer in a couple of hours and that's great for a rental. You can 
 also customize your character but the options are so thin I didn't even bother with it. The biggest 
 gripe here is the ocean isn't so endless. You can only move spots after you've done 100% research 
 on all animals in that area. The area is also very small and cramped. Go ahead and play this game 
 if you just want to look at pretty stuff but don't expect much game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippola77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Endless ocean is a good and fun game. If you are board of killing goombas
  or assinating muslim people then just sit down and play this game.
  The good graphics in the 
 game add to the peacefullnes Some times the graphics glitch, but not alot. The soundtrack with 
 the girl singing can get annoying, but other than those its all good. This game also teaches you 
 alot about fish and other animals. It fun just to go swimming for no reason.
  
  Thats the goal of the game , to swim.
  (what bestbuy dued said to me) .
  
  This is a good 
 a game and you should get.
  Its only 30 bucks
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trumpetplyr29
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a game for those who find themselves getting lost in a games visuals and gameplay. 
 EO's main objective was to strike gold with people who enjoy walking around aimlessly finding treasure 
 exploring new areas, and completing missions from various sources. All this is done to nice peaceful, 
 and fit music for the game. The MP3 feature is a nice addition for those not finding the music 
 to be their cup-o-tea. The gameplay is nothing short of perfectly fit for what it is. Simple yet 
 innnovative in many ways. EO allows you to interact in simple ways with various aquatic animals 
 and learn a thing or two. If your looking for a game to fight fish, take on Jaws, or looking for 
 any kind of action this game is not for you. EO is definitly worth a buy if not a rental, I mean 
 for 29.99 why not take your mind of the wait for Smash Bros Brawl and unwind with the fish ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcap669
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun... it teaches you some facts about sea creatures... you get to explore amazing parts 
 of the fictional Manoa Lai Sea
  
  in this game you get to create your character, you get to choose how they look like... and the only 
 problem about that is there are only 2 choices for your hairstyle, Mild and Wild. After you create 
 your character, you will meet this girl named "Kat" and she has been studying Marine Biology for 
 so long... and she says that she could not swim... which is weird because she is not disabled and 
 she loves the ocean... i will not go further because i dont want to spoil the game for you guys...
 
  
  well your goal here is to explore and discover... you get to see alot of fish and other sea creatures, 
 explore different parts of Manoa Lai Sea... and its just amazing... at first, you will think its 
 boring and you regret buying this game but as you advance in the game... you will be amazed in 
 what you see
  
  the background songs are very relaxing... well, so far, the best i have heard is "Prayer" by Hayley 
 Westenra... that was the most calm song ive ever heard. if you dont like these kinds of songs, you 
 could put a bunch of songs in a SD Card put it in your Wii and BOOM!, you've got Metallica and 
 Slipknot and other artists in your your radio while diving...
  
  the graphics are great it has to be the 2nd game that has the best graphics in Wii. the fishies 
 are well detailed and the people look like Sims, its very weird
  
  well, its great game... and dont it rent anymore, BUY IT! its really great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendudes_2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean offers creative game play that keeps the user dazzled and entranced with it. You 
 start out by choosing your characters name, hairstyle, and deepness of tan (none, fair, or deep) . 
 You then practice your underwater controls under the guidance of Catherine, your scuba-diving companion. 
 Catherine can not swim, but is still with you wherever you go during the game.
  
  Anyway, let's get back to business.
  
  Story: 9/10
  I enjoyed the story mode, but some might 
 not, because of the lack of specific things that you have to do right away in the game. For example, 
 you might get some digital mail from Alfred Thompsan saying to go find find Coral Reef, but you 
 don't have to do that. You can go to wherever you want to before completing the task. But as for 
 me, I'm fine with this.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are absolutely awesome for this game, but as you get really close to fish, it's outline 
 gets a little bit fuzzy. But aside from that, I think this might be one of the most beautiful-looking 
 games for the Wii.
  
  Game play: 10/10
  I really love games where you can explore the game's environment at your own pace, and this game 
 does exactly that. Now for some people, the game might be incredibly boring, but hey, I'm not "some 
 people", I love it.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  One of the prime things of this game is the music that is playing during scuba diving. Haley Westenra's 
 songs are perfect for this game. My favorite is "Prayer".
  
  Multiplayer
  Sorry, haven't tried it yet, but from what I've heard it sounds good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandorock
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is unique because you can't really lose! In fact, this game is actually educational! 
 By exploring the deep, you learn much about the marine life that inhabit the oceans of the earth. 
 Plus, by discovering other fish and underwater creatures, you're making progress throughout the 
 game!
  
  Using the Wii remote, you can explore the waters upon which your small boat sails. Navigate the 
 Manila Bay just by selecting a point on the map. You have a lot of freedom in this game - basically 
 to go wherever you want... and swim wherever you please, almost!
  
  All games have downsides. This game is rather slow-paced at times, and I usually enjoy playing 
 fast-moving games, which makes me a fan of Sonic the Hedgehog games. Anyway, this game also takes 
 some concentration. Even though, it's still cool.
  
  I'll be honest... This game is, well, all right. It's definitely not the best. But I still recommend 
 it. It's fun, and you can't lose. So you don't have to consider throwing your Wii remote against 
 the wall because you can't pass that one level! That's about it; God bless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Right then! If you are after a game where things go boom and the blood flows like a stream, then 
 this is not the game for you.
  
  If however, you are after a game where you get to explore the depths below, then this is the game 
 for you.
  
  The game looks great and the sound is spot on. The Enya inspired soundtrack also adds to the immersive 
 nature of the game.
  
  In this game you have missions to complete, if you want to or you could just dive in and explore. 
 There are lots to see during your explorations. A huge variety of fish and mammals await you. There 
 are also other things to see, NO! I am not going to tell you, go find them for yourself. What I 
 will tell you though is that you can get dolphin partners and you can even train them to perform 
 tricks.
  
  All of the animals have lots of information on them so you could also learn a lot (if you want 
 to) .
  
  So you get all this and more for the great price of 19.99. A bargain price for a lot of game, 
 indeed there are full priced games out there that don't give you this much game.
  
  A worthy addition to any Wii owners collection! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimate__Gamer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean, a game created by Nintendo and Arika. In it you take the role of a somewhat generic 
 diver who explores the many secrets of the fictitious Manoa Lai Sea. Between exploration sessions 
 you will rest on your boat, the Gabbiano. While exploring, you can even search for treasure; while 
 other features include, filling your own aquarium, and training dolphins. All this may sound great, 
 but due to bad graphics, only passable music, and terrible swimming mechanics, Endless Ocean, is 
 very, very, difficult to recommend.
  
  So what could make such a superb sounding game actually be terrible? Realism. Too much realism. 
 All you do to swim is point and either hold the B button, or press - once, and any other to stop. 
 All you do to interact with fish is point then: tap A to pet, tap A and shake the remote to rub, 
 and click "food" then press A to throw powdered food that most fish eat. If you become "friendly" 
 enough with a specific fish of a specific species, you learn that specie's name, and some fictional 
 information about them, which usually contains information about their habitat, which is, of course, 
 fictional. However, all of the different species of fish seem to be real. So, the problem with 
 realism, is there is almost no point to searching the ocean petting and feeding fish, which actually 
 include multiple species of sharks, such as tiger and hammerhead. And the treasure that you search 
 for is only ancient artifacts, which you donate to museums.
  
  The game is very easy. It has the, "your own pace," gameplay, and there isn't even an amount of 
 air you have while underwater. Occasionally you receive missions, but they don't need to be completed, 
 and seem pointless, for example, one is, "Go to the Coral Forest area." Why the marine society 
 would want you to go to a forest of coral for no specific reason is anyone's guess. There is virtually 
 no story. The only bit of story, is Katherine's (your beginning instructor) love/fear of the ocean 
 that is slowly revealed throughout the boringness of the game. But sadly Katherine's love/fear 
 of the ocean is about the most interesting part of the game.
  
  The graphics of the game are somewhat decent. They're a joke on your boat, where they're just ugly; 
 and in the ocean, where they're moderately blurry. But when it comes to fish, they're realistic 
 and beautiful. It's beautiful and relaxing to see a giant blue whale swim by. But it still doesn't 
 make the game fun.
  
  The music is the best aspect of the game. At first there is none except the sound of your breathing 
 through the SCUBA, but eventually you unlock peaceful music (or you can just use music from your 
 SD card) that can make that moment with blue whale.
  
  Really, it's completely pointless to pay even the $30 price tag from this game, when you could 
 get more fun from an internet flash game. Unless of course your mental enough to want to pay to 
 subject yourself to this unusual form of torture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Undertaker08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Intro: Right then im guessing if you are reading this you like the game anyway or you wouldnt read 
 it.
  The game is a masterpiece realy it is, it is just amazing.
  
  Music: oh my god Hayley Westenra has to be one of the best singers ever and having her voice with 
 you when your swimming down 150m of an abbys is quiet relaxing.
  
  Graphics: Ok they graphics arent perfect but close to perfect all the animals and environments 
 look like they would in real life, with the only problem being getting very close to fish can make 
 them seem a bit blocky but not much.
  
  Game Play: It's very relaxing and realy I would think that only people who devote there whole entire 
 life to the game would ever complete it (if thats even possible) you would need to find evry single 
 species to even get 3/4 of the way to completing it then you need to find all info all hidden items 
 and find the whole map.
  
  
  The Good: The game is very good for divers (as i am one in real life) and also none divers, the 
 exploration in brilliant and well almost everything in the game in fantastic
  
  The Bad: well very little to be honest, apart from its not "endless" as there are limits in were 
 you swim e. g. you cant swim any further than the great drop off, and the last thing is for people 
 who like fast pace games keep away its very very slow but i like it hehe
  
  (oooh more snow) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matthew Janes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I am not sure about the rest of you that read Game Spot's review but there is one important factor 
 that for some reason they neglected to mention. The game is only 30 dollars... Remember not that 
 long ago when Game Spot used to review games with a bunch of bars for Graphics, Sound, and Value? 
 For whatever reason it seems like those days are gone and the fact that you can get a good quality 
 game for only 30 beans has no bearing. Anyways, enough of that ranting I just needed to get that 
 out of the way. 
  
  Basically you will love this game and if you haven't played it yet, you have never played a game 
 quite like this. The ocean exploring really does seem endless and I would say at best estimate 
 that it will take at least 20 hours to explore the entire ocean, maybe more. I'm not sure what 
 people expect these days but 20 hours seems like enough game time for a game that retails for 29.99 
 (Thats what I paid in Canada so for you US gamers you may have even got it cheaper) . Not to mention 
 the ability to connect with someone online and take the experience to another level. It should 
 be noted that for whatever reason Nintendo still hasn't figured out a way to allow us to connect 
 to each other easily. In this particular case you have to exchange "friend codes" with either a 
 friend who has the game or what I would suggest is searching some online forums for people who 
 have posted their codes and post yours there as well. 
  
  All in all I would have to say that to me this game should be rated by Game Spot at, at least an 
 8. People who like this game (like me) will say that because it is so unusual, beautiful, easy 
 to play, and to top it off only 30 bean (if I hadn't mentioned that already) , it deserves a 9. 
 
  
  Oh yeah, I'm not sure what kind of Wii Remotes that Game Spot reviewers use but I can honestly 
 say I have never had an easier time controlling a game in my life. It is so unbelievably easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnfirewire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a unique SCUBA diving game that takes a diversion away from the norm by promoting 
 real-time exploration in place of action oriented game mechanics and therefore risks having many 
 gamers feel like there is a lack of structure in the game. Just like the title suggests, Endless 
 Ocean is about spending limitless time exploring the ocean and the game is full of just about everything 
 you would expect to find in an underwater ocean environment.
  
  The gameplay consists of playing the role of a diver and completing leisurely tasks that involve 
 diving and exploring. The Wii controls are very intuitive and work very well for this game. So, 
 does the gameplay seem lacking in some way? No, not really for me because I am the type of gamer 
 that derives pleasure from ambient worlds when they are created well, artistically, in a game, 
 and as well I am a fan of exploring the depths of the ocean through SCUBA diving and learning true 
 facts about many real species of animal life that reside in the ocean. As for those gamers looking 
 to play and conquer for the purpose of progressing through action packed levels, this is not that 
 type of a game and will probably disappoint on that level. However, if you are blessed with the 
 ability to enjoy the zen of embracing ocean life through the use of a decent video game simulation 
 then you have a good chance of actually enjoying this title quite a bit. One thing I will say about 
 this game, to it's credit, is that it wholly promotes a respect for animal life and provides a 
 great deal of real world information on what you'll find in the ocean. So it is an educational 
 game for those interested in this type of information.
  
  The graphics in Endless Ocean vary from being simplistic and jaggy, to being very beautiful and 
 realistic. For the most part the underwater realms of the ocean are very pleasing to the eye and 
 full of aquatic life that is satisfying to look at and interact with. Dolphins, sea lions, penguins, 
 all kinds of fish, lobsters, whales and much more, are all displayed and animated very convincingly 
 and lend to a satisfying sense of exploring a realistic and living ocean environment.
  
  The game does indeed have a story along with many consecutive requests from various people, ranging 
 from Katheryn (your partner on the boat) , to various others requesting your services for photography, 
 underwater tour guiding, artifact recovery and more. You can choose to be either male or female 
 and customize your charactor to a small degree. You have the ability to navigate your boat to different 
 locales on the map, check your email for requests and updates, wander the deck to check out various 
 animals camping out on the boat, talk with Katheryn, sit back in a chair on deck and watch the 
 sunset, train your dolphin partners (partners you can decide to take on as you progress through 
 the game) to do tricks and more. Most importantly, you can dive.
  
  If you are the type of gamer that likes to embrace the world around you and revel in it's ambience, 
 then this should be a hit with you.
  
  If you are more inclined to feel you need constant progress by using skills to win your way through 
 a game, then you probably will get bored with this game very quickly.
  
  In opposition to what has been stated in some reviews, it takes much longer than a few hours to 
 see most of what Endless Ocean has to offer. I completed the main story in about 20 hours and still 
 have quite a few areas that have not been explored. You can probably play 30 hours or more without 
 feeling that you are redoing things or that you have seen everything. You could spend over 100 
 hours and still not have all of the animal life filled in within your encyclopedia.
  
  All in all, this is an above average SCUBA experience that wanders away from traditional gameplay 
 in favor of promoting the exploring aspects of the real life experience and emphasizing the rewarding 
 parts into an easygoing RPG structure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Largents
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to give my 6 yr. old daughter a game of her own to play. Since there's no real 
 plot or storyline to follow and no enemies to worry about, I figured this would be great for her. 
 She's also learning about animals in school right now, so I was thinking that she would also be 
 learning something too. Well..... The setup of the game was a little long and she started to lose 
 interest. Once we were finally able to start diving, the diver controls proved to be too touchy 
 for her to handle and she became frustrated with the game. She finally gave up and just settled 
 for us to play while she watched. 
  Despite the fact that my plan had backfired, miserably might I add, we soon found ourselves immersed 
 in an underwater world of beauty and wonder. The graphics are crisp and clear and the soundtrack 
 sounds great. The graphics are so good in fact, I had to get up and leave the room a couple of 
 times because I have an extreme phobia of dark, open water and I started to have a panic attack. 
 I was hoping that because this was a videogame, I would have been OK. The graphics are really that 
 good! The interaction with the different sea critters is easy to master and fun. The slow pace, 
 or "no pace" of the game is nice and relaxing. It's a welcome change to the shoot 'em up, blood 
 and gore games that are flooding the market right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I got this game a few days ago. Its a very different game . If your an action gamer , you will 
 hate this game. This game has 0 action in it. But thats not the point of the game.
  
  The game is very relaxing. You swim around learning about fish and exploring the sea. witch makes 
 me wonder why your in a sea and they call it "endless ocean" on top of that the world is not very 
 big so its far from endless . You can see everything there is so see after a few hours .
  
  The game is better then normal for wii graphics. However this game has jaggies big time. But the 
 game does look great in some moments .
  
  There is nothing to worry about in this game. you can't die or get hurt in anyway. even if you 
 see a great white they will leave you alone . To find out what a fish is all you do is pet it or 
 feed it . I don't see how you could find out the animals name by feeding it .
  
  to sum it up if your looking for a relaxing game this is for you. if you need guns and gore you 
 will be bored to tears. its only a few hours long but its cheap/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I picked up this "game" last week on the strength of everything I'd read about it and the fact 
 that my wife had no problem with the $29.99 price tag.
  
  I sat down to check it out for 10 minutes and ended up checking out the undersea sights and tickling 
 me some fish for about 2 hours. 
  
  In that two hours I met and became familiar with about ten species of aquatic life and one penguin. 
 I also helped a dolphin out of the lagoon where he had stranded himself and we became fast friends. 
 I went on an undersea treasure hunt and got an e-mail asking me to take some dude diving in the 
 lagoon.
  
  Endless Ocean is not a game for fans of stylish hard action or survival horror. It is a relaxing 
 experience with some cool things to see and do as long as you can handle the slow pace. The game 
 is also easy like Sunday morning since you cannot die and there are no real puzzles to solve.
 
  
  Who knows, with all the info you can gather on the local fauna it might well help you on your way 
 to that career as a marine biologist you've always dreamed of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  -- Endless Ocean is one of those games you read about and say "What the crap?" Or read a preview 
 about it, and have to scroll up again and look for the action and fighting part of the game. I 
 love this game, and I will admit, this is sort of an odd game most people will not think about 
 getting, well, think again, because this game is highly addicting, superb graphics, very relaxing, 
 and all around, a great game!
  
  
  -- [Scoring Break down] --
  
  
  -GAMEPLAY- [10]
  -The gameplay in this game is basic and relaxing, nothing very complex, all you do is aim your 
 cursor with the wii remote and hold down the 'B' button to move, or you just click the - button 
 for it to move by itself and you just aim and your diver (which you can customize with very little 
 options) . 
  -To interact with fish, or other sea creatures you just click them with the 'A' button. shake the 
 wii remote to pet them, and click the Down D-Pad button to active actions such as: Return to boat 
 (to return to your boat after diving) , Feed (after clicking feed, you click to put food for the 
 animals) , your pen, which you can literally draw all over the ocean with, (by pointing the wii 
 remote and moving for where you want to draw, and its awesome to draw stick people in the ocean 
 :D) , and thats basicly it.
  -The gameplay works good and smooth and easy to pick up and play.
  
  -GRAPHICS- [9.5]
  -The 
 visuals in this game are gorgeous, bright and picture-perfect coral, and extremely accurate and 
 beautiful lighting from the water, the character models (when diving...) look flawless, great animations, 
 and the sea creatures move ultra realistic, and look realistic too, everything is completly flawless... wait... 
 I forgot the boat sections... too bad, because compared to the 360/PS3 (or higher) worthy underwater 
 parts, the Boat is more of a Dreamcast, or Gamecub graphics, Im not saying they are bad, but comparing 
 to the underwater sections, they arent as... "good". 
  -All around this tops the Wii in most games, but some jagged edges are presend, and some blurry 
 textures, but rarley, and hard to see, and usally, you never do see. All around graphic wise, this 
 is worthy of a Top-Notch PS3/360 game, thumbs up Arika!
  
  -REPLAY- [9.5]
  -In terms of replay, this game never ends, there is a whole ocean to explore, and you never get 
 tired of doing so, the never ending- no, the endless game! (I've been wanted to say that!) There 
 are like, over thousands or sharks, or penguins, ect, ect, (ect) to discover, and there is usally 
 a new tour you can guide you recieve in your mail (cell phone, I think) and those are usally fun.
 
  
  -ADICTIVNESS- [9.5]
  -Everyday, so far I have had it (about 4 days) I've played for over 1:30 
  DAY 1 [1:59]
  DAY 
 2 [1:48]
  DAY 3 [2:41]
  DAY 4 [2:38]
  -Looks like I like it! :D AND I DO! and it doesnt get old and I always want to play it, but latley 
 I havent had time, so those numbers will go up and up and up because really, this is a great game 
 you will want to play and play and not stop, until you finish discovering this Endless Ocean, and 
 after that, you will want to Discover is all over again.
  
  --Closing Comments -- 
  -- [Final Score: 9.5] --
  Closing comments are easy for this game, basicly... GET IT its not for 
 everybody (Unless you got the balls to quite halo, Gears, Metroid, and other action games to get 
 this Relaxing thriller!) But seriosously stop killing stuff and watching blood splatter and take 
 a relaxing vacation to the game with no time limits, the game that made the definition of relaxation: 
 
  ENDLESS OCEAN
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktrenkle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean starts simply enough, and you are quickly diving and learning how to maneuver underwater. 
 The graphics are beautiful, even on the Wii (and even without HD... I'm too cheap so far) . A few 
 hours into the game, and many of the features become unlocked, slowly opening the experience. This 
 is completely open-ended and without any sort of pressure. There is no way to lose. The basic game 
 consists of you moving your boat wherever you like and going diving, trying to interact with marine 
 life, and in the process learn more about each animal you encounter.
  You get a constant stream of "e-mail" which consists of tasks to do if you want some structure, 
 but it is up to you to do them or not. No pressure.
  Other side things that I have played so far are choosing which animals will be in the local aquariu, 
 frequent requests to be diving guides for visitors, dolphin training (which is more fun than I 
 thought it would be) , and interacting with the mammals and seabirds that show up on your deck.
 
  The music is soothing, at times beautifully matching the mood of the game, but sometimes getting 
 a bit "new-agey." for my tastes.
  All in all, this was a game I bought for my wife and six-year old, but will probably have me logging 
 more hours than both of them combined.
  One of the best things about the game is that it is super easy to fall asleep after playing it. 
 You don; t have to wait for the adrenaline to subside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay3695
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game caught my eye because of its unique gameplay something new to try out. It almost doesn't 
 even feel like a videogame and the only thing that reminds you its a videogame is the story plot 
 of it all with your parterners life mission, and you helping her with that. with hundreds of different 
 aquatic life it is nearly endless to find them all. The main story may take about 10-15 hours depending 
 on how fast you want to move along, because there is no time limit and you can explore whatever 
 and whenever you want. But this game truly takes a new approage to videogaming, because the point 
 of it... well there is none besides to ultimatley find the legendary ancient mother besides that 
 it's exploring the seas and discovering hidden treasures and new aquatic life. I personally like 
 the partners that you get to take along. One of the first things you do in fact is help out a stranded 
 bottlenosed dolphin who becomes your swimming partner that helps discover new treasures and supplies 
 company when diving. On the plus side you can train your partners to do tricks such as a back flip, 
 sing, tail walk and so on. Now even though the main story plot takes 10 or so hours the real fun 
 is to find all treasures and to discover all aquatic life which takes a much longer time than the 
 story. So without spoiling to much i would say for only thirty dollars this game is worth checking 
 out especially for a new type of experience such as this one. I mean thats what the wiis all about 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pelletje
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  The Good:
   Great, solid, intuitive controls.
   Impressing graphics.
   Really relaxing.
   Online coop.
   Custom soundtrack
  
  The Bad:
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr619
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I love this game because it's barely a game. It's great because it's an undersea adventure better 
 than any other ever made. I really hope they another game using the same great simple controls 
 with great under water graphics. Probably the part about it is the above water graphics and the 
 fact that when people talk they don't even move their mouths when they're talking which can look 
 pretty weird sometimes. I think my favourite part so far is the abyss and I hope who ever reads 
 this will too. Because I have to have 800 characters I will talk about Hayley Westenra who sings 
 the very soft and calm that goes right along with the ocean theme. I think her voice is great and 
 if Arika decides to make a sequel I hope she is in it. Overall I think it's an awesome game and 
 worth $30  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is definitly unique. In it, you explore the ocean, research and interact with animals, 
 and perform tasks, if you want to. The graphics in this game are quite good, and the sound is also 
 great, especially with the ability to use your own music. There isn't too much of a story here, 
 but there isn't supposed to be, because this game is about exploring the ocean, and isn't story 
 driven, although the little story that is there isn't bad. The controls are great and make this 
 game feel much more relaxing then it already is. So there isn't really much to say about this game, 
 other than it is a simple, yet great game that is very different from anything else out there. 
 Also, it is quite educational about marine life. So, Over-all, this is a great game for wii-owners 
 to at least try, if you want something different in a game, however the gamers that are into fast, 
 action-packed games will definitly be turned off by Endless Ocean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeleNel
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a different game than you're used to on the Wii, but one that is still enjoyable. 
 You start out with a simple diver and choose to be male or female, with minor customization options. 
 The initial instructional period teaches you how to move and interact with the various underwater 
 creatures, and once you get through that swiftly, you're free to roam as you wish. Occasionally 
 you get requests to take others diving, but you don't have to do them if you don't wish to, and 
 the game doesn't chastise you if you don't.
  
  As a Call of Duty/Halo fan, Endless Ocean was a nice change of pace for me, where I could relax 
 and enjoy a game for being a game and not worry about what was going on at the other end of the 
 connection. While people who prefer shooters as there genre won't like this, those looking for 
 a mellow way to unwind or such after playing COD4 and Halo will enjoy Endless Ocean.
  
  Controls are simple, as the nunchuck isn't used in this game. Holding the A button and shaking 
 it a bit will pet a fish for you, and as you get to know more and more fish, more information becomes 
 available about them. You can even befriend dolphins and grab onto a whale and let it drag you 
 around.
  
  If you have a friend who also owns EO, you can go diving together. While I wasn't able to try this 
 feature (as no one I know has this game yet) , it seems easy and simple to do.
  
  The graphics are nice, what you've come to expect from the Wii. Obviously they don't hold a fiddle 
 to other underwater games like Bioshock for instance, but that isn't to say that they are poor 
 by any means. Music is provided by Hayley Westenra, who sounds like a cousin of Enya. You have 
 the ability to put your own custom MP3's onto a SD card and listen to that while you dive, but 
 something about listening to 50 Cent or Linkin Park didn't flow right while you're swimming with 
 the fishes.
  
  
  All in all, this is definitely a game I would look into. Like I stated before, it's a great way 
 to relax after work, or just a good change of pace from your typical game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  cons: horrible above water graphics, simple controls
  pros: amazing underwater graphics and animations, simple controls
  
  Endless Ocean reminds 
 me of a lot of animal crossing. It is fun you want to play it again and again day after day but 
 you dont know why exactly, you just... do.
  
  The game starts with you getting your divers lisence (way easier than in real life) and learning 
 the basics. Point, click, click, point, click to stop point click. Got it? Good! This is one of 
 my gripes with the game. It is extremly simple. I would have liked some motion controls such as 
 checking my depth and air gauge, a great idea would have been having some sort of underwater PDA 
 that you could also type on over wi fi. But you just point and click. Although I feel the controls 
 are simple it keeps the game from exculding gamers of any type. 
  
  Anyone an play this game but can everyone enjoy it? The simple answer is, No, this game is not 
 for everyone. It is not so much slow paced as it is work at your own pace. There are goals but 
 none you really have to reach. You just bubble around and this could not work if the game did not 
 make you feel as if you were really in the ocean. The fluidiy (pun intended) of the aquatic animals 
 is amazingly well exicuted, the water graphics are stunning and the lighting is right up there 
 with some of the best ps3 and 360 games. The night/ day and season cycles really add something 
 specail to the game as well. if the graphics were in a bit higher resolution you might be able 
 to find yourself thinking that you were watching a discovery channel special but the 480p resolution 
 on a larger HD tv does tend to create a good amount of jaggies. Nothing that takes away from the 
 beautiy of the game but the sea creatures will not look as smooth as you would wish. When you are 
 under the sea you can really let go and beleive it.
  
  Above water you might think that you are playing a Dreamcast game. It is Bugly as all hell. There 
 had to be two different animation and design teams working on this game. The graphics on the boat 
 may be bad but the animation is worse. It reminds me of stop motion maniquens jerking around in 
 a Dire Straights music video ("I want my MTV" ANYONE?)
  
  If you love the ocean and just watching programs about it then pick up this game. If you want action, 
 blood guts and veins hanging from your teeth then look elsewheres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Endless ocean is doing a great job of what it tries to achieve. No interesting story, no critical 
 goals to accomplish. Just dive in the deep, swim around, discover some treasures and a lot of fish, 
 but most of all... Just relax. If you feel stressed, this game really helps you to calm down. 
 
  The graphics tickle your eyes with the smooth blue colours, the dreamy soundtrack gets you to 
 a meditative state (if you don't like that, listen to your own music via your memory card) , and 
 if you don't like all of this... Then don't play this game, because you won't find any fast-paced 
 gameplay here or giant shark-like end bosses. Maybe you should rent it first to see if this is 
 your cup of tea.
  
  I actually became a bit bored, because I wanted something else (and bought an xbox 360, yaay) but 
 what the game is meant for, it does a good job doing so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudyvisions
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised by how much I really loved this game. The graphics are surprisingly good, the music 
 is very calming and ethereal, and swimming is just FUN! You get to swim around discovering fish, 
 sharks, whales, and other various types of sea life (manta rays, turtles, manatees, you name it!) . 
 You also have little mini-activities, such as taking someone out for a dive, taking a photo of 
 a specific fish for someone, and going to specific areas. There are objects that you can pick up 
 and take back with you. Also, each new areas unlocks new songs. You also can get different equipment, 
 which allows you to explore new areas.
  
  I think it's really great that they put so much thought into accurately describing the sea life. 
 You catalogue each fish you ID, and it will display scientific name and info about the creature. 
 Also, it's really neat that different things come out at day than night, and night diving looks 
 completely different! 
  
  I really enjoy this game and think it's a great relaxer, something you can play for a bit if you 
 can't defeat that boss in another game, or just want to chill before bed or after a long day at 
 work. At $30, this game is a steal, and I really think it's one that the entire family would love! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is essentially a scuba diving sim where you play with the fishies and explore the 
 ocean. While its relatively simple, there still ends up being lots of stuff to see and do. You 
 can explore the ocean on your own if you wish, but along the way you'll end up getting special 
 missions like guiding dives and taking photos. You'll also get gear to customize the look of your 
 diver. 
  You can also get a pet to follow you around. And, if you got a buddy with the game, you can go 
 online and swim around together. Though there is a lack of voice chat, you can still workaround 
 this. First of all, there are certain preset messages that will cover the basics of communications. 
 Then there is the underwater pen which you can draw stuff that your buddy will be able to see. 
 Lastly, you can always either just phone them up (works great if you have those unlimited calling 
 things and a bluetooth wireless headset) or just use a laptop/pc and text message. 
  
  The graphics of the game in the ocean are among the best of the Wii. They don't look absolutely 
 amazing, but they look fairly good, and they'll look better especially from a distance.
  
  The controls are very simple and easy for anyone to grasp. You just point in the direction you 
 want to go. Along with the fact that you don't kill anything or don't see any killings (even the 
 sharks won't bite) , it makes for a great family game that anyone can enjoy.
  
  The music is pretty nice. It's relaxing and instills a sense of wonder. 
  
  This is a great 
 title to diversify your Wii library. You can spend several hours just looking through the map, 
 exploring the different areas. Add on a spectacular price of only $30 new (at the time of this writing) 
 and you've got the makings of a relaxing, informative time waster. This game is probably not for 
 everyone. If you like Harvest Moon, The Sims, or Animal Crossing then I think you might like this 
 game. But if you are still unsure, it's worth at least a rental, because this is a game you have 
 to play to understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swn13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Ok like some of you i was sceptical at first about whether or not this game would be fun, but from 
 the second i was plunged into the ocean and learned the machanics of the game i realized how awsome 
 it truely is. I would have to say this is the best looking game on the wii right now, everything 
 is buitiful to look at, some of the stuff you see in endless ocean will amaze you. 
  
  You start out with naming your character, then hair style, and later in the game you can get diffrent 
 suits, tanks, hair styles, gloves, and even mask. You are guided by a marine biologist named Kathrine 
 who will give you tips and guide you while you are under the water. You get messages on you phone 
 about places and also get missions like topograph a place or even follow a whale sharks migration 
 path. You also from time to time be asked to guide anouther diver and show him a fish that he has 
 been wanting to see.
  
  In the game you pick up items like a pen that allows you to write underwater or even a camara (which 
 you will get missions to snap pictures of fish) , and a whistle that allows you to call a partner. 
 Which you can play with on the back of your boat, kind of like seaworld! 
  
  I have yet to try online muiltiplayer due to not having any friend codes at the moment but when 
 you want to add a friend code you walk to the front of the boat, there is a latter, you click on 
 it and connect it tells you that you dont have any friend codes and signs back off, but then you 
 have your friend code.
  
  When i am able to try the online i will post it in my blog so just go check it out a little later 
 and if anyone who reads this would like to exchange friend codes just give me a pm with yours and 
 i will send you mine.
  
  visuals: 9.5, id give it a ten but when you are on the boat it isnt as great as in the water.
 
  
  control: 10, this game does what it does best and i have yet to have any problems controling my 
 dude.
  
  gameplay:9.0, very realistic, has scientific names and info about fish but, the lack of realism 
 like not being in any danger when interacting with sharks can at sometimes feel a little too weird 
 I still jump when i go into a cave and a shark is waiting in there.
  
  difficulty: 9.0 at sometimes when you need to find an artifact that is hidden somewhere in that 
 area can be tuff but besides that the game is just right due to the tips.
  
  overall: I would have to give this game a 9.5 with great addictive game play this is a must play 
 even if you dont buy it i strongly recomend you atleast give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  ...::The Good::...
   Detailed Texture
   Simple and engaging gameplay
   Extremely Relaxing
   Online Co-Op
   You can play your own music via an SD
   Has you coming 
 back for more
   Applies to old and young gamers
   Only 20 Quid!
  
  ...::The Bad::...
  xMost hardcore gamers probably won't enjoy Endless Ocean
  xNot very innovative with the Wiimote
 
  
  Endless Ocean is indeed, more of an experience than a full fledged game.
  
  It doesn't really have much of a story. You customize your diver, picking their gender, hair length 
 and skin tan; then you head out to sea. At first you are given a few tasks to do via email, once 
 these have been completed and you obtain some diving gear, you are free to do as you wish. Yes 
 you will recieve more emails with tasks such as providing a tour for more in-experienced divers 
 and finding rare fish types, but these can be ignored if you see fit. 
  
  Graphics-wise Endless Ocean delivers, with every area bursting with life. Everything is detailed 
 and really sharp with loads of highly impressive texutes going on. Character models are a little 
 bland but luckily it's only you and your assistant. Pressing + lets you go into focus mode if close 
 enough to a bit of the scenary this pretty much zooms into a sea-plant, coral or rock face which 
 is then rendered in minute detail, so good that it looks like a 360 game. It looks fantastic. 
 
  
  The custom soundtrack helps you relax as you swim about in the depths, it even includes one of 
 Hayley Westenra's songs, and I can tell you that I'd never buy one of her albums, but just as Enya's 
 music suited Lord of the Rings the music here perfectly suits the game. But if neither of these 
 help you relax, or just don't appeal to you, feel free to take advantage of the SD Crad function 
 that lets you import an MP3 files from your card into the game.
  
  Moving on to Gameplay, Endless Ocean doesn't take advantage of the Wiimote. The only real use would 
 be shaking it to stroke the fish, or perhaps using the pen to write random gibberish on screen. 
 
  
  To swim, you point in the direction you wish to go and hold down 'B', or go the lazy way out and 
 press ' - ' and your diver will keep swimming until you instruct him to stop. Pressing 'A' while 
 pointing at a fish will lock on to it, when doing this you can get info on it, or make a bond with 
 it. To bond with the fish you press 'A' and move the remote from side to side. This will make your 
 diver pat the fish. You can also feed them food from your menu. To bring up the menu press any 
 direction on the D-Pad and scroll left and right with your remote. The controls are easy to use 
 and easy to get used to.
  
  Endless Ocean definitly as you coming back for more, be it that you wish to descover every type 
 of fish there is, bond with every fish and find out every bit of info you can. Maybe you like scavaging 
 the depths for the hidden treasures that can be collected, or prehaps you love using the camera 
 to take pictures. Whatever it is you love doing best, this game will last you hours. 
  
  As I have said plenty of times, Endless Ocean will leave you with unforgetable experiences, from 
 riding along the belly of a Sperm Whale with it looking down at you and a blazing sun over head 
 to taking a ride on your pet dolphin, which you can name. 
  
  Finally, Endless Ocean may appeal to anyone, old or young, but then again, the more "Hardcore" 
 may think of giving this a pass. I'd say whoever you are, this is something you simply cannot miss 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is one of these type of games that are somehow, randomly cool, the first screenshots, 
 I thought it wont be good, but playing it, it's a different story.
  The graphics are supremly immense, everything is just colourfull, it will have good graphics on 
 the boat, but playing it underwater, the graphics dramatically become legendary, a very detailed 
 game!!! 
  Sounds are quite legendary but it's awesome the opening song for it is just dramatically suit the 
 game and feels very relaxing, without the sounds, it will be seriously boring, but it isn't boring, 
 it's awesome, oh, plus this game has the ability to play music using your SD card (one of the games, 
 the other is exite truck) any type of music actually fits in the game and it's good.
  Gameplay is just greatly imaginary, you only need the Wii remote to play on it, one of the easiest 
 control system that you can play on, you see fishes, are very highly detailed, and the the underwater 
 sea creatures (exept mermaids) you can draw underwater, catch a bunch o creatures and play online 
 w/ a buddy or more. Overall the game has a good finish, a cool looking disk, virtually perfect, 
 the game is awesome but it won't deserved a 10, it's either because you'll get frustrated on occasion 
 and/ or the map is just huge, oh forget that, it suppose to be on an ocean as the game is called 
 Endless Ocean... ahahahahahah 
  
  
  Goods/ +
  Superb Graphichs, highly detailed
  A very Simple Controls
  Great Gameplay
  Legendary Sounds
  You get an awesome song w/ the 
 game that calms you down
  Play music using SD cards
  Has online
  Gives a very good underwater feel
  At least all the sea creatures are actually real
  Lots of 
 hidden unlockables
  You'll have a swimming buddy
  A great way of an underwater game
  Feels like you're underwater
  Get a camera in the game
  A game for new players and gamers
 
  Most of all, it won't ba a pain buying this game, it's only 20 ^^,
  
  
  
  
  Bad/ -
  Can be frustrating at some points
  Not a Wii - remote genius
  It's that kind of game 
 that most hardcore players won't play/ like
  A type of game that you can't compare to games like Ocarina of time
  
  Gameplay/ Innovation 
 - 9/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaminggeek
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Endless Ocean (Wii) The definitive review...
  
  And by definitive I mean lazy and cobbled together from previous forum posts of mine
  
  So 
 I'm 27 hours into the Endless Ocean and the end is nowhere in sight. In fact I just discovered 
 a whole new area and I keep discovering new species left right and centre. Since the game is one 
 of those overlooked gems and since it's one of those rare occasions where europe receives a game 
 well before america I will give you my 
  
  The game launches in the US in January 2008 at $30
  
  For a game with supposedly nothing to 
 do, this game is as much of a timesuck as Oblivion. You just lose yourself in this alien atmosphere 
 and zone out to the tunes. 
  
  The game has the boat as a hub area, you move between different co-ordinates on a huge sea map. 
 Then you get emails form the ocean foundation asking you to do research or take various VIPS on 
 guided tours, find a certain fish, photograph something, train a dolphin, explore an unknown area 
 etc. They are like mini missions. 
  
  All of this is kind of like an excuse because the basic underlying experience, the main grit of 
 the game is basically swimming about, looking around at the fauna, animals and landscape, investigating 
 those and chilling out to the music. 
  
  On your first encounter with a new species you will have to track it, click on it, which locks 
 you onto the animal. Then either poke, rub or feed it to get some info. At that point an encyclopedia 
 entry opens on screen which you can read. There are 3 parts to every animal and you have to unlock 
 them stage by stage so it's not just inspect one animal then move on. There is replayability going 
 back and gleaning more info. Generally the first stage of info is just a physical description. 
 Later on you will be asked to photo a specific fish so you better start associating animals with 
 names with enviroments. 
  
  Well, you can hold B to move and simply point to where you want your diver to follow. But for longer 
 treks you hit the minus button and he continues moving forward till you hit any other button. When 
 close to any surface in the game you can hit the + button and it goes into a hyper detailed fixed 
 view of terrain in which you can pick up objects or interact with tiny fish otherwise not viewable. 
 
  
  A is the button that you use simply to point and click on animals to investigate them. The 1 button 
 brings up the map, thankfully you can turn while on the map to orientate yourself. Hitting the 
 2 button puts you in a first person view, which is really great, it gives you this floating feeling. 
 The d-pad scrolls between option icons such ascamera, pen, food, whistle, options and end dive. 
 It uses just the remote yet uses every button of the remote. Most of the time you are just pointing 
 and hitting minus to move. Or pointing and clicking A. 
  
  Now I wouldn't ever dare dream of buying a Hayley Westenra album, but just as Enya's music suited 
 Lord of the Rings the music here perfectly suits the game. The game does a great job of tricking 
 your mind into a scuba diving state, the way your character floats at jaunty angles, the rhymic 
 and pulsating sound of your own breath through your air tube for instance or the bubbles escaping 
 in front of you. 
  
  Some of the graphics are really impressive for Wii. Even on standard camera mode everything is 
 detailed and really sharp. Go into first person mode and everything is just as crisp. There is 
 also a focus mode, where you can zoom into a plant or coral or rock face, literally (anything) 
 other than an animal and the game renders it in minute detail, so good that it looks like a 360 
 game at that point. I don't know if it's pre-rendered or not, it moves and flows with the water 
 so I can't call it, but either way it looks GREAT. 
  
  The custom soundtrack is essential to this game, I've already dived into a huge ravine with the 
 choral Odin Sphere theme. Gone into a Mermaids cave with the Zora's domain music. Swam about the 
 lagoon to the NIGHTS theme Even circled a whale to the Okami music. 
  
  In most normal games you have those wow moments, usually when something blows up, or a huge boss 
 appears etc. Endless ocean has those moments, but they usually occur when some massive underwater 
 beast turns up, slowly ambling towards you in the shadows, or when you dive into a cave and a whole 
 new area opens up. 
  
  The game teases you with these wow moments, the whales mostly. Your first encounter for instance 
 is of a humpback whale that is migrating to a new area so you only have a brief glimpse. You eventually 
 receive a deep sea diving air mixture and the night lights which allow you to dive into a huge 
 ravine, down into the abyss. I saw a sperm whale. Sperm whales feed at incredible depths where 
 humans can't venture, on giant squid so this one came out of the night and dived into the crevasse 
 and I couldn't follow.... until I got the deep sea diving equipment.
  
  The put into context one of those wow moments: I just got back from a trip down a deep crevasse 
 with this deep water diving air mixture and....... That one seamless experience will live with 
 me as one of those great gaming moments that I will always remember. Picture it, it's night, blackness 
 and you cling to the wall and get this extremely alien feeling of vertigo as you vertically plunge 
 down into the abyss, the light of your torch illuminating the rock wall as you descend. This choral, 
 godly music echoes gently in the background as you go. 
  
  Then out of the dark murk a sperm whale emerges and the music reaches a high pitched crescendo 
 and it drifts by, another tease as you can't track this one and it disappears. Then you submerge 
 deeper and..... well I wont spoil the rest but OMG. Just wow, unlike any other game experience 
 I've had. The whole game feels worth it just for that section. 
  
  I didn't think they could match that experience, that first encounter with a sperm whale but yeah, 
 they do later and it's better. 
  
  I uncovered like 95% of the map so I thought that there was nothing else left to see, nothing that 
 could suprise and enthrall me like the abyss or the central chamber of the ruins in marige atoll. 
 Then last night I finally have the chance to explore the inner chambers of the mermaids cave. I 
 only saw the first chamber before, but each cave is a different delight. I squealed like a delighted 
 child when I saw a giant manatee. Chamber after chamber it keeps getting better until the final 
 one where the music changes and you get a new track and it was.... it was like stepping into a 
 fantasy movie or something, I could not stop grinning ear to ear at what I was seeing. I ambled 
 around that chamber for a good 20 minutes looking around. 
  Last night I went back to the abyss to search for something and I came across a sperm whale again, 
 that was like the 4th time I'd seen it in this setting. This time I followed it up to the green 
 sun above and it was amazing, towards the end it even flipped onto its back so I was riding along 
 its belly and it even seemed to look down on me. AMAZING 
  
  
  You really getting into the photos too, it's like Pokemon snap and you find your favourite animals, 
 get some decent poses and later develop the pictures and put them in your album. Some missions 
 have journal writers asking you to send them photos of specific animals, I sent one back and he 
 sent me the finished article with my pic in it. Nice touch. 
  
  The visuals acheive all that they need to. Other than the odd poorly rendered creature the experience 
 simulates natural beauty very well. It's hard to see how they could have gotten some of the textures 
 any better, the lighting is natural, delicate and etherial. The animation is lifelike, the audio 
 is superb and the addition of custom soundtracks make it better. 
  
  Last night I explored the ruins. You move from an open map to a dungeon area and which has currents, 
 it's like a mini-zelda dungeon minus puzzles and enemies. 
  
  This morning I discovered a new area. You swim through this underwater garden, reeds brushing your 
 face, bending to your will and then you open out into this cove of new creatures. The music is 
 great too, all the games tracks aren't availible at the start, they gradually are unlocked the 
 more you explore and it's getting better and better. 
  
  *Gaming gods please don't turn me into a Haley Westernra fan*
  
  The experience can vary with 
 little things. You make "friends" with certain animals like dolphins and seals and before you dive 
 you can choose who you want to come with you or go alone if you want. For one dive I took the arisse 
 dolphin which had followed me out of the abyss. 
  
  I entered this cove where fish had been funnelled by strong currents. Anyhow I was listening to 
 the court suite from the Orchestrated Phoenix wright album. And just at the pinnacle of the song, 
 as the music swelled I turned my view to a veritable torrent of swirling Blue tangs illuminated 
 by rays of sunlight streaming down from the surface. And at that very point, as if to put that 
 one perfect exclamation mark on the moment, my dolphin friend Sara started chirping at the best 
 part of the song. It's such a great moment, but entirely random, that depended on where I was looking, 
 what point in the song I was at, what song I chose, what animal I chose to accompany me and what 
 area I chose to dive in. 
  
  What it means is that these moments can just happen in random and varied moments depending on a 
 combination of little things.
  
  This game is something so different, something so wonderful and we should be celebrating this title. 
 It just presents you with experiences you never even dreamed of having from a videogame. And the 
 experience unquestionably works. When the NGamer review called it console psychotherapy I can absolutely 
 understand that now. You are at peace playing this game because it nails the ocean experience exactly 
 how it is. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhollybob
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  the game offers a little known world to those who can not reach the endless blue.
  
  in the beginning you are a dive instructor who has gone to the south pacific and joined a local 
 diving company. the company sends you all types of jobs such as dive guides, topological maps, 
 photo taking, historical and archaeological expeditions and even just knowledge of the area.
  
  Meanwhile, your research partner, Catherine (who always wears a safety jacket because she cant 
 swim) , will inform you of important marine animals and interesting facts about the area.
  
  The Game Has placed awe over pal user's but USA users Might have the game taken off the shelves 
 because of the competition between Sony's PS3 and Microsoft's Xbox 360
  
  
  Review By Darkhollybob
  9:45 GMT
  Thursday 29
  November 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glitch321
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Endless Ocean is a suprisingly good game but not for everyone. You start on a boat in the Manaurai 
 Ocean with a female researcher and your goal is to just basically dive and look at fish but it's 
 not as boring as it sounds. You get emails every now and again with objectives like take photos 
 of fish and take someone diving. 
  
  Early on you can befriend a Dolphin and then make it your partner, what this means is that you 
 can use the Dolphin to help you look for small fish and treasure hiding in the vast ocean. 
  
  You can also train your Dolphin tricks and things from the boat by clicking your Wii-mote on 
 a fin or his nose then waving your Wii-mote to give the go sign to perform the trick. There are 
 a few gripes i have with the partner though. Even though you have a whistle you can still loose 
 track of the Dolphin and there is no arrow on the map telling you where he is. I think it would 
 of been easier if they had added that option instead of having to blow the whistle all the time.
 
  
  The game is quite long and there are alot of things to collect and i mean alot since i haven't 
 even got them all yet, such as treasure for the chest and fish for the species book and also gear 
 if you want to look cool. There is a kind of a main story that you get with the female researcher 
 but there isn't really much substance to the story it's just find areas and look for things. The 
 story doesn't matter that much since the game is just about exploring but i would of liked some 
 more depth to it, no pun intended. 
  
  The controls are very easy to get to grips with since it only requires the Wii-mote to move around. 
 All you have to do is point in the area you want to go and hold the B button to move forwards. 
 You can also flick the remote to quickly face in the opposite direction which comes in handy.
 
  
  The multiplayer in Endless Ocean is a two player diving experience with either you or your friend 
 can go to each others boats and dive together. Now communication wise there is no headset which 
 is obviously disappointing since you need to comunicate quite often, but you still have chat commands 
 that range from greetings, instructions and replys which are quite handy. 
  Also there is a pen you can use to either draw or write things down but i might add that it can 
 be very hard to do this and there is only a limited amount you can write at a given time. It is 
 fun drawing things in the water though, especially rude things. Even with the flaws it's still 
 fun diving around with your friend.
  
  I found Endless Ocean to be a fun and relaxing game and i suggest you try it out and at 20 quid 
 it's not a bad deal at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatthewNintendo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The basic idea of endless ocean probably sounds pretty boring to most people. Swim around an ocean 
 and find information about the sea-life, that's the main aim of the game. But as soon as you first 
 dive into the water of the vast ocean, you know this is nothing you imagined it to be. 
  
  Firstly with game looks fantastic. Apart from a few wide open areas, every inch of it is teaming 
 with life and pretty amazing scenery. I'm sure that some of the areas such as the limestone cave 
 will put a smile on your face. But the fish and other sea creatures themselves are brilliant, they 
 move realistically and many are a joy to watch. From dolphins to sea turtles to birds diving in 
 and out of the water, you will be hard pressed to find something Arika hasn't thought of. 
  
  The control scheme of the game is so simple, the game has a very short learning curve. You 
 basically point where you want to go and keep your finger pressed down on B to move in that direction, 
 then press A to interact with the sea-life. This of course means that the game will be very appealing 
 to non-traditional gamers who won't get confused or feel embarrassed as new players to the game. 
 
  
  But don't let that put you off if you're looking for a deep involving game. There is so much to 
 do here that everyone will get loads of enjoyment out of it. There is a huge amount of information 
 to be collected on the sea-life and many items to find. There are also opportunities to be a diving 
 guide and a photographer, which by the way is a brilliant prospect because there are so many amazing 
 sights to photograph. There are also mini-games such as the dolphin training.
  
  Something many people will notice is the hypnotic effect of the game, many times you'll find yourself 
 just swimming around looking at the scenery only to realise that two or three hours have passed, 
 so it seems Nintendo was right to categorise this in the touch! generations software list, since 
 it was placed there for it's relaxing and educational effect. Plus it's so easy to get into almost 
 anybody you know will enjoy it.
  
  Even though this game hasn't received much hype, I hope that many of you will go and buy this game. 
 I have noticed most places are selling it at 20, which is an absolute steal for many memorable 
 moments. such as your first sighting of a whale or penguin, or exploring the vast ocean. Combine 
 this with wi-fi multi-player exploration and the ability to play your own music whilst exploring 
 and I think that this game is a fantastic package. Give it a try you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tastycasey27
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  this game is exellent, i didnt no if id like it when i bought it but im so glad i did, for anyone 
 wanting to no wot you do in the game, well you sort of start off as a rookie diver your first dive 
 will take you to a basic reef where the game teaches you how to interact with fish, you need to 
 stroke and prod fish to be able to tell wot kind of fish it is, the more time you spend with a 
 fish the more you will learn. you can also make friends with dolphins and teach them tricks and 
 they can go diving with you, your main goal in the game is to explore the ocean you get emails 
 from people asking for photoes of certain fish or a reqest to take someone diving and find the 
 fish they want to see.
  
  the best bit for me so far was finding a lost underwater temple it looks amazing and the mazzive 
 sperm whale just looks terrific you can hold on to the side of the whale to hitch a ride to new 
 parts of the ocean. as you seach the ocean you find all sorts of treasure to which is kept in a 
 box on your boat. at this time at present i found a statue piece at the temple and im cursed lol 
 so im not quite shore wots going to happen. you can take exellent photoes of all the fish and places 
 you find and add them to a log book. 
  
  you get to upgrade your equipment too like new oxygen tanks so you can dive deeper, you get a underwater 
 light so you can dive at night, plus new diving suits and hairstyles to customise your character.
 
  
  all in all this game does look great, err well the under water bits do but the surface parts look 
 a bit ropey but the games about underwater so thats fine, the in game music is so relaxed you will 
 find yourself just swimming around for the heck of it and then your realise you have been playing 
 for hours. you can put you own custom music in the game if you like and there is online where you 
 dive with a friend but i havent tried that yet, but all ive played so far is a amazing game that 
 will probably be over looked by so many just for the fact that its different, but id say buy it 
 its worth every penny of my 17.99, if i was to give it a score id say 8, a verry good 8 at that.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adwright72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  At the risk of being shunned by all shoot em up freaks! This game is actually quite good. There 
 is enough going on to keep you entertained and the game unfolds rapidly enough to give you something 
 to keep you occupied. My one niggle is that you can only play one MP3 at a time, surely a playlist 
 option would have been easy to implement? As for realism, Ive never been diving so I couldn't tell 
 you. All I can say is it's good fun finding all the species and adding them to your log, a bit 
 like Pokemon for sea creatures. You can train some animals as you go along. I currently found a 
 dolphin. These animals can swim with you on dives if you choose. You will have to look hard for 
 the hidden animals, but this makes the game even more appealing. I really likes the 'pen' facility. 
 You can write in the water when you find anything interesting ready to find when you return another 
 day. The pen is an unlockable and there are lots of them within the game. You might find them a 
 little easy if your a seasoned gamer. Some really enhance the game, like the night diving lamp 
 which does exactly what it was one the tin. Longevity might be an issue but I've only had the game 
 for a day so I couldn't comment on that. Apart from that It's only 19.99 so don't moan. Get out 
 their, climb into your 'wetty' and find some sharks! Good hunting 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
