-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Escape from Bug Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/necronesia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Makes you grateful for Resident Evil 4.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy Wii motion controls.
 Horrible visuals smothered in fog.
 Many enemies can be avoided altogether.
 &quot;Spooky&quot; piano music loops ad nauseam.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.0, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 144 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Spike
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Jul 25, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Escape from Bug Island is a dismal reminder of the low points of survival horror's past. 

  Escape from Bug Island is a game out of time, a cheap Resident Evil knockoff of the kind we haven't 
 seen in years, and with good reason. When you strip away the looming dread of facing overpowered, 
 flesh-eating monstrosities and replace it with A-to-B objectives and lots of fog, as Escape from 
 Bug Island does, the end result is boring and awkward. Amongst other things, the consistently blocky 
 and washed-out visuals, cut-rate animation, and voice work that's not quite bad enough to be funny 
 all drive home the sense that this game missed its window of relevance by a good five years. That 
 Escape from Bug Island uses the Wii Remote comes off as anachronistic, and it ultimately only exacerbates 
 the clumsy controls.  

           The Bug Island tourist pamphlet must be awfully convincing.      

  A question that 
 might spring to mind early on while playing Escape from Bug Island is, "Why are people going to 
 Bug Island in the first place?" This is a genuinely awful location. Rocky terrain and an unrelenting 
 sheet of fog that limits your view to about 20 yards ahead keep it from being much of a vacation 
 spot, and, oh yeah, it's totally infested with gigantic, terrifying bugs that want nothing more 
 than to flay the flesh from your bones and lay a clutch of eggs in your chest cavity! It seems 
 like some government body or scientific group should have this place under military lock and key, 
 and yet you, and other characters you encounter, head to Bug Island like it's a casual thing to 
 do.  

  You play as Ray, a timid tagalong whose sports-sandals, cut-off jeans, and multi-colored parka 
 vest make him look like he lost his way home from a Phish concert. An infatuation with the dainty 
 Michelle, a girl with a hobbyist-level interest in entomology, brings you to this waking hell. 
 Meanwhile, your swaggering, shotgun-cocking buddy Mike's only purpose for being there is to arbitrarily 
 make a move on Michelle before you can, all of this within the first five minutes of the game. 
 Michelle runs off after this awkward episode, and you spend much of the rest of the game trying 
 to catch up with her and fending off the island's inhabitants. From here, the game's interest in 
 telling a story is scattered. Characters are introduced and killed off at weird, anticlimactic 
 intervals, and everything is so disjointed and poorly explained that it ceases early on being worth 
 the effort to care.  

  Contrary to its title, a good portion of Escape from Bug Island involves working your way deeper 
 into the island as you search for Michelle, the object of your affection. This means you'll mostly 
 trek across some largely linear levels, fighting bugs and fetching keys to open shack doors, safes, 
 and pieces of luggage. The stiflingly soupy layers of fog make it hard to see where you're going, 
 though the game makes up for it with a minimap that will almost always tell you exactly where you 
 need to go next. Though you'll fight plenty of oversized bugs, it seems ironic that some of your 
 nastiest foes aren't bugs at all: these include flying fish, giant gorillas, Amazonian lizard-women, 
 and dogs with human heads. When it comes to combat, you've got ranged and melee options, both of 
 which require some lame motion controls to use.  

  General movement is controlled with the analog stick on the Nunchuk, and melee attacks require 
 you to first line yourself up with your enemy, press and hold the B button, and then repeatedly 
 swing the Wii Remote down... and that's pretty much it. You can't move once you've started swinging, 
 and lining up with your enemies is difficult, especially when dealing with smaller, faster enemies. 
 A half-dozen football-sized crickets can prove far deadlier than a couple of 10-foot-tall praying 
 mantises. Ranged attacks don't work much better. First you have to hold down the A button to enter 
 a first-person view, then once you've lined up your shot, you have to hold the B button down as 
 well, and finally swing the Wii Remote downward to throw your projectile. Again, lining up your 
 shots is difficult due to the inaccuracy of your aiming reticle and the inconsistency of your throws. 

           Having trouble with a boss battle? Try walking past them.      

  You start off with a pointy stick and some rocks, although you can also find a knife, a baseball 
 bat, a machete, a giant ceremonial lance, sandbags, hand grenades, and bug spray, among other weapons 
 on Bug Island. Though better weapons can help you fell enemies, you'll quickly find that the path 
 of least resistance often involves avoiding the enemies altogether. While certain critters will 
 chase you relentlessly, most of the time you can just run right past your enemies with little to 
 no consequence. Furthermore, the game isn't shy about providing you with plenty of health-replenishing 
 foodstuffs from level to level, which makes your weak little side-roll and back-step evasive maneuvers 
 seem exceptionally pointless. If you ever take damage, you've always got plenty of fruit, mushrooms, 
 and canned goods to cure what ails you.  

  Escape from Bug Island is an ugly game, and the persistent fogginess almost makes it seem ashamed 
 of itself, a feeling that's actually pretty well earned. What you  can  see looks gray and muddy, 
 with a general fuzziness that almost makes it look like it was ported up from the Nintendo 64. 
 The only memorable aspect of the sound design is a spooky piano piece, though it's only really 
 memorable because it consists of two bars, and seems to loop  constantly .  

  The technical deficiencies of Escape from Bug Island simply highlight the fact that games have 
 evolved since survival horror first turned fashionable. There's really no place for something this 
 clunky. Rather than Escape from Bug Island, why not avoid it altogether?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Collie_Lover
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Storyline
  For anyone who has not played this game yet the name of the hero is Ray. Ray's adventure starts 
 when he and his two friends arrive on an island infested with large bugs. Ray is there to support 
 Michelle, a geeky college student who is researching bugs for a paper. Ray is going to tell Michelle 
 at the campfire that he loves her, but his friend Mike, who enjoys taunting him, tells Michelle 
 first that he loves her. Michelle is confused by Mike's statements and decides to go for a walk 
 into the forest to think about things for awhile. Mike follows shortly after she leaves to check 
 on her. Ray falls asleep for a few hours, and when he wakes up Mike and Michelle have not returned. 
 Armed only with a stick and a flashlight Ray starts to explore the dark creepy bug infested island 
 at night to investigate.
  
  The dialogue and clues in Escape from Bug Island were, perhaps unintentionally, comical at times, 
 but they did not ruin the game. The scripts could have been written better, but there was nothing 
 wrong with the plot or theme. There were clues in the form of strange and often comical notes in 
 parts of the adventure. The player comes to understand later that the notes were written by someone 
 who was emotionally detached.
  
  There is an interesting book, and a supernatural process, in the back-story of the adventure that 
 is responsible for the existence of many of the creatures found, and the events that occurred, 
 on the island.
  
  Challenge
  I selected the "Easy" setting to start, and found that I had plenty of healing items and ammunition 
 as I progressed through the game. I don't like reading large instruction manuals to play video 
 games, and I really like action games that have in-game tutorials. I was pleased that Escape from 
 Bug Island had an in-game tutorial. The tutorial was simple and effective. I did get Ray killed 
 6 times in the game, but most of the time when I lost a life it was due to being careless. I never 
 felt frustrated with the game to the point that I wanted to quit. The game does not penalize Ray 
 for carrying around a lot of equipment or items, but there were caps on how much ammo he could 
 carry. Escape from Bug Island awards bonus points at the end of each stage for finding things like 
 mushrooms, fruit, boxes and also killing creatures. I had a hard time finding some boxes at the 
 beginning, but did eventually find them. There were other special-case bonus conditions that were 
 hard to complete, but not essential to finishing the game. 
  
  Controls
  Moving Ray around in Escape from Bug Island was practically effortless, and much easier than moving 
 characters around in other more popular games in the horror genre. The Wii motion sensing controls 
 translated my motions in a way that felt realistic when making the character perform certain actions: 
 balancing, bludgeoning, dodging, slashing, shaking off, shooting and throwing. It was challenging 
 to hit consistently and do a lot of damage at the beginning of the game. However, as I progressed 
 through Escape from Bug Island I became more comfortable with the controls, and found more effective 
 weapons, which helped Ray hit more often and do more damage. Ray is required to throw rocks and 
 other weapons in the game to knock things down, hit things from a distance or blow things up with 
 grenades. Throwing actions felt natural in the game.
  
  The balance simulation in Escape from Bug Island was cleverly designed and fun. A balance meter 
 (in the form of a needle and gauge display) was used in combination with the motion controls to 
 help Ray cross logs and other narrow bridges. I was required to move the stick forward on the nun 
 chuck to make Ray move forward across a log, and at the same time I was required to tilt the Wii 
 remote to the right and left, simulating Ray's balance, to react to the balance meter. The feedback 
 from the meter and Ray's reaction had a nice gradation of risk; if I was off a little Ray would 
 teeter until I re-adjusted. If I didn't adjust in time Ray would fall off of the bridge. There 
 was one bridge with falling debris in one part of the game where I got Ray killed twice. This part 
 of the game felt like an inescapable death trap, but it did not ruin the game for me overall. I 
 would like to see other Wii games use the balance meter interface. I suppose it would be possible 
 to use a balance meter with a classic controller, but it would not feel the same or be as fun.
 
  
  Graphics/Animation
  Escape from Bug Island has a foggy nightmare-like atmosphere. The creatures are of average to good 
 visual quality. The cut-scenes are of good visual quality. One of the story rewards in the game 
 is my favorite, a cut-scene when Ray rescues Michelle, and she thanks him romantically. The fog 
 and shadows played tricks on my eyes at times making me think that there were monsters ahead, but 
 nothing was there. The structures, plants, water, and terrain were visually of good quality. There 
 is a large interesting hollow tree in one of the stages that you can see the flow of oozing sap 
 on its bark.
  
  Glitches
  I only encountered one major programming flaw in the game when I was in a certain dungeon. I could 
 not get a large red cricket off of Ray's back no matter how much I performed the waggle shake-off 
 motions. Fortunately Ray was not far from the exit of the dungeon, and I was able to reset things 
 by leaving the dungeon for a minute.
  
  Interface
  The interface was simple and adequate for the game. The camera angles worked well. The game uses 
 a third person perspective. The player is able to see Ray moving around while exploring, interacting 
 and fighting. Ray has a health meter on the game screen and it works as would be expected in an 
 action game. The equipment, items and map functions work well.
  
  Length
  The game gave me a lower grade at the end for taking too long to complete the adventure. It took 
 me over 26 hours to finish the game mainly because I spent a lot of time exploring and messing 
 around for my own amusement.
  
  Sound
  The combat music has a precarious and resolute quality. The music in the menu screen is a piano 
 piece and has a suspenseful quality. There was little voice acting, but it was good. The insect 
 movement, feeding, and attacking sounds were good. Sounds and vibration in the game were used effectively 
 to create startle sensations. The audio, visual and vibration effects of the game combined perfectly 
 at times to make my skin and hair feel like they were crawling with bugs. There were times I was 
 so immersed in the game that I was brushing imaginary bugs off of my skin and hair. Delivering 
 the killing blow to a creature triggered a satisfying squishy noise, and the vibration from the 
 remote gave a nice damaging sensation. Sometimes sounds came through the Wii remote speaker making 
 the game experience feel more intense. Sounds were used at times to make the player feel like Ray 
 was being followed, but nothing was there.
  
  Value
  I purchased Escape from Bug Island new for $20, and it was certainly worth the price. Since the 
 game saved my experience points when I finished it, I will be able to play it again someday with 
 a chance to unlock the equipment faster the second time around. Escape from Bug Island might have 
 been an ordinary action game if it had been developed for another console, but it made good use 
 of the Wii's motion sensing controls and the remote speaker. I will not be trading in Escape from 
 Bug Island, and I am hoping that there will be a sequel to it on the Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief-Irons
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 2, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  First impressions? Very bored after experiencing poor voice acting, reading boring text about the 
 relationship dynamics between uninspired characters Ray, Mike and Michelle. After that I went through 
 a standard tutorial getting used to some of the odd controls. Once I'm done I went off to explore 
 to island, with little clue of where to go. 
  
  I felt I was given a lot of freedom, but the reality turned out to be quite the opposite. The player 
 is only has to go one set path from level to level with optional stuff to do on the way, such as 
 hunting for fruit and destroying boxes. Sound like fun? 
  
  Eventually I stumbled upon the first few types of enemies, after killing a few and running I completed 
 the level, after which I got a summery screen which updated me on my stats and a bonus criteria!?
 
  
  Acquiring bonuses is a irritating experience. One asked me to kill 50 millipedes, which takes ages 
 and the controls makes it difficult to get any enjoyment out of it. After meeting the criteria 
 I discovered that I get fragments for doing this. How do I use these to help me? Well according 
 to the manual I discovered that "something good happens" when earning these. What this means I 
 don't know, couldn't they tell me!?
  
  Clues are available in the form of notes, these are represented as a glowing dot on the mini map. 
 These give a brief bit of storyline, clues on how to progress in the game. Important locations 
 such as are sometimes shown up as a red dot, but I would of preferred a small arrow to show the 
 direction of the nearest vital location as the mini map is just to small.
  
  Combat system is divided into two sections, third and first person. In third person you can't use 
 throwing weapons. To use melee weapons hold B and use the remote like a hammer banging a nail, 
 three swings in a row does a small combo, unfortunately this attack takes a lot of effort and you 
 will need to do this to kill small bugs.
  
  First person I can throw projectiles by holding the B button and swing the remote, melee weapons 
 can be simply used be tapping B to poke your enemies to death! For some reason poking does more 
 damage then using the normal attacks.
  
  Combat system is extremely basic, just run up to a monster hold B and swing! Sometimes Ray will 
 appear to miss the target, yet due to horrible hit detection it registers. Attacking in first person 
 is a lot easier by just tapping B, but the same problems still exist, to use throwing weapons hold 
 B and flick the remote. How does the weapon select system fair any better?
  
  Ray organizes his weapons into two sections which can be changed in-game from Melee and throwing 
 using the Z button. At first I thought this would make the game easier to play, however as some 
 enemies require different weapons to kill, so I have to go back to the menu, click weapons, click 
 either melee or throwing, chose my weapon and finally select equip. Unlike say Resident Evil 4 
 where you just could jump straight to inventory then choose what to equip. 
  
  Escape from Bug Island does make good use of the motion sensing technology when Ray tries to negotiate 
 thin platforms, using the analogue to more forwards and twisting the remote to keep the indicator 
 in the yellow section, in addition he must avoid getting hit my environmental hazards. 
  
  This is the possibly the best part of the entire game, later the difficulty will result in this 
 becoming as tedious as the rest of this pathetic attempt at entertainment. The Camera is positioned 
 in a third person prospective and its works quite well, but I have noticed it clips through Ray 
 when near a wall. 
  Does the first person camera view fair any better? None. Entering this mode makes the camera go 
 all over the place, unless I had the remote pointed exactly in the middle. 
  
  Graphics are at best serviceable, the environments lack diversity, detail and it has a short draw 
 distance. All humans look plastic and don't convey any sense of emotion. At least the enemies in 
 the game look genuinely creepy. Its just rained by crappy hit detection and awkward controls. 
 
  
  All enemies in this game will run straight toward Ray to attack, the problem with this is that 
 in Indoor areas, especially caves monsters will frequently have pathfinding problems. So its easy 
 to trick the stupid artificial intelligence. Considering this a next generation console, its shameful 
 that the developers didn't fix these problems before releasing this. Quality assurance is lacking.
 
  
  Cutscenes are extremely poor, I've seen better on Nintendo 64 with zero physics and bad voice acting, 
 clipping issues and boring animations. Music and audio isn't much better, there are about three 
 music tracks and they loop over and over again. The bugs sound like I would imagine. They did at 
 least attempt to include sound it the remote, but it is of such poor quality I turned the remote 
 speaker off. 
  
  Escape from Bug Island does have a very long, but boring story with many fragments to collect. 
 It will take around twenty hours to complete, but you're not going to have fun doing it. Half way 
 through they recycle previous levels and throw in harder enemies and objectives. Bottom line it's 
 a waste of time and money.
  
  Strengths: Creepy enemies, environmental noises
  
  Weaknesses: Horrible controls, bad hit detection, poor voice acting, crap music, annoying menu 
 system, awful music, uninspired storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Resident Evil series may not be the first survival horror series ever created, but it did popularize 
 the genre with its story, concept of one man/woman facing an army of zombies, and acting ranging 
 from abysmal to decent. When the first Resident Evil on the Playstation made the genre popular, 
 developers followed suit in attempts to create their own series based on the success. Some of them 
 turning out good (Silent Hill) , some turning out terrible (The Ring: Terror's Realm) and others 
 that didn't catch on in popularity and only gained cult followings (Blue Stinger) . This process 
 followed in the era of the PS1 and the N64, and throughout the last gaming generation with similar 
 results. One may think that with the number of review sites and publishers that developers may 
 have given up on trying to rip off the RE formula and instead focus on making their own games. 
 However, this sure doesn't seem to be the case with development team Secret Stash and their creation 
 of "Escape From Bug Island" for the Nintendo Wii. The game has the guts to boast itself as the 
 "creepiest survival/horror game for the Wii" (Obviously factoring out Resident Evil 4, but more 
 on that later) . So is this game creepy? Fun and playable? Or both? Let's find out.
  
  Survival horror game stories tend to lean towards one of two extremes in terms of story quality. 
 They can either be so well done that they rival Hollywood horror movies, or so badly done they 
 don't even qualify for being shown in movie format on the Sci-Fi channel. Escape From Bug Island 
 falls on the later. The story follows that of three college students, Ray, Michelle, and Mike in 
 their trip to the island of Beelzebub (Oooooh Get it?) . Ray is the character you control and seems 
 to pass off as a total wimp, but oddly enough suddenly develops enough courage to face the mutants 
 on the island he traveled with, Mike is Ray's friend who has meat for a brain and points his shotgun 
 wherever he feels like, and Michelle is the scientist in training who has a fetish for bugs and 
 learning about as much as possible from their life patterns (just like most scientists) . The story 
 begins to unfold with the scene at the campsite, where Mike proposes to Michelle to be his girlfriend 
 when your character Ray was planning to do so, but instead is forced to watch (it's actually a 
 blank out) Michelle walk off to wonder about whether or not to be Mike's girlfriend. Ray and Mike 
 get into an argument of sorts and Mike goes off to find Michelle. Ray then dozes off and wakes 
 up to find that Mike and Michelle have yet to return to their campsite and goes off to find them, 
 only to find giant bugs and other mutants in his way. The opening story seems like something done 
 from a really bad soap opera and has to be seen to be believed. As the rest of the story progresses, 
 things don't get much better, but you do get to learn how the insect life got to be what it is. 
 If you want to find out the rest of the story beyond that, either read it from someone else or 
 play the game yourself.
  
  In terms of graphics, they are very inferior by today's standards, even on the Wii. The Wii may 
 not be the graphic powerhouse of this gaming generation, but with games like Super Mario Galaxy 
 and Sonic and the Secret Rings showing the Wii is more than capable of pulling off fantastic graphics, 
 Escape From Bug Island falls short of doing justice to the system. The environments and character 
 models all look like something done on the Nintendo 64 or the Playstation. The fog doesn't help 
 with much either, seeing that it's nothing when you have your flashlight on, but it's unrealistically 
 blurry when you turn it off. So the graphics definitely don't pass off as anything to marvel at.
 
  
  The graphics certainly weren't an accomplishment the developers had in mind for this game, though 
 the sound department is slightly better. There is some nice music to be heard in the game such 
 as the intro cut scene, the menu screen, the "being attacked by giant bugs" music, but most of 
 the other tunes leaves much to be desired. The sound effects are decent though, they vary in how 
 mutants die, react, and attack, but some are reused to the point of where they may irritate some 
 players. Speaking of leaving much to be desired, the voice acting makes sure that you still feel 
 that way. The voice acting is simply terrible, even worse than Sonic Adventure's English dub, but 
 still not as bad as Mega Man X 4's. There are situations where characters have to face incredible 
 danger, but they hardly show any sign of fear or pain. Seeing that bad voice acting seems to be 
 a trademark in many survival horror games, it may gain the sympathy of some gamers, but for gamers 
 looking for quality presentation won't find it here.
  
  So the graphics and the sound aren't up to par with anything that has come out this generation, 
 but how does the game play hold up? Amazingly enough It's actually not all that bad. The game 
 requires gamers to utilize the Wiimote and nun chuck to perform various actions in the game. Examples 
 include holding the B button and wagging the Wiimote down to attack with whatever weapon you are 
 carrying, holding the A button shifts you into the first person so you can either poke something 
 with the B button (which doesn't really seem to be all that helpful) or holding the B button to 
 throw a projectile. Throwing projectiles isn't as easy as it sounds, since the first person camera 
 is controlled by the Wiimote, and the aiming cursor is fairly imprecise since you often have to 
 throw a projectile above your target to get a hit. Wagging the Wiimote or the nun chuck without 
 holding any button makes Ray roll to the respective side you're holding them (the game functions 
 whether you're left or right handed) . 
  
  There's a wide variety of enemies for players to kill, like crickets, moths, flies, giant praying 
 mantis's, carnivorous plants that catch your foot on the ground, giant frogs, flying fish, disembodied 
 King Kongs, and (are you ready for this?) Amazonian Lizard Women. Killing these enemies is quite 
 satisfying and doesn't seem to get old, considering you're attacking with the Wiimote. To add to 
 the functions the Wiimote offers, there are times when Ray must cross a narrow bridge and maintain 
 his balance or fall off. Walking across narrow bridges is done by walking as normal and moving 
 the Wiimote back and forth, moving a needle on a scale that appears, that you have to keep within 
 the blue area or risk losing balance. When the scale begins to flash red, Ray begins to lose his 
 balance and you must maintain the needle within the blue area to regain balance and move forward. 
 
  
  There is also a lot of extra content and depth in Escape From Bug Island for being a cheap Resident 
 Evil clone. You can find items that move you along in your search for Michelle and Mike, such as 
 honey for attracting exploding ants to a tree for you to kill with ant spray you find latter on. 
 It's possible to find secret items to add to the variety of weapons you can find as well, such 
 as finding barbwire for a baseball bat you find and allows you to make a baseball bat wrapped in 
 barbwire. 
  
  Escape From Bug Island is probably a game that could have been done on the Playstation and Nintendo 
 64, got decent reviews then, and become something for gamers to laugh at today, stating it hasn't 
 aged well. This game probably wouldn't have garnered too much sales back then anyway, so it may 
 bring some to question why this game exists. Is this game worth checking out though? If you're 
 looking for another survival horror game that matches the presentation levels of classic Resident 
 Evil clones, already beat Resident Evil 4, or just have cash to burn, this game may actually be 
 worth your time and money if you're willing to give it an honest chance. This game is pretty hard 
 to find for new though, but this game can be found at a Gamestop for $17.99 used. Overall, this 
 game may not be worth the $49.99 it most likely launched at, but if you can find it cheap and just 
 want something different to play from the mainstream releases, Escape From Bug Island may be worth 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fatalis
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I thought it was awesome (although i'm insectaphobic) and I kept 
 playing through the first few levels. Then the next morning, I payed for it. My right arm was hurting 
 for 2 days. I have played worse games then this though and I think that maybe you should try it. 
 If you have insectaphobia or have arachnophobia, then do not play this game unless you can get 
 over it. It's an ok game overall. My favorite part is that you fight the Praying Mantis early on 
 (they are my fave insect) and that there are so many weapons to use. My least favorite part was 
 the bomb ants, those explosions out of nowhere scared me. Sadly there are only 3 bosses in the 
 game. I will not spoil it though. Other people might not like this game but it is good until you 
 beat the final boss. There are actually 2 endings, one good and one bad *Dun Dun Dun!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SweetCheatMastr
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Worst game ever. End of story. Its so bad it made me think why I rented it even thought all the 
 reviews were terrible. I wanted to see if everyone was being biased. They werent. The music is 
 terrible and made me mute the t. v. The graphics are average. The game play is awful. Everything 
 is awful. Its a pathetic waste of any time spent on it. I played for half an hour and it felt like 
 3 hours. I instantly returned it to the renting store. It really sucks. Whoever made it probably 
 gave it to some person with no imagination or taste in music so come up with the ideas. Its just 
 a F***ing waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I dont believe how awful this game is, don't buy or rent this piece of crap. The storyline sucks, 
 the gameplay sucks, the bugs suck, I mean come on people this without a doubt one of the worst 
 games I have ever played. The music is absolutly horrible, the graphics are disgusting, and the 
 character voices are bad. This game gives horror adventures a bad name, I mean I don't know how 
 many adjectives I have to use here. This game is biggest load of @#$% I have ever played, if I 
 could give it a zero, I would give it -10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Survival horror is a fairly popular game franchise due solely to the success of one series of game. 
 That series of games involves zombies, mutants with blades for arms, and just recently parasites 
 infecting hispanic people. That game franchise is Resident Evil, for those of you who haven't played 
 Resident Evil 1 or 4. These games made me an avid survival horror gamer due to their tense atmosphere 
 and great gameplay. Escapoe from Bug Island can barely be called a game, let alone a survival horror 
 game.
  
  You start off by seeing 3 blocky people get off an even blockier boat. One of them has a rifle, 
 for no explicable reason. It then takes you to a controls tutorial where your gun-bearing friend 
 teaches you how to play the game, and then teases you for liking the girl that went on the trip 
 with you. He then talks you into asking her out at night by the campfire: the ultimate romantic 
 setting. Then, just as your about to ask the question, he asks her out instead.
  
  Before I start vomiting up my intestines due to this completely and utterly retarded twist , let 
 me clarify some of the things I've already said. When I say controls, I mean pressing two buttons 
 at once and swinging the remote. It doesn't matter how you swing it. Your character will always 
 do the same motion over and over again. And you have to hold rwo buttons at once to to pretty much 
 everything, which shows a lack of though or insight in the controls. A lack of thought pretty much 
 sums up the game, really. Almost everything involves swinging the remote, and they don't even work 
 that well. Your attacks are the same thing over and over again, so no immersion is had at all.
 
  
  Next, lets discuss the graphics. Super Mario 64 trounces this game in that category. Enough said.
 
  
  And my absolutely favorite part: the dialogue. It's so bad, I put it in its own category. Everything 
 your character says seems to have no purpose or meaning other than to awkwardly progress the stupid 
 plot. Everything is short fragments, and it seriously reads how you would expect a 4th grader's 
 dialogue between two friends would read. The story is pure crap AT BEST.
  
  The only thing I feel bad about in this whole review is my comparisn to Super Mario 64. To all 
 Nintendo fans, SM64 was the classic of its time, and I can agree it may have been wrongful to even 
 mention it in the same review as this game, but It served its purpose. Don't buy this game. Don't 
 even rent this game. Don't even think about this game anymore. Once you're done reading my review, 
 clear it from your mind. I played the game, so I will suffer the awful memories that follow. I've 
 been given a curse, and that curse is named Escape from Bug Island. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherlock99
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  i dont understand all the bad reviews about this game escape from bug island is not as bad as most 
 people claim i for one enjoyed the game the controls are very responsive better then all of the 
 other third party games that are out now the sound effects are very realistic i love the differrent 
 bug noises that are in the background the game offers differeng kinds of weapons which is great 
 the only real promblem with the game are the graphics which are very poor the characters are kinda 
 blockey like from the n64 generation the environments are ok great lighting effects from the flash 
 lite escape from bug island has its pros an cons i thing its worth a try in at 30 dollars its worth 
 it if you love cheesy b-movie game this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This was way better then the reviewers say it is. The Graphics are alright, but they hold up well 
 for the game. The Controls work most of the time, but there are times when you forget that you 
 have to swing to hit something. The game is very short, but it's fun to play through alot of times 
 and the story is alright. The music is okay, but better then I thought it would be. The thing I 
 like most is that I am not really into horror games and this was a great opener for me to play 
 more horror games. Boy I tried Silent Hill 2 once and I took it back the next day with my tail 
 between my legs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snort_X
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This Game could have been better because they failed to give us a good introduction of the situation! 
 They skipped all the explanations to what was the island and why the bugs were so huge!
  The plot was a definite clich&eacute; i mean friends go on a walk get lost and attacked by bugs... 
 I think they could have come up with some plot twists and better problem... but one thing that 
 was very clever was the going back in time and correcting mistakes
  The graphics are -in its own way- good, but the sound system and voice overs were horrible! Like 
 you burst in to a house and they wait a good 3minutes (of course im exagerating) and then gasp... 
 i've seen better.
  I've rented the game (thank god) and finished it and still at the end there is no conclusion! This 
 game gets a bad 3 out of 10 because the action was -in a difficult way- fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jharper
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Escape from Bug Island is classified as a Horror Action Game, of which Resident Evil is part of. 
 What's funny is even at its worst, Resident Evil was never this bad.
  
  The story is simple enough. You are Ray, a non-looking action character type who has a crush on 
 Michelle. Michelle is the one that got you into going to bug Island in the first place, so if you 
 make it off you're going to need to give her a good talking to. Your shotgun happy pal Mike who 
 is on the train wreck as well, is only there to try to nail your love interest within the first 
 10 minutes of the game. After Mike lays the moves down on her (Mike you player you) Michelle leaves 
 the group and you end up running after her like in every bad horror movie you've ever seen. Unfortunately 
 for the people that play the game, the story after that won't mean much to anyone.
  
  The limited soundtrack of the game is just another showing of how lazy the developer really is. 
 The soundtrack that is present will just keep looping and looping constantly. I hope you like the 
 same tracks over and over.
  
  Moving around the world is done with the Nunchuk, while pressing and hold the B button, and then 
 swinging the Wii Remote down will supply you with melee attacks. To add a bonus to all this unwanted 
 Wii Remote waving, the developers have decided that you are not able to move once you've started 
 swinging. This wouldn't be so bad if you could actually line up your enemies. There have been plenty 
 of games on the Wii where the controls hinder the experience, and Escape from Bug Island is just 
 another on that list.
  
  Graphically, Escape from Bug Island is very unimpressive even for the last generation of consoles. 
 The fog that is in the game will slow if not stop all progress of moving because you can make out 
 where you are going. Colors that are present in the game are of a few types. Greens, Browns, Grey 
 and Black. The lack of overall colors makes this Escpae from Bug Island an eyesore to look at. 
 Some reviewers have stated that this game came from the N64 era due to the fog and other grainy 
 features. While I would agree with them to an extent, I want to point out that Resident Evil 2 
 on the N64 looked, sounded, and played better than Escape from Bug Island.
  
  In closing, it truly boggles the mind that Eidos would put up the money to license this game from 
 Japan. It was awful in Japan, and it has not improved any by coming to the states. If you want 
 Survival Horror on the Wii, get RE4 and call it day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because it's looks like Silent Hill Series . After playing on it for few minutes 
 .. I thought the graphic's isn't so good : ( It's look bad !
  For another few minutes .. I found the gameplay is great and nice ..
  And from the first time 
 playing it .. I liked the story . Cool and Great story between the three characters ..
  
  There is just a little bit thing about the Music in the game .. It is not scary ( Horror ) .. :?
 
  
  All what I really like in the game is the characters ( Not the graphics ) and the story ;) ... 
 The charaters looks fine .
  
  The game just need more action and nice graphic's to be cooler and better .. So that all what I 
 can say about ( Escape From Bug Island ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tabarnak!
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  That says it all. Good thing about the game:
  -well... the idea is good.
  
  bad things about the game:
  
  1-No character voices when they speak.. you have to read like 
 the old days.
  2-Story and character development is weak.
  3-When aiming in first person, you don't actually control your reticule but a red arrow which directs 
 your reticule around. Not very fluid.
  4-Bashing with a stick or a knife to kill hordes of crickets and mantis gets really long in the 
 tooth, especially since you have to do so using the Wii remote. Even for Wii standards, you look 
 like an idiot (remember shutting the blinds to prevent the neighbourhood from seing you play that 
 game) .
  5-Why's this guy waving his shotgun at people's head when he speaks? I expected a kind of resident 
 evil 4 with bugs but ended up playing whack-a-mole in a forest full of giant bugs and... one ugly 
 king kong replica with bloodshot eyes... sheesh. Really lacks the tension building, great controls, 
 good story, character developping and gameplay polish of RE4: Wii edition.
  
  Rent it if you must absolutely try it but don't buy it. You're warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cisajt1
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I must admit to a bit of anticipation when I saw this on the rental bin. Hmmm... a japanese horror/survival 
 game involving bugs. Could be good. Maybe even another Resident Evil 4. That thought, along with 
 the fact that every other game in the Wii section played, I figured why not? Lo and behold, I was 
 immediately disappointed.
  
  Escape from Bug Island is an uninspired, uninteresting game. Good concept, bad implementation.
 
  
  STORY: You are Ray, a traditionally effeminate young Japanese freshman in college. Being a traditional 
 effeminate young man in Japan, Ray is looking to hook up with a girl. Weather it is actual love, 
 or to convince others of your heterosexuality is yet to be determined. (I'm leaning more towards 
 the second option.) The girl you choose is Michelle, a very weird girl obsessed with bugs. To impress 
 this said girl, you (accompanied by your macho best friend, Mike) take Michelle to an island filled 
 with bugs, in the hopes of wooing said lady. Mike then proceeds to hit on Michelle and the both 
 scamper off into the woods in a thinly veiled plot device to have you rescue them. I could go on 
 in detail about this story, but that is all you really need to know. This story is definately not 
 this game's strong suit. Very, very bad translation is abound in this game. Maybe a game called 
 Escape from Bug Island should have tipped me off. The story is told in scattered notes that abound 
 threwout this island, as well as some very poor cutscenes. Unfortunately, you have to pay attention 
 to the darn things to get clues on how to escape this evil, evil place. (I suggested the power 
 button, but noone listened.)
  
  Now, to the Meat and Potatoes.
  
  CONTROLS - 3 - Not very inspired. Another Waggle-mote game for the Wii. Combat is handled by pressing 
 the B button and waggling. To get buttons off of you, you waggle both controllers. To dodge, you 
 waggle either controller, etc. etc. My arms were falling off after a half hour. The transistion 
 between melee and ranged is extreamly clunky. You first press A to get into a very clippy first 
 person. Then, you aim your reticule at whatever you want to hit. (Bug, cricket, huge ape, whatever.) 
 Then, you press the B button, which LOCKS the reticule in place. Finally, you flick the remote 
 forward to send a rock, or whatever else you have at the reticule. Admittently, the box for hitting 
 anything is large, but if your target moves, you have to re-aim, and hope that the second after 
 you hit the B button, the baddy doesn't move. Lame.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 3 - This island would be scarier if something were in it. You spend a majority of the 
 game running at a snails pace from point A to point B. Normally, this would not be much of a problem 
 if their was something to look at. But the fog covered terrain limits that option rather badly. 
 Once you reach point B, you waggle to death a series of ever tougher bugs, than run on to point 
 C. Rinse and repeat. A few boss fights, a few microgames, and that is it. Not scary at all. Not 
 unless the thought of bad gaming gives you chills in the night.
  
  GRAPHICS - 3 - This would have been cutting edge in the N64 days. Quite embarrassing for a Next 
 gen effort. The bugs are all shades between red and gray, the scenery is between brown and gray, 
 and all charactor models and environmental elements are blocky, cold, and lifeless. About the best 
 thing I can say, is that the fog looks good.
  
  SOUND - 5 - This is the strong point. The bugs really do sound the part, and it is satisfying to 
 hear the crunch of you stomping one. The creepiest moments are when you face a new bug, and don't 
 know his particular sound yet. However, they do get old fast, and once you learn the intro sound 
 of a bug, you can pretty much equip anything you need to kill him before he gets within 10 yards. 
 The background chirps do provide atmosphere, and the soundtrack does a better job than not of being 
 creepy, but once ya figure out what is around you, letdown.
  
  VALUE - 2 - Rent, if you really don't have anything else to get. It'll be useful as a instructive 
 tool on what not to program, and who not to hire to translate.
  
  TILT - 3 - Bad game. Bad controls. The concept is what it has going for it.
  
  There ya go. 
 My indepth review of EfBI. Go and play RE4, if you really want a survival game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walkerctranger
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  let me start out by saying.. this game sucks,, i mean really, everything that a bad game would 
 have, you better believe this game has it. Its just that, the story, the voice acting, EVERYTHING, 
 is so ludicris, its comical, the gameplay is a bit akward, but, its pretty much the best part of 
 the game. If i can describe it somehow, is that the game almost makes fun of its self in a way, 
 its worth a rent to see if you can get the same kick out of this game as i had, basically, this 
 game has set a whole new bar for a bad video game, but thats a level a horid games, that i would 
 actually like to play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
