-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Excite Truck
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/excitetruck/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good sense of speed.
 hectic gameplay makes you feel just shy of losing control of the truck.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough here to keep you interested for long.
 should have been at least a four-player game, if not online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,906 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Monster Games Inc.
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimately, Excite Truck feels more like a tech demo than a full-fledged game. 

  Excite Truck is a spiritual successor of sorts to the classic NES motorcycle racing game, Excitebike. 
 This fast-paced Wii truck racing game takes a few of the mechanics from the original game, but 
 it largely strikes out on its own. What it gives you is a solid sense of speed and the often-thrilling 
 feeling that you're just about to lose control of the truck and go flying off the course or slam 
 into a tree. What it doesn't give you is a lasting sense of value, because unless you're bent on 
 tracking down every single unlockable truck and racing against your previous scores to improve 
 your rank, Excite Truck doesn't offer enough variety to keep you playing for very long.  

          Much like Excitebike, you need to pound a button after you crash.     

  The interesting 
 part about Excite Truck is how it controls. You'll hold the Wii remote sideways, with the D pad 
 accessible by your left thumb and the 1 and 2 buttons near your right. The 1 and 2 buttons serve 
 as your gas and brake, and you steer by tilting the controller left and right. Hitting any direction 
 on the D pad kicks in your turbo boost. If you hit the turbo as you leave a jump, you'll catch 
 more air. In the air, you have pitch control over your truck by tilting the controller forward 
 and back. If you lean the truck back, you'll go higher and longer. If you pitch forward, you'll 
 come down sooner. You can also steer yourself around a bit in midair. The controls are easy to 
 wrap your mind around, but they never feel very responsive. That leads to the game's over-the-top, 
 out-of-control feel, which is exciting at times, but the stunt controls feel positively dead, and 
 the handling for mid-air turns doesn't feel consistent from jump to jump. The main idea is to turbo 
 jump, fly through the air like a maniac, and then come down on all four tires, which gives you 
 a landing bonus -- more free boost. While you can boost at any time, if you ride the boost too much, 
 your truck overheats, slowing it down while it recovers. Flying through the air and driving through 
 water cool down your engine, so the idea is to stay in the air a lot to keep cool and land properly 
 for more boost. But your overall goal is to earn stars.  

  Your finishing place comes secondary to the number of stars you earn, but they're linked, as a 
 higher-place finish nets you more bonus stars at the end of the race. In the main single-player 
 mode, you go through four different sets of races, each with four or five tracks in them. Each 
 track has a minimum number of stars you must earn to clear it. When you clear all of the races 
 in a set, the next set opens up. You earn stars by doing just about anything. Catching air, drifting 
 around corners, smashing hard into other trucks, slaloming through sets of trees on the sides of 
 the course, and so on will all work. Just hitting the star limit will net you a B ranking, but 
 you'll need to go above and beyond to earn the S rank, which is the only way to unlock the game's 
 harder difficulty setting. Getting S rank in every track is a bit of a chore, one that's so repetitive 
 that it doesn't feel worthwhile.  

  The tracks you'll drive on throughout the racing modes have icons that you can collect to terraform 
 different parts of the environment, usually so that you can cause huge jumps to rise up right in 
 front of you, though some of them also cause obstacles to drop, ideally right on top of anyone 
 that's up ahead. If you're racing on a patch of land that gets altered, you'll be thrown up into 
 the air and sent tumbling, but since the computer-controlled trucks can't collect those icons, 
 this only happens in multiplayer races.  

  In addition to the main mode, there's a separate challenge mode that gives you a few extra tasks 
 to perform. One has you launching through scoring rings in an attempt to get as many points as 
 possible. Another puts a bunch of constantly narrowing gates on the course that you have to drive 
 through to continue the challenge. The smash event is probably the most satisfying. It lets you 
 drive anywhere as you chase down other trucks and attempt to slam them. Like the main mode, the 
 challenge mode has more waiting when you clear the stages. But the core action is the same regardless 
 of the mode, and additional difficulties don't add much to the game. There's a multiplayer mode, 
 but it's limited to a two-player split-screen. Four-player, obviously, would have been more interesting, 
 but given that the Wii does have some sort of online capabilities, it's disappointing that you 
 can't take Excite Truck onto the Internet and find more competition there.  

          You can, and probably will, finish the game's main difficulty in around four hours. How 
 much more you get out of it depends on how much repetition you can handle.     

  The visuals in Excite Truck aren't very pretty up close. The road textures are poorly defined, 
 and the truck models are decent without really standing out. Additionally, when you're playing 
 at 480p resolution, the game actually looks a little worse. Everything gets too sharp, making jagged 
 edges really stick out and causing some weird horizontal banding to show up on smoke and a few 
 other objects. What this game does have, though, is a great sense of speed. You'll be moving at 
 a breakneck pace throughout most of this game, and it runs smoothly, which is nice. The truck audio 
 is OK, and the tinny Wii remote speaker is used here and there, most notably for an explosion noise 
 when you overheat your truck. There's also a nice wind effect, where the music fades out when you 
 catch a particularly mammoth amount of air. The game's music is an avalanche of cheesy guitar rock 
 and generic funk, like someone locked G. E. Smith into a room and told him to overplay his guitar 
 for a few hours. Once the soundtrack drives you mental, you'll be happy to know that Excite Truck 
 lets you put MP3 files onto an SD card and use those for the soundtrack.  

  Excite Truck's control and speed give it a good amount of potential, but there just isn't enough 
 of a game here to keep you excited for very long. Ultimately, it feels more like a tech demo than 
 a full-fledged game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (189 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jason20091
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a very good game. The Wii controls work well and controlling your truck and doing 
 tricks is very easy. The graphics are decent but not great. The explosions and crashes look good 
 though. Also the game has a good sense of speed. There also lots of unlockable trucks and multiple 
 difficulty settings which add to the replay value. There is also a two player mode that works ok 
 but isn't great.
  
  Some of my complaints about this game are that the music is very generic and bland. Also there 
 are not a lot of tracks so it will not take you long to beat it. Another thing is I wish there 
 was a few more tricks you could do in the game.
  
  In conclusion this is one of the better arcade racers on the Wii. This game is pretty cheap now 
 so I would suggest you give it a try. You will be glad you did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo and Monster Games has teamed up to bring us a new addition to the Excitebike Series, but 
 this time they used Trucks instead of Bikes and now it takes place across the world with the Off-Road 
 environment like some tracks in Excitebike 64. Even though Excite Truck is a sucessor to the Excitebike, 
 but can it hold up from other launch titles on the Nintendo Wii?
  
  Excite Truck starts you off to the Training Session where they teach you the basic skills of how 
 to play the game, after you are done with the training session, you can neither start off your 
 Single Race or do more training. If you choose the Single Race Mode or the Challenge Mode and also 
 the Versus Mode, you only unlock the Excite Mode and the Bronze Stage. As soon you finish the Bronze 
 Stage, you get to move on to other stages and other Modes as well. As soon your done with all the 
 stages, then you must get all S-Ranks in every single stage.
  
  Excite Truck has a different selection of Trucks to choose from, you only start out with Three 
 Trucks and as soon as you get more S-Ranks and use of the Truck, you earn new paint jobs to go 
 with it. Also if you get more stars through these levels, you unlock new Trucks and eventually 
 you can unlock all the Trucks if you keep doing this, but there's something special if you beat 
 the game.
  
  Excite Truck plays like a Arcade Game, plus elements from the Excitebike series, the player gets 
 to race other players on the track, but unlike all of them, you have the special ability to make 
 the landscape change and you can also use the POW to make you unstoppable for a short peroid of 
 time. You can also do stunts, which you can earn extra points by doing them. If you finish the 
 race in any postition, you can earn extra points and you are ranked at the end. But remember you 
 have a time limit so complete the stage the fastest as you can. You can also have two players on 
 the track and race on any unlocked track.
  
  Excite Truck's graphics looks pretty good for a Wii Launch Title. Excite Truck has nice environments 
 and you can see in the distance with no pop-ups what so ever. The Trucks in this game looks awesome 
 and looks great for a game like this. Excite Truck also have some amazing backgrounds you can see 
 before the race started and after the race is finished.
  
  The music in Excite Truck sounds kidda plain. It's just rock music that plays over and over again 
 in every stage, but some of them are quite original. Excite Truck is the first Nintendo Wii Game 
 to use the SD Card, but for this game you can put your own tunes on.
  
  The sound effects in Excite Truck can often be realistic, the trucks in Excite Truck sound great 
 and even the Wii Remote Noises sounds great for Excite Truck and it's perfect for a arcade style 
 racer like this.
  
  Excite Truck is the very first game to use Motion Control, and instead of drving with the Wheel, 
 you steer using the Wii Remote and makes this game fun for the whole family. The stunts can sometimes 
 be unresponsive at times and often you go super-fast by using the POW power-up, you can mistakenly 
 crash into trees while your doing the Super Tree Run.
  
  Excite Truck is worth a rental for Causal Games and Hardcore Gamers, unless your a Nintendo Fanboy 
 or a player who likes Arcade Style Games. But it takes about couple of weeks to try to get all 
 S-Ranks, after your done, then there's nothing to come back for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdeye70
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  I got this game from my father as a present. He bought it to me because it was very cheap. I first 
 thought that this game was one of those bad graphic old school games... But i was surprised when 
 i started playing. The graphics are amazingly good for a Wii game and there is a lot of detail 
 in the race ground and - cars (you can even see the reflection of the car behind you from the bag 
 of the car with all of the trees and stuff) . Now i can not believe that this game was made in 2006. 
 I personally would have guessed around 2008 if asked. The game play is also fun. It takes sometime 
 to get used to the controlling, but when you get the hang of it its GREAT. The controlling is obviously 
 done with using a wii remote as a steering wheel. This is amazingly accurate (which annoyed my 
 dad when he played against me) . Now this leads us to multiplayer. In most games multiplayer has 
 been a "pain in the behind" because it usually gets stuck when too much is happening or a game 
 splits the screen in such a way that it is impossible to play without a magnifying glass... BUT 
 not this game... although it only has two player max, it is still working fine and shows on the 
 screen what you need to see... AND it does not get all jammed up when two people have got POW and 
 flying through some woods... and THANK GOD FOR THAT!!!
  
  Now i gave this game 7.5 and not 10 was because i find the control sometimes way too responsive. 
 This makes some of my jumps very messed up when you try to keep the remote stable and at the same 
 time lean it back for a better jump... it is a skill which i have not yet in counted... Then there 
 is the difficulty... now i had no problems getting through the tutorial and the bronze stage... 
 but after that i seemed to completely crappy... I know that stages should get harder when you proceed, 
 but i find it very frustrating to have such a big change in the degree of difficulty...
  
  So to summarise i like, in fact love, this game but it has some major downsides... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone-Star
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a great arcade experience with some of the best graphics and controls available 
 on the Wii. To put it simply the vehicles handle incredibly well considering the speed at which 
 you're traveling. Something this game gives is the awesome sense of speed. This game is far from 
 a serious racer, so if that's your kind of thing, I'd probably maybe hire it first, but for anybody 
 else who is into arcade style racers or just fun games, Excite Truck is a must. 
  
  There are plenty of trucks to unlock, all with different attributes, so picking the perfect truck 
 makes all the difference. The tracks are all given different themes which gives you a unique experience 
 for every track. The track deformation pick-ups are also really cool, visually as well as game 
 play wise, as you can throw other trucks off track with the correct timing.
  
  The main game play feature is that to win a race you technically don't have to place first. As 
 the winner of the race is determined by points which are gained by drifting, jumping, mid-air tricks 
 or smashing the opposition. This separates the game from the ordinary arcade racers.
  
  I purchased Excite Truck when it first came out, and I still play it now. Now considering that 
 it can now be picked up for bargain prices, it is a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyperson2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for an intelligent well paced racer, with fine tuned controls for you to show 
 of your driving skill to your friends then this game is about as far from what you need as it is 
 really possible to think of. One thing that hits me every time I play this is the fire. 
  
  There is lots of fire.
  
  Its impossible to talk about the fine points of this game because 
 it is not a fine game. It takes the idea of X4 Driving to a new level. If played well, you will 
 spend more time in the air than you do on the ground and, oh yes
  
  There is lots of fire.
  
  The game is in a similar strain to Diehard 4.0 in that the entire 
 aim of the game is to deliver explosions, carnage and destruction, and I really must emphasize 
 the point that:
  
  There is lots of fire.
  
  The game is hilariously fun to play with friends and it is as much fun to watch as it is to play. 
 The graphics are reasonable but not groundbreaking apart from the explosions etc...
  
  Definitely worth buying if you just want some mindless fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irongobbo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The first game I bought when I got my Wii was Excite Truck. This launch game was probobly one of 
 the best ones to get. If I may say so, it got me Excited.
  
  You start out with three decent cars at the beginning. But you are forced to do the first few tutorials 
 before you get to do anything else. The tutorials are cheesy bits of info that you could figure 
 out by yourself and that are really wierd. On the other hand, after you get through the first few 
 tutorials you get to the cool stunt tutorials. They help alot through the collection of stars through 
 the entire game. 
  
  There are a series of cups in which your car runs through to win. Instead of making you run the 
 entire cup, like Mario Kart, you can get off in between all your races. The auto save saves after 
 each event, so you don't have to worry about losing your file.
  
  In the game the frames move smooth, and loading time is minimal. The graphics are what you would 
 expect of a 2006 gamecube game. 
  
  The main objective of the game is to get an 'S' grade in every single race. The races are fun the 
 first time around, but then when you have to race each race over and over, it gets very repetitive. 
 Of course there are other mini games, but there are only three, and the objectives are to again 
 reach the tedious ranking of 'S'. The first mini game is a gate challange that places gates along 
 the track, that deacrease in the distance between them as you go along. The second one is a ring 
 challange that requires you to go up ramps and fly through rings that have point values. The last 
 one requires yout to smash other trucks. 
  
  One of my favorite features is the MP3 on your sd being played behind the race! It is great to 
 get to choose the music. 
  
  The game is a good concept overall, but could have been given more thought, and especially in fine-tuning 
 the controlls. I would prefer a gamecube controller for this.
  
  I give this game a 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 76 % The whole idea of excite truck is great i was pretty impressed by all the jumping 
 the Air ,Difting ect... What i like is that you can put your Sd card and you can put your music 
 altough this game does not have online and the multi-player has no bots. I like this game but when 
 you beat the game you`re done you have no other things to do. For example mario kart you beat the 
 game you play online and even multi-player its always fun to play. I never ever played an Off road 
 truck racing game before and when i tried it was pretty cool. In this game you can play in tracks 
 like canada Finland China but what i dont like is that the game reapeats itself over and over again. What 
 is cool in this game is that you can use powerup to destroy tree`s or to have extra boost altough 
 in the game you have unlimited boost but you have to watch the warning meter.
  
  
  Graphics 70 % The graphics aren`t exeptional the trucks does not look real but what looks real 
 is the weather effects in the game like snow, rain, heat...
  
  Sound 72 % This game has some pretty bad sounds like the music can kinda get annoying and the truck 
 sounds weird.
  
  Controls: If you use the wii wheel you will see that the controls are simple you just have to tilt 
 the controler and the truck turns fast.
  
  I reccomend this game if its not expansive because i paid 20 $ for a game that`s not exeptional. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allotheabove123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  when i first got my nintendo wii i thought it would be cool to have a racing game because of the 
 wii controller. this game is fun for up to an hour and a half at most and then you have to stop 
 for a while. excite truck is basically an off road truck racing experience. the controls are fun 
 as well as the maps and there are many different trucks and color combinations so you can really 
 customize your truck to your liking. the thing that i really enjoy is when you hit another truck 
 hard enough you can see them fall off of the road and then catch on fire. there really isnt much 
 to say about excite truck acept that it is an average racing game that you can just pick up and 
 play for an hour or 2. the real question is should you buy it. i bought my copy pretty early before 
 games like mario kart wii were released so i think you should buy a game like that instead of excite 
 truck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is, at first a pretty good racing game. Now, it doesn't have a whole lot of modes 
 to offer right off the bat. After a quick tutorial, you're set to go. The whole point of the game 
 is getting "stars". The one with the most stars wins the race. Yeah, that's right, you could come 
 in second and still win, though the one who finishes first gets the most stars. You get stars from 
 drifting, air-time, crashing into other cars and of course by doing tricks. By "tricks", I mean 
 spinning either left or right. 
  
  My main problem with the game is the lack of variation in the different tracks, and of course a 
 lack of online. A good multiplayer mode with plenty of options would be much appreciated as well. 
 Ultimately what saves the game and makes it a good rent is two things. The controller is spot on 
 when you get used to it, which takes about... oh, I don't know, maybe 30 seconds. The other thing 
 is that it's undeniably fun flying through the air at insane speeds.
  
  Excite Truck is definitely worth a rent, or a purchase if you find it at a reasonable price. If 
 you're looking for a decent racing game for the Wii, you could do a lot worse than Excite Truck. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck was game that was released as soon as the Wii came out. It's a fairly decent game, 
 but it won't keep you busy for very long.
  
  Excite Truck features a variety of different tracks with different environments to deal with while 
 racing. The tracks are themed to different countries like Scotland, Mexico, and Canada. The tracks 
 within a certain country are a little bit different than the one before it. Some are long, some 
 are short, some have different obstacles to dodge while racing.
  
  Excite Truck is similar to Mario Kart when it comes to difficulty levels. The other racers get 
 a little bit better with each rising difficulty, and sometimes it's hard to win.
  
  When you race you hold the Wii-mote sideways. You hold down the 2 button to make your truck go, 
 while the 1 button is your brake. By holding down any direction on the D-pad you will get a turbo 
 boost. However, if used too much your truck will over heat and you will go slow for a few seconds 
 until your engine cools down. Steering is a simple movement of tilting your remote to the right 
 or left.
  
  While your racing there are jumps at certain points on the track. When you hit one of the jumps, 
 a correctly timed press on the D-pad will make you turbo jump. While you're in the air, you can 
 press the 1 button and any direction on the D-pad, and then alternate tilting of your Wii-mote 
 right and left or vise versa and your truck will do a spin.
  
  When you racing you will be rewarded stars for doing certain things. Like doing spins, getting 
 big air, drifting, and smashing other racers. You must get a certain number of stars on a course 
 to move on. If you win the race you get 50 bonus stars, 25 for second, 15 for third, and 5 for 
 fourth.
  
  Aside from the main race career mode, there are some challenges that you can do. One includes racing 
 through gates in a certain amount of time, and one where you hit targets in the air. There is also 
 one where you must smash the other trucks to win.
  
  There is multi-player in Excite Truck, but there is no Wi-Fi.
  
  The career and challenges 
 won't take you very long to beat, and there isn't much do to besides multi-player once you beat 
 it. Excite Truck is still a decent, fun, little game that you won't regret getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Excite Trucks is one of the many games released alongside the Wii. One of the few racing games 
 to the Wii, it has brought a new idea to Nintendo that has changed how gamers will today play most 
 of their more better racing games on the Wii.
  
  Before you can really do much, you need to do the tutorial. It get extremly annoying, but when 
 you get done with it, nothing gets much better. It doesn't seem to offer much besides 2-player. 
 The race tracks won't addict you, nor will the race cars. There aren't any real name-brand trucks 
 and the most intrest you can find are the colors available.
  
  Excite Trucks brings a new idea to the Wii where you hold the Wii remote vertically and you move 
 the car by turning the Wii remote to the left or right. It's a neat idea, but it's too bad it doesn't 
 work too sharply. The Wii remote doesn't do too bright at identifying which way you are turning 
 the Wii remote. Sometimes, you'll turn it left and the car will turn incorrectly right. This idea 
 has inspired more producers to use the same control scheme and for Nintendo to invent the pheripheral 
 known as the Wii Wheel, but it most everyone else got it right.
  
  If you were looking for a launch title that was a racing game, don't put yourself game. It might 
 be a little enjoyable with a friend. But these days, of course there are way better racing games 
 for the Wii that do way better with the control scheme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargui
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck might look like a great adding to the Wii, but trust me, it SUCKS!!! The races are 
 really silly and easy, turning you into a couch potato holding and tilting a Wii remote. Practice 
 and tutorials before game beginning is great, cuz you can learn the basic before throwing your 
 Wii remote through the window. However, multiplayer adds some competitivity, but is it GOOD or 
 BAD? For me sucks, cuz my bro is 4 and don't like it  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a cool racing game that can satisfy any gamer who loves the feel of off-road racing! 
 You can race on tracks in different parts of the world. Whether if it's in China, Scotland, or 
 in Canada, ANYONE can enjoy the off-road feel and atmosphere that Excite Truck provides. 
  
  I give Excite Truck a good rating of 7.5 for just a few of the following reasons: 
  
  1. 
 The music in the game can get annoying after awhile. (Solution: Put your own music on an SD card 
 and play your own music in the game!) 
  2. The selection of trucks could be better! 
  3. There is alot to be desired on considering the number of tracks that look the same. (At least 
 it's difficult to get the Diamond Cup! It's definitely different!) 
  4. In my opinion, maybe there could be more material involved during a race.
  5. No time Trial 
 Mode.
  6. There could of been more locations to race at.
  
  Here are some good reasons you should consider this game:
  1. Makes good use of the Wii mote.
 
  2. The off-road feel.
  3. The Multi-player support.
  4. Different from your normal racing game!
  5. Power-ups can make you go fast and change the 
 path of the track.
  6. You can do stunts that may take awhile to master.
  7. Has a training mode that can help you in your problem areas.
  
  I'm sure there are more 
 pros and cons about the game, but hopefully I got the main points out on what there is. It was 
 hard to describe and review this game, but I managed. Catch some major air in Excite Truck for 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Excite truck is a very good game ranging from a variety of different tracks to race to the cars 
 you drive. It has a great story mode that long to beat, I still haven't beat the game. Also there 
 are challenges like demolition derbies and race through the checkpoints. Some of the races are 
 hard to beat, but it won't take you long to beat them. The tracks are all different going from 
 the deserts in Mexico to the forests in Canada also to a different planet. I think there is about 
 20 cars which are all awesome. The tracks are great and whats cool about the game is by getting 
 a exclamations point you can change the landscape on the track, like raise up a hill or lower the 
 ground. you also use boost a lot in the game when you jump you use nitrous. The multiplayer is 
 also fun when playing with someone else and the controls on the game are comfortable and tilting 
 the wii remote is a new experience to racing games. This is a very good game that deserves a 9. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeyStix
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off at the base. Really nice graphics, though the scenery that you sometimes crash 
 into is a little bit too spiky. The controls are pretty nice, but not nice enough for someone else 
 to join in and start playing straight away, before sitting through some tutorials. I'd rather the 
 learning curve was a little less steep.
  
  I completed Excite, but didn't bother to go into Super Excite. I really enjoyed certain aspects 
 of the game, but throughout, I felt as though it needed more. The font for the title in itself 
 looks a little incomplete, as if it missed it's last coat of pretty. As if the developers didn't 
 have enough of a budget (or however game-making works) to add the extra pizzazz that makes a game 
 nicer to look at. It's what helps the gamers to take the game a bit more seriously.
  
  And sad to say, but Excite Truck was missing that.
  
  I like the craze of the game though. 
 How you can crash but still get a star, how you can do flips in the air and get stars, how you 
 can smash other cars. It's crazy. I'm sure it applies more to those energetic overexcited little 
 boys even more. (provided they're over 7)
  
  But whatever, I had fun. The game lasted long, and the gameplay could've been made a bit more enjoyable, 
 but it was fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Wii games at current are very poor, but good games are on the horrizon, as Nintendo fans should 
 know, oh and for the Americans I live in Britian so Brawl isn't out yet... damn! Anyway this game 
 is fantastic and rivals F Zero in terms of speed and graphics rival Super Mario Galaxy!
  
  Although Gamespot is correct in the terms that the game feels too short, thats only because the 
 game is easy as if you look at all thats in it including 16 courses and 6 missions with basic multiplayer 
 you realise this game has more than many rally style racers, dosn't rival Need for Speed of F Zero 
 GX in terms of extras and different gameplay modes.
  
  The racing is fast, frantic, exillerating and perfect, even better than F Zero GX's racing gameplay 
 as a whole it is that fun. However as I said the game is so easy it should take a week to complete.
 
  
  Levels include Canada (very good) , Scotland (most fun) , China (so so) , Mexico (fun but repedative and 
 not much to look at) and a random space level which is cool and difficult. 
  
  This is the best racer for Wii, better than Mario Kart by far and its controlls are spot on, and, 
 amazingly for a fast racing game it is not at all frustrating ever. Considering its cheeper than 
 most Wii games I recomend this as a must have, despite being fairly basic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  An early racing game that takes use of the Wii's motion sensing. You get to race around in different 
 trucks while moving the Wii remote to turn. It has a setup like Mario Kart with mirror mode where 
 you do the course in opposite. There are different races you can unlock. There are also a wide 
 variety of cars you can choose from and many different colors to have on your car. There are also 
 different car paint jobs you get to choose from once you unlock them. During race you must get 
 a certain enough of points in order to progress. You ccan get these points a few ways. One way 
 is to come in a certain place. Like entering in first place you get 50 points and second is 25. 
 You can get tree runs, air time, drifting, spins, and going through rings. Sometimes you can get 
 one point for getting a nice crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, 'tis a bit of an old one here, but non-the-less here we go! Welcome to the Wii-launch title 
 (yes, that's how old it is) known as Excite Truck, which is a spiritual successor to the old Nintendo 
 franchise Excite Bike.
  
  I'm gonna mix things up a bit and start with sound. The music in this game is great! Well, I think 
 so. The music harkens back to the Glam Metal and Hard Rock of the 80's and Early 90's. The guitar 
 riffs and power chords are all here, in a set list that that sounds like it was ripped from Guitar 
 Hero with out the vocals. Very similar to the music of the F-Zero Series (like the N64's F-Zero 
 X) . The music doesn't always fit the tracks, except for the last level which, as it should, has 
 a "space-rock" feel. "But Troggie!", you might say. "I don't like Metal/ Rock! I like [insert genre 
 here] !" That's fine! This game is unique in the fact that it is the first Wii game to let you select 
 your own in-game music via MP3s on an SD card. So rejoice! You can listen to [insert your favorite 
 band here] while still having sound effects! Speaking of sound effects, the roaring of the engines 
 sounds real as can be and the crunching of metal makes you wonder how many cars they had to crash 
 for the sounds!
  
  Next is gameplay. Unlike the generic racing game, the point isn't to get 1st place, rather it is 
 to get the most stars. How do you get stars? By pulling extremely high jumps, dangerously close 
 tree-runs, long power drifts, smashing other cars, and more! But to still be a racing game there 
 has to be incentive to get first, right? And there is! If you get first you extra bonus stars, 
 with less bonuses the father down the Totem Pole you go, eventually resulting in zero stars. Challenge 
 modes are hard has HELL!!! ARGGGG!!!! *throws chair across court* Well, yeah. There's that, sorry! 
 The AI is brutal and until you get the awesome Monster Truck, your other cars (which have varying 
 stats) either are great in one ore more areas but suck in others. Power ups like terrain morph 
 and (yes Mario) the invincibility POWs, abound. But very solid and an enjoyable experience!
  
  Controls are solid but have issues. Let me break it down. You hold the Wiimote sideways without 
 the nunchuck (like a steering wheel on a car) . Your gas is the 2 button where your B is your break. 
 Any button on the D-Pad will activate turbo, but watch out! To much turbo will over heat your car. 
 To un-heat, either wait, jump off a jump, or go in some water. My only problem is that the controls 
 are often too sensitive and you have a hard time making precise movements, which is important when 
 weaving dangerously close to trees. Also, to much turning and it won't register your movements. 
 And lastly, one way to get stars is to spin your truck/ car mid-flight. The button and movement 
 never works right and your only get one star usually for the spin. But of this is a launch title 
 and Nintendo didn't screw it up to bad.
  
  Graphics are beautiful. Exploding barrels on beaches shake the camera and are cool as hell! Fires 
 from the tail pipes are nice looking, if cartoon-like and the environments are lush. Again, I don't 
 think that the Wii is working over time here but they look good. Think a cartoon-like MotorStorm. 
 And that what this game is like; cartoon-like the game tries to be realistic with good environmental 
 physics engine and the crashed have good crumpling and dinting effects. But this going on when 
 trucks are flying 20 stories in the air and landing fine and the crumpling only happens if you 
 crash totally (and you will often) . It's like a super-man comic. It tries to be cartoon-like and 
 serious and crap at the same time.
  
  So it comes to Replay Value. Again, you pretty much done once you beat the game, unless you want 
 to play Two-Player with a buddy. There's no online play and no computers for you and you buddy 
 to play with. Soyeah. That's about it. [I'm lazy]
  
  If you just bought a Wii congrats! There's better games out here than this, like GH3 and Twilight 
 Princess, but this game is good runner up no matter how you look at it.
  
  ----------
  Sound: [9.5/10]
  Gameplay: [9.0/10]
  Controls: [8.0/10]
  Graphics: [8.5/10]
  Replay Value: 
 [7.0/10]
  OVERALL: [8.1/10]
  
  For more reviews like this, check: http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcianxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  I have no idea why GS gave this game a low rating like it did. The game is a really fun racing 
 game and is enjoyable to play. If you feel like speeding around an offroad track with turbo trucks 
 its great fun. If you like ultra realistic racers then this game is probably not for you but personally 
 i would prefer a fun game to one that uses perfectly accurate cars and is boring to play. If you 
 dont have this game and you see it used or in the bargain bin at your local video game store i 
 would pick it up. 
  
  Few races can be agravating as unless you get first you will not get enough stars but after a few 
 tries you can usually get enough to pass it. Also getting the S rating on each track to get to 
 superexcite a little much but after passing all the races once and getting more truck options you 
 should have no problem getting through them with an S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is under-appreciated in every aspect. The gameplay is realy fantastic and has this weird 
 feeling while you play it, you can't help but smile when you plow into a car at like 200 miles an 
 hour and totaly destroy them, or fly off outragious jumps that leave you floating for upwards of 
 10 seconds. And it looks visualy impressive as well. The water dosen't look fantastic, but you don't 
 have time to look at it when your plowing through trucks going at outragious speeds, realy if you 
 can see vusual flaws in the game then your doing something wrong..... your going too slow!
  The single play is great, if a little lacking in the amout of tracks. And probably the one major 
 hit to the game is it's only 2 player, no 4 player and also there is no "finish first to win mode" 
 you always are trying to get the most points, so you can finish second and still win. You get point's 
 by drifting, running though tree's without hitting them, getting air-time, going though rings or 
 crashing into other cars. There is also the ability to do 180's and 360's and so forth, but they 
 seem gimicky and don't work very well. The gameplay realy wipes this game almost clean of it's problems 
 though. Also excite truck has some "mini-games" like "jump though the rings" and "go though the 
 flag poles" and a "kill all of the other cars" mode. The single-player mode is broken up kinda like 
 mario-kart, mario-kart has 50cc and 100cc and 150cc and mirror.
  Excite truck has the same thing with the same idea, but with differen't names, it even has a mirror 
 mode like mario-kart dose. And it's addictive.
  
  good: addictive.
  solid visuals.
  great controls.
  extremely fun.
  awsome multi-player.
  "mini-games".
  
  bad: not a whole 
 lot of tracks.
  lacks a "win by getting first place" mode.
  music is terrible, but you can turn it off or use your own music.
  
  You should buy this game 
 if you like crazy, fast, crash filled race games. But if you like simulater racers, then your out of 
 luck, because pretty much everything you do it the game is immpossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  With its motion sensing remote, the Wii has opened up a world of possibilities for the stale and 
 overdone racing genre; Excite Truck is the first game to explore the myriad of possibilities now 
 available. No longer do you have to be content with a control stick to emulate a steering wheel; 
 now, the tilts and turns of a Wii remote do the job. The result is a fun, intuitive, over-the-top 
 racer. Though the concept behind Excite Truck is great, it's certainly not executed as well as 
 it could have been.
  
  One of the biggest problems with Excite Truck the fact that it just doesn't seem like a racing 
 game. In fact, if you're good at games like Diddy Kong Racing, Mario Kart DS, and Need for Speed, 
 you probably will not be good at Excite Truck. The reason for this is the conditions for winning: 
 you must collect a certain number of stars. Every course has a predetermined requirement if you 
 wish to clear that stage. You gain stars in a variety of ways: bumping opponents, drifting through 
 curves, and driving through trees. While you do gain some stars for actually winning the race, 
 the vast majority of the stars you earn will come from these sorts of actions. As a result, the 
 game feels very flawed as you play through. If you play through races like you would in any typical 
 racer, you will not do well. Even if you come in first, you will still likely lose. Because of 
 this, the game feels more task-oriented then racing oriented. The game tries to force upon you 
 the "monster truck aspect" of the game; that is, crashing around and making a huge mess. However, 
 this seems so anti-intuitive for a racing game, that the concept really just never unfolds successfully.
 
  
  Aside from this, there are not many major flaws with Excite Truck. However, one problem that some 
 players will notice are the mediocre graphics. We've already been shown that the Wii is graphically 
 more powerful than the GameCube; however, looking at Excite Truck, you certainly wouldn't be able 
 to tell so. Environments are not done very well; from a distance, they are fine, but up close they 
 become blocky and grainy. The trucks are also not done very well. Like the backgrounds, they're 
 fine from a distance, but as you approach they become far worse. Even from a launch game, I expected 
 far better graphics than those that Excite Truck had to offer.
  
  However, all this is not to say that Excite Truck doesn't have some things going for it, because 
 it definitely does. The most interesting aspect of this game is its unique controls. They are simple, 
 yet well done and relatively easy to get a hold of. As you play, you hold the remote on its side. 
 One button serves as acceleration, and another as a break. To steer your truck, you tilt the Wii 
 remote left and right. You may also initiate a boost by pressing Up on the D Pad. The controls 
 cause a bit of a learning curve, but nothing that can't be overcome in a half hour or so. They 
 are done well, and really make the game far more intuitive and fun.
  
  Unfortunately, the enjoyable controls are rather negated by the game's length and difficulty. Once 
 you get a hang of the game, it's fairly simple to blow through the game. But a bigger problem than 
 that is the game's difficulty; you may never actually "get a hang" of the game. This is because 
 ironically, Excite Truck can be very difficult if you are good at racing games. You use all your 
 mad skills to get in first place and win the race. However, you still will probably lose! The star 
 requirement was a big mistake on the developers' part. Instead of enjoying the great sense of speed 
 provided in Excite Truck, you instead focus on staying with the pack, and performing lame tasks 
 that will earn you stars. As said before, those with little experience in racing games will do 
 better in Excite Truck than people who are racing veterans. You get a star for the most mundane 
 and nonsensical actions; you even get a star if you crash! For this reason, it certainly won't 
 appeal to hardcore gamers; the concept seems paradoxical: a racing game where the object isn't 
 necessarily to win.
  
  If you can somehow get over that and decide just to have fun with Excite Truck, you're probably 
 going to really enjoy it. As I said before, the sense of speed and pure craziness provided by this 
 game is an experience not easily forgotten and isn't one that's achieved very often by racing games. 
 There's a distinctly arcade-feel to Excite Truck, which goes for thrills via speed, crashes, and 
 huge drop-offs. But really, it would have been better to just make the computer a bit better at 
 racing so that you'll have trouble breaking free of the pack, and then these monster truck elements, 
 so to speak, would occur naturally, be fun, but wouldn't be necessary for you to win races and 
 unlock tracks. It really is too bad, because the way in which Excite Truck's developers make you 
 jump through hoops in this way really detracts from the overall game experience.
  
  Multiplayer in Excite Truck also flops, for the same reason that single player is so annoying. 
 The winner of the race is not determined by who comes in first, but rather by who earns the most 
 stars. It's possible to absolutely dominate a race but still lose, even if the other person is 
 horrible. The best way to explain would be to give an example: when I first got this game, my little 
 sister and I played a lot together. I would always come in first, yet she still won 90% of the 
 races. She'd randomly drive through trees, make a nice turn, or crash into a rock, and as a result, 
 she'd earn a ton of stars. Even though she was absolutely horrible at the game, she still did well. 
 It's completely illogical and takes away all the fun from racing with friends.
  
  Also worthy of note is the music in Excite Truck. While the tunes that turn on when you first play 
 the game are pretty annoying and repetitive, you can transfer songs from your MP3 player onto the 
 game, using an SD Card. While it doesn't really affect anything in the game, it is enjoyable to 
 tinker around with, and can make the game play experience slightly more enjoyable.
  
  Overall, Excite Truck is a disappointment; not because it's a horrible game, but because there 
 is obviously so much untapped potential. The controls work nice and are a blast once you get used 
 to them, but the game play mechanic is just so off. Excite Truck should be an enjoyable experience, 
 but you're prevented from enjoying yourself because of the star collecting. Some would argue that 
 it makes Excite Truck more difficult; however, this isn't the case. Instead, it only serves to 
 make Excite Truck an absolute bore to play. Gamers looking for an "out-there" gaming experience, 
 or those who simply aren't good at racing games, might want to pick this up. Otherwise, there are 
 better Wii games out there on which to spend your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alidallal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck isn't a great racer and definitely not bad, it just too short that looks like it was 
 a demo thrown by the developer to see how such a game will be received by the consumers.
  
  First of all I was wondering how the graphics going to be and turned out to be good looking, although 
 it can be done much better as the Nintendo Wii should be as twice powerful as the GameCube which 
 delivered graphics better than that of Excite Truck, but the good thing is that the game didn't 
 suffer any frame rate issues and was really fast.
  
  In terms of gameplay I find it great and fun with a really nice sense of speed. In this game you 
 will control the car somehow like a real car by holding the wii mote horizontally and tilting it 
 right and left to turn and you will be given a basic tutorial on how to steer your car at the beginning 
 of the game. I find the controls accurate and easy to handle except for the air spin which is a 
 little bit confusing but otherwise everything is simple.
  
  Overall the game is easy, there are 2 difficulties where you have to finish the first one to unlock 
 the other difficulty. The first difficulty contains four cups with five races in each except for 
 the first one which contains four races. The thing I didn't like is after finishing the first difficulty 
 in four hours only I've been told that to unlock the second difficulty I have to complete all the 
 races with S grade which is very difficult for the player and an easy way for the developer to 
 extend the play time. So then I decided to check the other modes, there are only challenge and 
 versus mode left. 
  
  First the challenge mode which contains three types of challenges with two races in each. The first 
 two challenges are very difficult and last one is very easy. The most enjoyable one is the ring 
 challenge. Finally the versus mode for two players only which is fun but will not last for a long 
 time.
  
  I think Excite Truck would be a great racer if the developer had put some more effort into the 
 game. If you have a Nintendo Wii only and you are desperate for a racer then you can go for it 
 otherwise you can skip it and wait for a better racer that worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grizly-sword
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck "was" a launch title for Nintendo wii. 
  
  Excite Truck came from the original excite bike on the NES.
  
  The Game has you put the wii 
 remote sideways as the steering wheel and drive a truck trough a variety of courses with a lot 
 of variety.
  The Controls works really great once you get the hang of it, its easy to learn and you can try 
 out a learning mode to get the hang of more andvaced features.
  The game is different from a traditional racing game in so many ways, the main part of the game 
 is not just racing to the finish line, but on the way you collect stars for performing jumps, truck 
 smashes, tricks and driving through trees.
  
  What drives this game down is because its so small, it wont last long, but the little time you 
 played will be worth it
  
  The game packs alot of adrenaline and drving action, packed with great controlls, makes for a great 
 game, even though its too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I would have called this game Truck. Cause putting the word excite before truck is like saying pink 
 is brown. Its just not true. The game is so ugly, boring and confined that I wonder why people would 
 even consider buying this.
  
  What was Nintendo thinking with this concept? Making a game starring Tingle makes more since then 
 this. I hope we dont see an excite truck 2.
  
  The gameplay really bites due to the boring maps, mediocre control lack of value.
  
  I really 
 cant even say rent the game, its really not worth it. Tech Demo fits it well. And not a good tech 
 demo. But a Bad Tech demo that I would be ashamed to show off in a big crow.
  
  Wait Wii owners, you'll get the racer you really deserve. Not this arcadey trash.
  
  I have actually 
 tried to find something good about this game, but I really cant. It had its moment with me for about 
 ten minutes. But the game really does get boring quite quick. YOU wont be playing it to long if you 
 get it. Especially when other games like Zelda TP and Mario Galaxy blow it away in quality. And in 
 everything else.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Most people who have been around gaming for years are familiar with the Excitebike series on the 
 original NES. After a fairly strong, but upnderappreciated sophomore effort on the N64, Nintendo 
 has paired up with Monster Games for another sequel and they did a damn good job. Excite Truck 
 expands on the original formula of the racer, adding a point system that pushes style to just as 
 much importance as finishing the race in first.
  
  
  Gameplay
  As with any Wii game, it's all about the gameplay. In Excite Truck the player holds the Wiimote 
 sideways, like an NES controller, the 1 button is used to accelerate, and the 2 button brakes. 
 Hitting any direction on the d-pad activates the all-important boost, which has become even more 
 of a staple in the current incarnation of the game. Tilting, and not turning, the remote in either 
 direction is used to steer the truck.
  
  While most Wii games are touted as 'pick up and play' titles, Excite Truck takes a bit of getting 
 used to. When starting a new game, players will have to complete a small tutorial. This is not 
 only helpful, but downright necessary to get a feel for how the game plays. Excite Truck shows 
 off just how sensitive the Wiimote is, but in doing so requires you to restrain your urges to spin 
 it wildly to each side to turn your truck. The controls certainly feel loose, but with a little 
 patience, gamers will find that they'll never really lose control of their truck.
  
  The new point system requires players to acquire a predetermined amount of stars over the course 
 of the race in order to advance. Stars can be obtained for anything from drifting around corners 
 to weaving through some of the games many treescapes. Stars will also be awarded in correlation 
 with what place you finished in. This system changes the focus from how you finish to how you race.
 
  
  
  Graphics
  Excite Truck supports 16:9 and 480p, a nice touch for a launch game and those gamers with HDTV's. 
 The graphics aren't anything that will knock you off your feet, but are impressive nonetheless, 
 especially given the relatively low graphical quality of many Wii games currently available. The 
 game runs at 30 frames per second, and makes impressive use of its terrain, including reflective 
 water, real time land deformation, and various weather effects. Some graphical features, such as 
 the blurring of trucks that get close to you, feel a little sloppy, and like a last minute addition 
 to the game. Apart from some minor visual miscues, though, Excite Truck looks pretty good and is 
 at least on par with the other games that are out there.
  
  
  Sound
  Unfortunately Excite Truck is greatly lacking when it comes to the soundtrack. A compilation of 
 tired guitar riffs seem even worse when replayed with such frequency and lack of variety. Fortunately, 
 Excite Truck is the first game that allows a player to use an SD card full of mp3's (well, up to 
 100) and listen to their own music as they play. This feature is invaluable not just to elimate 
 the game's standard music, but to add a touch of personal flair to one's races. In-game sound effects 
 are acceptable, but you'll probably find yourself turning them down a bit to better enjoy your 
 own music.
  
  Multiplayer
  Excite Truck receives its harshest criticism in reference to its rather tame multiplayer options, 
 and rightfully so. The game allows players to race with one other friend, to compete for who has 
 the most stars at the conclusion of the race. The two player mode eliminates all computer racers, 
 cutting down on your ability to smash into other trucks to gain stars. These are, for all intents 
 and purposes, the same races found in single player mode, but without the ability to record your 
 accomplishments at the finish. It acts as an acceptable diversion, but most players will find a 
 more satisfying experience trying to top a friend's high score in a single player race.
  
  
  Closing Thoughts
  Excite Truck is one of those games that you really have to play to experience. 
 For that matter, you probably have to play it for about a half hour before you truly start to get 
 a feel for the control mechanics of the game. Once you get the hang of it, Excite Truck is a tremendously 
 fun game to play. You'll find that boosting your truck off a jump is one of the most satisfying 
 things you can do in any current Wii game. While the terrain and courses are not as varied as one 
 might like, the loose handling of the trucks means that you'll never race a course the same way 
 twice. Three sets of racing difficulties (Excite, Super Excite, and Mirror) ensure that there is 
 plenty to do with the game, and that you won't simply finish it in an afternoon. Over 20 trucks 
 to unlock gives you a wide variety of ways in which to race the courses. Career accomplishments 
 will keep you coming back for more and showing off to your friends just how many Super Tree Runs 
 you can pull off in a course. There's even a challenge mode in which you race slalom style through 
 gates or pick up mid-air rings. Excite Truck certainly lacks true multiplayer support but has such 
 a satisfying one player experience that trading off the controller between races never seems to 
 be a problem.
  
  While games like Wii Sports are groundbreaking, and games like Zelda are deep, Excite Truck is 
 probably the most flat out fun game available on the console today. It is highly addictive, and 
 with a custom soundtrack, you'll find it incredibly tough to tear yourself away from the gameplay, 
 even just to add more mp3's to your SD card. This game represents a very strong entry into arcade 
 racing, and is hopefully a sign of things to come from Monster Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaysonguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  
  
  ... and that someone is Excite Truck (also known as Mr. Truck or Excite to his friends)
  
  Gather 
 round folks and I'll tell you a tale of a poster named Jaysonguy. Seems he was just a greenhorn 
 at the Gamespot forum corral and made a thread titled "Strike One Nintendo". It was a post about 
 how after reading the review at Gamespot Excite Truck was more like a tech demo and he wished that 
 Nintendo had fleshed it out. Well he was modded and there was never a follow up. I reckon he just 
 faded away......
  
  So I own Excite Truck now
  
  Jason = wrong about Excite Truck.
  
  The game is an amazingly fun racer that's deeper then a layer cake. Most racers are lucky to 
 get to layer cake status. Excite Truck takes the normal layer cake and cuts each layer of cake 
 in half so you have twice the layers and that's always a good thing because it's got the really 
 good frosting not that super sugary weird tasting frosting you get at the premade cake section 
 at some supermarkets.
  
  For the people like myself that have never had the chance to play the game it's an off road racer 
 but the main goal isn't to win the races. Sure winning helps but that's because it gets you the 
 most number of stars for first place. See the game breaks down like this, a course has a star number 
 that needs to be achieved and by meeting or surpassing that star number you clear the course. You 
 get stars by clearing random objectives in races. Hitting other tricks in the race gains you stars 
 with harder hits getting more stars, jumps also gain stars with the longer jumps equaling more 
 stars.
  
  There's also certain icons on the racetrack that vastly change the terrain. Hit one icon and have 
 a mountain rocket out of the earth 100 yards in front of you to allow for a jump. Hit another icon 
 and have the ground fall instantly and now you're driving through a valley. Courses can change 
 many times during a race.
  
  The star system helps make the game meatier then most racers. It's not just a question of getting 
 from point A to point B because you can win a race and not unlock an "S" rating for the course 
 (S being best) Why is getting an S on each course important? Because unless you master all of the 
 tracks on normal mode you're unable to play the extra made. That's right there's more then one 
 mode to the game. That's not all the unlockable features though.
  
  The game has many different kinds of off road vehicles and they all have certain strengths, one 
 may be very fast but not jump well while another might not be as fast but has been mistaken for 
 a pigeon on more then one occasion. There's new vehicles to be unlocked and different paint schemes 
 for each one for those who like that sort of thing.
  
  The game is rounded out by trophies awarded for each challenge in the game. Most are the challenges 
 that also earn you stars. Soar through the air enough and soon you'll be getting a trophy for it.
 
  
  Lastly the controls are spot on. You hold the Wiimote NES style and turn the Wiimote left and right 
 to turn left and right. During jumps you twist the Wiimote back for more air and you twist it forwards 
 to drop quicker. One button works the gas and one works the brake. The D pad gives the vehicle 
 you're driving a turbo boost on the ground and can help propel you in the air. All the controls 
 work magnificently.
  
  This game is one of the most overlooked titles on the Wii. Even I was late to the party in this 
 case. Usually I don't judge a book by it's cover but this time I did and I paid for it by missing 
 out on this game for over a year. Don't share my same fate if you have the opportunity. It's not 
 a technical racer so you wont be tweaking anything so if you don't like that then sorry this game 
 isn't for you. If you want to have fun and the skill based racing sounds like your cup of tea then 
 by all means check it out.
  
  Don't make the same mistake I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Fast, adrenaline rushed game! When I first picked it up I was-of course-excited to play it, the 
 game wasn't that appealing to me once I unlocked the final track in the Diamond Cup, and a few 
 trucks in the game itself. The graphics are good enough to appreciate and the gameplay.. well, 
 the gameplay is quite good apart from the fact that when I bought the game, I thought you'd be 
 able to pull off more decent stunts with the wii-mote, but I got use to the lack of stunts which 
 made up for the POW boost, Rings and just boosting really high up in the hair and turbo landing 
 :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the Star Fox 64 of racing games. It's simple and though it is much more challenging than 
 Star Fox, it's main replay draw is that eternal rivalry with yourself. Getting all the trophies 
 takes a long time, but the real thrill comes from breaking the 200 point barrier on courses that 
 require 85 (stay in the woods) .
  
  Technically speaking, the game is nothing amazing. The graphics are adequate (and I mean that in 
 the best way) , but the crashes are rarely thrilling, never spectacular. It nonetheless generates 
 a visceral, exciting feeling. shifting the Wiimote puts you in the game in an exciting way, and, 
 for the record, the controls are flawless. If you can't steer, it's 100% you.
  
  It should be noted, however, that your enjoyment of this game is fully contingent on filling an 
 SD card with rock music (up to 100 songs) . There are a few flaws with the music system, the 100 
 song limit being the first. Song selection is random unless you select a specific song to repeat 
 ad infinitum; sometimes when a song plays on random, it will select that song and repeat it -- this 
 has something to do with the encoding of the song, I think, because it only happens to certain 
 tracks. Aside from these glitches, everything works fine. I recommend The Strokes, Queens of the 
 Stone Age, and songs like "Bodysnatchers" by Radiohead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck was one of Nintendo's few Wii games to come out in 2006, and a launch title alongside 
 the great Twilight Princess and the hit freebie Wii Sports. Nintendo definitely scored big with 
 all their launch titles, and although Zelda was undoubtedly the best and Wii Sports has undeniable 
 fun and appeal, Excite Truck is still worth checking out. 
  
  The goal in this game is not to merely win a race (although you get a lot of extra points if you 
 do so) , but to do tricks such as getting big air, flying through rings, racing through trees, drifting, 
 and more. This seems like it would be kind of cool, but it's annoying and I definitely prefer to 
 just race for the sake of racing, especially since one of the main tricks doesn't work that well 
 (truck spinning) . You must get a certain amount of stars (points) to get a good enough ranking 
 to beat each course. You move your truck left or right by tilting the remote, which isn't as precise 
 as many gamers would prefer, but is very fun and makes the game open to a wider audience. The game 
 is very hectic all the time which makes it crazy and fun. There are a lot of courses to race on, 
 some extra challenges, and a multiplayer mode for two players. The multiplayer isn't anything special. 
 It's just a race between two people without any option to put computers in, but it's still kind 
 of fun. The graphics are easily at GameCube level and the physics are horrifyingly terrible, and 
 those two things would be the game's downfall (if it had one) . The physics are somehow even worse 
 in the multiplayer mode, and that can be very annoying. ("My rearview mirror clipped a tree branch 
 and I crashed!" is a common thing going on in your head while playing multiplayer) . 
  
  Despite its faults, Excite Truck is a very fun game and worth at least a rent for anyone who owns 
 a Wii. The controls are great for everyone and the craziness is contagious. It's worth a try for 
 anyone seeking a thrilling and enjoyable (if unrealistic by all means) racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-08
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 7/10
  'Above adverage'
  
  The Visuals are half decent with a nice 3d engine to make the trucks and scenery look quite impressive. 
 the effects of the boost and drift abilites will not leave you dissapointed. Its also fun to watch 
 your truck smash others and, on some level, smash up your own.
  
  Gameplay - 8/10
  'Fun for a while'
  
  I guess it comes down to how easily you get bored. for me its fun for 
 around an hour and a half until you dont want to play anymore, but the next day it will make you 
 want to play again - its highly addictive .The speed is immense which is what makes it fun - more 
 boost than any other game and takes advantage of the wiimote's abilties - all the controls are 
 horizontal and you use it to turn. An annoying feature of the controls, though, is when you tilt the 
 wii remote back or forward somtimes its like the game dosent understand the direction you want 
 it to move.
  
  Sound -9/10
  'Brilliant'
  
  The fact you can play mp3's from your SD card which is very inportant in my eyes ,The only downside 
 is you can only select from 100 songs from your card which if you have a larger card is somewhat 
 dissapointing. Most trucks sound great and the crash noises are cool - start your engines!
  
  Overall - 8/10
  'A good all round game' 
  
  Nintendo has proudced an overall classic 
 in my eyes - somtimes repetitive but makes you want to stick at it. Impressive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a very fun racing game. But I'll come out and say this right away, if this were 
 a PS2 game I would be dissapointe just a bit. Don't get me wrong, this game is great but the tilty 
 controls make the game what it is.
  
  If you steered your truck by using an Analog stick then this would just be another fast racing 
 game that's quite short on modes but with the Wii cintrols it feels fresh and exciting.
  
  Like I said, Excite Truck is a bit lacking in game modes, you can take part in an Excite Race, 
 try some challenges or race a friend in one of the most basic two player modes ever made.
  
  In Excite Race you blaze around the different tracks (at very high speeds) in an attempt to 
 earn stars. You probably know the score, drive near trees without crashing, drift, get massive 
 air, so on and so forth, to get stars whilst trying to place first to earn bonus stars to pass 
 each level. That pretty much sums up Excite race, it's the games main mode, and is very fun. Also 
 trying to get an S grade for each race will take hours and hours to do, so if you don't mind a 
 bit of repetitiveness then you will find Excite Truck to be a great choice.
  
  If you get bored of Excite Race then you can try you hand at some challenges. Gate is a decent 
 challenge where you must drive through the gates on a tight time limit (missing a gate takes away 
 precious seconds) . However it takes an age to beat a gate challenge and you'll likely get bored 
 of it quite quickly, but at least it's something else to do. Ring challenges are, in my oppinion, 
 rubbish. You have to drive around the tracks and jump the, er, jumps and hope that you happen to 
 go through the rings in mid-air. Not so good that one. The third and final challenge is the best 
 one. In an arena style course you have to hunt down the five other trucks and smash into them as 
 hard as you can. Be careful though because any tap on the other trucks counts as your only hit 
 and will give you very few stars.
  
  If you have a friend and another remote handy, then you can do a two player race. The only thing 
 is, you can't have any computer controlled racers along side you. So it's just you and your buddy. 
 It can get a bit dull after a while on the bigger tracks because you may hardly see anything of 
 each other, which means less crashing into other racers, which as we all know, means slightly less 
 fun. But again, at least it has a multiplayer mode which is quite fun instead of nothing.
  
  At hte end of the day, Excite Truck is fun, fast and fun again. It may be low on modes and 
 features, but the fact that it has new, fresh controls, makes it a very good racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teet-O
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Excite truck uses the Wii's revolutionary motion sensing abilities to race around like a crazy 
 man. I personally thought it was a good game with a pretty good amount of things to do. The funnest 
 part of Excite Truck is mutiplayer with your friends (its not online though) . If you have an SD 
 card, you can put music in it and play it while you race with your friends or against computer 
 controlled drivers. The Excite races are fun, they allow you to unlock cars and trophies and all 
 that stuff; it should keep you busy for a while, but then once you beat the excite races you can 
 take up the super excite challenges for more difficulty. The graphics are relatively good, not 
 something we haven't seen before but they are pleasant to look at. Overall the game is good, the 
 gameplay is fun and the graphics look pretty sharp for a Wii game. I suggest you buy it if you 
 have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  
  ..: The Good:..
   Fast paced action
   Feels Great 
    Adding your own music is a nice feature
  
  ..: The Bad:..
    Multi-player is crappy
  
   No Online Mode
    May get tired of it easily
  
  The spiritual successor of Excitebike lands on the Wii with exciting fun for the family. Excite 
 Truck takes a few of Excitebikes mechanics but mostly strikes out on its own.
  
  Gameplay is by far the best thing about Excite Truck. You'll be holding the Wiimote on its side, 
 D-Pad accessible with your left thumb and the 1 and 2 buttons on your right. You steer just like 
 you would driving a real car/truck or whatever, by tilting the controller left and right. This 
 gives you a feel like your right in that truck driving throughout the beautiful courses.
  The 2 button serves as your gas, while the 1 button serves as your break. Pushing the D-Pad in 
 any direction activities your turbo. Hitting your turbo just as you leave a jump gives you a Turbo 
 Jump, leading to more air. While in the air you have pitch control over your truck by tilting the 
 controller forward or back. Pitching forward will cause you to fall faster, while pitching back 
 will cause the opposite to come into effect. You'll also be able to steer a little in midair.
 
  
  The controls are easy to get used to, after a little while you'll lose the exciting, over the top 
 out of control feel. 
  
  Your main aim in the game is to collect a set amount of Stars. This can be done by performing drifts, 
 getting lots of air, driving dangerouslly near trees, performing air spins and more. But of course, 
 you're still racing. So your finishing position will result in Bonus Stars boosting your overall 
 score.
  
  The main single player game is simply just you going through 4 different sets of races, bronze, 
 silver, gold and platinum. Each having 4/5 different races to complete. Each track has a minimum 
 number of stars you must earn to clear it. When you clear all of the races in a set, the next set 
 opens up. Just hitting the star limit will reward you a B ranking, but you'll need to go above 
 and beyond to earn the S rank, which is the only way to unlock the game's harder difficulty setting. 
 Getting S rank in every track is a bit of a chore, and may seem a little repetitive. 
  
  As for the games soundtrack, well, lets just say it isn't the best. It's pretty much some cheesy 
 guitar rock, it's alright at first. But gets tiresome. So thank god for the option to input your 
 own music! Yes that's right, you can put your own music into the game! Simply place your SD Card 
 in the slot at the front of the Wii, and hey presto, listen to whatever you want while racing!
 
  
  The graphics in Excite Truck are pretty neat. The truck models are done well, though the game does 
 look a little bland here and there. The only real graphical problems would probably be the smoke 
 effects, and maybe also the water effects. They're just, awful!
  
  There's plenty of trucks to unlock, new difficulties and modes. Challenges to take on and the option 
 to get 'S' Ranks on every race. This will take you around 20 hours to do. You'll not really want 
 to check out multi-player as it is just you and a friend, that's it, no CPU, no 4 player option, 
 and the biggest let down, no Online Play.
  
  That aside, Excite Truck is a fun game, it's controls and speed give it a really good feel that 
 sucks you in and makes you feel like part of the race. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebisonx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game has it's occasional moments of racing excitement, beyond it's career mode, 
 there's pretty much nothing more to play.
  
  The controls have a steep learning curve and it would take quite some time to get all the gold 
 medals. This is simply because the controls aren't nearly as tight as they should be. The track 
 selection isn't too bad, though it would be nice to see a little more variety in their themes. 
 The tracks themselves allow for quite a few opportunities for major jumps, it's just too bad that 
 every time you take a jump it all looks the same.
  
  The graphics are completely average in all areas and there's no reason why this couldn't run the 
 same on GameCube. The framerate seems to hold for most of the time, so that's a plus. The sound 
 is not memorable at all and most of music tracks are near-garbage. Thankfully, if you have an SD 
 card with your own music on it, you can listen to them while you race. Sometimes Excite Truck pulls 
 you in and you feel as though it is a great game, but those moments are few and far between. You 
 can tell that there is the possibility for greatness with this concept, but it is not perfected 
 here. Give Excite Truck a rental, it's not worth much more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleKey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is certainly an interesting game. Once you learn the controls and get comfortable 
 with how you want to control it (which doesn't take very long.) it's a fun game. But the problem 
 is the length. When you beat it, it's over. Sure, you can go after getting great scores and unlocking 
 that last truck, but that only streches so far. It definately isn't worth $50, but I would be willing 
 to pay $30 for it. If I had thought of that before, that is. Oh well, what's said is done, and 
 you will almost definately enjoy it. It just isn't enough for your money, though.
  
  Another thing about it that you really need to play it to figure out (or read about, apparently) 
 is that it feels very detached. You're almost in your own little world when you're playing it. 
 Sure, there are the other trucks, but in some hard to explain way, you're still by yourself. I 
 can't explain it, but it's worth mentioning. Overall, it isn't worth the money just yet, but wait 
 until you can get a used copy for $30 and you won't be disappointed. Just don't expect too much. 
 As can be expected, this is more of a game to pull out in short bursts, and not to spend too much 
 time with it. In conclusion, driving is fun, sound is irritating (but I haven't tried to use my 
 own songs in it yet.) You can actually put an SanDisk or CompactFlash card in it (only one works, 
 I don't remember.) and you can play your own music in it. I recommend doing this, as the soundtrack 
 of one song gets old very fast. So, driving fun, sound iffy, multiplayer can get hectic, maps are 
 fun and look good, but aren't diverse, and controls are good and fun. Worth buying after the price 
 goes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I rank this as the second best launch title. Well there is a lot to say about 
 the game. It was revelotionary. A great way to start off your Wii collection. You really feel like 
 you are driving when you are playing. It is a whole lot of fun. It is a quite challenging game 
 at times, especially to get those S rankings. A true racing game that lies somewhere between hardcore 
 and casual. This game is very easy to pick up and play.
  
  As with every game, there are some faults though. Sometimes it is really hard to turn. Any little 
 hit to your truck and it blows up, a lot of aspects of the game really don't make since.
  
  This is still a great game though and definately worth $50. You need to get this game with your 
 Wii. Don't let the GS review/score fool you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Laziness is possessing my body once again so I'll make it short and simple.
  Now, Excite Truck is VERY fun when you first turn it on, but later on, it just gets too repetitive 
 and, quite frankly, boring. Not that that it is going to stop me from playing the game again.
 
  Game's graphics are not impressive, Gamecube graphics again. The game's value is not high, you 
 can beat this in a weekend or so. Trying to unlock all of the trucks still doesn't want to make 
 keep playing after you beat it. Yeah, that's it, there is nothing to keep you coming back. Not 
 only that, the multiplayer is not too fun, most tracks are short and it's not hard to master the 
 game in the first place, so you would probably alternate in winnings with your other player. Ehhh, 
 I would recommend this game but I am reviewing this game when the game is fifty dollars. In the 
 future it probably won't be, but until it's twenty dollars, I'm not going to recommend this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jpleblancfinal
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  the way the controller is used makes any steering wheel adapter pointless. This makes it hard for 
 any one how drives a car or doesn't know how the controls work making it difficult to play. But 
 there is steal some fun to be had, but it easily goes from fun to frustrating in an instant. but 
 the best part is the challenges and some will get to being frustratingly hard to archive. another 
 advantage is that if you have a sd card you can listen to your own mp3 flies. In the end this is 
 a fast paced, high-flying racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Excite truck is a pretty fun game that anyone can just pick up and play. Once you get used to steering 
 with the remote (which is often fun to observe) you can execute some pretty huge jumps and speedy 
 sections.
  
  Gameplay The game play is great with an over the top sor of style.. You'll find yourself doing 
 impressive jumps with huge hang time... all the while controlling your direction in the air via 
 remote. Aside from actually placing better than the other cars, you are tasked with earning enough 
 stars each round as well. You earn stars by doing such things as drifting, hitting other vehicles, 
 going through hoops and zooming past trees at a high rate of speed.
  
  All in all it's fun arcade style action.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are great.. among the best 
 I've seen at the Wii. It's one of the few titles I have where I'm not thinking Gee, this could 
 look a whole lot better all the time.
  
  Sound
  The sound was good, nothing special here. As with most racing games I found the soundtrack to wear 
 thin. No problems though, just put on some of your own tunes.
  
  Controls
  The controls worked really well. Another game that properly and effectively showcases the Wii's 
 unique control capabilities.
  
  Basically you hold the Wii remote out in front of you and tilt to steer. Its odd at first but works 
 and responds really well once you get used to it.
  
  Value
  Not the best value around. It has a short initial campaign which leads to you having to redo all 
 the races to get a better time to unlock the next set. There wasn't all that much incentive so 
 that's where I left the game.
  
  It will stay in my collection though, because of its ease of play it will be a good title for company 
 to try out.
  
  Even though it's easy to pick up and play, I found that the novelty wore off after a short time. 
 Sure I'll keep this one in my collection and go back for a few races now and then, but I don't 
 plan on focusing on unlocking anything else or completely finishing it.
  
  I'd suggest giving it a try before you buy, or better yet, pick up a used copy at a reduced price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superjon6
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck was one of the launch games for the Wii. It was a good game and had some great controls. 
 When the Wii first came out everyone thought that you had to be standing to play the games, but 
 with this it seems just like any other game. At times in this game it seems like winning and losing 
 are sometimes random. You will have to play some levels a few times to beat them. The game overall 
 comes out to about 10 to 15 hours of play. I would also say it is in some ways similar to Mario 
 Kart. Along with the race series there is also a challenge mode. You can play in 3 types of challenges, 
 Crush, my favorite, Rings, and gates. The challenge mode is a little harder than the game it self. 
 There is also a vs. mode and many trophies you can win, which will take some time. You can also 
 import music into the game with an SD card. I think this a good game for anyone looking for a racing 
 game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacificjohn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Very good racing game although the controls could be better. Good graphics and good gameplay overall 
 even though the controls take some getting used to. Once you have gotten the hang of the game, 
 it is definitely fun and entertaining. The drawbacks are that it could have used more courses and 
 the sound wasn't quite up to par. All in all, the game can provide for an entertaining afternoon 
 if youve already gone and beaten Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess or if you just need a slight 
 diversion from the norm. One word of advice prior to buying though: rental. Make sure you rent 
 this game before you buy in order to make sure you dont feel like it wasnt worth the $49.99 price 
 tag. Happy racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StargamerX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck takes a very innovative and overall fun step towards the racing genre. It defiantly 
 can be on the fence with most people, either thinking it cant keep your attention, or thinking 
 it can be a good game and try to complete everything. You can control you truck by tilting the 
 Wii remote in the four basic directions, by holding the Wii remote sideways. This can respond very 
 well to your movements. Sometimes you may catch it at an angle, causing you to move in a slightly 
 different direction. One thing I hate to attempt is an Air Spin, where you have to twist your remote 
 back and forth, and isnt very responsive. The game will give you a tutorial mode to get used to 
 things. As for the length of the game, Excite mode gives you four cups to complete, with four to 
 five races in each. You must gather a set amount of stars to pass the race, getting a class of 
 S, A, B, C, D.
  Getting an S grade will unlock Super Excite mode, the same but more difficult giving you an additional 
 cup, which only has one race. Attempting to get S grades on those will further unlock Mirror mode. 
 Another part of progressing through the game, you will unlock a first set of ten trucks, as for 
 nine to eleven more trucks in Super Excite. Even more part of the single-player game includes challenge 
 mode, giving you three challenges to complete on different levels (NOTE: There may be more, I have 
 further to unlock) . These also give you an option of excite and Super Excite modes. Multi-player 
 is also a feature allowing to people to play split-screen, which I find to be very fun. Here you 
 can choose from all of the tracks and trucks you have unlocked so far. Overall, Excite Truck is 
 a very good, fast-paced game. It offers you fun gameplay, and a very high replay value. I recommend 
 you get this game if you already havent. I give this game an 8.7!, not an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Picklechugger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is the follow-up to the classic hits ExciteBike and ExciteBike 64. Both of those games 
 were loved by just about everyone, so the sequel for the Wii has big shoes to fill. You'll mostly 
 be playing the single player mode of Excite Truck, which is it's biggest disappointment. The races 
 are fast paced and fun, but you don't win by placing first. Instead, you get stars for doing various 
 things from drifting, to big air, to smashing opposing trucks. Getting first will nab you a bonus 
 in stars. The bonus will generally get you the win in the easier difficulty settings, but once 
 it gets harder it becomes a requirement, and on top of that you will have to go out of your way 
 to get those extra stars. This becomes tedious, and you will end up doing a course dozens of times, 
 and then fly past the next one on your first try. Races are always different, but not in a good 
 way. I found myself getting first by over 10 seconds, and doing the same race with the same time 
 only to get 4th or 5th place. This can be extremely frustrating when you finally get enough stars 
 that, when coupled with a first place slot, will get you past the course only to find yourself 
 in last, when last race you got first without the stars you needed. A similar time should, in theory, 
 get you a similar standing because contact with cars during the race doesn't happen a whole lot. 
 Every once in a while you will smash an opponent to get some extra stars, but cars are generally 
 spread out. They'll just suddenly have an amazing race at the most inopportune times. Aside from 
 the scoring system, races are a lot of fun. Driving takes a while to get used to, but when you 
 get used to it, it's very responsive. The cars will fly all over the place, but the game perfectly 
 blends the feeling of being out of control while giving you perfect control of the car. It is never 
 the games fault when you crash, which is great. Once you got it down, it's great to fly through 
 a course. Other than standard driving, there is a bit of a trick system. Well, not really. You 
 can make the car spin. It may just be me, but the spinning technique never left the tutorial room. 
 Other than standard single player, there is a challenge mode, which is a good distraction for a 
 while. You will be pitted with slalom courses and ring challenges. The get old quick, but can be 
 fun for a while. Finally, there is a multiplayer mode. This is also a disappointment. Although 
 fun for a while, two cars racing on a single track is far from a good time. There doesn't seem 
 to be any reason to not have four player support, but we're left with two. One last notable thing 
 is the ability to put your MP3 files onto an SD memory card. The game has it's own generic rock 
 soundtrack, but it's pretty cool to listen to your own music. It's too bad other Wii games don't 
 do this. All in all Excite Truck is a fun game. Once mastered, each course has a rhythm and the 
 sense of speed is great. There just isn't any reason to keep playing once you've beaten the single 
 player mode, which lasts 10 hours tops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfonzoZ121
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun. At times i thought that it was so boring. Once you get to the harder 
 stuff, you will like it alot better. This game isn't the best game for the wii. Only get it if 
 you like racing game. Its fun to try to beat records and get trophies. You have to do the same 
 races over and over. There is no new tracks. Though some are pretty fun. I like the ones where 
 you can get a ton of air. Over all this game was just ok. There are alot of cars to unlock, and 
 there paint jobs. That's a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjam54
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  How would you like to rampage through the desert with a heavy-duty truck, smashing everything in 
 sight. Well now you can with Excite Truck for the Nintendo Wii. It is a very simple game to control 
 with turning the Wii Remote to turn your truck and the D-pad to use boost. The turning will take 
 a little bit of getting used to the sensitivity of the turning, but once you get the hang of it, 
 it should be easy. There are about 10 trucks to choose from each with different handling, speed, 
 etc. It has a good 1-player and multiplayer mode, plus a challenge mode. There is about 20 tracks 
 to choose from each with different obstacles and jumps. There are exclamation points scattered 
 throughout each course that will cause the terrain to change temporarily. There are also POW icons 
 that will let you have infinete boost and allow you to crash through trees temporarily. This game 
 will entertain you for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twosaxy4myshirt
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, I guess it's expected that when a new console comes out, especially in the case of the Wii, 
 everyone is wondering what exactly it can do. This game showcases the steering wheel capability 
 of the Wii Remote. At first it seems like a pretty decent game, but as you get into, you realize 
 that there is absolutely no depth. Your race, you win, you get a track or something, but that's 
 about it. There's no replay value, either. By the time you say, Hey, look! I can use the Wii-mote 
 as a steering wheel! you're already bored. It's definitely not worth the money.
  
  But it's really nothing less than you would expect for launch titles. It sure did make Twilight 
 Princess look even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  the good parts of this game is the good sense of speed, you can boost this and get a really good 
 sense of speed. Also, the elevation items, these items change either elevation and/or the area's 
 shape or form by maybe making ramps, or making shortcuts and you can possibly wreck your enemies 
 by using these. In this game, you can use your sd card and bring your music from the sd card to 
 the game itself, which is really cool, but i have never tested it so i dont know how it works. 
 Also, the good amount of air, you can get so high in the air, the music will start distorting and 
 making different noises. The environments are beautiful, the scenery is awesome. The wii mote controls 
 work good and hardly ever mess up. In this game, you dont need to finish 1st place to go on, which 
 i think is really fair, especially if you are not good at the racing parts. There are many tricks 
 to perform in this game, you can preform a 180 and a 360, and even a 720. The tutorial is very 
 self explanitory, and they make you do part of it to start playing the real game. The bad parts 
 of this game is the wii controls, now, i know i put the the wii mote controls in the good parts 
 area, but it gets way too sensitive it is not even funny. There is not enough tracks to explore, 
 there is only like 6 main places to explore. The multiplayer sucks, i swear i have only played 
 it once and it sucks because if you are trailing behind a person that already finished, you lose 
 1 star each second after the opponent finishes. There is no online play whatsoever. Overall, this 
 game isnt the best launch title, but it is not the worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxMcCloudDS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  This morning brought a sigh of relief when four hundred thousand gamers were finally able to bring 
 home the all-new Nintendo Wii video game console. Wii parted a new era of video gaming and separated 
 itself from Sony and Microsoft with a revolutionary new controller. Excite truck launches right 
 along side the Wii and takes gamers by surprise. The truth is that when Nintendo announced Excite 
 Truck for Wii back at E306, most gamers and me were spectacle on what is going to come out of it. 
 This just sounded like a cheesy plan that turned out to be one of the strongest titles to hit the 
 Wii.
  
  Excite Truck takes the controller and tips it sideways and turns the little guy into a virtual 
 racing wheel. I normally dont play racing games, yet something in excite truck brings out a lot 
 of fun and emotion while playing. You are not racing to see who can pass the finish line first 
 in the race, but you are playing for the most points possible. You go off a jump and do 360s or 
 720s and then you can go through thousands of trees without hitting one, and thats how you get 
 points to win the race.
  
  If you can think back to when the release of super smash bros for N64 came out, this was not a 
 typical fighting game, it added something more than just another round of kicks and punches. Excite 
 Truck dose the same and truly redefines the concept of a racing game. Excite Truck also offers 
 tons of different courses and each one has a lot going on.
  
  There are many strengths and a few let downs. I like the fact that you can use your own music and 
 put MP3 files on a SD card and use them while playing. The controls are a little hard to get used 
 to and youll need an extra half hour to show a friend how it works. The most noticeable letdown 
 is the fact that Excite Truck is not online enabled. Nintendo had originally felt they would release 
 Excite Truck with online play and then they just chucked the whole Idea out the window. Exciting 
 enough or not is the fact that Nintendo added the multiplayer aspect to the game. Multiplayer feels 
 like its just in there because it needs to be, and half of the fun things in the original mode 
 are not in the multiplayer option.
  
  Overall Excite Truck is an over-exceptional racing game despite the missing online play. You and 
 your friends will have a lot of fun playing this game for hours on end. If you like getting boosts, 
 flying a few thousand feet in the air, and smashing into other trucks Excite Truck is the game 
 for you. Kris Hute 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck was one of the first racing games for Wii. It launched with the system on November 
 19th, 2006, and was one of only three first-party titles to do so. The other two games - The Legend 
 of Zelda: Twilight Princess and Wii Sports - were both well received either by the media or the 
 critics. However, Excite Truck was not so lucky. It garnered hardly any attention from the press, 
 and its score on GameRankings. com constitutes it as only a good game, not a great one. Does Excite 
 Truck deserve more than this? Well, I picked up the game at launch, and I cant say I regret doing 
 so. Though its not without its fair share of problems, Excite Truck is arguably the most unique 
 racer available on any next-gen console.
  
  The main mode in Excite Truck is called, well, Excite. The basic premise of this mode (and the 
 rest of the game) is that you, along with 5 CPU opponents, race around a track at breakneck speeds 
 trying to collect stars. The more stars you get, the higher the letter grade that scores you at 
 the end of the race is. If you get at least a B, you pass the level.
  
  To receive stars, you can do any number of things. Youll get them for flying high through the 
 air, smashing into another truck, drifting around a corner, performing an air spin, or doing basically 
 anything else. This includes finishing the race before your opponents  the higher you rank, the 
 more stars youll get. However, even though you want to place well, the focus is still on winning 
 stars, and if you come in last but have a decent number of stars, so be it. I really enjoyed the 
 whole star-collecting aspect of the game, and it helps Excite Truck to stand out from most racers 
 today.
  
  But how do I do all of his, youre probably wondering. Well, you hold the Wiimote horizontally, 
 like a NES controller. To steer, all you have to do is tilt it left and right. While it sounds 
 simple on paper, when you play the game for the first time you might think that the controller 
 is a little too sensitive, as youll have trouble even just staying on the track. However, after 
 spending some quality time with the game, youll start to feel like your somewhat in control.
 
  
  Notice I said somewhat in the sentence above. Youll never feel like you have total control over 
 your truck. However, this is not a bad thing. It is actually very good, helping to keep you on 
 your toes, as you know that you could go careening into that tree at any moment. Lending itself 
 to this is the games sense of speed. By the time you adjust so you dont hit that tree, youre 
 already about to hit another tree!
  
  One other key aspect of Excite Trucks gameplay is boost. There are three types of boost. The first 
 is just a boost while youre driving on the ground. At any time you can press the D-pad, and your 
 car will start to use turbo. You can keep on using turbo until your truck starts to overheat, in 
 which case you should probably stop.
  
  The second way you can use turbo is jumping off a ramp. If you press the D-pad right after you 
 sail into the air, youll be given a boost that will help you to fly higher. This brings me to 
 the final type of boost. While youre in the air, you can control the pitch of youre truck by 
 tilting the Wiimote. If youre able to make youre truck hit the ground on all four wheels, youll 
 be given a free turbo boost. Anyways, all of these boosts play an important part in the game, and 
 they help in ramping up the speed, which, trust me, is a good thing!
  
  Needless to say, this - the stars, the turbo - is all a blast. However, were not done yet. There 
 are also two types of items scattered around each track. These help to ramp up the huge sense of 
 speed and total out-of-control feeling thats already happening. The first type of item does two 
 things; it makes you invincible, and it makes you go faster. When you grab it, you can slam through 
 trees without crashing, jump higher into the air, and go off course without slowing down. The second 
 type of item literally transforms the environment. If you run into one, anything can happen, from 
 mountains forming to rock formations crumbling. Anyways, getting both of these items is sometimes 
 the key to winning, and they make the game that much more exciting.
  
  Though it is fast, out of control, and fun, Excite Trucks gameplay does have one major problem: 
 its Versus mode. In it, you and one friend can race on any track youve unlocked in singleplayer. 
 The biggest problem with this is that it lacks the excitement of the singleplayer experience. For 
 starters, the screen is cut in half, diminishing the sense of speed. Also, there are no CPU opponents. 
 Its just you and a friend on a huge track. This can get quite boring at times. Theres one other 
 thing I didnt like about the multiplayer. When you crash in singleplayer mode, you can repeatedly 
 tap the 2 button to restart faster. However, this feature was taken out of Versus mode. Why? 
 I dont know. This, along with the rest of its problems, makes Excite Trucks Versus mode seem 
 unfinished and half-baked.
  
  That said, Excite Trucks gameplay is still very enjoyable. The singleplayer mode provides a decent 
 amount of fun. Just dont expect the multiplayer to do the same. The graphics in Excite Truck are, 
 sadly, not the best. There is quite a few jaggies here and there, which is disappointing. Also, 
 sometimes there will be a bar across the screen that is blurry. This mostly happens at the start 
 of races. Another negative aspect of Excite Trucks graphics is the water. It looks very flat 
 and like it doesnt have any depth. The rain effects are also quite bad. The raindrops just look 
 like graphical mishaps falling down the screen.
  
  Despite all of this, there are a few positive aspects to the graphics. For one, the game hardly 
 ever slows, down, which is great considering the speed at which it runs. Also, all of the trucks 
 are very shiny, and youll be able to see reflections on them once in awhile. Overall, though, 
 Excite Trucks graphics are still not very impressive, which is disappointing because Nintendo 
 should be the one pushing the bar for high quality graphics on Wii.
  
  The sound and music in Excite Truck are not as bad as everyone says, though they are not the greatest. 
 Lets start with the music. A lot of people say it is terrible, which is not true at all. It is 
 your typical rock music, with lots of guitar riffs and all. It fits the game very well, though 
 it is quite generic. One cool thing about the music is that you can listen to your own off of a 
 SD card. While I havent tried this yet, its nice that they included the option.
  
  Next is the sound. All of the different sound effects that the trucks make sound fine. Theyre 
 not the best, but they do the job, which is good because they are really the only sound effects 
 in the game. Overall, Excite Trucks audio is not terrific, but its not terrible, either. The 
 music fits the game well, though its very generic. Also, the sound effects, while unspectacular, 
 do their job. Value is another area of Excite Truck that critics have unnecessarily bashed. While 
 theres not of ton of lasting appeal here, there is a decent amount. For starters, there are quite 
 a few tracks in the singleplayer mode. It will take you at least 4-5 hours to complete them all 
 with a B grade. After you do that, you can try getting an S grade on all of them to unlock 
 a harder difficulty level. This will take you at least 4-6 hours. Then theres the harder difficulty 
 level. You could spend quite a bit of time on that.
  
  There is one problem with all of this, however. If you dont like high score replay value, then 
 you wont find much here. All of the tracks in the harder difficulty level are the same as in the 
 first, only harder, which means you wont like it that much if you prefer seeing only new stuff.
 
  
  In addition to that, Excite Truck doesnt have a ton of different play modes. In addition to the 
 singleplayer and multiplayer modes, there is really only one other option. It is called Challenge 
 and will have you trying to complete specific objectives on different tracks. While this will keep 
 you playing for a little while longer, it wont last forever.
  
  Overall, Excite Trucks value, like the audio, is not as bad as everyone says, though its not 
 great, either. If you like getting high scores then you might find a lot here. If not, then Excite 
 Truck doesnt have a ton to offer. Excite Truck is a decent racing game, gameplay wise. It has 
 a fun star-collecting system and is insanely fast. However, the rest of Excite Truck is stuck in 
 mediocrity. The graphics, while not the worst on Wii, dont really impress and the sound is just 
 OK. Excite Trucks value also suffers, relying too much on high scores and not enough on different 
 play modes. That said, Excite Truck is still decent launch title that youll love if youre in 
 the need for a fun racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  On Wii launch day we were all full of Wii fever, and most people would have forgotten that Nintendo 
 had a second launch title along side Zelda then, and while Excite truck is no Zelda it's still 
 a great launch game, but it really lacks some features. 
  
  Excite truck is your standard racing game with a twist; Instead of the standard come first in every 
 race formula that all racing normally have you instead have o collect stars and in order to pass 
 the track you need to get a certain amount in course. Although coming first helps as it gives you 
 50 starts extra. 
  
  The game also has 21 different Cars to choose form as well as 20 courses, although they are just 
 extensions of 6 countries/planets. For example in the Finland course their is a series of jumps, 
 but then in a later Finland course those exact jumps again, but even with that in mind they still 
 seen new and don't really hinder the game in any real way. The game also has a challenge mode with 
 6 challenges and two difficulties but the only enjoyable ones are the two truck smash ones, the 
 four other ring and gate challenges are boring and almost a chore. 
  
  The game also has a Multiplayer mode, and if your thinking oh Nintendo made it most have 4 players, 
 you're wrong sadly it only has 2 players with no AI's. This badly hurts the reply ability considering 
 you came blow through the single player in 2 hours if you only just wont to see the 20 main courses, 
 otherwise there is 3 difficulties one being a mirror mode, and then there is always playing a level 
 again to get a S ranking or a high star score. 
  
  Lots of people say it's Nintendo's Motorstorm so why doesn't it have online? That's because no 
 games on the Wii at the time of its release had online, that's why I haven't flamed the games reply 
 ability for it. Otherwise I wouldn't have given the game a score this high if all the other games 
 at launch had online. 
  
  The sound in the game is cheesy rock music but I like, but if you don't you can just choose the 
 music you want to listen to via SD card which is a nice feature I hope to see become more popular 
 in the future for Wii. The Graphics aren't that great but their still good; with a great frame 
 rate that only drops slightly in the multiplayer and Chinese gate challenge at one point. But then 
 it has it ugly spots like the tree tops which look real bad and some rough edges now and then. 
 But then it also has its good parts which while not anything a last gen console couldn't do still 
 look which are the truck models, the water and blur effects. 
  
  Excite truck is a Launch title so it isn't going to be perfect and for $100 AUS or $50 US is not 
 exactly worth the price so if it is on special (about $40 AUS now) or in a bargain bin pick it 
 up because it's a fun game that ultimately begs for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is the spiritual successor of Excite bike so if you've played it before you'll know that 
 it's going to have a lot of jumps and crashes and it does, in fact this game fells a lot like Burnout, 
 only faster and with trucks.
  
  The gameplay is the best thing in the game, you'll hold the wiimote sideways to take control of 
 your truck and it really works perfectly, the point of the races is not arrive in the first place, 
 but to collect stars during the race, it can be done by doing drift, jumping and crashing other 
 trucks. there's a great sense of speed in the game which makes you fell like you're actually driving 
 a big truck (well not that much) . The graphics are also great, they make look bland in some places 
 but they're overall great, the truck models are very deatailed although they may look blocky sometimes. 
 The only graphical flaws of this game are the water and smoke effects, they're awful.
  
  However where the game really lacks is in the multiplayer mode, it's only two players and it doesn't 
 have online, so you'll play this game by yourself a lot, which can get repetitive after a while. 
 The music is also lame, but you can take your SD card and upload MP3 files to it which works fine. 
 Overall Excite truck is not the best wii game, but it is challenging enough to keep you busy for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Excitetruck was one of the first games I bought for my Wii. Excitetruck had some fun moments but 
 got repetitive later on in the game.
  
  Excitetruck had you hold the Wiimote horizontally and tilt in the direction you wanted to steer. 
 The game gave you an exciting rush of speed using turbo boost and making a good landing . The shallow 
 part about this game is that there is only about 9 locations each with about 3 different tracks. 
 The point of Excitetruck is not like NASCAR or sim-racing games, it's to win and to gain stars 
 by catching air, drifting and my personal favorite, slamming into other trucks. There is about 
 20 different trucks each with their own handling capabilities. I didn't notice any difference in 
 any of the trucks.
  
  Moving on to graphics, they were on-par with most Wii games. The trucks were pretty detailed along 
 with the courses.
  
  The music was pretty good at first, but got repetitive. However, if you have a SD card with music 
 on it, you could stick it into the Wii and play the music during the races. The trucks sounded 
 pretty cool.
  
  Overall, Excitetruck is a good launch title for the Wii and I hope they follow up with another 
 Excitebike or a Exciteskateboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringTheBlood
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing more you can really say about Excite Truck except amazingly fun. You want a fun 
 racing game on the Wii then this is for you. You get really into the game and actually feel like 
 your racing. Its a great game to play with friends, the multi player is definitely the most exciting 
 part of the game. Its over original and just an over all exciting game.
  
  
  The only real problem with the game is that its super easy. After playing for about 10min you'll 
 have everything down pat. The graphics aren't really there either, so if your looking for a challenging, 
 great looking, well designed racing game to play then look else where. The game isnt for the hardcore 
 racers, its just a simple, fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammerbrodude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay... I got this game shortly after I got my wii. That was November. And yet, I am STILL playing. 
 The game play is great. You try to pull off first place, while doing stunts that net you 0-5 stars. 
 Don't be fooled, though. It is insanely hard. Especially with mirror mode.
  
  The graphics... are actually really good. Cleared than a few games i've played for the wii, anyway.
 
  
  Sound: How am I supposed to rate this? You put YOUR OWN music into the game. Get your favorite 
 song, put it on an SD card, and play. It's incredible. It's amazing. It gets a 10.
  
  This game is worth the $50 if you like racing games. If you don't... rent it first. I'm sure you 
 will like it, but I could be wrong... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Excite truck was a launch title for the wii that I think was underappreciated. In the game you 
 win determined by how many stars you have. You can get stars by crashing into other racers, drifting, going 
 through trees, or running through rings.
  
  THE GOOD: The funnest gameplay any racer has, takes full advantage of the wii remote's capabilities, unlockables, 
 fun tracks, cool trucks, has a nice multi-player, you will rsmash into everything on the screen, 
 has items that will make you do all sorts of different things, you don't have to actually come 
 in first place to win the race.
  
  THE BAD: Not enough tracks, the graphics are not that great, and the gameplay might be to fast 
 for some players.
  
  OVERALL: So close but maybe next time they will do better, This game is pretty good but there are 
 other games to buy but this game would not be a good runner-runner-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7arek
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  So, Excite Truck. After reading/watching a few reviews on this game I was actually very excited 
 to play it, I dismissed Gamespots review and gravitated towards the positive ones. This was a 
 mistake. I was very, very disappointed with this game. from the graphics to the lack of features, 
 this game was just sad. Im very happy that I decided to rent it before I bought it, because then 
 I wouldve just wasted money. For the graphics I wasnt expecting anything super-duper on the Wii, 
 but I sure was expecting more than I got! The levels, vehicles, effects, they all just seemed kind 
 of boring. As for the sound, well it is cool that you could put your own music in the game, but 
 if you didnt have any music, or an SD card, then youd have to put up with the horrible rock tracks 
 in the game, I hated them. Another thing is the game is its pretty easy, I pretty much beat the 
 entire thing in an afternoon, and though the multiplayer was good, it wasnt enough to add a ton 
 of replayability to the game. As for the gameplay, that was the only thing in the whole fricken 
 game that felt right. The controls were very responsive, I had no trouble maneuvering, there was 
 almost no learning curve, and the boost system worked fantastic. For that alone people might find 
 some enjoyment out of this game, cause it is fun to fly around the tracks, and you do feel exhilarated. 
 What wouldve made this game so much more would have been tweaked graphics, much more customization 
 and features with the vehicles, online support, and a better soundtrack. one that wasnt so in-your-face. 
 So in the end, if youre just looking for a simple racing game to rent, this would be a very mediocre 
 game for you to pick up (but it is the best racer for the Wii to date) but theres no way I can 
 recommend this game as a buy, there just isnt enough there so keep you occupied, and hopefully 
 therell be a better Excite Truck some day, or just a good Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who plays video games either the hardcore gamers or just the casual gamers must have heard 
 about the game called excite bike.. a little motorbike game for the Nintendo Enterainment System.. 
 Then Nintendo Realsed a new Game called Excite Bike 64 for you guessed it the Nintendo 64. Now 
 the series is taking a new spin changing the typical Bikes into trucks and using the Wii Functions 
 to its advantage.
  
  Excite Truck uses the wii remote like a stering whell. you press the a button to move and the dirction 
 pad to use speed boost... it takes a little but to get the hang off. you have the urge to use the 
 dircetional pad to move but really your using the remote. It works a lot better then a normal controler. 
 and you get a lot more fun out of it.
  
  When your playing the game you feel like your on a Flying off track rollercoaster.. its so fun 
 and the speed is amazing. If you love that feeling then this game is really good. This also makes 
 a huge twist to the normal racing games.. Like normal racing games the goal is to get in first 
 place.. That is not a guarentee that you finish first you win the race. the main goal is to get 
 the most stars.. you get stars by performing slides, jumps, advioding tress etc.. that is not saying 
 comming in first place does not matter.. it does. You get stars for comming in first. plus if you 
 play multiplayer you get on star for every second your oppent is late to get to the finish line.
 
  
  Overall this game i great when you first buy the wii.. but it feels kinda rushed along and maybe 
 should have been hold off till about now so the multiplayer and single player modes are more rewarding. 
 not to say this game is bad.. its very good
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: takes some time to get used to the controls and the driving at the high speeds but its 
 really fun and get your blood pumping :)
  Graphics: Looks pretty good for a wii game but the speed of the game and the feel make it so much 
 better looking.
  Sound: One pharse CUSTOM SOUND TRACK!!! that makes up for the games lackluster sounds of the cars.
 
  Value: its good value for a game that is good with playing with a friend and getting more trucks 
 and trying them out makes the game last longer
  Overall: i love to go fast and it gives it to me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Exite Truck is actually a very good game. In this game you get to use your Wiimote as a steering 
 wheel. There are quite a few maps for this game and there are a lot of trucks. Plus for those trucks 
 there are a buch of colors, and there is a special unlockable for each truck.
  
  There are two different series the starter and then the more advanced one, but you can't participate 
 in the more advanced once untill you beat the easy one. And in each series there are four medals: 
 Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum. And to get to the Silver you must beat the Bronze and so on. And 
 to pass each medal you need a B or higher on each race to pass. And there are different grade going 
 from S to F .
  
  So if you are looking for a good Wii game I would get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow4eva13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is the first racer for the Wii and was available at launch. Even 7 months later I 
 still can't stop playing it.
  The point of the game is to race your truck around the track earning stars by pulling off tricks 
 or smashing opposing trucks. After a race, based on the number of stars you earned, you get a rating. 
 You need a certain number of stars in order to complete the track and eventually unlock the next 
 cup. You can skate by on the bare minimum, but in order to advance in the game you must attain 
 a superb score of over shooting the number of required stars to achieve an S rank.
  The gameplay is awesome and the controls are very responsive. It does take some getting used to, 
 but once you have it, it will be a blast.
  I believe Gamespot didn't do it justice with a mediocre score of 6 point. 8 point would have been 
 better. You are forced to achieve High Scores in order to advance in the game, some are ridiculously 
 high.
  Overall the game is great for a first racer, it does have issues, but you'll still find yourself 
 playing it over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is, spiritually, the successor to the ever-popular ExciteBike of yesteryear. At it's 
 core, it's not a real-life simulator, but an off-road racer more akin to the styles of Mario Kart 
 and F-Zero. So yes, expect events that would never happen in Nascar like shifting terrain and driving 
 through trees.
  
  Let's get the good stuff out of the way first, graphically, this game succeeds in creating a feel 
 of speed as you go whizzing by trees as well as the weightless feel of being in the air. The trucks 
 aren't too terribly detailed themselves, they'll always look brand new after you are spawned back 
 from a crash. Technically speaking, the game rarely dips down in fps, but it still does that, especially 
 when you're in the water. The physics engine used in Excite Truck does replicate believable imprints 
 on the trucks from running into other cars or trees. Replay Value is something that there isn't 
 a grand amount of, but it's there nonetheless. There are trophies to earn which seem to have no 
 use than to just have them, Challenges to complete and a Super Excite mode which is simply more 
 difficult. There is a multiplayer mode on here but it's... lacking to say the least. You and your 
 friend will be the only two trucks on the track. Suffice it to say, it's a mode I don't visit often. 
 The game plays through a series of different tracks that you race through. But, instead of placing 
 1st, the primary goal is to amass a number of stars which are accumulated through performing stunts, 
 like Air Spins, Tree Runs, and Smashing Trucks. Wether on purpose or otherwise, this means that 
 getting 1st (while it does net you 50 stars) isn't the way to win and in my mind, the difficulty 
 gets an increase because of it. Controls are very simple, the Wiimote is held in a style akin to 
 the old NES controller, with the D-Pad facing up and on the left side. The entire pad is used for 
 your turbo, 1 is used for brakes, and 2 is used for acceleration. Being a Wii game there are motion 
 controls as well, you tilt to the left or right to steer, and tilt forward or backward to lengthen 
 or shorten your air time. The biggest problem the game has is in music. With the stock music option, 
 you'll have very bland rock music playing for the duration of your time playing. However, the bright 
 spot is if you have an SD card in your Wii, you can choose to play the music on there during the 
 race. Other sound effects are neither bad nor good, just unremarkable. Overall, Excite Truck plays 
 like a fine truck, but someone forgot to put some worthwhile content in here. I'm positive we'll 
 see another Excite game down the road, but hopefully it won't be as mediocre as this offering. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  An arcade racer is an uncommon game nowadays, what with all the fancy car tuning options and the 
 circuit racing tracks. not is the case here with the marvelous game Excite truck.
  
  Firstly I will say this is definitely not for people like simulators and if you do then stay well 
 away.
  
  The first thing that strikes you about Excite truck is it's speed, this game is so fast and never 
 gets boring. it is a very addictive game and you will find yourself trying to better your times 
 on a certain lap. It is definitely a long game, there are 19 tracks to do and 10 trucks to unlock 
 and when you do that you unlock the same thing again but on a new difficulty 3 times harder and 
 with 9 more trucks to unlock, then you finish that and you get a new difficulty which is twice 
 as hard and all the courses backwards! and then there is all the challenges to do as well.
  
  This game does not score you on your position in the race but on how many stars you earn instead, 
 although your race position will affect that too so it's best to finish as well as you can.
  
  Overall this is a must for people who like proper racing games and is one of the best available 
 at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimLad800
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This is definately the best arcade racer in recent years.
  
  Do you remember that term? 'Arcade Racer'?
  They were racing games which were designed specifically 
 to be FUN. Not so you can worry about exactly what speed to take a corner or how realistic your 
 car looks.
  Games like Cruisn USA and San Fransico Rush, where a lot of the time things didn't make sense, 
 but you wouldn't care at all because it was a laugh.
  
  That's what you get if you buy this game. I borrowed it for a few weeks and have completed most 
 of it. Yet I've just ordered my own copy because I've really started to miss the feeling of playing 
 it. The best way to describe it really is Burnout offroad. Instead of traffic you get ramps, and 
 lots of them. In fact in personal preference, I actually find this game more fun than Burnout and 
 with fewer frustrations.
  
  So to sum it up, it has a pretty tough challenge in the single player which will take you a while. 
 The multiplayer it very lacking but at least there is a bare bones 2 player vs mode. The controls 
 are EXCELLENT, anybody who says otherwise just needs more practice. This game would not work on 
 any other system, and is a great example of how good Wii controls can be. The graphics are nothing 
 amazing but still very nice to look at. The sound... well the sound effects are fine I guess but 
 the music hasn't got a look in since I listen to my own MP3s on a SD card.
  
  One thing though: I think its retail price is too high for a game of this depth. Definately buy 
 online if you dont want to get ripped off, I got mine for &pound;22 from Ebay.
  
  If you like crazy racing akin to games like Burnout, this is definately a must have for you. We're 
 a dying breed in this world of virtual racer boys and car enthusiasts. Thank god some are still 
 keeping the torch burning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is not very excite ing. It does have trucks though. First let me say that the gameplay 
 is good but not anything great. What really made me mad was the lack of options. There pratically 
 are none. This will be great with friends but with the single player experience you will get pratically 
 nothing. This is very poor gameplay. The graphics are nothing special but they work. Now for the 
 sound. When you play a game that has truck in it you are supposed to hear truck sounds. I did not 
 hear trucks. Instead I heard motorcycles. Ther is no value. After your first race it will be the 
 same thing over and over again. The only difference will be that the levels get a makeover. The 
 gameplay and graphics should be better since most race ggames don't have to follow a story. The 
 unlockables are also just not worth it. This was a bad but not horrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is basically a super fast truck racing game with immense jumps and speed developed 
 by Monster Games Inc. The game is a 'sequel' to the game which debuted on the Famicom, ExciteBike.
 
  
  The game as it is involves you picking a truck, racing with it and trying to rack up your stars 
 and hopefully come first in the race. You work your way through each of the cups in hope to become 
 an ultimate truck racer - however, there is no storyline (not that a game like this particularly 
 needs it) .
  
  The aim of the races aren't really to come first - that's more of an added bonus. You really just 
 want to get stars by doing crazy jumps, smashing up other trucks, jumping through hoops and speeding 
 wildly through masses of trees in hope that you don't get hit and earn a star for a 'great smash'.
 
  
  There is also a short challenge mode with merely has six challenges in total, three different types. 
 The first type involves you smashing other trucks in a certain time limit, which is great fun and 
 really tense as you speed towards an enemy at full pelt, hoping you'll hit it bang on target and 
 see it flying. Other challenges see you racing through gates or jumping through hoops.
  
  One factor that lets the game down is the trucks. There are around ten or so different trucks in 
 total for you to pick from each with different abilities (some trucks may have better handling, 
 for instance) . However when you are actually driving the trucks or grabbing massive air, you really 
 don't feel much of a difference between the current truck or the one before it.
  
  Another let down is the depth to the game. Although the current concept is good and a top Wii game, 
 it could have been a whole lot more if the developer extended the ideas further and added more 
 depth the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck Platform: Wii Pubilsher: Nintendo Reveiw: I play this and can bring my shelf to stop 
 playing it because it so addictive, so so addictive. Excite truck is the best racing game so far 
 on the Wii. The is fun because of all the jump, stunts&amp; landscapes there are in game plus all 
 of the different trucks use can use to smash your oppenet into the wall. The best tihg about this 
 game is there are no weapons its just down to you and how you drive. Good ponits:
  + the gameplay long
  + lot of maps to race around on + rocky sound track + lovely graghics + 
 Mutiplayer is good
  
  Bad ponits:
  - no wi-fi mutiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  The goal of Excite truck is to have the most stars at the end of the race. you collect starts by 
 getting big air off jumps, drifiting, smashiung other trucks, doing 360, 720's and other things. 
 Its fast and furious, giving a great atmosphere that your going blazingly fast and providiing lots 
 of lauch and awe with slick tree misses and huge recoveries.
  
  Gameplay:
  Simply? It works. The controller works very well and anyone can play it. My gf who doesnt play 
 games beat me 3 times when I first bought it and played VS with her. It handles great and any mistakes 
 are yours not the games. Also its very forgiving and insanly fun when your wildly over correcting 
 and leaping all over the place always missing the road. Tilting is sensitive and the game has a 
 good range.
  
  Graphics:
  We all know its not going to be 1080p, but it looks preety darn fine. I havent found any graphical 
 flaws, no clipping through terrain or anything. The details of the trucks and level as fairly good, 
 nothing jaw dropping but definetly nice to look at.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is a little lacking, I would prefer meaty sounding engines, I think the engine noises in 
 this one or not meaty enough, the music fits the game but its nothing spectacular either. I give 
 this a great score for sound because it put in the SD function. Put MP3's on ur SD card plug it 
 in and it will play ingame! I never though the wii would be capable of doing this untill i read 
 it in the manual. Awesome feature. Turbo sounds good aswell.
  
  Value:
  I have had it 3 days and have passed the normal difficulty of the racing mode. Now I havent completely 
 finished it because i have to get a S rank in a few more races so I can unlock Super Excite Mode 
 which is a higher difficutly I believe. plus I have still to even try Challenge mode. Not to mention 
 this will always be a solid multiplayer game, even though its only 2 players vs's it is a quick 
 fast race that is also fun to watch so a party game aswell.
  
  Overall:
  Overall im loving it. Spent hours and hours already playing multiplayer with my friends. The campain 
 is awesome fun and something I really enjoy. It is not a harsh game on crashing and thats a good 
 thing, its drops you back with everyone else and you can get to it again. I belive this is truly 
 a racing game going back to the age of fun, when all enphasis has been on racing simulations like 
 GRan Turismo and Need for Speed this is a breath of fresh, adrenalin fueled turbo air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck was one of the first racingtitles for the Wii, trailers just scream out 'Look kids! 
 HIGH SPEED OFFROAD WOO' and it sold.
  
  Gameplay/AI:
  Bad controls, we all know the really objective in the game is going a million miles per hour, right? 
 (no, doing drifts and airs get you stars for turbo) Well, me and some friends agree'd that only 
 getting you're vehicle on ground perfectly good is a challenge itself, the speed is the selling 
 part of the game, and also the downfall because controlling it is so hard.
  
  Though, the slightest bumps against object (or weird looking overgrown plants) will let you're 
 vehicle crash or sent it up the air, so by the massive speed of the game, objects can randomly 
 pop up in seconds making you lose speed or even lose the game.
  
  Also, the lack of content in this game is downright criminal, four tracks and a handful of different 
 vehicles, theres a multiplayer where you can play 1 vs 1, but you can only, get again play maps 
 you already played.
  
  The only piece of tactic in this game is cooling down you're engine, its like Motorstorm really, 
 you lose heat by driving into puddles of water and go airborn, people will want to do this because 
 you have unlimited turbo.
  
  You can also get powerups like godmode, that makes you keep alive even if you run unto objects, 
 or able to create ramps infront fo you or to you're enemies, it fun seeing you're enemies fly upwards 
 and lose that way, to bad bots won't use these tactics, it'll be competive if they could attack 
 power with power.
  
  AI is easy, in the beginning of the game AI opponents won't use boost while you will, giving you 
 a nice leap from the rest, and sometimes you'll go so fast you'll sometimes be able to do the map 
 twice before the others are even near the finish.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Decent amount of polygons on vehicles, lacking in maps to stand out in, destroyed vehicles don't 
 even look destroyed, only a tire will drop and thats it, going at high speed doesn't give us a 
 really good bloom effect or something that indicates you're going thru the sound barrier.
  
  The sound is just bad, engines will sound like those wind-up cars you get and let them race 
 on the floor, they don't give that 'UNGH' this game needs, same things counts for soundtrack, its 
 basicly just one of those garage-band rock without bass, its fun to see you can upload songs from 
 you're MP3 to listen while racing the game.
  
  Is it a good racing game:
  Lacks in content, awkward controls, no multiplayer: I'd say no, but its worth a rent because its 
 fun to play for once and the speed should be expierenced once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 30, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Perhaps I have been ruined by the great graphics and gameplay with Motorstorm for the PS3 which 
 features motion sensing control like that found on Nintendo's Excite Truck. Putting the less the 
 stellar graphics aside its all about gameplay. This game offers some fast paced fun however the 
 game lacks any sort of depth and gets pretty old quick. This is a renter, but not a game to buy. 
 What is fun however are the numerous vehicles to choose from and there is a certain fun factor 
 that cannot be denied with the turbo boost in mid air. Good, not great, and in a year, highly forgettable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Porshe911Turbo
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 26, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a cool racing game where you can unlock up to about 10 vehicles and play on various 
 maps by unlocking them. The good things about this game is the control using the remote. Its a 
 fun game to play and do tricks. You can ram other racers, use boost do tricks its all there. The 
 bad things about it is the fact that u cant just race you have to keep constantly doing tricks 
 and hitting cars if you want to get enough points to unlock the next track. So if you wanna muck 
 around then your never going to unlock more tracks cause if you win you only get some bonus points. 
 Its a little disappointing as there is only up to 2 players and no online play. Another feature 
 screwed up is the fact that you can import music from an SD card so you can listen to you favorite 
 songs..... i mean song.... you select a song and it plays over and over again unless you pause the 
 game and select a new song.
  
  Overall this is a fun game to fly over huge jumps and i recommend getting it as it is quite fun. 
 But if your not confident that it will be fun then hire it out 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 22, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck for the Wii is one of the first showings of what the Wii is capable of and also is 
 one of the first games to have unique motion sensing controls that work well. In a way Excite Truck 
 is like a sequel to Excite Bike only with way more options. The game play is great and the game 
 controls really well. You control your car by turning the Wii remote like you would a steering 
 wheel. You turn it right to turn right and vice versa. When you go off ramps you can tilt the remote 
 backwards to point your car upwards causing your car to stay in the air longer. Or you can tilt 
 the remote forwards to get your car to land sooner. Also like Excite Truck you have boost but if 
 you use it for too long then your car will start to overheat.
  
  During a race your main goal actually isnt to win the race. Instead you have to collect a certain 
 amount of stars to move on to the next race. You earn stars by doing different thing throughout 
 the race. Some of the things you can do consist of getting big airs, doing drifts, smashing trucks, 
 and a few other things. Winning a race does help you though by giving you a bonus depending on 
 what place you finish in first place gets you the highest bonus and anything under third place 
 doesnt get you anything. So to succeed in Excite Truck you have to multi-task and try to win the 
 race and get a lot of stars at the same time.
  
  Excite Trucks career mode consists of four different cups that you have to complete. These four 
 cups consist of about twenty different courses set in different locations around the world such 
 as Mexico, Asia, Fiji, and Finland along with a few others. Each location has about four different 
 tracks but although they all have different names many of the tracks feel almost exactly the same.
 
  
  The graphics in Excite Truck are pretty nice. The detailing on the trucks is pretty nice and the 
 courses only have a couple rough edges mostly with the trees and items in the background. But Excite 
 Truck doesnt do a great job of showing off the Wiis limited graphic capabilities.
  
  The sound in Excite Truck isnt very good. The soundtrack consists of a few looping tracks sound 
 good but get annoying after hearing them a couple times. However the sound effects all sound cool 
 especially when you crash into a tree.
  
  Excite Truck wont take you that long to complete but there is some replay value. If you can get 
 S rankings on all the tracks then you can open up another difficulty to play on. Also there are 
 plenty of cars to unlock so that gives another reason to keep playing the game.
  
  All in all Excite Truck isnt a fantastic game but its fun to play and does a great job of showing 
 off the Wiis motion sensing capability. So if you are able to find this game for a low price then 
 I highly recommend it but it isnt entirely worth the full price.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foolz3h
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Before the wii launch this would have to have been one of the most highly anticipated launch games 
 (Up there with Red Steel but the less said about that the better) but when the wii finally came 
 around, like a lot of other launch games it was generally seen as a flop.
  Now, having read a positive review from a magazine that I usually have similar opinions with and 
 after having played it before launch at a wii event at which it did not seem anywhere near as bad 
 as most reviews would have had me believe, Of course it's hard to tell after a few minutes of play! 
 So I decided to buy Excite Truck and I certainly haven't regretted the decision.
  
  The graphics are very solid and if it was a GC game they would definitely, be brilliant. Great 
 car models some beautiful tracks, the Crystal Road stands out especially , with its epic and beautiful 
 purpely alien planet like landscape which somehow looks like it would taste quite nice!
  
  The sound is pretty good too with some satisfying sound effects and a heavy metal sound track which 
 really sets the theme.
  The best thing about the sound though is the fact that you can play music on your SD card in the 
 game! Much like you would play music on the hard drive on the xbox whilst playing Project Gotham 
 or what have you. Something that should definitely, become the norm for wii.
  
  The gameplay is quite intense, the best way to describe it would be Burnout on dirt with trucks! 
 The sense of speed is decent and massive jumps at 300kph flying 100s of meters through rings crashing 
 into other trucks at high speeds and massive drifts are all just awesome fun.
  The wii-mote's control is great and obviously it could be done with a normal controller but there's 
 just something about holding it like a tiny steering wheel especially in an over top game like 
 this that is just so bloody fun! It's quite responsive too and very accurate. I for one have never 
 experienced the problems that Jeff has.
  Now I'm not going to lie to you and say that this game has a lot of depth and nor am i going to 
 say that multiplayer is that great as this game just screams out for online service or at least 
 a four player mode! But it is an awful lot of fun and should last you at least 20-30 hours give 
 or take a few.
  It does however somewhat feel a little like a test by Nintendo, a test of how a game like this 
 would work on the wii and it just screams out for a sequel, it would have been A LOT better with 
 online play or with four player hell or even an arcade mode where you can choose a number of laps 
 and the track etc but even with its shortcomings it's still one hell of an experience and if you're 
 an arcade racing fan you should definitely, look into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  After renting games for my Wii for a while, I ran out of (good) games to rent. But then to my suprise 
 there was a little hidden jem on the blockbuster shelf; Exite Truck. Since it was a launch title, 
 and it looked a little fun, I gave the chaiser the $10 and left the store to fire up my Wii and 
 pop this game in.
  
  This game is truly great fun. You can really high without a care, smash your opponents in to bits 
 and, best of all, Go really, REALLY fast! There is your basic racing challenges: going through 
 rings, passing gates and smashing opponents (kind of like burnout) . The normal mode is different 
 than most racing games. Instead of getting first in the race (which can still be done to score 
 extra points) you must collect stars by doing tricks like running through trees without getting 
 hit and drifting. You must have enough stars to win if you want to continue through the game.
 
  
  There is a few unlockables (tracks, trucks, paint jobs) and a really fun versus mode but thats 
 about it. You'll be done with this game in about 10 hours so just be glad that places like Blockbuster 
 and Rodgers video exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakeptsa
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The campaign in this game is awesome. My little bro' has a wii and this game so now i got a wii 
 and this game. It takes a while to get used to the controls though. The graphics are not the best 
 in the world but who cares i don't play games for graphics i just play. The campaign can take a 
 while if you are trying to get an a or S on each track. Each car has a new skin you can unlock 
 by racing (you don't even have to win) 10 tracks. If you have a wii pick it up. If you are getting 
 a wii pick it up first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishtari23
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 8, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Generally speaking I do not like racing games, they are just too boring and repetitive for my taste. 
 But Excite truck is a fun game that has just the right amount of crazy to still be fun to play 
 over and over again ( jumps and turbo sometimes make the truck fly a mile up in the air, and you 
 can steer it in mid-flight!) .
  
  + Crazy fun game play with ramps and turbojets (did I mention that you can steer the truck in the 
 air?) .
  + The controls are responsive and intuitive, so far the most even controls of any wii game I have 
 tried. + Lots of tracks and and a decent amount of unlock able trucks.
  + Split screen multi player is great fun.
  + Well made and fun tracks.
  + Good graphics for 
 a wii game.
  
  - No online multi player, and only 2 player split screen.
  - No different modes in multi player, and no options like setting the amount of cpu controlled 
 cars (which is always 0, could have been fun to mix it up sometimes, like have more trucks to smash 
 in to.) .
  - You have to unlock multi player maps a few at a time, something that seems to become more of 
 a mainstay in console gaming. It works well for single player, but when you buy a few games and 
 have friends over to play you don't want to spend a few hours unlocking multi play before you can 
 all have fun.
  
  Most racing games is about getting to the finish line first. But not excite truck. The goal is 
 to get the most stars. Sure you get a bonus if you get over the finish line first, but doing stunts 
 like jumping through hoops, get a bunch of near misses with trees and the like can get you more 
 stars. This approach is a bit refreshing for a racing game in my opinion. And it give you a great 
 incentive to try out Excite trucks strong points, mainly crazy stunts with jumps, trees and afterburners. 
 The single player is ok but not what I think this game is about. This game is a great multi player 
 game. And you can possibly get a lot of hours out of it doing impromptu tournaments with a few 
 friends. However that does again highlight the fact that the only multi player there is is 2 player 
 split screen, which lowers the value somewhat. But all things considered it is still a fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, Excite Truck is not a deep game. It will expend nearly all of its tricks within 
 48 hours of your first playthrough. What makes Excite Truck so awesome is the fact that, for those 
 48 hours, you will be in love with the brilliant gameplay mechanics and the stellar, if limited, 
 multiplayer modes.
  
  As far as graphics and sound goes, this game is average. It looks good for a Wii title, but comes 
 nowhere near Burnout Revenge.
  
  Where it shines is the gameplay. While the environment manipulation is simple, it really does help 
 the flow of the game a lot, and the driving mechanics are perfect.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is awesome, if short lived. While it only supports one on one play, the 
 gameplay is so much fun with another person that anyone who picks it up will enjoy it.
  
  All in all, Excite Truck is a very good and very short lived game. Enjoy it while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is my REDONE review of excite truck, as i have just watched there video review and im shocked 
 to say the least.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics for excite truck are great. It ahs reflections on the trucks, you can see for miles, 
 theres no slowdowns or glitches in the game, and most of the trucks or buggeys or jeeps all look 
 different in some way or another.
  The tracks look great, it almost has a cartoony side to it, but a sense of realism is still there, 
 which gives it a unuique look. The TURBO JUMP and TURBO LANDING look great, the flame effects and 
 sense of speed it gives you is 1st class, And from what i can remember, GS didnt even mention the 
 graphics... if they did, then they didnt really say much about it. CONTROLS
  
  You hold the controller on its side, you tild to steer, press 2 to accelarate, and hold any of 
 the D pads buttons to use your boost. Simple, but effective controls. Anyone can pick this up and 
 play it.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound track is hit or miss really, but it does fit into the game very well, the Wiimote sounds 
 are cleanand clear, and most other effects sound great. If you dont like the sound track, use your 
 ever handy SD card and put some music on it, and listen to that instead by going into the sound 
 menue on the Pre-race screen/.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay on excite truck is simple, and addictive. Its super fast arcade racing with more on 
 the super fast, and arcade side, than the racing. Winning a race is great... but with out the points 
 required to get through to the next cup/track its just as good as comming in last. You get these 
 points by doing pretty much anything, crashing, destroying other cars, changing the Terrain to 
 fling other cars off the track, driving through trees, drifting, 360+ spins and getting air, and 
 trust me, some jumps make you think... wow or holy crap im gonna die after this... lol. On the single 
 player mode, there is EXCITE as your ONLY difficulty, it is pretty hard in some places, but is 
 your standard NORMAL setting, finnishing that with certain requirements gets you SUPER EXCITE which 
 is ALOT harder. Whats the point in doing all this for just another setting? Well like on many games 
 you unlock vehicles, game spot showed you less than HALF on there video review, getting super excite 
 mode gives you a hole new batch of trucks to unlock and race, all with there own unlockable sponsers. 
 The single player mode is a decent length, and longer than some racers out there, there is 4 cups, 
 Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum for excite and one NEW cup for supre excite which is diamond. Which 
 of course comes with some NEW courses.
  
  Getting 5 points doing one thing i. e a drift, you get a SUPER drift, enough SUPER whatevers unlocks 
 you tropheys!!!! Which are a nice adition. Oh yeah theres a CHALLENGE MODE WHERE YOU DO CHALLENGES!!! 
 (surprise surprise) a nice change of pace, and then theres a Versus, pretty fun, but no NPC drivers 
 : ( better than Motorstorms LACK OF MULTIPLAYER! :D
  
  OVERALL
  
  A great game with loads of unlockables, 6.9 is shocking! especially when Motorstorm got 7.9! Excite 
 truck is definatly a game worth buying, actually has a multiplayer, has more than 8 tracks (ha!) 
 and a variety of vehicles to use... Talk about being anti nintendo here at GS pfft.
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insane-GoD
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Well when i got my wii this game came with it and it was the first game i played and i loved it. 
 i saw the first three trucks and the little amount of unlockable trucks and i thought i wouldnt 
 like it but when i unlocked the other set of trucks i thought it was cool. I like the sd card compatibility 
 because the normal music gets a little old after a while of playing but i still like the sounds 
 that the trucks make when they ram into each other. When i beat excite with all S grades it was 
 surprisingly easy but when i saw how hard super excite was compared to excite i leaned back in. 
 I didnt think that it seemed like a demo because i saw that there was super challenge and mirror 
 race mode. I thought that the whole nebula space thing wasnt unique because i was sort of expecting 
 something like that the whole time but i still liked the special tracks. It had very good multi-player 
 but i would like it if the computer would race with the 2 or more humans. The monster truck thing 
 was also very expected but it is still a very good game so if your at the store and the very good 
 games are gone and this one is there you should buy it. I thought it was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims_addict
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Great. Love every second playing it, sometimes it can be fustrating as I am yet to master it. It's 
 fun with friends and is a challenge to play giving you extra satisfaction when completing tracks. 
 The trucks are fun to play and the extra stunts are a great add on. Fun stunts like truck throw 
 and 360, 720 and 1080 spins in mid-air give an added sense of unrealism.
  One of the features I absolutley love is the SD card compatibility with songs you put on, gives 
 a feel of personalisation. Great songs I suggest are fast hard rock songs or techno pop type songs 
 of a fast pace.
  
  Overall I thing this is great and is one of the only racing games I own, the other is Mario Kart 
 DS and it levels up with that pretty well. I suggest anyone that loves racing games and owns a 
 Wii. GET EXCITED WITH EXCITE TRUCK!
  
  ^^sorry for that ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  After having read GS-review of the game I didn&acute; t really know what to expect. This game just 
 blew me away.
  
  Graphics: Really good framerate and a heck of a feeling of speed. Nice details, deformable geometry 
 etc etc. Really nice graphics, seriously.
  
  Sound: Just as they should sound in a racing game. Like the cop-siren sound when you grab the powerup. 
 :)
  
  Gameplay: Now THIS is a racing game. Going at awesome speeds, great controls (being able to steer 
 in mid-air for example) , hit other cars, get extra stars for various tricks and stunts. It&acute; s 
 really really good... I can&acute; t say that enough.
  
  If you like fast paced racing games with great controls and tons of fun, go buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today and ive played it for a few hours already. Theres not much to this game 
 but that doesnt make it a bad game or anything. Theres only a few cups but this gam does get pretty 
 hard to get enough stars to be able to do the next cup. The controls arent that hard to control. 
 You just hold the 2 button and turn the wii-remote, so its pretty easy. You get a real sense of 
 speed from this game. Your going really fast constantly. And when you go off big jumps you go wicked 
 high, its crazy. So I think that its worth the price tag but no more than that. I payed $35.00 
 and thats how much i think its worth. So if you want a violent high speed racer for the wii, that 
 you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrkAngiJordi
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Excitetruck isn't a game I would buy for full price. I rented it and it was a fun distraction for 
 a short while. For me the game is very easy on race and very challenging on challenge mode. I found 
 the motion control to be a tad to sensitive and having some sort of adjustable calibration would 
 be better. Yes the game is barebones with a lack of extra modes, particularly the ones most racing 
 games have as a standard like customizations or a career mode. It is a reasonable racer, but dont 
 expect too much. A budget game at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -KoN-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  1. Gameplay- The races the jumps the speed the air the tricks everything was great, there was a 
 descent amount of 1p layer racing and the multiplayer was awesome.
  
  2. Graphics- They pass I love the detail that they put into the scenery. Like the trees, the dirt, 
 the ramps everything looked good but not great.
  
  3. The sound was alright I like the trucks sounds in the remote; I liked the standard rock music 
 at first but it just got ot boring after listening to it 100's and 100's of times. THANK GOD for 
 the SD card that just saved it.
  
  4. It has a meh value like you should rent it and try it out and if you really like go on and get 
 but it's not a must have Wii game. Only for the Racing or ExciteBike or Nintendo fans I guess.
 
  
  They should of put it online it would of got a way better score. ANYWAY its a great Wii launch 
 game so try it out. Yah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  As the spiritual successor to Excite Bike on the NES and Excite Bike 64, Excite Truck follows a 
 similar premise though with more of an emphasis on speed. Holding the Wiimote sideways and tilting 
 it to steer, you must get your truck to the finish line as quickly and stylishly as possible. You 
 are awarded stars for jumps, drifting, tree runs etc. and a bonus for winning or placing. The system 
 works really well as it forces you to thing about whether youll take the faster route or the one 
 with the bigger jump. Having the highest star count unlocks you more tracks and trucks and while 
 there arent a great deal of courses on offer, there is a good variety and all of them are well 
 designed and more importantly, fun. If there is one thing that is essential to a racing game its 
 speed. In so many racing games your speedo reads three hundred and it feels like your doing sixty. 
 Not so with Excite Truck. There is no speedo in the game but if there were it would probably read 
 four hundred. The racing is fast and insane. You constantly feel like youre about to lose control 
 yet somehow you manage to pull it together. There are also icons scattered throughout the levels 
 that terraform the terrain creating gullies or jumps making the race even more hectic. Excite Truck 
 is just screaming for an online mode, its a shame Nintendos online service isnt available yet. 
 Also multiplayer only has a two-player option with no option for AI cars. It wont take you long 
 to get through the meat of the game and without a fully fledged multiplayer it loses its longevity. 
 Having said that even a two-player race can be a blast. When the dust settles (sorry) there is 
 heaps of fun to be had here. Excite Truck is a thrilling game that will literally have you sitting 
 on the edge of your seat as you race at breakneck speed and get massive (and I mean massive) air 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalwar7
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Exite truck is a very good game that will probably make you come back more than once so you can 
 try that stage your stuck on again.
  
  Exite truck has a good amount of goals such as unlocking all the trucks and the alternative paint 
 for each, other than that though, it doesnt have anything
  
  The crash grapics are really good too, if you get over the fact that the environment is quite weird 
 at times, like the camera goes through trees and stuff
  
  Exite truck gets hard to beat on ceartain levels, then all of a sudden gets easy again. The places 
 to race on may be the same through out the game, but they still have different tracks, like china 
 is on multiple tournament things but one has you racing through the Himalayas while the other has 
 you racing through the Great Wall of China.
  
  Overall its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sambo114
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  When i saw the Gamespot review i thought, damn i was really looking forward to a good game. I went 
 out and bought it about a month or two ago and still play it! It is a great game to show off to 
 your friends to show what the wii can do!
  
  It is a very fun and fast game. The controls are pretty ease but the game isn't. It WILL take you 
 about half an hour before you can start coming in good positions eg. 2nd.
  
  You win races by getting stars, stars for drifting, jumping, ramming into other cars etc. Coming 
 first gets you 50 extra star, second 25 and so on.
  
  The only gripe i have with the game is multiplayer. Even though ut's extremely fun, there are no 
 ai drivers. If they ever release Excite Truck 2, that's what it needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  While this is a good racing game i can't help but feel that it could have been so much better. 
 While it is a launch title, it still does not excuse the fact that it is lacking in content. First 
 of all the graphics look pretty good. The truck models are pretty good looking but the crash effects, 
 while cool, could have been better. The environment changes nicely with some pretty cool effects 
 that sometimes can take up the entire screen. Using the Wii-remote to drive is pretty cool and 
 shows how racing games can use it. The Power ups are cool and mix up the standard racing gameplay. 
 Doing jumps (especially insanely high ones) , crashing other trucks, ect is all fun to do. There 
 are a good number of trucks to unlock but that's it. The multi-player is actually pretty boring 
 because it doesn't have that crash camera/slow motion that you have in single player. Also it's 
 only 2 players split-screen. An online mode would have been a very welcomed addition. It lacks 
 the crash-boost in multi-player as well which doesn't make sense since in single player it's done 
 so nicely. There is a training mode but after that there is not much to speak of. Overall this 
 game is a pretty good game and with a-lot more content and more polish it could have possibly been 
 a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chip_money
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off this game is fun from the start. While that is a good thing there isn't much 
 added to the action after you go on. You unlock a few tracks and 5-6 trucks. After that all you 
 try to do is do better on those tracks and unlock the next difficulty level. It gets a bit tedious 
 after a while just trying to get those 2 more stars that you need to unlock the 'S' ranking on 
 that course you just can't quite beat. The game-play is fast and exciting. Right off you really 
 feel the speed and even the crashes are fun. The closest thing is probably burnout. While there 
 is no crash mode you get stars for making other trucks and and a few every time you crash yourselves.
 
  
  The graphics aren't too bad. When you are going fast they look more then fine, but if you just 
 sit there you can tell they aren't the greatest out there. The models all around are just a tad 
 plain with no real flair or embellishment visible.
  
  The sound is un-liscensed yet always has energy to boost the fast paced game-play. And you can put 
 in your SD card to play your own custom music tracks.
  
  The replay value is not too great. With no on-line and only 2 player split-screen you've played 
 it all fairly soon. On-line play could really help this game
  
  Overall, get this game if you want a game that you can play just for fun without it taking too 
 much of your time to get a lot done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachdragon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Excite is my second game the Wii that I own and I have to say it is good game with some noticeable 
 flaws. Excite truck is fun because of the intense speed and ridiclous air you can get. It makes 
 your mouth drop and is incredibly satisfying. One unique thing about this game is that instead 
 of racing for first place you are trying to collect the most Stars which you do so by pulling off 
 stunts like getting air or running through densely placed trees. This makes for a different experience 
 that is quite good. The Graphics are pretty good compared to most on the Wii which is helpful when 
 trying to tell where your going when your going super fast. The sound is awesome because you can 
 upload your own songs using a SD card and even without it the music isn't bad. The flaws are mainly 
 the controls using the Wiimote on its side is hard to get use to and even harder to master. This 
 is a even bigger problem when you play multiplayer because chances are your friends don't have 
 the game and don't know how to control it which lowers the fun factor. But if you just want a fun 
 racing game to play this does not disapointment if you can look past the controls and the Bland 
 boring menu interface it deservers to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9344891
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I love what they have done to this game it's easy to learn the controls and yu get a frril of speed 
 from the first lap. I know this has been covered that it 's great for qwick fun but this game has 
 lasted two weeks on single player for me trying to get every truck. This is great persistance as 
 i don't normaly try to get every thing in a game. It could do with more tracks but the diamond trck 
 blew me away and if they did more on a theme like that this would of got into a higher score. This 
 is also enougher game were non-gamers feel they need to have a go the fact is tilting a remote 
 is easyer than using a analoge stick. the simple way that you can hold accelerate and u can goround 
 and still do well and have fun and then there is depth when you look to get s ranking's. this game 
 should be brought by any one who wants something for a gamer and a non-gamer to sit and enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck
  
  Excite Truck is an excellent game with good environments, levels and vehicles. I also like how 
 they put Scotland in too, lol! Excite Truck is a really good racing game with great challenges, 
 speed, and air tricks. I think the only bad point I would say is the multiplayer. It isnt very 
 good and its only the two people playing, there is no computer to challenge you. All-over I think 
 Excite Truck is a brill game and I would advise anyone to buy it.
  
  Excite Truck is a fun game to play but I would advise you not to play the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsfunkydotcom
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  However, before you throw that disc in your Wii and think that youre going to be cruising down 
 muddy roads in seconds, you have to do a mandatory tutorial. Come on, Nintendo, I know youre trying 
 to reach out to people who havent played games before with the Wii, but does that mean you have 
 to treat us all as virgin gamers (i made a funny/double entendre) ? I know how to drive a car or 
 at least one in a computer game. And the controls are intuitive enough that these tutorials end 
 up being a bore.
  
  Once you sludge through them the game opens. The main games races are just challenging enough 
 to be the right amount frustrating (although you will power through them in a short amount of time) .
 
  
  Interesting is the concept of the stars. You see, unlike every other game finishing first does 
 not automatically win, you win by having the most stars. You accumulate stars during the race by 
 performing daring stunts, bumping the other cars and flying through rings. He who has the most 
 stars at the end wins. There is still an incentive to finish high up in the ranking though, finishing 
 in the top 3 nets you bonus stars.
  
  Stars arent the only way Excitetruck deviates from the beaten path of racing games. It adds terraforming. 
 Riding through certain icons changes the shape of the map. Which can cause incredible amounts of 
 grief to your opponents.
  
  A familiar element is the concept of overheating. The cause of many a  
 on my part from Excitebike makes a return. Using turbo overheats your car and makes you slow down. 
 Cooling down takes time, but there are alternatives. You could perhaps drive through a river and 
 cool down your engine that way. Falling a great distance and letting the wind sweep past you is 
 another option. This adds a slight element of strategy to timing out your turbo bursts to coincide 
 with jumps and big puddles.
  
  As for where you will be racing, there are five countries with different tracks. These are just 
 different routes on the same basic map though. So the actual environment of your racing can be 
 somewhat monotonous but the exciting fast-paced gameplay trumps the uninspiring scenery.
  
  Replay value is added by a Super Excite Mode which can be unlocked by getting S ranks on every 
 track. There is also a challenge mode. But after completing the main Excite Mode I think you will 
 be mainly putting the disc in for some multiplayer. Although limited to only two players, it is 
 fun playing for a couple of hours.
  
  Overall, Excitetruck gets the FSFunky stamp of approv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArfenZard15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Screenshots and videos do not do this game justice! I was extremely shocked that the graphics are 
 simply fantastic and as smooth and crisp as you like! The trucks are suitably shiny, so much so 
 you can see some shadow of what's behind you on the rear of a truck! Terrain and buildings (like 
 castle walls and stuff) are also very very impressive! Textures are perfect and the distance to 
 which you can see your surroundings is simply fantastic. Seriously, you're flying through the air 
 and you can see for miles around of lush scenery. In short the graphics in this game are actually 
 fantastic! You just have to see for yourself!
  
  Gameplay:
  Tutorials tell you the basics, but mastering spins and becoming a real pro WILL take time and skill. 
 I still suck but I'm getting there! Single player mode gives you 2 options: Races or Chellenges. 
 The races make you get a set ammount of stars to pass a track, and you are also graded. These races 
 are relatively simple and won't take you long, until you get to the the platinum cup where I am 
 currently stuck! The challenges are a nice addition, it's just a shame there's only 6. but the 
 difficulty changes immensely throigh all 6 of them, so it's not as if they're totally pointless.
 
  Multiplayer mode is probably the most fun I've ever had with my Wii. Mostly because the races 
 are almost based on luck! So it's never quite so obvious who's going to win! The amount of things 
 you can do during a race is so immense you'll never tire of the 19 tracks and 10 trucks that are 
 on offer.
  (Note: as I have not yet 100% completed the game I am unsure if there are more tracks to be unlocked)
 
  
  Sound:
  The wannabe-rock music might grate on some people but i quite enjoyed it. If you're not happy with 
 the music, whack some songs on your SD card and you can listen to them instead. Sound effects of 
 the trucks sound more like cars, but that is the only drawback I can think of in sound. Crashes, 
 water etc are done to perfection.
  
  Controls:
  They make me smile. Once you grasp the basics you're off. 2 to accelerate, turn the control to 
 turn. There are more complex ones suck as spinning, but all in all they are extremely effective, 
 andthe Wii-mote is put to perfect use in this game, the steering is just so, and the way you can 
 manipulate your truck in mid-air is amazing.
  
  Overall:
  Well, I knew I wanted this game from the start, but never did I imagine I'd be so satisfied with 
 it. it's a very good racer, and I can definately say this is the best Wii game I have played to 
 date! This is so much more than GameSpot says, but you'll have to find out for yourself. I can 
 see myself still playing this years from now.
  
  Summed up in 4 words:
  Better than people say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porphyrous
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  How much does a racing game need to have? Some people think that Mario Kart 64 was one of the greatest 
 racing games around, but I found it pathetic. Diddy Kong Racing was so involved I'm surprised I 
 finished as much of it as I did. For that matter, why do people watch NASCAR? It's just guys going 
 around in an oval 300 times.
  
  As you might guess, Excite Truck is turning out to be one of those polarizing games. The GameSpot 
 critics didn't think much of it, and in fact it is currently the lowest rated title of all the 
 ones I own. Don't believe the anti-hype. If you're looking for cutting loose for a few hours, Excite 
 Truck is a rush.
  
  The point of Excite Truck? It's a racing game. With trucks. On dirt. And lots of tracks. Quite 
 a few trucks, for that matter. You try to win races.
  
  Okay, not so fast. Coming in 1st place isn't enough. As you're racing, you need to do enough fancy 
 stuff to collect stars, which is the game's point system. Your hangtime on jumps and time in a 
 drift or powerslide are your most common sources of stars, and you'll get between 1 and 5 depending 
 on your performance. Other stars involve combinations, such as jumping through rings after Turbo 
 jumping. After your race, you get a grade based on how many stars you earned. For each point category 
 where you had a 5-star event, you get notches that eventually net you little trophies. Each track 
 has two thresholds, one for clearing the level (and earning yourself a B) and one for mastery of 
 the track, signified by an S grade (the scale goes S, A, B, C, and D -- I've never done badly enough 
 to know if you can get an F or not) . Getting B's unlock the next highest circuit, but you need 
 S grades to unlock the higher skill level, Super Excite.
  
  Your primary tool is the Turbo button, which greatly increases your speed, but you can't just ride 
 it to victory. Your truck's engine temperature zooms up when you use it, so you have to budget 
 your Turbo time. Being airborne and driving through water cools your engine down, letting you use 
 the Turbo more. In a couple of tracks you can drive down a riverbed with the accelerator and Turbo 
 pegged with no ill effects and lots of speed.
  
  And you can crash. Man, can you ever crash. Let me count the ways: Hit a tree, hit a rock, drive 
 off a cliff, drive into a deep river, hit a wall, hit a bridge abuttment, hit a transmission tower, 
 drive into the ocean, or be hit by one of your competitors. You get a star for a crash, but it's 
 not much of help when you're dead. You'll restart the race after a few seconds (which will start 
 you at 0 mph) or after pounding the 2 button several times (which will give you a running start) 
 but you'll certainly lose places. Fortunately, you can hit your opponents and knock them out, and 
 depending on how hard you hit them and whether you made them crash, you'll get between 1 and 5 
 stars.
  
  You start out with three trucks unlocked, and the Bronze track circuit available, which has 4 tracks. 
 Each are placed in different countries, with terrain appropriate for the geography. As you earn 
 points and clear tracks, more trucks are unlocked. When you clear the star threshold on each track, 
 you unlock the higher circuits, which are labeled Silver, Gold, and Platinum, and each of which 
 have 5 tracks. Combine that with two skill levels, and you have a total of 38 tracks to complete. 
 Each track also keep tabs on the top 5 performances by stars, as well as the best time of completion 
 on each track. This is all kept in your profile, of which there are 4 in the game in the first 
 game screen. There are about a dozen trucks -- and one dune buggy -- each with their own strengths. 
 Every truck is rated on Speed, Turbo (how much you can ride it before your truck overheats) , Air 
 (how long you stay airborne, roughly proportional to the vehicle's weight) , and Handling. The original 
 trucks are serviceable but are only intended as a jumping off point. Some are faster than others, 
 there are minor variations in Turbo and Air, but none of them handle very well. As you win more 
 races, you are informed that new trucks are unlocked, about a dozen or so in all, and some of those 
 are serious racing machines. A couple of them handle like sports cars but are relatively slow, 
 while there are some speed demons which are barely controllable. There are a couple of power-ups 
 that are scattered about. The most common one activates some pretty trippy terraforming actions, 
 usually to either raise up a hill to jump off or flatten one to freak out your opponents. There's 
 another one that is sort of an indestructible turbo mode, complete with siren, that lets you go 
 through trees and other trucks with no damage.
  
  Excite Truck, as a launch title, established the now familiar strategy of turning the Wii remote 
 sideways and turning it like a steering wheel. If you do this for a few hours on end, you will 
 understand why there are little foam steering wheels for sale that you can put your Wii in. The 
 controls work quite well -- I think the GameSpot reviewer partly missed the point when he thought 
 they were sluggish -- it's the trucks that vary. So the controls are pretty simple. Once sideways, 
 the 2 button does most of what you use the A button for in most other games -- activating stuff, 
 and your accelerator. The 1 button is the brake -- which, amazingly enough, you'll actually need 
 to use occasionally -- and the D-pad controls menus and activates the Turbo boost in races. The 
 B button is not used. While racing, you can control the attitude of your truck by tilting the remote 
 backward or forward, rotating it parallel to the long axis of the remote. This brings up the only 
 control bit I would have changed: The attitude control seems to assume that you're going to hold 
 the remote level with the floor, i. e. with the B button facing straight down. Other racing games 
 rotate the remote by 90 degrees so that the face of the remote is facing you and the B button is 
 facing towards the TV. Doing this on Excite Truck seems to automatically start your truck leaned 
 back when airborne. Not a huge deal, but occasionally you notice the mismatch.
  
  The tracks are equal parts racing and puzzles, as you try to add enough stunts to reach your star 
 threshold and win the race. Yes, winning does count, since your place gives you bonus stars at 
 the end of the race. Coming in 1st nets you 50 stars, which makes clearing tracks more manageable.
 
  
  On my standard television, Excite Truck looked great. It gave a real sense of speed and I only 
 ever noticed a little choppiness as details zoomed into view. The landscapes are quite nice, although 
 the snow tracks were a bit tough to make out where to go from time to time. There's a suitable 
 amount of debris when you mangle your truck with a tree or a huge rock, and there seems to be a 
 fair amount of variations on the mashedness. The wrecks also take the weight of the vehicle into 
 account. Heavier vehicles bounce less than lighter ones. I found the motion controls very responsive, 
 contrary to GameSpot's review. If you have a truck that handles lousy, you're going to feel that 
 with the remote. But the top performing trucks are quite sharp.
  
  Is there staying power here? I suppose it depends on what you're looking for. Not everyone wants 
 a platformer disguised as a racing game like Diddy Kong Racing, or mix it with sex and violence 
 like the Grand Theft Auto series. It's racing, and if you like racing, you'll probably play it 
 longer than the 4 hours GameSpot claims it takes to conquer it. Not that there isn't a whole lot 
 of room for improvement -- licensed vehicles would be really neat, tweak the remote rotation for 
 steering, and every game can always use better graphics and more mondo power-ups -- but if you 
 like racing games I don't think you'll be feeling like you've wasted your money. For me, Excite 
 Truck has enough excitement to keep me engaged until the inevitable Excite Truck 2 comes out in 
 a year or two.
  
  porphyrous
  David V
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forlorn79
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I liked Excite Bike, and I like Excite Truck. Both games have intuitive, addicting game play, but 
 take a little while to master. But once you master this game, you'll wonder how you ever drove 
 with last-generation controllers. Moving through the air, landing, and sliding around corners are 
 very precise with the Wiimote, and wont require large movements. There's nothing like the air 
 you get in this game and the control during the flight. The sense of speed and danger rivals that 
 of the Burnout games.
  
  Graphically, this game looks good, but it also isn't trying to be that realistic. The moving land 
 is over-the-top and makes the levels fun. The sounds aren't bad, except for the low-quality effects 
 in the Wiimote speaker, which sound very distorted and are often delayed. This game will keep you 
 occupied for a while, unlocking levels by earning S ratings on the courses, and also new trucks. 
 Once you beat all the Super levels you unlock, you get to race on the very cool but hard Moon level.
 
  
  There are some problems with this game that might discourage some players. It does take a while 
 to get used to the controls, and beat some stages, but it's not too hard. The different trials, 
 however, are too hard and boring to do, since they don't have much reward. The multiplayer is just 
 1 on 1, and it would have been nice to have some other cars out there. Once you get good, it'll 
 be hard for newbies to keep up, so options to make the races fairer would have been nice.
  
  Overall, you get your money's worth with this game, but there's always room for improvement. 
 It's not the deepest or most customizable racer out there, but it has fun and thrills, and it'll 
 keep you busy until the next great Wii racer comes out. Excite Truck 2? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wil27x
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck has its ups and downs but for the most part a pretty good game. Some people may like 
 it or not, but this game really started to grow on my and I think I'm starting to get addicted.
 
  
  The graphics are not much better than GameCube graphics, but it came out close to realise so developers 
 have not yet unlocked all the secrets to coding for the Wii.
  
  The sound is what I really love. You can listen to there same ol' racing music or if you have an 
 SD card for you Wii you can choose to listen to your own music during the race!
  
  This game really demonstrates the Wii Controllers abilities for many different types of games, 
 in this case racing. But it would be nice to have to option of switching to a more conventional 
 method, like the analog stick on the Nunchuck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boo_bob
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty addictive. the game play is solid and the controls are fun and easy to learn. 
 it is a fairly easy game to play but it has some depth for more hardcore players. it is a game 
 that u can easily pick up and play. there are some fun mini games like jumping threw rings and 
 smashing other cars. you have to do the first part of the tutorial that is the only down side to 
 me witch really isn't that bad. races range from easy to slightly hard and levels very in size 
 from pretty shot to fairly long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a great first-gen effort. This title begs for a sequel and you should too. What 
 it does good, it does fantastic and what it doesn't do is sorely missed. Graphics: Although it 
 looks like a good GC game, Excite Truck pulls some great particle and lighting effects, that the 
 GC would struggle to do easily. There are some rough jobs (such as the shoddy looking trees, grass 
 and some of the backdrops) , but the game maintains a solid framerate and has an awesome sense of 
 speed - right up there with Burnout. Sound: If not the SD card feature (that let's you play music 
 while you play) , this sound would've scored a 4. The music is damn terrible. It's like they got 
 a drunk guy to hire and even drunker guy to start attempting to put a song together and thrash 
 a guitar or two. OK, it's not ALL bad, but most of it is pretty damn close. The sound effects are 
 pretty average too with some poor use of the wiimote speaker and generic crash and motor sounds.
 
  
  Gameplay: Bloody addictive. Fantastic  in single player. The 
 SP is absolutely chockas full of gameplay. The thing with ET is that the game gets A LOT better 
 the better YOU become at it. So give it a couple of cups before you really get into the raw excitement, 
 speed and nature of ET. So there is quite a steep learning curve with controls, and trial-and-error 
 courses. The sense of speed, deforming terrain, and performing tricks really gives ET it's own 
 flavour and really adds to the enjoyment. As for multiplayer is flat out sucks. No CPUs, only 2 
 player, frame rate issues, and not all the course-specific items are there. It's fun for 5 minutes, 
 but it's like a roast beef that's only half cooked. The content in this game lacks in some areas, 
 but shines is others. The SP will keep you very busy if you want to get all the highscores and 
 will keep you IMMENSELY busy if you have no life and decide to get all the trophies. It's biggest 
 gripe is the fact that there's no create-a-course mode which previous Excite Bike games (even the 
 NES game) had. There are nice selection of cars and tracks which are as big and diverse as Mario 
 Kart. All in all, think of ET as an off-road Burnout 3 (with less content) where the traffic has 
 been replaced by trees and much of its realism and realistic physics has been thrown out the window. 
 If you're craving a title that doesn't take itself seriously at all, or are bored with your Wii 
 already, get Excite Truck. + Addictive arcade gameplay - plenty of modes to play
  + Awesome sense of speed and thrills aplenty
  + SD card functionality - play Scissor Sisstors 
 while you crash!
  - No create-a-course mode - lack in content compared to other racing titles
  - Crappy multiplayer 
 mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Retman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Title: Excite Truck
  Out: Now (US, JPN, EUR)
  RRP: &pound;35.00
  Published by: Nintendo Developed by: Monster Games, Inc Genre: Racing
  Number of Players: 1-2
 
  
  You start off with four Stages to complete  Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum. You can complete 
 each stage on to different modes  Easy and Hard. Each stage has five areas to unlock and complete, 
 the main idea is to get the highest grade on each area  a S-Grade this requires you to collect 
 a certain number of stars. You gain stars by coming in first, second or third place, by drifting, 
 catching big air, smashing other trucks, driving through trees without smashing into them. You 
 can get 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 stars but its best to try to aim for the big 5 which awards you with a 
 point which adds on to your award points  more about that later. Excite Truck isnt the prettiest 
 game for the Wii but it does have some good moments like when your in mid air you get a nice view 
 of whats below and ahead of you, the reflects of the water and the water effects while driving 
 through it, the truck detail and the flames which come out of your Truck. Excite Truck displays 
 a great sense of speed while boosting everything turns blurry and looks amazing. Awards  you get 
 them by getting a five star on various stuff, which I mentioned above. By getting a five star on 
 something you get one point nearer to a gold award. There are icons around the track which when 
 to drive through them they either - Shape the land for your advantage or add a set of rings in 
 the middle of the air which if you go through them you get stars - hit each of them and you get 
 five stars. There is also another Icon which will make your Truck invincible this is often near 
 a set of Trees - use this to your advantage - use it while going through trees to get a five stars 
 tree run without crashing or hit another opponent and that truck goes flying to give you a 5 stars 
 truck smash.
  
  While boosting you Temp (shown at the bottom, right) will increase if you get over the red mark 
 then you engine will blow  you think that is it but no, you can still continue playing the game 
 but at a slower pace. When the needle goes down back to the blue section you can boost. To make 
 the Needle to go down quicker and your engine not to blow you must drive in water or in the air 
  the needle doesnt go up while your boosting in your in the water and sudden ping blears out 
 of the Wii remote speaker when your about to blow your engine and a warning sign appears. Now this 
 may sound all good but there are just a few things that do get on my nerves. Controlling the Truck 
 can be a pain, because it is Motion sensitive you can end out not turn enough ending up into a 
 tree or turning to quickly again ending up into a tree. Theres another point  If your going to 
 play this game be ready to get smashed into a lot of trees  not by the opponents but by the controls 
 of different trucks. To get the most out of the controls the truck would need to be with full stats. 
 Each truck has a different set of Stats  Some are good at speeding, some are good at catching 
 air etc. You unlock different Trucks by completing areas with a good enough set of stars.
  
  Overall: This isnt such a shabby game  worth a look in if you are sick of playing the same 
 game on your Wii. Sure some parts make you just want to give up but if you dont you get a good 
 experience out of it.
  
  Controls:
  
  Like every other racing game  Simple. You hold the Wii remote horizontal. Press and hold down 
 the Number 2 button is to accelerate, Press any direction on the D-Pad to Boost. Using the tilt-sensitive 
 to control your Truck. Number 2 button is mostly to select options from the main menu; Number 1 
 is to go back a menu.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Not exactly pushing the standards of the Wii but it looks lovely when youre in mid air, shows 
 off the speed of your Truck very well.
  
  Sound:
  
  Rock and thrash music, which sounds the same. Little sounds from the Wiimote speaker get annoying 
 after a while. Option of using Music from a SD card is a good feature to replace that awful Thrashing 
 music.
  
  Gameplay: Can be Challenging. Four stages to complete 2 different difficulty levels, Multiplayer, 
 challenge mode that offers 3 difficulty levels. And finally a Tutorial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fergusb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with the expectation that it was only going to be OK based on the reviews it 
 was getting, but I needed a racing game for the Wii so I thought why not!
  
  When I first played it I was surprised how playable it was and how entertaining it was as well, 
 But as I played it more i really got into it trying to master the various techniques.
  
  With the Multiplayer game I&amp;#8217; ve had great fun as well, the manic 2 player battles where 
 even if you finish first your opposition can beat you on stars is excellent. Only having the option 
 of 2 players is a serious limitation as I believe it would work superbly with up to 4 players, 
 also the lack of online play is puzzling, since it can be done on Mario Kart DS i don't see why 
 it can't be done with this. Also a few more play modes in the versus section wouldn't go a miss. 
 There is a good selection of tracks but one criticism is that the various tracks in each country 
 are very similar, but in general the tracks are interesting and exciting. The graphics in the game 
 are nothing too special but are fine, where as the sound have a huge benefit of being able to play 
 your own MP3's in the Jukebox, so you can listen to Metallica or Mozart depending on the preference 
 for driving music.
  
  Overall, I thoroughly recommend this game, its a great game for 2 people (unfortunately not more!) 
 The controls of the game make it a joy to play and it is very intuitive and quick to pick up. The 
 graphics aren't the best but that&amp;#8217; s not what this game is about, its a game of pure fun! 
 The game is also challenging enough, causing you to play tracks again and again to try and achieve 
 an S rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBAhater
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This Game is Great! Wii ARE THE CHAMPIONS, MY FRIENDS!!! So anyway you hold the controller sideways. 
 Controlls are Pretty Simple: 2 is gas, 1 is Brake, D-Pad is Turbo, and Tilting the Wii Remote Left 
 and Right. I saw a Wii Steering Wheel Attatchment in Target Yesterday, I picture that Working Quite 
 Well With This Game. The Graphics are Good, Almost Perfect. The Point of the Game is to Earn Stars 
 by Doing Car Stunts Like Smashing into Other Cars and Getting Lots of Air. The Sound is Good. What 
 is Unique about this Game is That it Lets You Put Custom Music on The Game via an SD Card. The 
 Game is Great For A Launch Title. There are Ranks in Excite Race, Adding Replay Value to the Game. 
 I don't know why everyone dosen't Like this Game Very Much. It's A Great Game! Wii ARE THE CHAMPIONS!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Not only is this game very addictive, it also makes for a great competition game when playing in 
 a group! The graphics are nice and the controls are responsive enough (although you cannot steer 
 wildly left and right... as you might normally do on the road when avoiding an object.)
  The Challenges, such like Rings are not so easy, and it takes time to nail the jumps right in order 
 to score them. You can play your own music (Instead of the repetitive music selection from the 
 game.) when you race. This will make Excite Truck and excellent party game. I was hitting the China 
 runs to David Essex- Schools Out and Arrowsmiths - Walk This Way! (Just like in highschool, but 
 then I did not have a truck that could shoot 200 feet into the air... and steel while doing so..)
 
  
  This is a great game for the Wii and I would say a must have for anyone who loves do competition 
 gaming with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyman3045
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I find this game to be excellent for my son (6) and I to be able to play together. Makes for a 
 fun night with the boy!! When it comes to the wii game system, I find it especially nice to have 
 over any other console I have ever had. It evens the playing field of age and experience and allows 
 both to win and lose and enjoy doing it. I have never had so much fun losing a game, as to see 
 the expression on my son's face when he wins. He laughs heartly when he flys over me at the finish 
 line of Excite truck for the win and we have a great time twisting and turning on the couch. Great 
 game in my opinion when it brings the family together for some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avail447
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  one of the best off road racing games in quite some time.
  difficulty is just right Unless your playing on super excite difficulty.
  the game is very easy 
 to get down and the wii remote works very responsive to your turns and weight shifting.
  gameplay is awesome about 7 areas to race in with about two or three tracks in those so about 14 
 tracks. these tracks are big too you dont have to take certain routes there are shortcuts available.
 
  graphics are crisp and still look good going about 150mph.
  music is great and even better if you have an sd card this game lets you have up to 100 of your 
 favorite songs to listen to when your racing. sound effects are great as well.
  replay value is high and overall this is a great launch title for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Let's get straight to the point: if you like fast racing games like F-Zero or Burnout, you need 
 to try out Excite Truck, no matter what you may have heard from some reviewers (I'm talking about 
 you, Gamespot!) . Excite Truck is a little tough to control at first, but once you get the hold 
 on things, it's a fun and immersive game to play.
  
  The gameplay is simple and works great. Tilt the Wii remote from side to side to steer, tilt to 
 jump, so on and so forth. It works great. The controls are really responsive. The sense of speed 
 is awesome, too. Sometimes, however, the speed can really throw you off, but it's not enough to 
 hurt the experience. The single player game is straightforward. You race your way through the Bronze 
 Cup, Silver Cup, Gold Cup, and the Platinum Cup. Your focus is more on making good jumps and smashing 
 other racers than actually winning the race. Your goal in each race is to get as many stars as 
 possible doing various things (drifting, smashing other trucks, jumping through rings, etc.) and 
 try to reach the required number of stars to complete the race.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. The environments look solid and the framerate keeps up speed perfectly. 
 The sound is alright, if not a little cheesy. Luckily, you can put in your own tunes using an SD 
 card.
  
  The game is extremely fun to play, but it won't last very long. The single player mode isn't that 
 long and the multiplayer isn't anything special. The game probably isn't worth $50, but it's definitely 
 worth the money for a weekend rental. When the price goes down, Excite Truck will be a great buy.
 
  
  Overall, Excite Truck is a fast and fun racing game with only a couple of bumps. At it's current 
 price, Excite Truck isn't worth it because of it's shortcomings. But if you need a game to play 
 on Friday night, Excite Truck is a great rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammerman316
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is a beautiful mix of need for speed and an amazing 4x4 game tht hasn't been invented 
 yet the graphics are nice and the driving is perfect there isn't exactly much too say but that 
 this game apart from the fact of tht if u want to listen too music and this way u can do it and 
 listen too music at the same time while ur performing nice tricks as it is the first game for u 
 too be able too play your music from your sd card while playing the game and landing on other trucks 
 but the shine of the back of ur truck is really brilliant as u can tell if someone is coming up 
 behind you with the added effect of slatters from snow water or mud 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlito4
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a game that does exactly what it says on the box. It excites you ! This was the 
 first racing game that was available for the wii which could be considered a good investment, it 
 is controlled in the exact same way as Sonic and the Secret Rings by the holding the remote on 
 it's side and tilting in the direction that you want your truck to turn much like holding a steering 
 wheel. For the most part this control system works very well, responsive but not to the point that 
 it is over-sensitive, although it is very difficult to pull off a spin while in the air as you 
 really have to force it to get that truck moving and when you are looking for those last star points 
 this can get remote throwing frustrating. On to the actual race modes where you don't need to win 
 the race to progress as the game gives you star points for driving dangerously catching huge air, 
 smashing into other trucks, drifting, going through rings in the air and driving closely to the 
 trees, all of these things do make it feel very Burnout-esque and without those stars you won't 
 be progressing very far. With the race mode comes a challenge mode which although a nice distraction 
 doesn't really offer alot of depth and can be completed very quickly if given enough time. Oh did 
 I forget to mention one thing this game is fast, very fast sometimes so fast that as the blurring 
 background blazes past you you'll be amazed you didn't hit that lone tree and the speed is probably 
 the games biggest selling point. The graphics are quite good for the Wii, the details on the trucks 
 and the area around you is very detailed but the thing that really surprises you is the sheer scope 
 of the environments as you catch a huge jump you can see for miles ,trees, mountains and numerous 
 other things really make you appreciate how much effort Nintendo put into the environments in this 
 game. With the good things though comes the bad, the main issue being that this game is short with 
 only the excite mode and challenge mode there is not alot you can do, yes you can unlock harder 
 difficulties but nothing actually new and this is quite disappointing because with a bit more depth 
 this could have been a fantastic game. Along with that this game comes with a hugely disappointing 
 Multi-Player mode where you can only race with two players and there is no option to put in CPU 
 racers, this makes the mode feel alot less fun than it could have possibly been and this shortens 
 the longevity of the game and once again stops it from being a great game. So overall this game 
 has fantastic game play, good graphics and blistering speed but the lack of length and the poor 
 multi-player mode stop this from being one of the essential Wii purchases but if you like racing 
 games (and this is by far the best one on the Wii so far) and you want to have good fun you can't 
 go wrong with Excite Truck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex51011
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Trucks, Trucks, Trucks! Excite truck is all about going fast and getting those stars! Pull off 
 an awesome jump boost and watch your truck go flying, then land it just right to get your will 
 deserved turbo boost and blast on ahead. Thats just some of the fun to be had with one of Nintendo 
 launch titles Excite Truck Excite Truck doesnt have a story line but it does have two single player 
 modes, which are Excite Race and Challenge. Both of which offer some fun gameplay and intuitive 
 control. Excite Race puts you in the midst of 5 other Trucks as you compete to get the amount of 
 stars needed to win the race. There are different classes that you can finish in, which vary from 
 C to S. C being bad and S being the best. By getting certain things during the races such as Super 
 Truck smashes, you can unlock new things. If you get 25 Super Truck Smashes then you get a new 
 trophy and sometimes new trucks for certain achievements. You have for different levels you can 
 compete in, Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum. Once you beat each race in those categories you 
 get to try and beat them in Super Excite difficulty. Challenge mode is basically 6 different challenges, 
 which are, drive through the beams, getting through the rings, and crashing other trucks. Completing 
 these could help you in Excite Race mode and are fun on there own. There is also Versus, which 
 is only 2-playerwith no AIweird. But its still fun and engaging and I still love to race against 
 a friend so at least there is multiplayer! Excite Trucks visuals really blew me away, the trucks 
 look great and the terrain is beautiful too. Sometimes its fun to crash to see the massive impact 
 on your car which looks awesome. Its also cool to watch your truck destroy other trucks too. The 
 Terrain looks very nice too, the terrain morphs look great and destroying trees and the like looks 
 fantastic. Probably my favorite visually would be Scotland levels, theres a terrain morph that 
 knocks down part of the castle and it looks really cool. I think the graphics were pretty good 
 and can be improved and hopefully will be if Nintendo makes another racing game like this one. 
 Excite Trucks controls for the most part are good, you hold down the 2 button to go and the 1 button 
 for brakes, and you press any direction on the d-pad to boost. You do all this while holding the 
 Wii-mote on its side. That way you can tilt it to turn your truck. This works well and I really 
 enjoy it although sometimes I find when Im in a really big turn the controller would go into a 
 sort of Dead Zone and I wouldnt really turn anymore, so that was a bit of a problem but it wasnt 
 that bad. All in all the gameplay for Excite Truck is fun and Engaging and will have you hooked 
 for quite The audio really brings this game down, although you have the cool feature of being able 
 to put your music on while you play via an SD card, the music was justwell, bad. It couldve been 
 a lot better music but unfortunately it was not. Above all that the trucks didnt sound real and 
 they sounded somewhat odd when you boosted. But I did like the Sound for the Turbo jump and POW. 
 But that was about all that I really liked with the music. I bought it and I think it would be 
 worth the extra dough, its fun and will keep you entertained. It has replay value too. If you 
 beat it you can always go back and try to get perfect S scores on all the courses. Or you could 
 play a friendly game of Versus. -alex51011 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammer1976
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  An absolutely brilliant game!!!! Ignore the low Gamespot rating as its fast and I mean fast. Very 
 responsive controls a joy to play and it does what it says on the tin
  The graphics are awesome for a wii game the shadows are deep and fullfilling the same thing goes 
 with every other aspect of the graphics and sound. However the sound that comes from your wiimote 
 sounds like its comin form a child's play toy and is not very good. In every race you enter you 
 must get the number of aquired stars to pass to the next level this can be good and bad, good because 
 you dont always have to come in first but bad for the same exact reason. However the game does 
 have a 2 person split screen multiplayer that packs in loads fun. Overall Excite truck is a high 
 flyin down n dirty arcade racing game that offers more than most say it does!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I remember finding excite bike on animal crossing and playin it and being hooked on it and playing 
 animal crossing for that game only..... but now...... it's EXCITE TRUCK woot.
  This game to be honest is awesome. i had my doubts with it after the bad reception it had got from 
 gamespot and ign.
  However it controls really well the tutorial at the start gives you a good guide how to play the 
 game well and is a gret introduction to the game.
  The graphics are the best i have seen on wii and are really good really nice looking especially 
 when going fast it looks good.
  The gameplay itself takes some getting used to it and may be challenging for some but if you keep 
 trying you will love it after a while. Going fast and destorying your truck at 200mph going through 
 trees or diving 300ft a hill in a truck is awesome. The games layout is like mario-kart bronze 
 silver and gold and platnium cup and mirror mode (yes a mirror mode) .
  Only problem with the game is the lack of stuff to do once you have done the cups you can go back 
 and unlcok all the trucks ( I will be but others might not) . Overall the game is great a lot of 
 fun and ridiculusly fast espcially the pow action how great is that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjap00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has created the first motion-sensed racer to come to Wii. My copy came bundled with the 
 console, so I got to experiment with it at no cost.
  
  There is no certain goal in Excite Truck, but to beat all of the 'cups'. The achievements in the 
 game get a bit repetitive, for example, if you beat one cup, it will just tell you that you have 
 unlocked another, and that you can play it. The game plays very well with the Wii remote; there 
 is no nunchuck required. You hold the remote horizontally, and tilt it from side to side, as if 
 it were a steering wheel, to drive your vehicle. The 2 button accelerates and the 1 button acts 
 as your brakes. Any button on the D-Pad will use a turbo-boost, which will overheat if used too 
 much. Personally, these controls fit just right.
  
  Excite Truck also looks graphically beautiful. The cars look nice and shiny, and when driving, 
 you can even see the trees and such reflect of off the vehicle itself. The environment dosn't look 
 bad at all either. The trees and such are good-looking and the water looks nice and crisp, and 
 reflects well, but for some odd reason, it will not reflect some of the land of the game.
  
  But enough of the graphics, this game plays well, and is very enjoyable. It's gameplay does 
 get repetitive, though, so you may just want to rent this game, and see if it's worth a purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FespGamer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  The Wii's innovative, remote controller is put into good use in Monster Games's Excite Truck, for 
 the Wii. While Excite Truck fun and innovating, it's disappointingly on the short side along with 
 its weak multiplayer options. The controls are pretty straight-forward and simple. The Wii remote 
 is held horizontally, with the D-pad on the left side and the 1 and 2 buttons on the right. The 
 1 and 2 buttons are used to accelerate and brake while the D-pad is used to turbo boost, causing 
 your truck to start overheating. To steer your truck, tilt the remote left and right. It wont 
 take you long to master these controls, but expect it to be frustrating at first. After about a 
 half-hour or so, the game will fully show its great sense of speed as you blast through your opponents 
 during the races.
  
  To win, you dont have to come in first, not in this game; you win, however, by earning the most 
 star points. You earn star points by performing tricks, such as drifting, getting big air, crashing 
 into other trucks, or driving through trees, as well as coming in first place. The graphics in 
 this game are decent, but they arent visually impressive altogether. Truck models arent all that 
 great, and the environments arent very well polished either. The sound effects are okay, but the 
 music is annoying and repetitive, but if you have an MP3 file on your SD Card, youre in luck because 
 Excite Truck allows you to play any song you like on your SD Card.
  
  Excite Truck is a fairly fun game, but it doesnt have enough elements such as a variety of interesting 
 unlockables and a four-player game that make it worth purchasing. I consider that you rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camreeno360
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The game. *zzzzzzzzzzzz*. The game Excite Truck is a game that's totally bottom notch and I've 
 nearly explained it in the description. From the lack of decent content, to the quick fun to boring 
 factor. It's all here, and it's either something you'd have fun with in a quick sitting or a game 
 that sucks if you play it for a little longer. Excite Truck is empty, slightly fun, but runs out 
 quick with everything it has to offer. You'll start with three trucks: a dune buggy thing, and 
 a couple regular cars. From there you have just four short competitions that you can easily beat 
 in about 3 hours, and there you have it, you beat the game. Anyway from the start the game has 
 a nice layout and you get a great first impression with the rock music and the colors and whatnot. 
 Don't be fooled. The four competitions go: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum, each with 5 races 
 ( if I remember right) . The tracks have you go through five countries which include Canada, China, 
 Finland, Mexico, and Scotland. Each country has one track that pretty much gets slightly changed 
 each preceding competition. Starting up a race you have the regular 3, 2, 1 thing and you're off. 
 You'll realize the nice sense of speed and each track has you get these stars which are like points 
 for doing little tricks and crashing into other cars, a lot like in Burnout. The boost in your 
 car is boring to use and I figured that out pretty soon. Once it refuels it's gone in like 2 seconds 
 and there's little indication that you just did a big boost, therefore it's not too exciting to 
 use. (why not call it 'Boring Truck'?) . The gameplay feels a lot like those MX games where a lot 
 of the technique is based around hitting hills at the right time and shifting your weight around 
 to get the most out of each jump. There are these things placed around each track that when you 
 touch them it deforms the track quickly to knock your enemy cars out of place to get star points. 
 For instance when you're driving down the valley in this one Canada track, when you hit this icon 
 thing, a bunch of boulders will come rolling down and can hit the guys ahead of you. It's nifty 
 but it's more of luck to be successful than anything else. There's also these icons that you can 
 hit which throw you into this invincible mode temporarily where you can hit trees without crashing 
 and you destroy anything in your path, kinda like when you get a star thing in Mario Kart. Fortunately 
 these are fun as hell to pick up and bring a touch to the game that doesn't get old.
  
  To tell about the scraps I'll tell you this, the car sounds are dull and standard, alright for 
 this arcade sort of game, but in the end dumb. The graphics are great. Nice trees, nice landscapes, 
 pretty skies, and it's one of the big pluses of Excite Truck. Each country's tracks have their 
 one little developer-made song going, just this rock beat but altogether average. The car's aren't 
 too exciting. They're just there and you're not in awe of really anything. Crashes look a little 
 like the earlier Burnout games, the car looks chunked up but nothing interesting. Nothing shows 
 a tremendous amount of effort. In the end, the gameplay is just mindless you just steaer back and 
 forth and you just wait to see what happens next. If you played a lot of the lousy Sonic games 
 lately, you'll know what I mean. You can't really get better or worse and it and it's just totally 
 random and flashy and ultimately just weird and dry.
  
  Alright I guess I've explained the game like it's total crap, but believe me, you'll be bored fast 
 after the Oh my god this is awesome! factor wears off. It's great from the start but doesn't do 
 much from there. To sum it up, Excite Truck might be worth a rental, that's what I did, but maybe 
 not even that. I guess it just depends who you are and if you'd be held up by the gameplay as long. 
 But gamespot's review is an accurate one and I agree with the tech demo title of the game. That's 
 really all it is but then again, it's up to you to how much you'd like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  And yes it is. This is a very good game and offers a lot of fun. You use the Wii Remote as a steering 
 wheel, press 2 to accelerate, 1 to brake and the D-Pad to use turbo. Very simple, very intuitive 
 and very fun.
  
  Graphics - Very good. Keeps the same framerate for almost the whole sesion and some of the enviromental 
 details are fabulous.
  
  Gameplay - Amazing. It works and works well. Anyone can play this game and it offers super courses 
 with all different types of terrain.
  
  Sound - The music which is on the game when it comes is not good. But it gets better. You can add 
 your own music using an SD cards making the possibilities endless. Value - Dissapointing muliplayer 
 but solid single player gameplay makes it worth your money
  
  Overall - A great achievement. Better multiplayer and this is easily a 9.0 + game. Unfortunately 
 it's not so it gets 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradiusmaximus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I was really unsure what to expect from Excite Truck after seeing so many negative reviews. Let 
 me assure you that if you are looking for a great Wii game that will keep you coming back for more, 
 look no further than Excite Truck. Sure some say it feels like a tech demo. They may be right, 
 but it is an addictive and sweet demo in that case. The controls work really well and anyone can 
 pick it up and have a blast right from the beginning. It really gives me a good feeling about racing 
 games on the Wii. It could be said that the best part about the game is the Wii controls. Out of 
 all the games I have for Wii this is the only one that EVERYBODY wants to play. All of my friends 
 are borderline obsessive trying to get all S rankings on everything. Excite Truck is an awesome 
 launch game for the system, but being that it is a launch game there are several issues with the 
 game that are worth mentioning. Most importantly, the game recycles many of the courses. This is 
 a bummer, but the game is so much fun that it doesnt really change my opinion on the whole. Another 
 issue I have is with the SD soundtracks. The game makes you chose what you want to listen to before 
 the race by pausing the game and selecting a track from the SD card. It is awesome that they included 
 this feature, but please allow for more than one song to be loaded at a time. It is pretty annoying 
 when a song ends and then just repeats again. Other than those two gripes I can honestly say that 
 this is my favorite Wii launch game. It has a great sense of speed and hooks you in with its new 
 way to control your vehicle. So if you have a Wii and enjoy racing games this one is a no-brainer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manicfoot
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The good: Really exciting, arcade-esque gameplay, flawless use of the Wiimote, cleverly designed 
 tracks, pretty environments.
  
  The bad: monotonus soundtrack, poor sound effects, SD support not exactly flawless, the game could 
 have been developed more.
  
  I first caught a glimpse of this game at E3. I am a huge fan of old school arcade racers like Sega 
 Rally and Daytona USA so I was automatically intrigued by this title. The one thing excite truck 
 does really well is create a pretty solid arcade style experience. The Wiimote's tilt function 
 is implemented perfectly and you really do get the feeling of being in control of your truck while 
 simultaneously feeling like you'll lose control and crash at any second. The game plays like a 
 dream and the tracks are so cleverly designed that the game's in-your-face, break neck speed style 
 rarely gets tiresome. There are pick up's located around each track that cause the track to deform, 
 making huge jumps and hidden shortcuts appear. This adds an incentive to go back, play the tracks 
 again and find the quickest route. Graphically, Excite Truck is nice looking, but far from perfect. 
 The trucks themselves look rather generic and are lacking in both interesting design and polygons. 
 However, the tracks themselves and the environments all look very nice with highly detailed textures, 
 weather effects and incredible draw distances and everything runs smoothly with no slowdown. It 
 is one of the more impressive looking launch titles. As this is a launch title, there are many 
 symptoms of 'launch title-itus' that are apparent in Excite Truck. From the barebones, powerpoint-esque 
 menu screens to the equally rushed two player only multiplayer, to the unusually weak, midi sounding 
 engine effects, one can tell that this was indeed a rushed game. Speaking of music, you are definately 
 going to buy an SD card and make your own soundtrack for this game. The soundtrack is made up of 
 really generic rock music, with constant loud, trebley guitar solo's that really get on your nerves 
 after a while. So far Excite Truck is the only Wii game to implement SD Card music support, and 
 it is a welcomed feature. However, it is far from perfect. Sometimes, when the race starts the 
 game forgets that I've selected for my customised music to play automatically and plays the normal 
 soundtrack instead. To get my music to play I have to pause the game and go to the SD card menu, 
 which is fine. The annoying thing is it always ends up repeating the song you've selected to play. 
 Even if you select another track, it will play it twice again. The best thing to do is to just 
 hear the first song twice, and then it will start playing the other songs with no repetition. Excite 
 Truck is far from ground breaking, but it is one of the more solid launch titles that perfectly 
 uses the Wiimote and effectively showcases the potential for the racing genre on Nintendo's new 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything an action racer should have and then some. I may just guarentee that you 
 have never played a racing game like this. This game takes full advantage of the wiimote as i call 
 it. (shut up if you think it's dumb) The gameplay for this game is a 10 man, i mean come on - how 
 much more fun can a racer get? Ok so maybe this game doesn't have the graphics of Gears of War 
 or something, but hey if you were expecting that don't get a wii. the sound is something that was 
 a tough decision on making. i gave it a 7 because it doens't have much of a sountrack, though the 
 sound effects were pretty good, it was even good coming out of the wiimote. Now heres what I don't 
 really agree about gamespot on. They say the game feels too short. You know - it doesn't have the 
 most it can get, but it does have a lot. there are three modes in the main game - Excite, Super 
 Excite and Mirror, in that order. you are gonna wanna go back and play over them to be sure to 
 unlock all of the modes. There is a pretty good viarity of trucks, and they all seem at least a 
 little different in their actual feel. The other mode is challenge where u beat all different kinds 
 of challenges - gate ring smash, all that good stuff. Gamespot really did not give this game its 
 well diserved credit. If you have a wii and dont have this game - at least rent it for some fun 
 cause maybe thats all you'll want out of it. If you're the kind of person who just beats a game 
 then yeah rent it, but if u like to beat it, then sort of go back and play it ofer a few times, 
 then go out and buy it. its a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a fun racing game and thats about it. There are not that many things worth doing 
 after about 4 or 5 hours of game play and the courses arnt that differnt from each other and thats 
 about all I don't like in Excite Truck so lets get to the things I do like.
  
  Excite Truck makes you go fast, very fast sometimes so fast you think your car is just going to 
 explode but it doesn't and its a very cool effect. But thats only to distract you from the ok graphics 
 but the games is fun don't get me wrong. The way the game is layed out is you stear with the wiimore 
 like you would in a car. Now at first the controles feel a loose as Paris Hilton but after about 
 30 min. or so you'll get the hang of it and they feel pritty tight. The audio in the game is a 
 bunch of car sound like in a normal racing game and the sound track is very lame it is only a few 
 really cheesey guitar riffs. But there is a reason for that! With the sd card you can put you own 
 music on your Wii and it will play during your races.
  
  There are a bunch of Trucks to unlock and after you do that the game gets a lil dull unless you 
 just love the game you will prolly only spend about 6 hours tops with it. I really liked the games 
 speed so i spent a bit more time with it and once you get used to it Excite Truck is not as bad 
 as your first impression of it was.
  
  So at least give it a rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Game is fun and has a good sense of speed. The game is entirely to easy. The visuals are ok... nothing 
 special. I am going to invest in the HD component cables soon, but for the composite visuals.... looks 
 like just above the Gamecube. I will add to this review if my mind gets changed on the over-all 
 view of this game. This is a GOOD game... I'm sorry, but this is something of a hair above average 
 for a NINTENDO game.... wish I could say this game was more than that. I have to give it a 6.9 out 
 of 10... if this was a $29.99 or even a $39.99 price tag... that would improve on the over-all score. 
 This is a pretty ok game.... nothing to holler about if you buy it. It is a good start... but NO 
 ONLINE MULTIPLAYER is killing me for replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is an off road truck racing game for the Nintendo Wii. The game is really innovative 
 because you steer the wiimote like a steering wheel. You turn it left and right to steer and up 
 and down to tilt your truck in air.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: Excite Truck is really fun. There are basically 3 modes. There is Excite Race (The 
 Main Cup Racing Portion) , Versus (2 players only in a race without CPU) and Challenge Mode (A bunch 
 of different challenges like jumping through rings) . There is also a tutorial but I don't think 
 that counts. The controls are pretty awesome. You steer the WiiMote like a steering wheel. You 
 hold down the 2 button for gas. The 1 button is reverse. There is also the turbo where you hit 
 the dpad in any direction to turbo. Doing turbos right when you go off jumps make you go way higher. 
 There is a little bit of a learning curve when you first play but it will feel awesome when you 
 get used to it. You don't just race for first place. There is a strategy to it. You need to collect 
 a certain ammount of stars to win the race. You get them by doing all sorts of different things. 
 For example flying through wings in air, getting a lot of air, driving through trees, drifting, 
 smashing trucks and even crashing. The trucks go really fast. There are 18 trucks I think. They 
 all are different in stats. I think Excite Truck is very fun.
  
  Graphics 8/10: For the most part the graphics in Excite Truck are great. The trucks are cool looking. 
 There are great reflections. There are cool dirt and water affects also. The water splashes around 
 when you drive through it. The dirt kicks up in the air when you drive through it. Pretty detailed, 
 especially the levels. There are mexican cactus and rocky area. The giant forest and the running 
 rivers in Canada. The bamboo forests and the small lakes in China. The snow and glacier filled 
 Finland. You get the point. The only complaint I have is when you see the trees close up they look 
 pretty bad. Same with the cacti. You won't really notice though when your driving by them really 
 fast.
  
  Sound 9/10: The sounds in this game are really good. The revving motors and the glass shattering 
 crashes all sound great. My favorite thing about the sound is that you can use and SD card to listen 
 to music while you race. Just put your music on it and insert it and listen to your tunes. I enjoy 
 racing to AC/DC, Metallica, Led Zeppelin and many more. The only complaint I have is the basic 
 starting music is really bad. It's loud and horrible sounding. You really should have an SD card 
 or just turn off the music.
  
  Value 7/10: Playing the cup races is really fun. Trying to smash and get ahead of one other person 
 in versus is also really fun. Playing the Challenge mode because you need a challenge is prettty 
 fun also. This part of Excite Truck is also the most lacking. There are basically only 3 modes. 
 There could have been more. You can only have 2 players in Versus. The challenge mode only has 
 three categories. The trucks only have 2 paint jobs. It would have been awesome with online play. 
 Despite these flaws the game is still pretty awesome. Excite Truck is pretty hard when you get 
 to the harder modes. Trying to unlock all the trucks will take a while. Overall 8.6/10: Excite 
 Truck is really innovative and fun. The idea is great despite a few flaws. If they make a sequel 
 improving on all the flaws and giving it online play it will be a extremely awesome must have game. 
 If you already have Zelda Twilight Princess and are looking for another Wii game this is a great 
 second wii game choice. Go pick it up or atleast rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaphod_b
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  One look at Excite Truck and I immediately thought of Hydro Thunder. Not the mediocre console ports, 
 but the amazingly hectic arcade racer. Having finally got my hands on it, I wasn't too far off. 
 Excite Truck takes the same out-of-control feel and turns it up a notch, with the addition of several 
 terrain changes throughout the track. Some of these changes are obstacles meant to knock your opponent, 
 whether human or CPU, off track. Others will typically cause huge ramps to push themselves out 
 of the ground, while others make rings appear which when driven through, offer up points in the 
 form of stars. Collect enough stars this way or through performing aerial stunts, and you can unlock 
 new trucks and allow yourself to progress to the next track or medal. There are four medals: bronze, 
 silver, gold, and platinum. Each of these offers up between 4 and 6 tracks. While more tracks would 
 have been nice, what is there offers many paths and power ups to help you improve your score and 
 obtain more unlockables.
  
  The replay value is further extended with a split screen multiplayer. This works rather well with 
 few noticeable graphical or performance differences when adding another player. Some reviewers 
 would tell you that there should have been 4-player split screen. With as much action and speed 
 that is on screen, I believe this would have been a bit much for your standard definition TV and 
 caused many visibility problems. The game does not have online multiplayer, but neither does any 
 other Wii game at the moment, so this shouldn't be a surprise to anyone.
  
  Control is handled slightly different from the other Wii racers on the market. You will hold the 
 Wii remote sideways and turn it like a steering wheel, but with the buttons facing upward rather 
 than back toward you. This feels somewhat awkward at first, but once you adapt to it, you will 
 find that your vehicle follows it's movements very well. One exception is the spinning stunt, in 
 which you hold down button 1 and tilt the controller back and forth. The resulting spin occurs 
 in increments of 360 degrees, presumably up to 1080 and beyond, though I myself could never get 
 past 720. You will find that this move is difficult to pull off at first, and accomplishing multiple 
 spins in one jump is nearly impossible outside of the tutorial.
  
  Graphically the game is better than most games currently available for the Wii, although they do 
 leave room for improvement. Environments are somewhat muddy, and the trucks look good but their 
 models are very simple. Water effects look crisp at first, but begin to flatten out upon closer 
 inspection. This no doubt accounts for the Wii's ability to push this game into blistering speeds, 
 however.
  
  Sound will be a common complaint for many. If you do not have an SD card to add your own MP3 soundtrack, 
 you will be subject to some of the worst guitar music in a game. That being said, you do have the 
 option to turn it all the way down and crank up the stereo, and you certainly shouldn't let it 
 deter you from playing the game.
  
  Far from repetitive, ET is a frantically paced racing game that is truly easy to pick up but difficult 
 to master. If this game looks fun to you from the videos and pics, I have no doubt you will enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck for the wii is a crazy fun racing game. It has a campaign that contains 4 different 
 tournements that when beaten unlock a new section of the campaign mode. With every race you also 
 get that much closer to unlocking new trucks that have different strengthes and weaknesses. You 
 can also unlock the custom paint jobs to each car which make the ride look even kooler than ever 
 before. The graphics are awesome for a wii game the shadows are deep and fullfilling the same thing 
 goes with every other asspect of the graphics and sound. However the sound that comes from your 
 wiimote sounds like its comin form a child's play toy and is not very good. In every race you enter 
 you must get the number of aquired stars to pass to the next level this can be good and bad, good 
 because you dont always have to come in first but bad for the same exact reason. However the game 
 does have a 2 person split screen multiplayer that packs in loads fun. Overall Excite truck is 
 a high flyin down n dirty arcade racing game that offers more than most say it does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I really dont know why Gamespot gave this game such a low rating. I mean, i really enjoyed this 
 game. Great party game and the races are fun and exciting, and as you get farther some of the races 
 become very challenging and take 3 , 4 , 5 tries to beat them. Then the challenge is to get Super 
 on all the races and then you unlock Super Excite which you get to beat and get super on all over 
 again! In my opinion this is the best racing game out currently for the Nintendo Wii and i like 
 it more than say Monster 4X4, GT Pro Series and even the hyped Need For Speed Carbon. I love racing 
 against my friends on this game but i do wish nintendo would have waited to realease it so it could 
 have online. Online for Excite Truck would be an amazing experience and this game is also suitable 
 for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  There really is no story to the game, luckily it is one of those that just do not need one to be 
 entertaining. The base of the gameplay is you are trying to collect a predetermined amount of stars 
 throughout the level by performing drifts, getting big airtime, crashing into other trucks, and 
 nearly missing trees, among a few others. The more stars you get by the end of the level, the higher 
 your rating will be. Theres also a selection of trucks which are varied in terms of their grip, 
 airtime, speed, turning. There are 5 different sets of races, each containing 4 to 5 separate races. 
 They take place in a few different countries as well, such as Mexico, Canada, Finland and Scottland. 
 You actually play the game by holding the Wii Remote sideways with the Dpad on the left side. You 
 steer by moving one side of the remote either up or down to move right or left. The Dpad will let 
 u boost for a short amount of time before your engine blows. The 2 button is the gas button.
  
  The game looks pretty good as your traveling at high speeds, which you should be doing throughout 
 most of the game. However, occasionally when the race slows down after you crash for example, some 
 not-as-pretty road and environment textures are visible. For the most part everything does look 
 pretty good, so I have no real complaints here. The sound in the game could have certainly been 
 improved in a few ways. To start the sound effects just werent that good, and they seemed fairly 
 limited. The music in the game was generic, they were simply instrumental rock tunes with guitars 
 that didnt sound all that great anyways. And the tunes were also pretty much limited, either that 
 or they all sounded alike. The game can really be worth a whole lot if your the person who needs 
 to get everything in every game. There are a few trucks that just take some time to get, and the 
 same goes for some other trophies. To get the other difficulties, you have to complete every course 
 with an S rank, which is no easy task.
  
  Overall the game does have its flaws, but that doesnt change the fact that this is a solid launch 
 title for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun!! I find myself playing this game a lot. I pop it in and off I go into a good 
 racing game. Don't get me wrong this game is not a in depth game with lots of bells and whistles. 
 The controls work very well, maybe a little loose but you get use to it really quick. I enjoy using 
 the Wii controller it adds a bit of reality to the game. Also, the music stinks but thats okay 
 because with the use of the SD Card slot just pop in your own music and your on your way. If you 
 are playing this game right you should feel like you are on an out of control roller coaster. The 
 game does a great job at speed, you really feel like you are going fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodnekcod
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Really the whole reason this game flopped is (or I think is) because gamespot and ign said it was 
 was short or merely a tech demo . Well if so, it was a damn fun one that was much longer than it 
 was made out to be. With more trucks as you progress, many goals to strive for, this game can keep 
 at least my interest for a very long while. It could have had more depth but length was not an 
 issue with 3 difficulties, each making it very hard to unlock the next one, and 24 races. It also 
 had great visual presentation with every effect of the game done very expertly. I'll admit that 
 the races did seem reduntant and lack of many shortcuts did bug me a bit, but the sheer quality 
 of the wii control made it a worthwhile game. I wasn't going to get it but it was packaged with 
 my wii from Costco and it turned out to be a great game, and it's definitely a fun game to master 
 and makes you strive for plonage. The star collecting idea puts a focus on racing quality and style 
 instead of just getting 1st and really keeps you on your toes which sets it away from other racers. 
 And it is definitely better than most racing games ive played and the wii control feels totally 
 natural and fitting. Id also keep it because its replay value is good because you will pick it 
 up later and just want to race and its very fun.. And the last level is sweet. That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Qin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  As my review title states, this game is essentially SSX with 4x4 Trucks and SUVs. Excite Truck 
 is very enjoyable, has a GREAT tutorial, and makes some really nice uses of the Wii controller 
 as a steering device. Starting with a choice a a few vehicles, you negotiate terrain in varying 
 locations across the globe, Track surfaces range from Sand, Dirt , and Snow and rain is thrown 
 in for good measure. Fictional location in Finland, China, Canada, Scotland, Mexico, and Fiji make 
 for some interesting back-drops, and a beautiful variety of vegetation or hills for you to trounce 
 all over. The graphic are nice, and thoughtfully applied. Nothing seems really out of place for 
 the genre, or inconsistent with the locale.
  
  Game play is fast and furious! An adrenaline pumping original soundtrack keeps your heart rate 
 up, and the Wiimote implementation operates well, and comfortably, for 4+ hours of play per session. 
 I swear the trucks feel like they are going about 150 MPH! Essentially, you never touch the breaks 
 (I cant even tell you what button controlled them) , and you press the turbo button in well timed 
 burst so as not to blow your engine, or slow your pace. Earning stars for each stunt you perform, 
 along with your finishing rank for each race determine your status in the game for unlockables. 
 The game is very forgiving in crash situations, where you are treated to a nice slow-mo of your 
 truck slamming-home on various trees or water hazards. Following these insignificant mishaps, if 
 you manage to press the buttons fast enough, the game puts you back in the action not too far behind 
 where you were before said accident. Jumps are by far the best part, and hitting certain trigger 
 icons on the track will change the terrain, or add rings for you to fly through for even more bonuses. 
 Some jumps give you what seem like hours of hang time, as you fall from low-earth-orbit back to 
 the sold ground. Tree Runs were a fun stunt; run close to the trees, wrack up the stars! Those 
 of you looking for something new, will find very little. The game successfully borrows everything 
 it needs from great titles of days gone by. The only new features that made a difference, were 
 points for crashing, and the fact that if you did enough stunts during your run on the course, 
 you still had an opportunity to pass the stage even if you came in dead last. Initially this is 
 great for getting on to the other levels, and snagging a few unlock ables, but after the gold stage 
 you will get nowhere if you are not 1st or 2nd, and My only complaints were that the game was too 
 short, and the difficulty curve increased too quickly once you reached the platinum level. Getting 
 the Super Monster Truck is easy if you just take time to drive the other truck, but getting to 
 the Diamond Level for the final Crystal Track is ridiculously hard to archive. If you have a GameFly 
 account or other rental method, go for it, but please don't feel that you have to get this game; 
 $49 is too great an investment for this title... I had fun with it for 3 days, and got about 10+ 
 hours of real enjoyment out of it... not $49 worth of fun in my book.
  
  
  Cheers,
  Ra-Qin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first Wii games I've ever owned, and I'm so glad I gave this game a spin. Excite 
 Truck is one of the best Wii launch titles to ever come out. Here's my review.
  
  Gameplay: Excite Truck's gameplay is excellent. You control the truck for real, by tilting the 
 Wii Remote left or right to steer, the D-Pad to use the turbo, Button 1 to accelerate, Button 2 
 to brake, and the A Button to reset when you are in the wrong way. The steering works very well, 
 but there is a bit of a learning curve, since the D-Pad is here on the Wii Remote. Unlike most 
 racing games, you don't have to come in first place to win. Instead, you have to get stars by performing 
 certain techniques, such as smashing opponents' trucks, drifting, and catching massive air. The 
 first mode you will use is the Tutorial, teaching you the basics of the game. Once you pass the 
 first tutorial, you are able to select Excite Race mode, Challenge mode, and Versus mode. Excite 
 Race mode lets you compete in races around the world against five opponents. Challange mode lets 
 you do one of three challenges: Gate Challenge, Ring Challenge, and Crush Challenge. Versus mode 
 is obviously a race mode where you and another person start racing each other. It would be better 
 if it was a 3 or 4 player race mode, though. Nevertheless, the gameplay is near-perfect.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. One of the best graphics for the Wii. The truck models look superb, and the 
 track layouts are nice.
  
  Sound: Again, the sound and music are nice. The soundtrack is splendid, and the sound effects are 
 great.
  
  Value: You can play for hours trying to unlock everything by getting all the stars on every track.
 
  
  Tilt: Despite what GameSpot says, Excite Truck is a very cool launch title for the Wii. Racing 
 fans will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I really do love this game, yet it has many flaws I'd like to point out:
  
  1) Isn't Nintendo the master of 4-player action in racing games? SO WHERE IS IT?
  
  2) Why 
 the stars? You are supposed to get a certain number of stars. What they don't tell you is that 
 you have to get MORE than that amount to get an A.
  
  3) No replay value. Period.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The graphics are great, almost as good as Twilight Princess. Everything looks real, 
 not blocky.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Many problems in gameplay, but still good. Environments are interactive and there are many hazards 
 that can also occur in real life, such as stalling in deep water.
  
  Value: 8
  Good, but $40 would be more fitting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msulli25
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is very wierd at first. I love the way the buttons are setup with 2 being ur select button 
 and the dpad being ur turbo etc. This displayed perfect use of the wiimote capabilities, and although 
 the graphics could have been better, the game is so much fun that you dont even pay attention to 
 them. I think it was way underrated by some sites, but it should be in your collection if you own 
 a wii. I think this game could be even better if i got some music on my sd card and played while 
 listening to my own music. Overall great game, definately give it a try. Dont let people judge 
 it for you!
  
  PS.... I ABSOLUTELY LOVE THE SOUND OF THE TRUCKS SHIFTING GEARS!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Although Excite Truck may not be packed with features, it does have its core gameplay down very 
 well. The Wii-mote controls feel very natural once you play a few races. There is a tutorial that 
 explains the basic driving mechanics and the various stunts that you can perform. The tracks are 
 filled with huge jumps and power ups that will send your vehicle flying through the air. Power 
 ups, Point rings, and terrain altering pickups are numerous throughout each track and are necessary 
 to utilize If you want to win
  
  The unique element that Excite Truck really brings to the racing is that, coming in first place 
 does not necessarily mean you win. In order to complete the race with a passing B rating, you will 
 need to collect stars for doing various feats of extreme driving. drifting, high jumps, and even 
 crashing are only a few actions that will earn you stars. Placing 1st through 5th will also give 
 you a large or small star bonus depending on the result. Coming in sixth gives no star bonus.
 
  
  The only problem with Excite truck is that its feature list is very shallow. There are only a handful 
 of modes and only one major race mode. Along with the standard race mode there is a checkpoint 
 based gate challenge, a high score ring mode, and a arena style crash mode where you try to crash 
 into all other trucks on the map in the best time possible.
  There is a second harder difficulty to unlock, but it does not add enough to keep playing. There 
 is also split screen multiplayer for two players. Excite Truck is a great start to what could be 
 a great franchise for Nintendo, If their next effort can bring the same addictive gameplay with 
 a much bigger list of modes and secondary features and maybe even online play, It will be a great 
 success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck Review An exciting racer that will have you on your toes Had there been just a bit 
 more ideas put into this game, it wouldve been Immersive.
  Excite Truck is a game that everyone was waiting for. It seemed as though it was on top, other 
 than Twilight Princess and maybe Red Steel. Well with its launch, Excite Truck proved to be worthy 
 of purchase, so I got it.
  Get ready. I must say, when you first set your hands on this game, it is a blast! Racing fast and 
 steering vigorously with teeth gritted is pure excitement. The Wiimote works well with this game, 
 so this is a glory to behold. Holding the Wiimote sideways, you tilt it left and right to steer. 
 The down key on the control pad is the only thing used other than this. These controls may sound 
 too simple, but I must agree that the control scheme best suites a racer for the Wii. I only hope 
 future racers will continue to be controlled this way.
  At first you learn the basics. There are some stunts, items, and controls you must learn about. 
 The tricks and items are cool, but there isnt much overall. While I do live the tricks, they prove 
 to be pretty tough to maneuver and are pretty useless unless you are working to collect stars which 
 are the key objective in most aspects of the game.
  Yes, not only do you race against your foes to rightfully claim first place You also have to collect 
 a selected amount of stars. You can come in third or fourth and still win if you get enough of 
 these precious items. To earn stars, you can crash, perform stunts, dodge trees, take out foes, 
 and more. It may sound simple, but its a hard challenge and it is very unique.
  One of the cool things is Turbo, particularly the Turbo Jumps. By going off a jump, press the down 
 key of the control pad to thrust your engines in mid air. This awesome performance is known as 
 the famous Turbo Jump. You will blast ahead of the competition and speed up as you land. This trick 
 alone had me on my toes as I tried to claim first.
  The tournaments are simple so youll have no problems at first. As competition gets fierce, you 
 are required to collect more and more stars. This challenge isnt so simple, but racing can be 
 mastered quickly. Unfortunately, multiplayer was a cool idea, yet it was a slight letdown to me. 
 You will have fun racing foes at first, but the intensity dies down rather quickly. I for one, 
 was not a fan of the multiplayer races.
  Other downers include the fact that there arent many other options other than Tournament races. 
 You will be letdown if you are seeking a variety. With the lack of modes, this game may almost 
 seem like a demo, but it is still addicting for maybe 10 hours.
  Graphics in Excite Truck arent too bad, on the plus side. They arent mediocre nor are they great. 
 The trucks look pretty nice especially with the nice added touches of color changes. Crashes are 
 okay, but Burnout still has better graphics, and better crashes. On the positive side, scenery 
 is nice. There is a variety, particularly in weather.
  The sound is awesome too. I love the rock music at the start of the game. The motor and hearing 
 the crashes seem rather realistic, so you cant say no to this sound. Music played during the courses 
 is cool, like when you collect specific items. Other than this, there isnt any other sound to 
 mention. So although not a variety, the few sounds projected are great.
  Lastly, this game is worth a try. Renting it is the best option, however. I must say that 50 dollars 
 is a lot. Still, some of the 60 dollar games are worse than this, so Im not complaining. In conclusion, 
 Excite Truck is exciting and the control scheme works great. The sound is wonderful, and the graphics 
 are decent. The only problems are the lack of game modes and the below average multiplayer. If 
 there ever is a future Excite Truck, I hope the creators work on improving these two main problems. 
 Thus my review comes to a close. Peace out for now.
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katamari
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about this arcade style racer is the responsiveness of the controller. 
 You hold it sideways and flat. You turn it left. Your truck turns left. You turn it right. Your 
 truck turns right. Its' that simple people. No analog sticks to steer. How cool is that?! I find 
 myself standing the whole time I play this as the sheer speed I sometimes achieve can be overwhelming 
 when I sit down. You can win a race but it is more important to collect stars to advance in the 
 game. If you win a race you receive 50 stars. But if the condition to open the next cup is , say, 
 150 stars, coming in first won't advance you. Instead, there is some strategy involved. You will 
 need to do things like, ram your truck into your opponents truck, dodge trees, drift through corners, 
 jump through rings, get big air off jumps, even crashing will earn you stars. The main race is 
 the Excite Race mode. It features 5 different cups and you must meet certain requirements to advance 
 to the next cup. You race in locations around the world, like the Fiji Islands, Finland (lots of 
 ice and snow) and China to name a few. You can unlock trophies, new trucks and paint jobs. The 
 controls are simple as I mentioned before. Excite Truck has a turbo feature that you activate by 
 pushing the control pad. If you push it to long your engine will overheat. You also get a bonus 
 boost for landing your truck on all four wheels at once. The most thrilling part of this game is 
 when you boost off a jump and your truck goes sailing into the air. It is a Holy Crap moment!! 
 You can look down at the terrain below you and see the trees, road, and the other trucks sometimes!! 
 Without a doubt, catching big air is the best part of this game for me!!
  There are also a couple of items you can use to assist you in your quest for more stars. The icon 
 that looks like an exclamation point will alter the terrain. Sometimes this will throw your opponents 
 trucks into the air giving you more stars, or sometimes rings will appear for you to jump through 
 where timing and boosting at the right moment is everything. And then there is the POW icon which 
 will temporarily boost your speed and make your truck powerful enough to bash through trees!! Way 
 cool!!
  There are also other game modes such as a gate challenge where you have to drive through as many 
 gates as possible before the time runs out. And in versus mode you can race against a friend. Again, 
 just a couple of the extra modes in the game. It certainly adds replay value. Excite Bike will 
 keep you busy for some time. I still haven't unlocked everything or completed all of the challenges. 
 But you know, the reason I keep coming back is the game play. That and the simplicity of the remote 
 controller is a joy!! Excite Bike may not appear deep on the surface, but, you will keep coming 
 back to perfect your races and your strategy. Oh, and let us not forget the big air moments!! Have 
 fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a game that could of been an amazing, but a few shortcomings mar its masterperfection. 
 I bet you're thinking what kind of idiot uses the phrase, mar its masterperfection , so I say to 
 you. I do. And Screw you homey. Are we clear. Don't make me pull out my wii controller and knock 
 you out man.
  
  This is the craziest racing game I've ever played, it makes Burnout seem like a racing simulation. 
 Don't believe me, rent it for yourself. You'll see. You'll watch in utter amazement as your truck 
 reaches the stratosphere from the smallest amount of elevation. Because the gameplay it awesome, 
 it's everything you wanted this game to be + 1. Don't ask me what the + 1 is, I don't know. Basically 
 you steer the car, and hold the wii remote sideways, the 2 button is gas, the 1 is........ hmmm... brakes 
 I think. Who uses the frickin brakes in this game?! There's the turbo buttons and whatnot. It pretty 
 much keeps you at the edge of your seat. I don't know what keeps me from giving gameplay a 10.
 
  
  The trucks look nice and one cool thing is you can see the reflection of the scenery through the 
 glass and whatnot. But the courses don't look as awesome. But that's true of every racing game. 
 Plus, scotland looks pretty neato. Then again, you will have no chance to take a look at some of 
 the graphics, unless you crash into them, which you will. The music in the game is horrible. It's 
 crap rock music they probably made themselves a month before release. It gets annoying after a 
 while. There's not much sound to be amused with. The racing sounds are good probably, i don't remember.
 
  
  There's an excite mode and a super excite mode. I never got to play Super Excite Mode because I 
 only had it for a day, but I'm guessing, it's just harder? It's got 4 different cups, bronze, silver, 
 gold each with a couple of courses to win. By the way, you don't have to get first place to win, 
 you have to get a given number of points to win. It's actually more fun and less frusturating that 
 way. You get 50 points for first. Anyways,.... there are some cool unlockable cars that get better 
 and better as it should be. There's some trophies and stuff to lock, there's a tutorial, and a 
 2 player versus mode. There was something else too.
  Might sound like enough value, but that's nothing for a modern day racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck blasts its way onto the Wii, reviving the MIA Excite series that was long thought 
 dead. The controls are kind of awkward at first, but once you get the hang of them, they become 
 second nature. You tilt the remote to turn left or right, press A to go, and press the d-pad to 
 turbo. The controls are simple and effective, and add an interesting twist to the traditional driving 
 game that just can't be achieved without the remote's motion sensing tech. The game itself offers 
 a unique twist on the racing genre. Finishing first is a secondary priority, with the main goal 
 being the accumulation of stars, which are rewarded for completing various fantastic vehicular 
 feats. Drifting, air, smashing other cars, and tree runs are a few of the tasks for which stars 
 are rewarded. Getting a higher place in a race gives you more stars as well, but the bulk of your 
 stars will come from performing mid-race tricks. In the single player mode, the player is awarded 
 a grade depending on how many stars they acquire during a race. Unranked, D, C, B, A, and S, standard 
 fare for racing games, and their straightforward. Get more stars, get a better grade, simple, right? 
 In multiplayer races, you get an additional 15 points for beating your opponent, and the winner 
 is determined by who has the most stars. The other advantage to obtaining first place is that you 
 continue to gain a star every second until your opponent finishes the race. In summary, the gameplay 
 is straightforward and simple, anyone, gaming novice or pro, can understand it and it's very easy 
 to jump into.
  You'll often times find yourself sitting on the edge of your seat, as the game moves very fast, 
 and there's a ton of action going on all around you. One feels like they could lose control at 
 any point during a race, and often times you do.
  The multiplayer portion of Excite Truck is a bit disappointing, though, as you can only have 2 
 players going head to head in a race. It's a mono et mono matchup, and if one player runs away 
 with the race, it can get kind of dull. It's fun in short bursts, but having only 2 player multiplayer 
 detracts a bit from the experience. 4 player split-screen would have added a lot to the experience.
 
  Graphically, Excite Truck is in the upper echelon for the first wave of Wii games. The environments 
 are bright and sharp, the trucks look pretty stylish (There are many colors to choose from, and 
 also you can unlock unique skins for each truck by winning races with them) , and the game conveys 
 the sense of speed well. The music in Excite Truck is pretty generic. It's got a rock feel to it, 
 that's supposed to convey the intensity of the races, and overall it does it well, but it tends 
 to get a bit dull after a while. Luckily, you can add your own music to the game via a SD card, 
 which enhances the experience. Nothing like jamming to some AC/DC or other classic rock tunes while 
 flying around the track.
  One of the downsides to Excite Truck is it's a bit shallow. The single player races can be completed 
 in a matter of hours, but once the adequate rank is achieved in each of the initial races, you 
 have the option of running them in Super Excite mode, which is even crazier. This adds some replayability 
 to it, but not a whole lot. You can also spend some time unlocking new skins and trucks, as well 
 as obtaining trophies for various tricks and winning races. Limiting multiplayer to 2 players also 
 detracts from the game.
  Overall, Excite Truck is a great Wii racer that introduces an innovative control scheme, features 
 crazy action, and leaves nothing but fun in its wake. Despite limited content and multiplayer, 
 Excite Truck is at the head of the pack when it comes to racing on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Remember that game for the NES well is back but on the Nintendo Wii with trucks. Man was I excited 
 to get this game. Being that I was a huge fan of the first Excite bike. This game is a nothing 
 like that bike game instead we're using trucks and the wii remote to control the trucks. It will 
 take you some getting use to. Like every other Wii game out that is on the system. The game as 
 some pretty good tutorials to get you started. It'll take you a good half hour to get through them 
 depending how good you are on how to learn the controls. Once you get the 2 tutorials and the 2 
 stunts. You'll be ready to get the racing. That's when all the fun starts. It took me at least 
 an hour to get use to tilting the controls up or down to turn left or right. You will be holding 
 the Wii remote side ways instead of holding it the traditional way. If you're into racing with 
 a lot of action and turbo and landscape shifting positions on the fly, you should definitely check 
 out and pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Excite truck has a very new type of racing feel. It offers an awesome single player that takes 
 alot of time to unlock. I havent even beaten it yet and i've played for at least 15 hours. There 
 are many unlockables like several racing games, such as tracks, trucks, and trophies. there are 
 definitly enough unlockables to keep you busy. The single player features a regular racing (AKA, 
 excite race) , challenge, and tutorials. The regular racing has 4 different sets of tracks. these 
 tracks feature lots of on road, offroad, and insane driving in each one of them. Similar to Burnout, 
 you must collect so many stars to win pass the course, if you come in first you get the most bonus 
 stars, 2nd gets less, and keeps reducing the lower you get. The gameplay controls are simple, lean 
 left to turn left, lean right to turn right, lean back in the air to get more stars, and 2 button 
 is gas, and thd dpad is turbo. At first these contols are very awkward, but once you get used to 
 them it becomes more fun that regular racing games (I really didnt care for racing games, but the 
 controls made me interrested, and I really like this racing game over others because of the conrols) . 
 The graphics on this game are upper level gamecube level, like many of the Wii launch tiltles. 
 This game really isnt designed to look amazing, but to be fun, which it accomplishes. The sound 
 is desent, I like how they use it for Wii remote sounds in this one. The games sounds are cool, 
 similar too burn out. The only downside is the music, and the music really isnt that bad. Its ok, 
 but you can take an SD memory card and put you music on it and play your music on the Wii while 
 your playing if you really dont like their music.
  
  Altogether, I think this is underrated. Gamespot didnt really like it to much, but if you like 
 racing games, especially Burnout, you'll like this one. Its of the best racing games I've played 
 next to Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck (a spin-off of the Nintendo's Excite Bike) is one of the few racing games currently 
 on the Wii that takes advantage of the Wii Remote controls. Excite Truck is both an awesome launch 
 title for the Wii and an innovative new take on the standard racing game.
  
  Excite Truck takes advantage of the Wii Remote, you'll have to hold it on its side and tilt it 
 in the direction you want to turn, then when you go off a jump, you can either tilt it back to 
 get longer air time, or tilt it forwards to hit the ground faster. At first, these controls can 
 be a bit touchy, but after you get used to them, they're very cool, especially the addition of 
 being able to control your jumps, which I haven't seen in any racing game before.
  Excite Truck has two main singleplayer modes, a sort of grand prix mode, similar to Mario Kart 
 and a time trial mode.
  In Excite Race you must go through 20 different races to achieve all the cups. This shouldn't take 
 long but it is very fun. But, in this mode, getting 1st place isn't everything, instead you must 
 earn a certain amount of stars per race. You get these stars by getting huge air, destroying another 
 truck, dodging through trees, drifting for a long period of time, crashing and getting 1st, 2nd, 
 3rd, or 4th place. This is a neat spin on your standard racer because players must focus on doing 
 other things throughout the race rather than just get ahead of the other cars. The time trial mode 
 will be a simple race to different checkpoints before your time runs out.
  One of the most interesting features of Excite Truck is the way you can change your enviornments. 
 By driving through little exclamation points on certain parts of the map, the terrain will suddenly 
 change, which you can use to create jumps for yourself, or toss trucks up into the air. This feature 
 is very innovative and a welcome addition to a racing game.
  All in all this is a great racing game with some new innovations that are really great, but the 
 controls are a bit too sensitive at first and the time trial mode is pretty standard.
  
  The graphics in Excite Truck are easily the best graphics of any Wii game. The trucks look very 
 cool and have a shine effect on them and the enviornments look great too and are varied. The textures 
 for the most part look great, but from time to time there are a few low-resolution textures. Also, 
 despite how many objects and cars are in a given enviornment, the feeling of speed in Excite Truck 
 is relentless, there's no drops in frame rate that I've noticed.
  
  The sound effects in Excite Truck are perfect. the Wii Remote sound effects are the best of any 
 game that I've played and all the sound effects are, in general, amazing. But, the music is what 
 really takes away from the experience, it just sounds like random chords being played on an electric 
 guitar and there's only one or two tracks, both that sound pretty much exactly the same.
  
  While it won't take long to beat the Excite Race mode or the time trial mode, Excite Truck allows 
 you to access any of the maps you want at any time and has a split screen multiplayer mode. But, 
 the main feature that will keep people's attention is collecting more trucks. You get more trucks 
 by getting more achievements. You get more achievements by getting five-star air, drifts and truck 
 smashes. But the Excite Race and time trial might be a little too short (it will probably take 
 6 hours total.)
  
  Excite Truck is an awesome launch game for the Wii, and despite minor problems in all departments, 
 Excite Truck is still a very innovative racer and has some pretty good production values. All in 
 all, Excite Truck is one of the most fun games on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Normally, Im not a fan of racing games, but Excite Truck is very sweet. Because of the unique control 
 system that the Wii remote provides makes a game genre I normally dont play, into a game that is 
 a great way to leave a few minutes in the dust here and there. This goes to show people that the 
 new way of playing games on the Wii is truly a video game innovation.
  
  Gameplay 8- Using the remote like a steering wheel is so much more entertaining that just pushing 
 the gas button and a joystick on older racing games.
  Graphics 9- as one of the first Wii games, I must say that the graphics are better than I expected. 
 Great terrain and truck details. Sound 8- realistic in terms of crashes and hitting those never-ending 
 trees.
  Value 7- this is where the game suffers. There are only 5 places to race, but between all the difficulties 
 there are 4 tracks each, making 20 tracks. I do wish that the multiplayer could have been for 4 
 people instead of 2, and having the screen split vertically (instead of horizontally) down the 
 middle can get a little annoying at times. But after everything being said, this is a great game 
 for Nintendo's new system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubeboxstation1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is one of those games that's probably worth playing only a few hours a day. It sticks 
 to the arcade racer vibe so strongly, that it almost seems like just that: an arcade game. With 
 it's lack of content, it is hard to play this game on one sitting for so long, unless it is your 
 first time playing.
  
  Game play wise, Excite Truck is a really enjoyable, and at times, addictive, game. The option of 
 putting your own music into the game adds extra replay value, as well. Two player races are also 
 exciting to play with friends, but can become weary just after a couple of matches. Don't expect 
 an all out competition with this game, as this game seems to be based on it's fun factor rather 
 than it's competitiveness.
  
  Overall, this game is not worth it's $50 asking price, and should be rented first before deciding 
 to buy or not. Nonetheless, it's a decent game that can be fun if you're not expecting too much 
 from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  the original game (excite bike) has absolutly no relationship to excite truck, other than the first 
 one in both games. they both are incredibly fun. the only letdown i had with this game was that 
 they didn't have excite bikes in it at all. this game has replay value like smash bros. even if 
 you beat a level, did you get S rank?
  
  this game really holds true to most nintendo games, all, semi kiddie fun. it really works out in 
 a game about monster trucks. attemting to unlock all cars (and trophies) is just hard enough, so 
 you can do it. but it'll take a while.
  
  if you have a wii and want an easy pick up and play game. i strongly suggest you introduce excite 
 truck to your wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artcantravel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Excite truck does a great job of making you feel like you are really driving on the edge. Make 
 no mistake; this is not some rally simulator. Far from it, Excite Truck is the run and gun shooter 
 of the rally world. The extreme hang time, 360 stunts, long drifts, and great feeling of speed 
 all add to the experience. The handling of the cars seems sluggish and some might question Nintendo's 
 choice, using the Wii remote as the steering wheel, but it adds to the chaos that the driver feels 
 as he is tearing around the track. To encourage you to drive even more recklessly, the restart 
 time after a spectacular crash is minimal and you are treated to a substantial amount of nitrous 
 without overheating your engine. The game is not very lengthy like Gran Tourismo, or Forza, but 
 it is highly enjoyable. It is at least worth renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nghtcrwlr821
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It's a must have Wii title and though there may not be much replay value and 
 it does get repetitive, it's still a really fast and really fun racing game. The game controls 
 different than any other racing game out there. You hold the Wii remote horizontally and tilt it 
 from side to side to turn your car. Pressing any of the d-pad buttons kick in the turbo. One cool 
 thing that I've got to mention is that you've got infinite turbo but if you use it too much your 
 truck will overheat, so you've got to use it wisely and watch what your doing. The 2 button is 
 your gas and the 1 button is your brake.
  
  After your forced to play a short tutorial that teaches you all the basics you get thrown into 
 one of the most hectically fun racing games you'll ever play. It's hard to believe that this game 
 is faster (and sometimes more fun) than Burnout. It's sense of speed will have you on the edge 
 of your seat from start to about half way through. That's the biggest problem with Excite Truck. 
 It loses it's personality after you complete Excite mode. After that they force you to get an S 
 ranking on every track to continue. This is were the repetition sets in. You'll constantly retry 
 the same track over and over and over again as you disparately try to get just enough stars to 
 get that S ranking. Another problem with the game is that there aren't that many tracks and after 
 you've completed the default difficulty you've pretty much seen everything that the games offers. 
 The games sound is really repetitive as well. There is only one song to the whole game and it replays 
 itself constantly and sounds terrible. Luckily if you've got an SD memory card with music on it 
 then Excite Truck will allow you to play those instead of forcing you to listen to the terrible 
 default music. But if your not able to do that then I would suggest you just go to the options 
 and turn the music off and save yourself some pain.
  
  The graphics in Excite Truck are pretty good. The trucks themselves are shiny and look great. The 
 water effects are also great and so is the dirt (as crazy as that sounds) . The motion blur effect 
 is one of the best parts of the game. It's better than Burnouts in my opinion and the games overall 
 sense of speed and huge air makes the game feel crazy and like your losing control of your truck.
 
  
  But there is an upside. If you can take some frustration and some repetition then you might feel 
 obligated to unlock all the paint jobs and trucks in the game. And let me tell you, there are a 
 lot of them. If Excite Truck had more tracks then the game wouldn't be as repetitive as it is. 
 Excite Truck is a great game that every Wii owner should check out and it is one of the must own 
 Wii games despite all it's problems. Some may lose interest in it after there done with Excite 
 mode that lasts roughly 4 to 5 hours. But if you want to unlock everything and can handle some 
 good ol' repetition then you'll be playing this game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the wii library. The wii askes that you hold your wii mote like 
 a steering wheel. The game has a bit of a learning curve at first, you might over turn for a while 
 but when you get the hang of it driving with the Wii Mote becomes second nature. When playing well 
 the games fells like an out of control roller coaster... But there are olmost no extras and the 
 multiplayer is not what you will think it is.. Only you and your opponet race each other.. not with 
 computers...
  The A. I. On the game is very good..
  You will useually finish in 3rd or 4th, but you dont to finish first to win
  You have to get 
 a scertent amount os stars to move on to the next coursse
  I give Excite Truck a 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  So excite truck is a spinoff to N64 great Exicebike. Much like Exicte bike. You it will be a racing 
 but racing is not the foucus. It's collecting stars. Now i know that sounds pretty dreadfulll but 
 however it's fun, you have a certin amount of stars to collect every level and there are 4 to 5 
 tracks per level. And Every race your oppenents race harder and just get better. You get stars 
 by getting 1st (50 stars) 2cd (35 stars) and 3rd (20 stars) And thin air, drifting, spinning, smashing 
 other cars, crashing, And going near trees with out hitting one. The game has a great use of the 
 wii-moat. You obviously hold your controller side-ways and steer while holding 1. But to spin you 
 shake your wii remote, in the air and you can tilt you wii remote up and down for more or less 
 air. But the big problem of exicte truck is there isn't much to play after the main meadals (about 
 20 races) . No online no and 4 player. They have mini games but you can beat those fast.
  Final verdict. Rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a fun, and obviousely exciting, game. In most racing games, your goal would be 
 to finish in 1st, but Excite Truck isn't like most racing games. Before each race, you're given 
 a goal of how many stars you need to complete the race. You can score stars by ...
  
  Drifting, an average drift will probably get you three stars. Any more than that and you'll probably 
 veer off the road. [Max of 5 stars]
  Air, pretty self-explainable. The higher you go and the longer you stay up there, the more are 
 you'll get. [Max of 5 stars]
  Truck Smash, when you ram someone elses truck, it won't go unnoticed. Based on the severity of 
 the smash, you'll earn stars for it. [Max of 5 stars]
  Truck Throw, when you morph the turrain (will be explained later) if trucks are on the area currently 
 being morphed, in some situations they'll go spinning out of control. This earns you stars. [Max 
 of 5 stars]
  Nice Crash, sometimes when you crash, the computer will give you a 'nice crash' star. Again, pretty 
 self-explanatory. [1 Star Per Nice Crash]
  Tree Runs, when you hit a tree, you crash. When you avoid a tree, you get tree run stars. Avoid 
 consecutive trees to earn more stars. [Max of 5 Stars]
  Rings, sometimes Terrain Morphs put gray circles in front of you, drive through these circles to 
 earn a star for each one. [Max of 5 stars]
  
  There are also a few items on the field that may help you through the races, here are a few examples 
 ...
  
  Power Logo, when you drive over a power logo you're truck becomes able to withstand hitting trees, 
 so take advantage of it and drive through those clumps.
  Terrain Morph Logo, when you drive over one of these, the terrain in front of you will morph to 
 your advantage.
  
  You also get a certain amount of stars for where you place (just so it's not completely irrelavent) . 
 You get 50 for placing first, 25 for placing second, 15 for third, 10 for forth, 5 for fifth, and 
 0 for sixth.
  
  But enough about stars, how about the controls? In Excite Truck, you hold the Wii Remote in a horizontal 
 position. You tilt it left and right, to steer in those directions. The 2 button is to accelerate, 
 while the 1 button is the brakes. Any direction on the d-pad will give you a turbo boost.
  
  Graphically, this game has it's ups and downs. More often than not, the ground will look pretty 
 great graphically. But during an awkward turn, or weird crash, you may notice some weird views 
 that you'd more expect from a Nintendo 64 game. Luckily, there aren't any noticeable problems with 
 framerate which is key for a racing game.
  
  There are a few noticeable things in the game that don't really make sense. First of all, tree 
 runs are far too easy. If you avoid two trees you'll probably get three stars, I don't get it. 
 To get a reasonable drift seems too easy as well. To balance it out though, air is pretty well 
 done. It's not as easy as it looks to get super air (five star air) . And sometimes when you respawn 
 (after crashing) around a different truck, it'll make you respawn practically under the truck and 
 counts it as another crash.
  
  Sound-wise, it's a love or hate situation. If you're looking for vocals then you'll be up the creek 
 because all it is is instrumental rock. One plus, is that if you have mp3 files on your SD card, 
 you can have your own personal soundtrack in the game. Hence the love or hate situation. (Also 
 if you have a USB slot on your PC, you can buy an adaptor for around $10 at your local Staples)
 
  
  Excite Truck as a whole will provide you with a fun gaming experience, but you may want to think 
 twice before dishing out $50 for it. Ultimately it will leave gamers with a split decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blast to play........ For 15 minutes. The controls work very well, and the level 
 of adrenaline and excitement that each race generates is just amazing. The way that each race had 
 me on the edge of my seat to collect a few more points while at the same time pass the car in front 
 of me, reminded me of the Gamecube's F-Zero GX. The controls feel unexpectedly responsive, and 
 while I felt that I was always in control, there was the perfect amount of craziness and instability 
 that made it more fun than the average racing game. So in terms of gameplay, this game definitely 
 succeeds. This game also heavily impressed me with the graphics as well. After playing through 
 Rayman Raving Rabids and Red Steel, I wasn't expecting much in the visuals department for the Wii, 
 but Excite Truck really surprised me. The water and course effects are spectacular, and the trucks 
 have a nice glint to them that adds greatly to the realism. Where this game went above and beyond 
 for me, though, was in the backgrounds. You will be flying high through the air in this game for 
 a great amount of time, so the backdrops for each of the courses was important. The thrill of soaring 
 over the Great Wall of China with an immense forest surrounding me, or gliding over an iceberg 
 in Finland with the Ocean expanding all around was an unmatched thrill for me in any video game............. 
 Having said all that, this fun lasts for a grand total of about 15 minutes, no exhaggeration, and 
 because of this I can't rate it higher than a 5.5. Honestly, it is like a really nice tech demo 
 and nothing more. The racing is fun, but there is absolutely nothing about the game that makes 
 me want to go back and play after the first 10-15 races, and because of this, I most definitely 
 can't give this game a passing review. Very disappointing. The sound effects in the game are all 
 passable, but the background music is very straightforward and boring. This is the first of two 
 areas that I am referring to when I say that it just seems like an easily fixable mistake. I don't 
 understand why the developers didn't include a more interesting choice of music, or any variety 
 at all for that matter. It doesn't necessarily hurt the game experience, but it definitely would 
 have helped it. The second unforgivable failure of this game is the lack of track variety. There 
 are about nineteen or twenty courses in the game, but they are all based on four or five locations. 
 Why? It would have improved the game immensly if all twenty tracks were different and unique. I 
 don't understand this move at all, and I wish I had an answer as to why it is this way. My guess 
 is that the developers were rushing to get the game out by launch day, but even so, it confuses 
 me. Oh well. I think a greater variety of races would have helped the game, but it gets so boring 
 after a while that I have a feeling that it was doomed from the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevendawg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has a nice solid single player but unfortunately it lacks sourses... There's realy only 
 a few differnt areas, they just change it around to make many tracks. There's no story mode at 
 all, you just race and try to obtain stars by winning, stunting, big airs, ramming, ect. The star 
 system works great but can seem a little dull at time. Unfortutaly there is also a lame cash system 
 in this game, when you crash they make you press 2 repeatedly and then you spawn in and get a trubo. 
 It would have been much better if you just re-spawned or can keep driving with some type of damage 
 system. Multi-player is there but it is very lame. I wish they would've kept the A. I. in the race, 
 with just 2 people there is not enough action. Online-Play would've also been perfect for this 
 game but that's not possible yet so you can't blame them for that. It's the best racing game on 
 the Wii and something worth considering but it's nowhere near a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rossuron
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I got my Wii on launch and Excite Truck came with it. That in itself is the only reason why I own 
 the game. However, for a launch game of a new system it isn't all that bad. I mean I find myself 
 playing it slightly more than some other Wii games just because of its insane over-the-top style. 
 Sure some of it doesn't look too great or even function properly 110% of the time but it is truly 
 good enough to play. It has a good sense of speed paired with breath taking jumps that get you 
 massive air. The controls are simple once mastered however; it is mastering them that can be slightly 
 tricky. Controlling your car could make you distant from this game but if you stick with it, the 
 game will be worth either the rental investment or the deal with it packaged with your Wii. I can't 
 see myself buying this in the store if it was $55 or more because I don't really play these types 
 of games that much. But if you have a Wii and are looking for some sort of a challenge, Excite 
 Truck will give it to you for a weekend or a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Point_Blank
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The controls handle pretty well as long as you don't oversteer it works nicely. The controls button 
 wise are extremely simple. 2 buttons are used mainly during gameplay. 2 for gas and down on the 
 D-pad for turbo. There is a reverse but you will rarely find yourself using it. The graphics are 
 good but I saw i tiny bit of slowdown with the framerate. The gameplay is a bit unfair to the player. 
 The AI will often catch up with you with no problem. Some races are kinda hard to score an S rank 
 on but I only found 2. Other than that there is a lot of things to unlock but mostly you are awarded 
 with a mere trophy. There are not very many trucks to unlock, But once I unlocked the truck called 
 Alpine it was pretty much the only one I used through the rest of the game. The whole race revolves 
 around stars. Each race requires a certain amount of stars in a number of laps along with a time 
 limit. You can play your own music off an SD card. Sound is pretty clear and you get a sound effect 
 on your Wii-mote every time you do a super anything. Overall it is a fast paced Burnout type offroad 
 racer. It is worth the money if you dont exxpect a whole lot of trucks, awards, or anything really 
 rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  The Wii controller is used wonderfully in this game. Essentially the remote becomes a steering 
 wheel which you use to steer and otherwise control your truck. It's fun, it's challenging and it's 
 addictive.
  
  The problem with the game is that there just isn't much to it. Just a few levels, a few trucks, 
 and about 3 modes. It's just not worth $50. The graphics are ok, but no game for the Wii seems 
 capable of using the Wii's power. Also the sound is ok but really simplistic and much of it is 
 just recycled sounds.
  
  Overall, the game is good, but there isn't enough in the package to warrant a $50 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torrent_of_fire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm not even going to go into depther here. Visually, the game is impressive. The game plays 
 like a dream, it's fun, it's fast, and it's worth every single penny. It's a great launch game.
 
  
  The only, ONLY let down is the music. The music is bad, but they make up for it by allowing you 
 to upload your own sonds to your SD card and play that while you race.
  
  The only thing that could've made this game better is online capabilities.
  
  This is, hands 
 down, the best racing game I've ever played.
  
  You can spend hours racing, unlocking new trucks and paintjobs, completing challenges and racing 
 in multiplayer. It's just plain fun. And it looks good to boot. Possibly one of the best looking 
 game on the Wii at launch.
  
  Now on to my rant about this reviewer, and I hope he reads this.
  
  You have no idea what is 
 fun and what isn't. You can't tell a good game from a bad one. This game is amazing. It's fun, 
 and it's in NO WAY deserving of a 6 out of 10.
  
  It's becoming increasingly obvious to me that this reviewer is the essence of bad judgement and 
 needs to rethink some of his scores. I let his 8.5 for Zelda slide, a little, I felt a 9.5 or 9.75 
 was more deserving, but there is no reason for such a gross understatement for such an amazing 
 and fun game.
  
  It's poinless, and it's stupid.
  
  Much like his reviews.
  
  Oh, and it feels nothing like a tech demo game. It feels full and finely tuned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot is wrong. There's no other way to put it. Excite Truck is an incredibly fun experience, 
 especially for the launch of a unique new console. The graphics are especially impressive. Every 
 car in the game looks gorgeous, and when it's raining, you can see a wet sheen on the vehicles 
 that reflects the environments around them. The gameplay is near perfect, and really makes this 
 game stand out as probably the best racing game I have ever played. The races are fast, intense, 
 and just plain fun. The sound isn't quite at the level of the graphics and gameplay, but it serves 
 its purpose. Most of it is wailing guitar music. Ok, well now that all of that stuff is out of 
 the way, I can get down to the features of the game. The thing that stands apart most about the 
 game is that you tilt the wiimote from side to side to steer your car, a fun and uber-intuitive 
 way to play. it works perfectly. every race you can expect to launch your car off of massive jumps 
 and get that feeling in your stomach like you're going down a hill on a roller coaster. the sense 
 of speed is great as well, and it werves to immerse you further in the experience. In conclusion, 
 this game is gorgeous, fast, hard-hitting fun that should not be missed by anyone who likes an 
 over the top race. the extras make for decent diversions, the races are so fun that i can see myself 
 going back to play them one or two years from now, and the multiplayer, despite what you've heard, 
 is NOT BAD. it is a shame that it only supports two players though. If you are a racing fan or 
 even an action game fan, you really should give Excite Truck a try. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  ExciteTruck is an interesting concept. You play it by holding the Wii Remote in retro form, meaning 
 like an NES controller, and you tilt the Wii Remote left or right to turn. Also, when going off 
 jumps, you can tilt it forward or backward to go lower or higher. Neat.
  On the outside, this game looks like your basic pick-up-and-play launch title. Oddly enough, it's 
 actually deeper than that. This game features two main career modes, a Challenge mode, a Multiplayer 
 mode, over 20 trucks to race in, goodness knows how many tracks, and the game actually keeps track 
 of how many times you get things like Super Air, Super Truck Smash, etc.
  The point of the game isn't to win, but to get the most stars by doing tricks. Granted, winning 
 gives you an extra 50 stars, but along the way you'll need to do things like catch big air, drift 
 a lot, smash up other trucks, and take many risks to get as many stars as possible. Add that element 
 to extremely fast-paced racing and you get ExciteTruck.
  You'll hardly take the time to notice the graphics, mostly because you'll be zipping by everything, 
 but if you do, you'll notice that there's a high level in detail in every truck, every hill, every 
 rock, et cetera. It's only when you're going like Mach 2 when everything blurs. But going at Mach 
 2 is fun, right?
  As for music, Monster Games added a few custom rock tracks to the game, and they're mostly lame. 
 Fortunately, if you have a SD card with music on it, you can use that to upload your own music 
 to the game. Holy Thunderforce in Scotland, anyone?
  The Challenge and Multiplayer modes are very lacking. Challenge mode has you doing things like 
 going through every ring or passing through every gate, those just aren't fun at all. The Versus 
 mode has a slightly-stripped-down version of the main single player mode. In the SP mode, if you 
 crash, you can rapidly press the 2 button to get a free boost of speed. That's gone in the Versus 
 mode. Also, since it's just the two of you racing, it doesn't feel very... exciting.
  Don't worry, the Excite and Super Excite modes more than make up for everything bad in the game. 
 It just leaves a feeling of wanting more when you're all done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics-The graphics on this game are some of the best to date for the Wii
  the water and the refelction of the area around you in your truck are really nice
  and everything 
 just looks really well.
  
  Gameplay- now the touche controlls might turn you off at first but you realize once you get the 
 hang of it it makes for a very intense game espcially on the multiplayer with power ups and stuff 
 on the track it has a slight MarioKart feel.
  
  Sound- The sounds in the game are what you would excpet everything to sound like with the exception 
 of when you get a power up but those sounds add to the choas of the game Music-The music in the 
 game is very Heavy Metal like and fits the game's intestity and choatoic feel very nicely
  
  Extras- there are alot of new vihicles to unlock on the game so it should keep you busy for 
 a little while .
  
  The only thing hurting this game is that it's kinda on the short side
  but it's a racing game 
 and will hold tons of replay value escpially if you have freinds to play it with. On a personal 
 note I don't like to many racing games and when I tried this out at a friends house I knew I had 
 to have it.
  
  This should be at the top of any Wii owners list of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to call this game anything other than fun. I'd recommend this game to just about anyone 
 and here's why:
  
  The graphics aren't anything super special to look at but I'd still rank them above most Gamecube 
 games, and they get the job done. The motion blur is also worth mentioning; it really contributes 
 to the sense of speed in the game. The speed factor is what really makes this game worth playing, 
 too. It's fast, crazy action that you really feel like you're in the middle of. The wiimote is 
 just the perfect medium to accomplish the whole immersion side of things too. All in all I'd say 
 this game, while not the best out there for the Wii, is still definitely worth picking up if you've 
 got the means to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's Excite Truck can be pretty enjoyable. You can choose your truck and its color, The tracks 
 look good, and the best thing about it is the turbo stuff. Going Turbo in the air while going through 
 rings just looks and seems cool. These are all great things about Excite Truck. So I guess that 
 means its a good game? Well Kinda. There are some bad things about it. You will find yourself constantly 
 running into trees. It is kinda frustrating but at the same time easy. I wouldn't be surprised 
 if you found yourself in first or secound place during most of the race and as you have heared 
 there is no four player mode. Thats Bad. Jeff was right this game is more like a tech demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuineaPig255
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This whole game can be summed up in one word: Exciting. You'll have a blast as you race over 20 
 tracks with your choice of an amazing truck. The jumps are simply crazy! The point is not to get 
 first place, but to gather enough stars to pass the level. You have to get air, spins, truck smashes, 
 and drifts to collect enough stars. This title gives you solid gameplay that is fun and addictive. 
 The graphics are amazing featuring about 6 or 7 countries to race in. This game can last you 10 
 hours. That might be the only problem so you might want to rent it first. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 8/10: The environment and colour customization for the trucks are very well designed . 
 When in the game , if you hit an explanation mark parts of the environment would change from a 
 flat piece of ground to a huge hill you get to fly off of and land into a pack of trees ! Gameplay 
 9/10: The controls take a while to adjust to ( id recommend buy the wheel) the controller after 
 all is pretty small and might not be comfortable for gamers with big hands. useing the 1@2 buttons 
 and d-pad for boosts , its great having that first time you nail a tight curve . Sound 8/10 : The 
 sounds on the engine's are great except for one thing ... most of them sound the same .. i believe 
 they should of givin different models of trucks different sounds in the engine make it feel that 
 much more realistic .. Though it sounds incredible
  
  Overall: As a first raceing game for the wii i give this game a well deserved rating in my books 
 . Its obviously better then the others ( need for speed: carbon come on ) I had a blast with this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penamat
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay. Excite Truck for the Wii was one of Nintendo's launch titles for the Wii. This game is great 
 to show what the Wii has in that remote. By simply tilting the Wii mote, you steer your truck. 
 The object of the game is to finish the race with the most stars. Stars are the reward for stunts, 
 such as crashing your truck, or blasting through rings. Finishing first does not ensure victory. 
 You must meet the star requirement in order to pass the level. Finshing first simply means you 
 collect more stars than you would being second. This makes the game different by taking a turn 
 toward demolition, rather thab the usual mindless speed, and being first. This game does have some 
 faults. First of all its too short. Way too short, you could finish it, playing it non-stop in 
 four hours. Once you get the hang of it its kind of easy. And unlockables are virtually effortless 
 to collect. Youll unlock them as you play through the regular difficulty level. Oh well. On the 
 bright side multiplayer is awesome, and you will get a kick out of performing stunts. Really worth 
 my money, but you might wanna wait for the Players Choice . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrperson1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  first and foremost i must say this is an awesome launch title.
  
  its a good pick up game. racing becomes 2nd nature due to the wiimote. however the stunts can take 
 a few tries.
  
  the graphics in the game in my opinion are pretty nice. then again i havent played a console game 
 since devil may cry on the ps2.
  
  the trucks are neat and the backgroun well at sometimes blurry due to all the speed :) is quite 
 cinematic.
  
  the music in the game leaves something to desire. however this being one of the only titles on 
 the wii at the moment that allows you to port mp3s on an sd card into the game. so that makes up 
 for that there.
  
  i recommend you get some of the tutorials and the stunts down and race the bronze medal/cup area 
 a few times before really moving on. the best part is that you can unlock new trucks with different 
 abilities well static wise. some grip better some get better speed. etc
  
  im really having a great time with it myself.
  
  if your looking for something fun and fast 
 this is a perfect pickup game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehype16
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is a fun smah up offroad racing game, where winning isn't eveything. You need to collect 
 Points to unlock stuff and get higher levels when racing. the ways to get points are to do crazy 
 stunts or collect things on the map via driving through them, and my favorite smashing cars up 
 or off the road.
  
  The graphics:
  The visuals were pretty clear and clean and nice even, they suited the game well. I liked the land 
 visuals especially driving on that cliff at the side of the ocean.
  
  The Controls:
  I loved the wii mote controls for Excite Truck but at first they may seem a little sensitive but 
 you definitely get used to it. You hold the wiimote sideways with the dpad adjacent to your left 
 hand. You hold the wiimote and tilt it in the direction you want to go and to accelerate use the 
 A button.
  when you crash tap 2 fast and your car explodes and you start off with turbo, which is a big help 
 alot of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: old_school24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Exite truck is definately worth playing by any racer fan, or any gamer in general. This game is 
 like burnout but with HUGE jumps and crashes, so people looking for high speen racing with huge 
 jumps and crashes - this is a perfect game for you. The only probems i found with this game was:
 
  
  1- it was way to short.
  2- sometimes the controls were a little wierd. (ex. if the room is very bright the turnong messes 
 up)
  
  But other than those two problems, this game was great, and its definatly a must have for any racer 
 fans.
  
  -Old_school24
  
  
    
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I have this subconscious habit of playing racing games while tilting myself along with the controller 
 left or right according to the turns I make. Yeah, I know it doesn't help the vehicle turn, but 
 yet there I am on the edge of my seat, leaning to one side or another. Looks like now I found a 
 really good excuse for doing that in Excite Truck.
  
  Excite Truck is an arcade-style racer, where you race through a series of off-road courses with 
 dynamic terrain.
  
  To control your truck, you hold the Wii Remote sideways and use it as a steering wheel. Tilt it 
 left or right to turn, use Button 1 as your brakes and Button 2 as the gas. It's very simple to 
 use, and everyone can pick it up and race right away, even someone who has never played a videogame 
 before, my father-in-law included (he had no problems hopping right into a race) .
  
  It takes a bit getting used to to find out how much to tilt the remote to turn properly, but it's 
 not that big of a problem. Besides, the game offers a series of short tutorials ranging from basic 
 to advanced so you can get used to the game.
  
  More advanced controls include the D-pad for turbo boosts, tilting the remote back to get more 
 air time and tilting it forward to get all four wheels to land at the same time. You can also turn 
 your truck and control it (to a certain point) during air time. Why is this important? Because 
 these little stunts are what get you stars to accumulate the score you need to pass each race. 
 So, to summarize it, here are the moves that get you stars: air time, drifts, racing close to trees, 
 turning while in the air, consecutive jumps, crashing into opponents, crashing on your own (it's 
 only one star, but still) , driving through rings and tossing your opponents in the air with the 
 dynamic terrain.
  
  Now this is where you ask, what is this dynamic terrain you keep talking about? ... While racing, 
 you will come across certain power-ups. One of them gives you a speed boost and makes you invincible 
 for a little while (you will hear sirens when it happens) allowing you to go through trees. The 
 other is represented by an exclamation mark, and it changes the course. Sometimes the flat path 
 ahead of you becomes sided by hills, other times a series of puddles appears, and many times the 
 ground will raise forming a ramp to launch you high up in the air. I particularly like watching 
 the ramps form, since you sometimes see other vehicles being knocked off or lose control while 
 the terrain rises. And no, AI opponents can't collect these power-ups.
  
  All these track alterations keep you on your toes, and allow for use and abuse of your truck's 
 powers . For example, abuse the turbo while racing through puddles, since you don't overheat. Use 
 the turbo as you jump off a ramp for extra stars, then do a perfect landing for even more stars. 
 And get used to doing these last two, cause you will need them to win. You get bonus stars when 
 finishing the race as well, but only if you are one of the first three to cross the finish line.
 
  
  When you crash (and you will, because the game gets that hectic) a meter shows up and you have 
 to press 2 as quick as possible to get back on track with a turbo boost, so you don't lag behind 
 too much.
  
  The game offers three modes of gameplay. In Excite Mode you go through series of races around the 
 world, from deserts to tropical islands and ice floes, and unlock more races and vehicles as you 
 win. This is where you will spend most of your time in.
  
  In Challenge Mode, there are three mini-games where you can test your driving skills by flying 
 through scoring rings, smashing other cars and a sort of checkpoint race. In Versus Mode, you can 
 race against a friend in split-screen, but that's as far as multiplayer goes. I would expect at 
 least a four-player split-screen race.
  
  Graphically, I enjoy the look of the game. It's bright and colorful, the different areas of the 
 world are well represented in landscape and weather. The soundtrack reflects the fast-paced rhythm 
 of the game, but if you want something else, you can always use your own MP3s by inserting an SD 
 card onto the Wii and changing the sound options. The sound effects are pretty good too, and some 
 of it reminds me of SSX, during big jumps, where you can hear the wind and the music fades out. 
 It's really cool.
  
  Keep in mind this is not supposed to be a realistic experience though, and I think that is why 
 I like it so much. The races are completely crazy, chaotic, fast and a lot of fun.
  
  Unfortunately, the major downside of the game is the lack of a real multiplayer mode, which is 
 a shame, since the system has online capabilities. But Excite Truck is a strong launch title for 
 the Wii, and it does lay good grounds for more Excite Trucks ahead, and that sounds pretty exciting 
 to me!
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=excitetruck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bret_Hart
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I rented Excite Truck from my local video store a couple of days ago. I was looking to rent Rayman: 
 Raving Rabbids instead, but they were all out. Excite Truck looked okay to me, so I decided to 
 try it out. Excite Truck is a game that would not work on any console available but the Wii in 
 terms of addictive gameplay. Just holding the Wii Remote to control the truck feels great. The 
 controls are responsive and the gameplay is fluid. The directions given in the game to pull off 
 some of the tricks are not as clear as I would like them to be, but this doesn't ruin the experience 
 in any way. The gameplay works as you would think; You turn the Wii Remote to its side and use 
 it as if it were a steering wheel. The 1 and 2 buttons come into play, with the 2 button being 
 used for gas and the 1 button being used to brake on land and perform tricks in the air. That's 
 about all you need to know to get into this game. The controls are really great. However, Excite 
 Truck does have its share of flaws. Sometimes, the turning can be off and not be as responsive 
 as you would want it to be. This doesn't occur a lot, but it is something that should be noted. 
 Another problem with Excite Truck exists in terms of features and unlockables. While it's nice 
 that you get trophies for some of the feats that you perform in a race, their just aren't enough 
 unlockables and not enough to keep you coming back. This weakness, however, is counteracted with 
 the multiplayer in Excite Truck. While it doesn't have online, Excite Truck's multiplayer mode 
 can be loads of fun. I constantly found myself shouting Pow! in order to reach a power up in Excite 
 Truck which makes you invulnerable to everything (but rocks and such) for a limited amount of time. 
 The multiplayer really gets you involved, and you'll have loads of fun playing with a friend. In 
 conclusion, Excite Truck is the type of game to get if you have someone else to experience it with. 
 It's the type of game that you would play for fun. It falls in the category of unlockable features, 
 but excels in terms of having a good time and wanting to come back and play it again. Excite Truck 
 is a solid launch title, and a great effort for one of the first racing games on the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck
  1 player with a 2 player versus mode
  Developed/ Published by Monster Games/ Nintendo
  Rated E for Everyone
  
  Pros:
  + Insanely 
 fast, with crazy jumps and plenty of air-time
  + Altering the terrain by hitting powerups is simply great + Points are based off of different 
 things you do such as crashing into other trucks, running through trees, etc. and in this game 
 your goal is not to necessarily win the race but rather accumulate the required number of points 
 also shown as stars in the game.
  + There are 6 competitors (including yourself) per race and you get an extra bonus of stars/points 
 depending on where you finish (1st = 50 stars, 2nd = 25 stars, etc) .
  + One of the better looking Wii games graphically. Tornados, ships breaking through Ice, it all 
 looks incredible.
  + Using the Wiimote for the steering is very intuitive and natural but does take some getting used 
 to (no different than getting used to a steering wheel really though) . The main thing with the 
 wiimote is you have to get used to moving it back to the neutral position to keep the vehicle straight. 
 It takes some practice but it becomes a matter of reflex eventually.
  + The game is setup with different levels; Excite, Super Excite and each consist of different levels 
 of Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, etc. The scheme of how you play is very akin to Mariokart with 
 the 50cc, 100cc, etc.
  + There's roughly 20 tracks. Many are set in the same location but the tracks themselves are very 
 different.
  
  Cons:
  - 2 player versus is a bit simple and could have been better
  - Getting S rank on some tracks is really difficult but is required on all courses to unlock the 
 next level (Example: To get to Super Excite you have to beat all the courses in Excite with an 
 S rank)
  - Could use more than 6 opponents
  - Online Wifi would have been great for this game, if even possible with the altering terrain.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Excite Truck is a great arcade racer. If you're looking for simulation-racing like 
 GT then Excite Truck is not what you're looking for. If on the other-hand your looking for a fast-paced, 
 pick up and play, racer then this game is perfect for you. No boring setting up setups for 5 hours 
 type scenerios here, this game is all about having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexJesus90
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  The game is a fast pace, crazy pace, and intense pace game. I am not for one of racing games but 
 this game makes me feel as if I am in the drivers seat. The graphics are better than regular xbox 
 but not as good as xbox 360. So I hope you have a picture of what the game looks like. There are 
 alot of crashing and the impacts are good. This was my first game I bought because I played the 
 Demo in EB Games. There are a lot of goals to complete in the game and makes you want to play until 
 you get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Space1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck is the latest game in a series that began on the Nintendo Entertainment System in 
 the form of Excitebike. Excite Truck is an over the top truck racing game with no regard for realism, 
 part of what makes the game so much fun. Whether its soaring through rings in the sky or flying 
 a mile above the ground over going off a jump the game always maintains its high octane feel.
 
  
  Excite Truck may not have been even half the game it is if it was not for the controls. You hold 
 the Wii remote on its side and twist it to turn your truck. Acceleration and boosting are controlled 
 b two buttons. Also by manipulating the controller you can shorten or lengthen air time or even 
 perform aerial spins in order to gain extra stars which are necesary for winning the races. The 
 controls take some getting used to but once you do they feel very natural and fun.
  
  Winning the races is not a matter of getting in first, you have to accumulate a certain number 
 of stars in order to advance. You get stars by drifting, performing stunts and getting big air 
 among other things. If you get more stars than neccesary you may even get an S rank and unlock 
 new trucks.
  
  The courses are very fun to play through. You have the standard desert, ice, and forest courses 
 but they are highly interactive and fun to dive through. You can pick up power ups that alter the 
 environment, though they mostly just create jumps for you to go off of.
  
  The graphics are slightly above average but one thing does stand out, the sense of speed which 
 is nothing short of incredible. You really feel like you are hurtling down the courses at 70 mph. 
 The sound on the other hand dosen't fair as well. The music is lackluster at best unfortunately.
 
  
  The game is just plain fun, and while it lacks online it will still keep you busy for a very long 
 time. If you own a Wii and are looking for a good arcade racer then this is the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seshkii
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Excite truck is a fun game if you don't like real racing games. The game really has nothing to 
 do with winning, as long as you get a bunch of crashes, truck smashes, and tree runs. The points 
 are over rediculous. If your kicking ass in a race in first place the whole race, and your buddy 
 is smashing into tree's going into water and not even doing anything he'll most likley win. It's 
 all about points, the multiplayer is fun for a couple hours but then you see why the game got bad 
 ratings. Really all it is, is who can get the fastest and most points. Not racing at all more like 
 an artic or hydro thunder game. I just think they could of worked on this game a bit longer and 
 made it more of a racing game then a giant battle.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braingoo2003
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck is not a complect simulation racig game. Its a high octane flying high action sports 
 racing game. In this area it excells very well. Its very easy to play just gas and tilt the controler. 
 No need to brake. Speed is not always the name of te game here either wich I find very interesting. 
 It depends on how many stars you get not if you come in first. Although a serisous poin tbonus 
 it awarded for first place its technicaly possible to still win wihtout comming in first if done 
 correctly. The custom soundtrack feature is implimented very well and changed tracks for every 
 track. This games multiplay is also very fast and fun. Its easy to pick up and play and put back 
 down. Its a great game altogether and definatly worth checking out. Although it does feel a bit 
 simplified and could maybe use a few more cars and definatly a track editor like excite bike had. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmpastor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with the quick tutorials (you can skip them but you probably won't) to show you 
 how to use the controls. The Wii-mote is held sideways and you accelerate with the 2 button and 
 brake with the 1 button (I hardly ever use the brake) . The D-pad is used to boost your speed. Thats 
 the basic controls.
  
  Youll zip through the tutorials in no time due to the simplicity of most of the stunts. Some stunts 
 are a challenge (doing a 360 was simple compared to doing a 720 air stunt) . It is definitely simple 
 but also challenging at the same time. The simplicity of most stunts keeps this game interesting 
 and fast-paced. Zipping through the trees (and taking them out with no damage to your truck) after 
 hitting a POW is loads of fun. The speed boost is always accessible and must be used with care. 
 Using it for too long will cause your truck to overheat and blow the engine. Thats a no no. Cooling 
 down is done simply by driving through water which is frequently found in each course.
  
  Other stunts like truck smashes, drifts (cool with the Wii-mote) , rings, are simple and fun as 
 well. One of the most exhilarating stunts is soaring through the air and tilting or spinning the 
 Wii-mote, depending on what you are going for. Soaring through the air and going through the rings 
 is even better.
  
  As you progress you will unlock new vehicles and have access to new courses. Ive played it for 
 hours and still enjoy it every time. You will always be able to come back to this game and enjoy 
 it. Even more so with a friend. nothing like smashing their truck and tossing them over cliffs.
 
  
  Great launch title and worth it the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Excite Truck for the Wii is a very enjoyable and fast game that uses the Wii remote in a very interesting 
 new way by holding it horizontally instead of vertically. In Excite Truck, you can take part in 
 a one-player tournament, as well as multiplayer races, which are especially fun. I must say, though, 
 that it definately does take some time getting used to, as it does with every other Wii game. I 
 really think it is a game worth getting. Here is my basic overview of the game: The Good: Very 
 responsive, sensitive controls that really show what the Wii is capable of doing and that also 
 make playing the game fun, A good amount of different racing courses, Many cool tricks and moves 
 your car can perform while racing, and a great, enjoyable muliplayer mode.
  
  The Bad: Not much, actually! I think the only bad thing about the game is how it is, at times, 
 repetitive. If there were maybe mini games, or just something other than just racing. Use of the 
 Wii remote: Great, and cool sound affects! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure fun folks. It just screeeeam RC Pro Am! (if you don't know that game, you are 
 missing out)
  
  I'm convinced Gamespot is scoring Wii games compared to games on OTHER next gen systems. Come on... you 
 know Wii games don't compare in terms of graphics. But fun? OH man, this game beats any PS3 game 
 anyday of the week and then the weekends too...
  
  The Controls really gets you into the game using the Wiimote as the Steering Wheel. I feel like 
 i did back in the old days of NES when games were about testing your skill and just plain old fun.
 
  
  Keep up the good work Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhailk5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Wii and you're looking for a fast passed, out of control game racing game that is 
 alot of fun then look no further than Excite Truck. This game offers awsome gameplay with the use 
 of the wiimote and its not too hard to master the controls (maybe half an hour) . In this game you 
 will drive at high speeds smash other trucks and fly hundreds of feet through the air which is 
 really fun. The graphics are look good from what I've seen it's like a high end X Box game. The 
 enviornments are realistic the little effects such as terrain changes that occur run smoothly. 
 As for the sound the games soundtrack isn't great its mainly heavy metal music, but the positive 
 is you can but your own SD card and listen to your own sondtracks from that which is awsome. The 
 game is not too challenging but it has around 10-15 hours of gamplay. One of the only negatives 
 of this game is the lousy multiplayer mode its only a one-on-one race with no CPU involved which 
 takes away from the game. Other than that this game is awsome and in my opinion it is not a waste 
 of money, so if you have the wii and are looking for a racing game Excte Truck is the game that 
 will answer your call. And on a side note tis game does not deserve all the negative feedback its 
 getting DON T LET THE REVIEWS INFLUENCE YOUR DECISION TOO MUCH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMafia
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I played on the Wii when I was trying the Wii out at a mall. Like the first 
 10 seconds it was awkward using the Wii remote but then it was easy to handle in the game. I got 
 first my first time playing. But anyhow I think the game is pretty good. It is a bit extreme and 
 the nitrous boosts and jumping but in a way its also fun. Definitely not the game if your looking 
 for realism but its fun to play. The Wii is definitely more playing around with friends oriented 
 so the games that are out right now are not for the hardcore gamers but the Wii is still fun to 
 try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzorro
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  If you think you going to get difficulty from this game you can rest assured it's pretty easy to 
 blow through takes less than 15 hours to complete all the modes. While not short it's on the light 
 side. If however you just like to pick up and play with something that isn't to complicated then 
 this is the game for you it's simple and fun in short bursts and if your looking for a long fix 
 then you better hope that you have two controllers. The multi-player aspect of the game is just 
 one which is a head to head challenge and as mentioned in the GS review there will only be 2 cars 
 no AI just you and your friend. Simple but there are some good times in this mode especially if 
 the person your facing off against has the same level of skill you do. One thing I really have 
 to mention in the music which is really bad; thankfully though the game does allow the use of your 
 own mp3 music saved on to an SD card which is quite a nice feature however one bad thing is that 
 you can only listen to your tracks while your racing and not while your scrolling through the menus. 
 Overall the game is okay while it doesn't impress with it's graphics it works surprisingly well 
 with the control scheme and if the Big N makes a sequel with more extensive options and some more 
 impressive crashes and a map editor then this game could become to Nintendo what Burnout is to 
 EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy-lasagna
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  excite truck is a game where you hold the wiimote side ways and turn it like a car wheel. its fun 
 because you can do tricks and earn points. the 3 problems about this game is 1. when you turn your 
 wiimote to the front than your car will go crazy! 2. the graphics are ok but they could've made 
 it better. 3. the sound on your wii mote can get a bit scratchy and all weird. but this game is 
 still fun. i bet that you can have lots of fun with this game. especially the multiplayer because 
 you wanna beat your friends and the game gets all hyped up suddenly, which makes the game more 
 fun to me. i recommend you to buy this game or rent it if its not your type. its a great game for 
 a party. i give it a 7.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lv44849
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  The Wii is not about having the greatest graphics. Also they are trying to get casual gamers. I 
 like the idea of turning the machine on, getting to a game quickly, get instant gratification and 
 then turn the thing off. I don't really have time to sit down and play a 70-80 hr game. Knowing 
 this fact Excitetruck fits the bill. I think the graphics are good enough for standard def. The 
 sound fits the game. The controls take a little getting use-to, but after a few laps around the 
 track you will get the hang of it. I highly recommend doing the full training in order to learn 
 how to get the most starts during a race. I do wish there was a four player version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstar1983
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Its fun, lots of new stuff never implemented in a racing game before, and its hard as hell. The 
 only thing gamespot is right about on this one is the lack of online play, which was a last minute 
 decision to get the game out the door by launch. Im just gonna keep writing words here that dont 
 need to be said so this will reach 100 words and allow me to post. yup, wrinting words, how about 
 that local sports team? arent they something? ummmm..... oh yeah the game is worth buying. shi+, 
 100 words is a lot to write for somebody whos not getting paid to write it, i've never written 
 one of these before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Hey i have played exite truck a few times and i can say it is alot of fun which is what the Wii 
 is all about. It does take some getting used to with the controles and stuff but after a couple 
 of races it is second nature. The graphics arn't that great but thats not what the Wii is about. 
 I like to changing terrin with the icons and the controlls for the truck are pretty good. They 
 are very responsive and are fun . Exite turck while an old game it is alot of fun and good for 
 anyone uit is a nice way to show off the Wiis remote contol control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoXodonte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm not an every day reviewer, I'll typically only write reviews when I feel that a huge injustice 
 has been done. In this case, I feel excite truck is pretty under rated. Now I know what you're 
 thinking.... Zelda is the best launch title. Well, in many ways you're write... but then again, since 
 it's also on gamecube, it doesn't really feel like a true blue wii launch title.
  
  Excite Truck is just plain fun. It basically feels like a me too Burnout with a LOT of hangtime. 
 It's not full featured yet, but will have enough playability to get you by until the next one comes 
 out, and I truley hope this series will have as many sequels as Burnout because it really is fun. 
 The changing environments in real time is a nice touch, and the interactive features like tornado's 
 reminds me of Rumble racing! The series has a lot of potential, but at this point, the game is 
 just plain fun. It's a 2 player trade off type game imo. Don't expect any lenghthy multiplayer 
 venture here. The graphics are the best I've seen on Wii yet. Nice textures and bluring. Maintains 
 a solid framerate even with loads of dust on the screen! It has some jaggies, but the only Wii 
 game that I haven't seen aliasing on is Wii sports.
  
  Sound is actually good. It's nice to have ONE game that isn't totally poluted by hiphop, or other 
 trendy highschooler tunes that EA likes to milk so much. A bunch of crazed trucks flying through 
 the air to some hairband guitar just works. Now uh, the sound effects seem nice from time to time, 
 but a siren could be annoying if loud enough. Wish it had more swooshes like Burnout, but overall 
 it's ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The controls in Excite Truck are what make the game as fun as it is, using the wiimote to control 
 your vehicle is a great way to show use of the wii controler for a launch title. The game is very 
 fun, as you slowly unlock cars. Online play would be a big bonus and would push my review over 
 9, but dosnt set back the game much The graphics are shiny and smooth, and the frame by frame is 
 great. One of the better looking launch titles. Sound dosn't bring much of anything special, but 
 the sfx are realistic and crashs are fun to listen too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguynamedbrad
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I was going to buy this game but I wanted to try it first. I played Excite Truck on my friends 
 Wii today and I have to say that it's good... but not great. The controls are a little difficult 
 and the race courses are extremely confusing; they're all over the place. Half the time I couldnt 
 figure out if I was going the right way or not. Definitely rent this one first. There is a good 
 selection of vehicles though. It would be a much better game if the race courses were just a little 
 bit more organized. Although, if you enjoy high-speed racing combined with huge jumps, this game 
 could be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butcherboy999
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Excite Truck for the Nintendo wii is a great game to buy when you first get a wii. It will give 
 you a good idea of how amazing the wii remote will be in the future. This game will suply you with 
 a lot of fun, but for a short period of time. After a day or two you will find that the game is 
 just too simple. Natrually, if you have somebody to play multi-player with, you will. After the 
 first lap of a multiplayer race you will regret asking your little brother to play against you. 
 Both of you will complain about how horrible the multi-player is. It is a major turn off to seriousgamers. 
 Overall, this game is just plain fun. If you get bored of one game you will want to take a break 
 and play a calmer game such as Excite Truck. This game is for the cassual gamer, most serious gamers 
 looking for good multiplayer should not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  A high impact game that has intensity and thrills on every corner of the software. The mechanics 
 on this game are furiously high paced and the sense of speed is surreal. This game brings a lot 
 of innovation to the basic racing formula and has immersive controls on top of innovative gameplay.
 
  
  It plays crisp and sharp and rarely does one run into technical errors. However the game lacks 
 some single player depth, as it is quite short of a game. It also fails to maintain a multiplayer 
 as exciting as the single player. With these flaws in mind it still manages to excel and you'll 
 find plenty of replay value inside of it. In the sense of going back and mastering the tracks and 
 challenges.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  The controls are very responsive, and after you get used to them, you wont want to return to the 
 traditional method of racing. The terrain morph is a wonderful gameplay mechanic that brings out 
 the better features of this game beautifully. Graphics - 8
  This game runs and plays beautifully and is on par with any last generation racing game. The reflections 
 and lighting all run smoothly and its quite a pretty racer. Be that as it may, it does have its 
 shortcomings however. Such as when your high in the air, the ground distorts and looks ugly in 
 certain places, and some of the trees are oversimplified.
  
  Sound - 6
  Fair enough sound effects but a terrible music selection. Tacky guitaring without much diversity 
 whatsoever. The sound track gets annoying quite swiftly to boot.
  
  Overall - 8.6
  An excellent game that touches the Wiis capabilities in a satisfying manner. However the overall 
 lack of singe player depth kills the experience in many ways, regardless its a great game and defiantly 
 worth checking out.
  
  [Updated 12.9.06]
  I raised the score to 8.6 for the following reasons, i tried super excite &amp; mirror mode and 
 they add a great layer of depth and furthermore the game is insanely addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofevilonesda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  first, it's fun and could make you want to sit down and play it for hours. Second, it's has incredible 
 gameplay because it's on the wii. Third, it's design and graphics are better than ps2 or xbox graphics. 
 as we had the up's we have the down's. the tracks are horrible. the graphics are ps2 graphics or 
 xbox graphics which i'm fine with but other people aren't. small amount of cars. no online play. 
 but either way it's still a great game and it deserves a 8. a plain fun game. it is a superb game 
 in my eyes and if you get it or atleast rent it you'll see why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourAddictiion
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I thought Excite Truck would be awesome! I was looking foward to blasting the engine and doing 
 crazy stunts! I couldn't wait to play this game with my friends!
  
  Wow, I was wrong. Either way, this game is disastarous. The graffics are bad because the textures 
 look rough and rushed. The gameplay is actually decent because the racing part seriously isn't 
 to bad. But the controls just make the game awful. It's really hard to control. That is why I don't 
 like this game. The motion sensing is bad, and when you try to do things like turning, sometimes 
 it doesn't work. I cannot beleive I looked forward to playing this. If you can get the hang of 
 the controllers, you might like this game a ton more than I did. I just couldn't stand them. I 
 don't really have anything to say about the sound. I guess its alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I first played Excite Truck at a demo system at my local gamestop. It proved to be an excellent 
 innovative, Wii racing game. Yes, of coarse it doesn't have the excellent graphics of the 360, 
 but it still proves to be one of the top racing games for the next-gen battle. I enjoy the scenery, 
 seeing it as a great example of interactive imaging. I also enjoyed the fact that its not just 
 another racing game, its based on the star system (somewhat like burnout.) That is what makes the 
 game unique. The cars look generic, but that isn't what the game is centered around like Test Drive: 
 Unlimited is. The boosting system is nice, and the simplicity of the controls makes this a all 
 types of gamer orientated game. Now saying that here are the games problems. The gameplay is fun, 
 but driving the cars can be somewhat frustrating after a while.. Also this game is super short 
 with barely any races, but overall it is ok. As I've said, I have played this game and it doesn't 
 blow you away, but just the way you play it is pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regginator14520
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Excite Truck is a typical racing game that can be much compared to Burnout, but with the ability 
 to control your vehicle with the Wiimote. Since this game is a racing game, I don't think anyone 
 should expect a real lot of anything but racing from this game and this game does racing well. 
 Sometimes, during spin stunts, it may not work 100% of the time when you try to pull the stunt 
 off, however the rest of the game functions well and it's a very fun combination of destroying 
 your competitors trucks and racing recklessly as fast as you can.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Excite Truck are quite nice for the Wii. The game has nice water effects, nice 
 lightning, and nice dust effects while driving. Graphically, the Wii cannot compete with other 
 next gen consoles however Excite Truck respectfully is a beautiful launch title.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds of the game are similar to any ordinary racer except Excite Truck allows your 
 to play 100 of your own MP3 music files during every race which is really nice.
  
  Value:
  The game cost $49.99, and in my opinion, I think it's worth the money. Excite Truck is 
 exciting, it's one of them games you can come back to and play next week and still have fun with 
 it. With the combination of playing your favorite music and playing Excite Truck, you will have 
 a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Reverend666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review after playing though bronze and silver cups and while working on the 
 gold cup. Id like to split this review up into the same categories that Gamespot uses when they 
 do reviews, so here it goes (and just as a heads up, I disagree with Jeff in many aspects of the 
 game) :
  
  Gameplay  7:
  It seems that just about every game for the Wii takes some getting used too, Excite Truck is no 
 exception. The steering can be tough to get used to and will be very hard to do correctly when 
 you first start playing, but after several races you will be able to easily be able to at least 
 stay on the road (or create you own road in come cases) . Other than steering the game plays quite 
 well, you will always hold down the 1 button for the gas and use the d-pad for boost, which feels 
 very natural considering its the same kind of thing that we have been doing for years in other 
 racing games. When it comes to doing tricks in the air (there arent very many of them) certain 
 buttons need to be pressed while moving the controller a certain way, that may sound hard at first 
 and probably will be the first time you do them, but they will come second nature later on.
  
  In this category I gave the same rating as Jeff, although the controls get easier as you play 
 more, there is still a feeling of being out of control almost all of the time.
  
  Graphics  8:
  In Jeffs review he really knocked the graphics for this game, saying stuff like 
 the visuals in Excite Truck aren't very pretty and the truck models are decent without really 
 standing out I disagree. The truck models are great, they have reflection maps that look very 
 nice, and when you crash the trucks get pretty beat up. The environments look pretty as well, not 
 only are they huge, but they have a good number of trees and other foliage (like cactus that you 
 can run over) , however, when it comes to some of the smaller grass like effects you can see them 
 popping into existence a little in the distance. The weather effects are another nice addition, 
 the rain is great, but what really shines is the snow in the Finland races, it is literally a blizzard. 
 Awesome. Just as a side note, I only play on a SDTV, so I cant comment on what it looks like at 
 480p.
  
  Sound  9:
  The sound is great, just great. The smashing sounds and overheating sounds that come from the Wiimote 
 really add to the game. Normally when it comes to racing games the sound isnt that important to 
 me, but in Excite Truck it takes what can be done with sound and steps it up a notch (because of 
 the Wiimode speaker) . The music on the other hand isnt as great. Its you standard rock/metal 
 type music, luckily you can play your own songs off of an SD card if youd like, which is good 
 for me since I like to listen to my own stuff more often than not
  
  Value  6:
  Excite Truck is not worth 50 dollars, no matter how good I think the graphics and sounds are. There 
 simply doesnt seem to be much there in terms of content, there are some nice trucks to unlock 
 and some cool challenges to do, but overall I wish there were more. Which comes to the tracks themselves; 
 There are some cool tracks, but really the are almost all repeated with some changes (like longer 
 runs or different runs in the same environment) in every cup, but still, the races are not bad 
 at all, even if parts do repeat.
  
  Overall I give Excite Truck a 7.8, I will play it quite a bit in the coming days and probably have 
 quite a bit of fun with it. Once I unlock most of the trucks though and complete most of the challenges 
 I will probably be done with it for the most part (except for the occasional multiplayer game) . 
 I like arcade racing games and this one wont disappoint, and whenever I need some fast and fun 
 truck racing Excite Truck will deliver. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
