-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fantastic 4: Rise of the Silver Surfer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/fantastic4riseofsilversurfer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Both the case and the game can be recycled.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absolutely everything else.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.6
Critic Score: 4.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 3.5, 163 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: 7 Studios
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's nothing remotely fantastic about this awful movie tie-in. 

  It's no secret that games based on movies often get a bad rap. It's also no secret that games based 
 on movies that are based on comic book characters tend to be among the worst offenders when it 
 comes to portraying their source material. Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer for the PlayStation 
 2 and Nintendo Wii does nothing to buck that trend. Every aspect of the game is categorically bad; 
 the story is tough to follow, the graphics are lousy, and the gameplay is so contrived and repetitive 
 that it's unlikely anyone will garner much enjoyment from the game, no matter how low their standards 
 are for being entertained.  

          Here's a free game guide: Punch everything.     

  Fantastic Four is supposedly based on the movie, but it takes several liberties with the story -- so 
 you're essentially getting a new, mostly lame tale. There are cutscenes before each level, but 
 much of the plot is conveyed through boxes with talking heads and text that pops up while you play, 
 so it's particularly difficult to understand just what is happening if you haven't seen the movie. 
 Of course, if you have seen the movie you might find yourself wondering what the heck is going 
 on, since Galactus is nowhere to be found.  

  FF: Rise of the Silver Surfer on the Wii and PS2 is a standard beat-'em-up that is somehow more 
 basic than it was on the 360 and PS3 -- and much worse, too. You can play alone and switch between 
 characters by pressing the D pad, or you and up to three friends can play together on a single 
 system. You'll play as Mr. Fantastic, Invisible Woman, The Thing, and Human Torch as they brawl 
 their way through locations such as the Skrull lair, the Himalayas, and Shanghai. The locations 
 may be exotic, but the mission objectives certainly aren't. You'll spend most of your time fighting 
 seemingly endless hordes of enemies so you can activate a bridge, so you can deactivate lasers, 
 so you can destroy a door, so you can get to an elevator, so you can do it all over again. The 
 number of times that you walk into a room only to have the door behind you close and dozens of 
 enemies appear are countless.  

  It's almost comical how repetitive the levels are -- at least, it would be if they weren't so long. 
 There are checkpoints here and there, but they're spread far apart, so if you die you're doing 
 it all again. Fortunately, you probably won't ever die (unless you fall asleep) . When characters 
 die, they just vanish for 30 seconds or so and then reappear. As long as you make sure not everyone 
 dies at the same time you can beat every single boss and enemy in the game by standing there and 
 punching them; or you can go to the side of the room and toss fireballs. If that's too much work, 
 you can literally put the controller down and watch your brain-dead, CPU-controlled partners fight 
 the brain-dead bad guys. Yes, it's possible to beat entire rooms without even touching your controller. 
 If you get tired of what is supposed to pass for action here you're going to have to make it to 
 the end of a level before you quit, because that's the only place you can save your game.  

  All the characters have basic strong and weak attacks, and if you mix up your attacks you can 
 string together combos. Of course, each person has special powers that you'll need to use from 
 time to time. Invisible Woman can shoot energy waves and turn invisible; Mr. Fantastic can stretch 
 and spin around to hit multiple enemies at the same time; The Thing can lift objects and damage 
 bad guys by pounding the ground; and Human Torch can toss fireballs and shoot fire, and uh, shoot 
 fire in another not-so-different way. Unfortunately, the game does little to take advantage of 
 these superpowers. Human Torch can zoom around in the movies, but here he can barely get off the 
 ground. The Thing can smash his way through a few walls here and there, but most items in the game 
 are impervious to his strength. Mr. Fantastic is able to swing around wildly and hit lots of guys, 
 but not much else, and Invisible Woman is all around pretty worthless.  

  On the PlayStation 2 special moves are done by holding down or double-tapping face buttons. On 
 the Wii they're performed by holding buttons and moving, waving, or twisting the remote and/or 
 Nunchuk. Both methods feel unresponsive and are difficult to perform when you're in a crowd, which 
 of course is when you need them. You'll earn experience points and gain new attacks as you wail 
 on bad guys, but none of this really matters. All you need to do to get through the game is pound 
 the attack button and defeat thousands of mindless bad guys until the credits roll, or, more likely, 
 until you turn the game off in disgust. The gameplay is absolutely mind-numbing, and other than 
 the fact that it is technically playable, it has no redeeming qualities whatsoever. While it may 
 feel endless, Fantastic Four is a short game that can be beaten in around six hours. The typical 
 assortment of extra costumes and artwork can be unlocked by finding tokens hidden in each level, 
 but if you're somehow able to force yourself to finish the game, there's little incentive to play 
 through again.  

          Want to lose three friends? Have them come over and play co-op.     

  Fantastic Four's 
 visuals are just as bland as its gameplay, though there are at least some decent lighting and particle 
 effects. It's too bad these effects kill the frame rate. Most rooms and areas are barren and look 
 nearly identical to one another. This makes it hard to figure out where you're going and where 
 you've been -- a problem, given all the backtracking you'll be doing. The enemies you'll be fighting 
 are small and lack detail. There's little variety to their looks, so you'll be fighting the same 
 few guys over and over again. The Fantastic Four don't look too hot themselves, and it's difficult 
 to keep track of where each character is when the action ramps up. The camera shows the action 
 from an almost isometric perspective and it can't be moved. This means you'll spend a lot of your 
 time getting hit by enemies that aren't even onscreen. All the characters are voiced by sound-alikes 
 who do a respectable job in spite of the amateurish script. The sound effects and music aren't 
 much to get excited about, either.  

  Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer is a failure on every level. The combat is agonizingly 
 tedious, and the objectives are clich and repetitive. As a movie tie-in it does a poor job of 
 following the movie, and as a game... it's insidious.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mathdude415
Rating: 1
Date: May 6, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Rise of the silver surfer is undoubtedly the worst game I have ever played. I originally had this 
 game on my Christmas list because it was multiplayer and I wanted an action game that my friends 
 could play when they came over, but then I read Gamespot's review and decided to take it off of 
 my List. but somebody got it for me anyway and my sister opened it before i could say anything. 
 so i popped it in my wii just to see what it was like, O my goodness. Way to complicated controls, 
 terrible voice acting, terrible grafx, and way to repetitive gameplay. There are enemies every 
 where and it just is way to repetitive. it only lasted about a couple minutes and then I popped 
 it out of my wii and started playing Twilight Princess.
  
  Overall:
  
  the good:
  makes a good bookend.
  
  the bad:
  too many things to list here
  
  What stinks:
  now 
 I can't even trade it in because nobody wants it now, so it is just sitting on my Wii rack, because 
 my mom would kill me if I just threw it away 
  
  I forgot to say I didn't even play past the fourth room, so I can't say what the story was like, 
 but it definitely was not strong enough to keep me playing.
  thats what I look for in a game, if all the other mechanics stink I just might even keep playing 
 just to see how the story ends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Yoshi
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I rented Fantastic Four a while ago and can strongly state that it was one of the worst Wii games 
 I've played.
  
  Graphics: The game looked very bland in my opinion. Each of the areas in the levels I played looked 
 identical and the enemies had little variety and detail. Also, the game's frame rate also wasn't 
 always steady and often slowed down for me when I used the characters' special abilities. Also, 
 the special attacks didn't even look good in my opinion.
  
  Controls: This is an excellent example of a button-mashing extravaganza. All of the fighting is 
 done by flailing your arms around and mashing buttons. Mashing the buttons works well, but it just 
 gets dull after the second or third room and the gestures aren't very responsive. The special attacks 
 are pretty easy to pull off, but like the rest of the moves, they are boring and add little variety 
 to the game.
  
  Story: The story didn't follow the movie at all and was pretty boring as well as the game really 
 didn't even have a plot. From what I could tell the game was very long as it had tons of levels 
 in the menu, but I wasn't going to sit around playing them as I got bored of this game very quickly. 
 At times the game can be difficult thanks to the long intervals in between checkpoints.
  
  Lasting Appeal: None at all. I didn't even play after the second level and am glad I rented this 
 game as it is a complete disaster. There is co-op, but I can't think of anyone who would want to 
 play this game unless they enjoy just staring at the TV mashing buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbsoft
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  How to play: Hold Wiimote in one hand and nunchuck in other, move character with nunchuck joy stick, 
 press A on wiimote repeatedly. That's pretty much it, other than the very occasional double shake 
 of both controls together.
  
  Bland and unimaginative story line and game play with no real use of the Wii's controls, my nine 
 year old had it finished in under two days - thankfully we rented it so it was only $10 down the 
 drain, I wouldn't buy it for $5.
  
  Don't waste your money.
  
  Ironically, the site requires me to write a minimum of 100 words for this review - unfortunately 
 there is little more I can say, it was that bad! Oh, yes - it made my thumb ache when I helped 
 him in two player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Like the movie its based on, the Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer game is far from 
 fantastic -- its a frustrating, futile failure that deserves an F.
  At first, it seems entertaining to play as the comic book superheroes, using each of the quartet 
 members unique powers. But after a few minutes, the jig is up: All their powers may look different, 
 but they control the same and are equally weak.
  The fighting and the game in general are mind-numbingly repetitive -- mash the A button a few 
 times. When prompted, gesture with the Wiimote and nunchuk for a power move. Keep doing that against 
 the same generic army of swarming aliens for six hours.
  Ironically, thats the games lone positive attribute -- its mercifully short, like this review.
 
  But surely you can use the characters fantastic powers to do something amazing, right?
  Nope. Most of your missions are simply to destroy a generator to open a door or bring up an elevator.
 
  The tedium is only broken up by occasional one-player missions and boss battles.
  But defeating bosses is basically the same as beating the alien drones: punch and repeat.
  Even 
 worse, this game appears to be a lazy rip-off of 2004s excellent X-Men Legends -- minus that 
 games challenging gameplay, unique level design and deep plot.
  The storyline of Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer is presented so that it does not give 
 anything away from the movie. As a result, the games plot is weak, disjointed and confusing.
 
  The graphics are nothing special to see. And the game has major frame-rate problems: it slows 
 to a crawl whenever hordes of enemies first appear in corridors that all look the same.
  So what, you ask, is the game good for? A trade-in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omus101
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Don't look at this game... don't even touch it or think about it. I don't understand why they just 
 keep rushing games based on movies, they always SUCK! If you plan on getting this or renting it 
 because you liked the movie, don't. This is a waste of time and money. What's wrong with the game? 
 well just about EVERYTHING! the graphics, controls, voice acting, and just about everything else 
 i can't list because i'm tired of thinking of this horrid game. Please do yourself a favor and 
 don't get this or you'll regret it for the rest of your life. i'm DEAD serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ianb
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  its a horrible game dont no y i played it y i even rented it i wasted 10 bucks renting it god!!!! 
 i hate alot it is horibble please dont rent. all u do will punch and punch and punch and punch........... easily 
 the wordt game for the wii its so boring well u will hate alot and i me alot y y y would u rent 
 or buy u will say wen u do either of thoughs things dont play dont play dont play it!!!! u will 
 be bored forever cuz u played it i meen look at me im writng a reveiw. dont play it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfoot6072001
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game I have gone into a state of confusion and disbelief. I've been walking 
 around my house looking for something, but I don't know what. I've been mumbling some weird language 
 that sounds like Spanish. This morning I woke up in the bath tub wearing a black pin stripe suit 
 and I don't even own a black pin stripe suit. I blame all of this on Fantastic 4 the video game. 
 I have played many bad games in my live, but few have left me this depressed. On all fronts, this 
 game is worthless. The graphics are mediocre. The story and level design are second-rate. The sad 
 part is, the motion controls are some of the most responsive Ive played in a wii game. Each character 
 has specific powers that are needed to solve different puzzles, but the puzzles are too simple 
 and the solving powers are under utilized. The game is extremely short, at most it has only 4 or 
 5 hours of game play. Im glad I was show mercy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic 4 games usually suck in fact the highest rated one on Gamespot is actually for cell phones. 
 2k games is the maker of some of the best games released since the turn of the millenum (NFL 2K, Oblivion, Elder 
 Scrolls sereis) . But 2K made a horrible game on the Wii infact i think its the worst no doubt the 
 worst out of my 3 Wii games. Here is my 1st Wii review. For you parents out there if your kid wants 
 this game i'd buy it on a PS2 or DS. They still suck on them systems (the games) but they're cheaper!$$$
 
  The only high point of this game is the graphics are good. The sound is actually kinda of good 
 too. But other than that the game is bad!!! 3.0
  
  The Wii's remote just ain't made for a game like this. If u want to fill a comic game need and 
 don't have a 360 get Spiderman 3 or Marvel Ultimate Alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestroyAllNoobs
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  OK, first of all, some may have noticed this: GS sponsors games, we all know, and sometimes, like 
 in the case of Kororinpa Marble Mania or even here with FF: ROTSS, they end up giving crappy reviews 
 of the game. If there was a reason because I rented the game, it was because GS sponsored it in 
 a big space, almost the whole main page! Some may think that is good, that GS sponsors almost everytime 
 good games, but now I see they sponsor anything that can be controlled with a remote control! My 
 point is: Gamespot, before sponsoring, it would be wise to check the game, at least wait for a 
 hands-on , to see if it is worth the time, and don't go sponsoring crap that end up being just 
 that... crap.
  
  Now on to the real review: Just plain bad. After I played Spiderman 3 for Wii, I thought there 
 could be nothing worse... I was utterly mistaken.
  The review tells the truth. We all know movies-based games are bad, but comic-based movie-based 
 games are abysmal. For those guys who look at great graphics in games... this is your worst enemy. 
 Gameplay here is simply as offensive to gamers as a Yo mamma is insult, the only point in the game 
 is punch and destroy enemies once and again. I stopped playing after some minutes because this 
 is a plain boring game. I'm not pretty sure of what else to say. It is plain offensive for anyone 
 wanting to play a good game. Simply if you don't believe me, rent it and let's see after some minutes 
 of gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
