-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Cry Vengeance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/farcry/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You run around in the jungle with guns and animal powers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mediocre visuals hamper the gameplay.
 Dumb artificial intelligence.
 Frustrating sniper controls.
 Lame two-player multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 3.7, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 970 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Far Cry Vengeance tries to blend recycled content with new gameplay designed for the Wii, but the 
 results are lackluster across the board. 

  Around the launch of the Wii, some of us were concerned that publishers would go for the easy out 
 by simply tacking on Wii motion controls to existing games, rather than building a game around 
 the unique features of the Wii itself. With Far Cry Vengeance, Ubisoft did a little of both. This 
 first-person shooter takes some of the content and plot elements that appeared in Far Cry Instincts 
 Evolution for the Xbox and weaves in new sections and levels designed for the Wii. It's an interesting 
 solution, because this allowed Ubisoft to recycle existing content while also creating some unique 
 content for the Wii. However, Far Cry Vengeance is a game that delivers some mixed emotions, as 
 well as plenty of lackluster visuals.  

          Jack Carver is back in action in Far Cry Vengeance, though it's odd that Ubisoft didn't 
 include his original adventures to introduce the character to the Nintendo crowd.     

  In Vengeance, you get to play as Jack Carver. Who is Jack Carver? That's a good question, since 
 the game throws you in with relatively little introduction to the character, his earlier adventures 
 in Far Cry Instincts, or the reason why Jack possess powerful animal abilities. This omission is 
 strange; when the Xbox 360 got its version of Far Cry, it included both Far Cry Instincts and Far 
 Cry Instincts Evolution to get newcomers up to speed. At any rate, Jack is just your typical guy 
 who happens to possess superhuman feral abilities, and thanks to a sultry and exotic woman he's 
 thrust into an adventure involving rebels and genetically modified warriors, all taking place in 
 a lush tropical paradise.  

  When Vengeance is at its best, you feel like you're a completely unstoppable killing machine. You 
 can leap over walls, shred guys to death with your claws (and send them flying through the air) , 
 and run-and-gun with a variety of automatic weapons. Of course, that's not too hard against this 
 dim artificial intelligence. Basically, the AI characters exist in Vengeance for you to kill them. 
 Often, if you kill one, his buddies about 20 feet away won't notice. When they do, most of the 
 time they're happy enough to stand straight in the open to let you line up a shot. They're also 
 horrible shots for the most part, as you'll be hard-pressed to die at times despite the amount 
 of lead they throw your way. In fact, you won't even need to shoot them; a tactic that worked through 
 large portions of the game is to simply use the melee attack to kill them, then use the boost that 
 you get for a melee kill to heal any damage you incur.  

  The single-player story consists mainly of levels taken from the Xbox version of the game, but 
 not all of it is here. Various plot elements and sections were stripped out, presumably to make 
 room for some of the new Wii-specific content, such as a new training level that gets you up to 
 speed on how to use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk to move around and fight. Other Wii-unique content 
 basically has you holding positions against waves of attacking enemies, so it's sort of a shooting 
 gallery onscreen.  

          The visuals are just lackluster, from the blurry textures to the chunky weapons models. 
     

  The controls take a little bit of getting used to, but they're pretty intuitive for the most part. 
 The Wii Remote can be an accurate pointing device, which makes it almost ideal for shooters as 
 it's pretty easy to pick off the many bad guys who cross your path. Or you can melee attack someone 
 by simply slashing with the remote. However, all is not perfect. Trying to spin around is a pain, 
 as there's simply no way to do so quickly or easily. A bigger issue is the sniper controls. First, 
 to zoom in with the scope you must awkwardly shove the remote toward the screen, a motion that 
 throws off what you were aiming for, which means you've got to reacquire the target while zoomed 
 in. This is a process that can take several valuable seconds, at which time any enemy snipers you 
 were hoping to take out have a free shot or two on you. Since it takes only a couple of sniper 
 hits to go from full health to dead, this makes sniper battles infuriatingly difficult.  

  At your disposal are a variety of modern-day firearms, including pistols, submachine guns, shotguns, 
 and sniper rifles. Jack can carry three types of weapons at a time, and he can dual-wield pistols 
 and submachine guns for extra firepower. In addition, he can toss grenades, pipe bombs, and Molotov 
 cocktails, as well as rocks to distract guards, though that's hardly necessary in this game. On 
 top of all that, Jack has a vicious melee attack for close-in strikes. And then there are the feral 
 powers, which were a result of Jack's adventures in Far Cry Instincts. You can build up "predatorine" 
 by scoring head shots or killing guys with his melee attack, and predatorine is used to power up 
 his feral abilities. Jack can automatically heal when his powers kick in, and he has a killer claw 
 attack, enhanced mobility, and the ability to detect the scents of enemies. There are also vehicle 
 sequences, so sometimes you'll get to drive around in all-terrain vehicles and four-wheel drives, 
 and even on Jet Skis. Instead of using the remote as a steering wheel, you'll rely on the control 
 stick on the Nunchuk to steer, which lets you use the remote to fire your weapons. So you can try 
 to execute drive-bys, but the vehicle physics and controls are so loose it's almost impossible 
 to hit anything while you're driving. Thankfully the vehicle sequences don't play a huge role in 
 the game.  

  Vengeance ships with a multiplayer suite, if you can call it that. There's only two-player split-screen 
 multiplayer, and trying to play a chaos (deathmatch) or predator game with only two people is sort 
 of like trying to play football with just two people. It's just not that much fun. The experience 
 is basically reduced to a situation in which whoever detects the other guy first can get the kill, 
 but you'll usually take enough damage that when that player respawns, you'll be killed, and the 
 circle of lameness is continued until the round ends.  

  On another note altogether, we encountered a crippling flaw that corrupted our progress through 
 the game completely, forcing us to restart the entire game, as our saved game wouldn't stop crashing. 
 It was replicated on different Wiis using different copies of the retail game, which indicates 
 that it's entirely possible for the save file to become corrupted somehow.  

          Shooters and multiplayer is usually a good thing, except when you have a maximum of two 
 people.     

  The PC and Xbox versions of Far Cry were renowned for pushing the visuals on each platform to the 
 limit. You'd never know it from looking at Far Cry Vengeance on the Wii, because the visuals are 
 a muddled mess. Vengeance doesn't look anywhere near as good as the Xbox version of the game, thanks 
 to chunky models, low-res textures, and a struggling frame rate throughout the game. The visuals 
 are also marred with lots of draw-in and pop-in of objects onscreen. For instance, when bad guys 
 rappel out of a helicopter they're shadowy figures, but as soon as they hit the ground their textures 
 pop in and they appear normal. The audio is OK, but it mostly recycles the sound effects and voice-overs 
 from the other versions of Far Cry.  

  By mixing existing content with new content for the Wii, Far Cry Vengeance tries to have the best 
 of both worlds. However, the end result is far less than the sum of its parts. Lackluster graphics, 
 AI, and gameplay all conspire to do in this chapter of the franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jello_flouride
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I read gamespot's review for this game and was pretty skeptical. The ONLY thing that 
 made me interested in it was the comment about running around the jungle with animal powers. That 
 part, WAS kinda cool. But not cool enough to redeem this nintendo 64 game with wiimote controls, 
 bad wiimote controls.
  The graphics are TERRIBLE and cutscenes studder. You turn very slowly when not in animal mode, 
 and it is hard to control your movements while IN animal mode. The difficulty is nonexistent on 
 easy. Headshots are just way too simple to do. I played this game for about 45 minutes before breaking 
 it and throwing it away. I got my vengeance... kinda.
  I really don't want to talk about this bad game anymore so I will fill this review with irrelevant 
 information to reach the minimum character limit. Adult frogs are carnivorous and will eat just 
 about anything smaller than themselves, including insects, worms and even other frogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachv1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  As Jack Carver, use the Wii Remote to drive, shoot, slash, jump and climb your way through a rebel-infested 
 tropical jungle. The Wii entry in the franchise includes elements from Far Cry Instincts Evolution, 
 in addition to a fresh storyline, new maps, characters and equipment. The gameplay is designed 
 completely around the Wii remote, with gunplay aiming as well as more unique maneuvers such as 
 vehicle steering, balancing on precarious ledges, and throwing grenades. Also, this game was $50.00 
 in 2006 for the wii in decmember. OH MY  This game would be 
 the worst game you would ever play in your life.
  Ubisoft Ubisoft Montreal Modern First-Person... Release: Dec 12, 2006 ESRB: Mature well none of 
 this matters now because this game is even more worst than a ps1 game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  farcry vengeance is a fps and has a very boring storyline and is no fun to play
  
  Graphics: mediocre for wii (and wii has bad graphics)
  
  Controls: good, but games on the wii 
 have good controls
  
  Storyline: very dull not exciting and makes you want to stop playing
  
  gameplay: bad easy to 
 get lost, bad AI and everything looks the same (you are pretty much always in a jungle)
  
  There is a multiplayer in this game which is only a 1 on 1 no bots no online nothing and to make 
 matters worse it looks even worse than in the single player. one good thing about the game is there 
 are a good variety of viechles and you can dual wield some weapons (the way you drive viechles 
 is horrible)
  
  overall: bad game, though if you are desperate for a first person shooter on the wii and see what 
 all the fuss is about i guess you could rent this game but DO NOT BUY IT because you will regret 
 is as i did
  
  you have been warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guudgidga
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I loved Far Cry. I loved Far Cry Predator. I liked Far Cry Instincts. Far Cry Vengeance, I got 
 for 20 bucks only. Thank God. I put in the game and the title screen and menu selection looks promising. 
 I watch the first cutscene and wonder "is there something wrong with my T. V.?" No. I found out 
 that THOSE were the real graphics of the game. So far, that drops it down from a 10 to an 8. I 
 watch the stupid dialogue. "Um, okay?" I play the game and grab a machette and slash the blood 
 out of an enemy. "Oh, thats kind of cool." I turn my character with awful sensitivity. I play the 
 game with frustrating god awful controls! The bland visuals get in my f*****g way!! I hate it so 
 much that I don't even finish the first level!! I turn off my wii, get the disc, and throw it on 
 the street. I preordered Far Cry 2, which I KNOW will more than make up for the awful Far Cry Wii. 
 Thats what you should call it. FAR CRY WII! This is the reason I never got any game for the Wii 
 that wasn't made by Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samet04106
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Farcry isn't a bad game as you see in rating. First mission is a bit complicated, somes can't pass 
 this level, so give "1" in rating. Whose cant pass it, should read FAQs to know how to do.
  
  You'll use car, some kind of weapons and also some stuff, barrel, bar and so on. Wii-Remote 
 isn't so active but enough to control. Sometimes, you'll lose remote control but you'll edit it 
 with hold down "A" button. I never saw a cheats works on FarCRY, I think they're just kidding with 
 Cheats Menu. :D Also You have to climb all mountains you see, this is really boring. I want to 
 break wii at this level but lastly I pass there.
  
  We want FarCRY-2 on wii too. We know that, if FarCRY-2 will be out for wii, it's really best FPS 
 game for wii. Thanks to Yerli Brothers at Germany.
  
  Lastly, Not enough game but good to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil47
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  When the Wii was first released in 2006 people were worrying about if the motion controls were 
 actually going to work. Some games they worked fine and then there were some that didn't. This 
 game works well but there are some elements that don't work.
  
  The game takes place in an exotic island location when the main character is injected with a liquid 
 that gives him animal like behaviors to go on a hunt against the inhabitants of the island.
  
  The gameplay is quite fun the motion controls work well and there is nothing boring about running 
 at high speeds tearing soldiers apart. This is probably the more fun parts of the game. There is 
 a wide array of guns and other weapons to use, some vary more than others. 
  
  The visuals are the biggest downside of this game as they downright suck!!!!! They are bland and 
 do not fit together right. They look like something from an early PS2 game. 
  
  Overall Far Cry Vengeance for the Wii is a decent way to waste a few hours. But thats about it. 
 Maybe if more time was put into the visuals and the length this could have been as enjoyable as 
 the original for PC. But most of all this game makes us want to play Far Cry 2 even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polymetalalloy1
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance for the Wii is a prime example of sloppy porting for the Wii mixed with pitiful 
 attempts to incorporate the motion sensor ability of the system. What is, on paper, a great idea, 
 onscreen falls apart rapidly as you begin to play. Glitches, bugs and a horribly hampered frame 
 rate make navigating the tropical jungles a most unpleasant experience. Shooting, which should 
 be so much fun with the wii-mote, is just plain unresponsive. What a colossal waste of potential. 
 Head shots are practically impossible to achieve and you're lucky if you can even hit the enemies 
 from range. What's worse is the enemies AI is so poor that the diificulty curve is practically 
 non-existent. So, instead of using any form of stealth you can just charge at the bad guys with 
 your knife out and beat them every time. Either that or point blank machine gun action. This is 
 just not any fun at all and presentation is so shoddy that Ubisoft should be ashamed of themselves! 
 Ugly graphics, bad gameplay, disgusting controls make this a must-avoid for all who wander near. 
 This is how not to make an FPS for a system that has great potential but is yet to deliver a good 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first games I got for my Wii and I wasn't disapointed. This game is a First-Person 
 shooter that anyone who owns a Wii should try. You use guns, A lot of guns in order to survive 
 in the survive in the Amazon against enemies who are trying to kill you because you escaped from 
 the maximum security prison. You use all sorts of weapons to stay away from the enemy. At the start 
 of the game you find a Machete and that's your first weapon. But you should only use your machete 
 in stealth situations. See a lot of the time you need to sneak or hide to avoid being killed. For 
 shooting situations you can find guns like a ordinary pistol, a machine gun, a sniper rifle, a 
 bazooka and even a rocket launcher. In the game you can also drive cars and bikes that you find 
 to escape the enemy. And if you kill enough people, You go into Predator mode (Which is really 
 invincable mode really.) In Predator mode a simple punch can kill a man. Overall Far Cry is a good 
 game that deserves an 7.5 but there's one bad thing to warn you about. The multiplayer mode only 
 deserves a 6 because First-person shooters and multiplayers usually go well together but It's not 
 fun when there's no online mode and only 2 people can play. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohail1234
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  I wish i was dead playing this game. this game is abyismal in the fact as the game would be played 
 better on the nes for its crapness. The storyline of farcry vengeance is abyismal as you play a 
 character named jack carver and thats all in know about the story line because the game didnot 
 tell us about the story line. The sound is crap its starts for about 20 seconds and then stops whats 
 the point in that. The last thing i would like to talk about is the lame and crap multiplayer mode. 
 2 modes what were ubisoft thinking about. I urge first time wii players to not look at this game 
 and if you have this game at home please burn  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo234
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  So Far Cry, what would you expect? 
  
  Blow your mind graphics? Well thats one thing you won't get from this installment in the series. 
 It reminds you of Red Steel which may not be surprising as both games were relised by Ubisoft. 
 The best drawn items in the game are probably you guns, but the enemies are grainy and sometimes 
 they blend in with their surroundings too well so you end up being shot by an opponent you can't 
 even see. Well OK it's slightly less then what you would expect from the Wii's limited graphical 
 capabilities 
  
  Another issue: the controls. They are not exactly "broken" but they don't always work so well, 
 the worst part being if you have to turn around you'll lose half of your health before you can 
 even aim at your opponent. 
  
  One more thing the difficulty level is a bit interesting. The game could be imensely hard if your 
 opponents would actually realise you. The AI sucks probably the worst part of the game... so the 
 game is just you running around killing people, very rarely getting killed and if your a bit stuck 
 you can just use your feral powers...
  
  Overall: OK but not the best game for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacticalElefant
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  For those who know the original PC version of Far Cry from rookie developer Crytek, it's fondly 
 thought of as one of best single player FPSs on the PC, not to mention an amazing developer that 
 had never shipped a game. The Xbox rebuild Far Cry Instincts and it's sequel FC: Evolution made 
 by Ubisoft Montreal (of which Far Cry Instincts was co-developed with Crytek) were good games in 
 their own right that took the Far Cry PC formula and built it around the more limited hardware 
 of the Xbox while still creating it's own unique feel in the vast genre of console shooters. They 
 are still impressive to this day for the system they ran on. The games featured full lighting/shadowing 
 systems, they were blocky sorta but they were there, as well as a self-shadowing engine and bump 
 as well as normal maps. These games really did push the Xbox to it's graphical limit. Of course 
 Ubisoft then released Far Cry: Instincts Predator, a single package with both Xbox releases built 
 for the Xbox 360, sporting better graphics, most notably the great new water effects and textures. 
 All the versions were decent and played well.
  
  For the Wii release, Ubisoft decided to take Far Cry Evolution, and port it to the Nintendo Wii, 
 in the name of Far Cry Vengeance, sporting usage for the Wii Remote and Nunchaku attachments. There 
 is much to discuss about this game in the Far Cry universe in relation to how it stacks up in the 
 gaming world.
  
  Story -- 
  It's nothing unique. Far Cry Instincts has one Jack Carver, an ex-US Special Forces member who 
 had some trouble with the law and broke for Oceania to get away, make some piece, and make a quiet 
 living. All hell broke loose for him and Instincts ended with him gaining some unusual powers per 
 se. Vengeance picks up where Instincts ended, except this time, he gets caught up economically 
 and sexually with a somewhat deviant woman who sells goods (weaponry) to local rebels and pirates. 
 She and Carver get into trouble when a third outside party shows up while she's brokering a deal 
 with some rebels. Hell breaks loose for Carver once again, and has to survive a vast island chain............ again. 
 
  
  Gameplay --
  As an FPS, Far Cry Vengeance is pretty straight forward. You have mostly shooting and a bit of 
 exploring. Some parts are excitingly vast, giving you some real freedom to move around and choose 
 your objectives in the order you'd like while most are rather linear. It's not bad, but it's nothing 
 great really. The interesting setting and the Wii controls are what keep you going, of which until 
 Metroid Prime 3 came out, Vengeance possessed the Wii's best FPS control system. You'll get your 
 usual assortment of pistols, submachineguns, shotgun, and sniper weapons to pick off opponents. 
 Sadly to say the only multiplayer in Vengeance is a one on one deathmatch mode, no online. One 
 good note though is the inclusion of one more level as compared to Evolution on Xbox: a precursor 
 level. It's a nice addition but it doesn't make up for anything that the game should've had.
  
  Graphics --
  This is where the game is a real mystery. Evolution on the Xbox sported the 
 best graphics the Xbox could muster. Real time reflections on the water, a full dynamic lighting/shadowing 
 system, normal and bump maps as well as self-shadowing. Considering the Wii should be at least 
 equal to the Xbox in terms of graphical power, Vengeance doesn't show it, as it doesn't retain 
 any of those graphical features except an extremely gimped version of the shadowing system that 
 renders off larger vegetation. It's as if Ubisoft decided to not put forth effort to rewrite proper 
 efficient shaders for this Wii version. The textures are also notably blurrier in most places, 
 and the frame rate will be running 60 fps at times, falling to the teens sometimes. Their is a 
 considerable lack of polish in this game, the Gamecube could've put forth better graphics, and 
 the game probably was developed on a GC devkit, as many Wii games were. But this game and Ubisoft 
 has no excuse for the sophomoric workmanship as shown here. This is honestly a very interesting 
 issue as much frustrating, one that should be open for discussion, not for the quality but for 
 the sheer intent as to why this was even allowed to go "gold" and be published. Ubisoft was looking 
 for that quick buck? Probably.
  
  Other notes -- 
  The physics in the game are noticeably cut down as well. The number of independent entities (objects) 
 that can be kicked around is very small, unlike the Xbox Far Crys. The controls do work well for 
 this game, however a couple things are not very well implemented like the zoom-in feature. That 
 control would've been better left to a button press. Sounds are kinda muffled at times, better 
 sound production would've been prefered.
  
  Final comments --
  What keeps this game alive and playable are the well done controls. While the graphics can constantly 
 be dogged for not being as excellent as the Wii can really perform, the game is engaging enough 
 for an afternoon of play. As for what could've been done to improve this game, better graphics 
 and polish for the game engine (obviously) as well as more open levels, of which level 2 features 
 an amazing amount of freedom of movement, tragedy the rest of the game wasn't as such. It's good 
 for a rental, and maybe if you're hardcore into FPSs it's worth a purchase. The tropical setting 
 is nice, but it's not so pleasing when you think it looks particularly lacking. The game does grow 
 on the player, and you learn to deal with the shortcomings however first time players will be initially 
 put off. Shame on you Ubisoft for cashing in a weak port of what should've been much more.......
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer30
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Come on I have played Far Cry Instincts Predator on the Xbox 360 and Ubi did an amazing job graphic 
 and multiplayer wise but now your making it on the Wii. My first expression was, Yesss, but then 
 I looked the game up on the internet and I have to say I was very dissapointed, come on the graphics 
 look like 007 off of the nintendo 64. I have to say you could do way better than you did who even 
 cares if the game doesn't come out for another year as long as it has good graphics a good story 
 and good multiplayer then i'll be happy. All of the games that gameing companies try to make look 
 like real life have lately been crap, you dont need to make the game look like the original game 
 with sucky graphics and please no more rail shooters If i play one more of those i think i'll puke 
 in a bucket light it on fire then eat the ashes. Please improve your ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke5572
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I know, a lot of people have said that this game sucks, but it really doesn't if you just give 
 it a chance. When I say give it chance I mean, it is kinda slow at the beginning and will get kind 
 of boring, but when you get about 2 hours into the game, it starts to get really fun and exciting.
 
  
  The game play is pretty fun, run around in the jungle, shoot up a lot of guys with double MP5 machine 
 guns (Yes you can have one gun in each hand if you would like) , walk into buildings with handguns 
 and just shoot up the place. Or hide in the trees with your trusty sniper rifle and shoot from 
 a distance. You can also drive vehicles, like wave runners, patrol boats, jeeps, and other types 
 of all terrain vehicles. Or if you would like, grab a mounted heavy machine gun and blow the crap 
 out of everything.
  
  The graphics are good, but not the best. The trees look good in this game, and so does the water. 
 Buildings actually look real, and not all blocky like some games. The graphics on the people are 
 good, there are not any blocky body parts. The blood in the games is pretty good, sometimes you 
 will walk into a village and it will be all over the buildings.
  
  The AI in the game are pretty dumb though I have to admit, the farther you into the game they are 
 smarter. At the begging they will just stand out in the open, and fire at you but miss every shot. 
 But when you get farther into it they will have better weapons, and take cover and other stuff.
 
  
  The controls for the game are fairly easy, like most Wii shooting games, "B" is shoot, analog stick 
 is move around, when you swing your Wii Remote Jack (the guy you play as) will swing his knife. 
 I think the coolest part about the controls is the grenade throwing, you hold "Z" on the nun-chuck 
 then just like throwing a real grenade, you do a throwing motion. The harder you throw, the farther 
 it will go.
  
  The sound is OK, but not the best. The gunshots are not as loud as they should be, the vehicles 
 sound really good but I think the boats sound the best.
  
  The thing I like most about the game is, it is not one of those games where you have to go to a 
 certain place, you kind of get to explore, and look around if you do not feel like working on your 
 mission.
  
  Over all it is a awesome game and you should play it, just make sure you rent it first.
  
  
 Thanks for reading. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxostev
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I'll level with you all, This is the only Far Cry game I've played, so I don't share the same level 
 of love for the series like some of the other reviewers here. All I know is that involves some 
 guy with some animal-like powers and that it's one of the first M-Rated games on the family friendly 
 Wii. 
  
  The Facts:
  Okay, so you're Jack Carver, getting some drinks after the events of the previous Farcry game (Instinct, 
 I think) , Some rebel girl comes along to try to arrange a little something, you then get punched 
 by some army guys, taken in for questioning and escape during some ruckus created by the main villain, 
 After that you run through the jungle shooting army men and later rebel pirates and warriors who 
 share Predator, powers like yours. These powers allows you to move faster, jump higher, heal, claw 
 enemies , and be able to spot enemies by smell. Your given a machete, for close combat kills and 
 a variety of throwing weapons and guns some of which you can duel wield and shoot using both the 
 Wiimote and Nunchuk (my favorites are the Bull 44, FC Stationary Weapon and Molotov Cocktail) . There 
 is a multi-player option, but it's only two player split screen, not ideal for a FPS.
  
  The Good:
  The sound is pretty good, it sounds like I'm in a jungle environment, the few pieces 
 of music fit the mood just right. The Controls are surprisingly good, they feel natural for the 
 most part and are a good example of how the Wii handles FPS controls (later perfected by Metroid 
 Prime 3) , Finally there are some satisfying, moments in the game. Watching some poor SOB get engulf 
 in flames, Seeing troops get crushed by a falling watch tower, and ripping off a stationary gun 
 and runing around with a giant 200 round machine gun, among other things, makes you feel good. 
 
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics, they are just terrible, it makes it hard to tell were I should go or even were my target 
 is. The story itself is week, it's like it belongs in some straight to DVD movie you would see 
 in an episode of "Mystery Science Theater 3000". The enemies are too far apart, it makes the game 
 a little boring (all though I was playing on easy, so maybe there are more enemies in higher levels) 
 The A. I. stinks, they let me run right up to them and slash them while they look straight at you. 
 Vehicle controls are terrible, you always seen to run into a wall or something. Zooming by thrusting 
 the Wiimote forward is just stupid and disorienting. The game freezes some times (thankfully without 
 that annoying buzzing sound like on Gamecube) And that one guy with the rocket luancher in Stage 
 4, that has nothing to do with the game, I just find him cheap.
  
  Final word:
  Is Far Cry: Vengeance a good game, not really. Even though the game is now selling for $20 bucks, 
 I wouldn't make it a must-have. If your still set on trying this game, rent it first. If you like 
 it, by all means pick it up, it's your call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  When a game requires more horsepower than a system can generate, it shouldn't be released. However, Ubisoft 
 deceided to try it anyways. 
  
  Graphics: The game looks awful. Much worse than the Xbox or PC versions. Some models like vehicles 
 have no textures at all, frame rate is eratic and the animations are comprimised. The game is an 
 eyesore.
  
  Gameplay: Touchy controls, you never feel like you have full control over your actions on screen. 
 Sniper rifle sucks as there's a delay on the zoom.
  
  Sound: Same sounds and music as Xbox version.
  
  Overall: This game has no place being on the 
 Wii and the series now has a strike against it. Avoid this game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-08
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 6/10
  'Where do i start??' 
  
  Well, The cutscene graphics will make you think there is a glitch in the game because of the black 
 lines that come down the screen, the graphics on the viechles, people and weapons are okay but on 
 most other things eg - scenery - (especially rivers and water) and buildings) are unimpressive 
 i mean i could have them drawn better. This was really disapointing seeing as i loved FC : Instincts 
 and the graphics were awsome on that so this is a really big let down for me.
  
  Gameplay - 6.5/10
  'Not as bad .. i guess'
  
  In vengeance you get some wii specific controls 
 - altough nothing spectacular. Too many jumpy parts and glitches for me though. Although now and 
 again the shooting can be fun and turning 'unhuman' is still okay for a while but thats the problem 
 with this game - it has no edge, nothing to keep you interested for longer than an hour and a half. This 
 game has some of the worst AI and character lip-sinking i have ever seen - you wont want to play 
 anymore after too long of being shot by the same annoying mercanaries over and over.
  
  Sound - 5/10
  'About as quality as the game'
  
  Annoying same 5 bars of looped music (oh 
 and you can tell) , Annoying same couple of voice overs over and over and over. And the rest of the 
 sound effects arn't anything to brag about.
  
  Overall 6/10
  'It could have been so much more'
  
  Wow ubisoft really let it slip on this one. It really gets 
 on my nerves what they could have made of this - but didn't. They are reportedly taking more care 
 in thier games i really hope this is the case because i took farcry back after i gave it the chance 
 it deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today even though i knew it got a really bad score on Gamespot and all the 
 customer reviews at Best Buy and Wal-Mart gave it a 2 out of 5. It's not that bad a game, it's 
 fun to play for a few hours every once in a while. Even though the graphics just plain suck, the 
 combat is fun and the use of the interactive Wii controls is good. I just got this game to pass 
 the time until Christmas (or until i get a Wii zapper) . So if your looking for a decent first-person 
 shooter pick up a copy of Far Cry Vengeance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikinstien
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  So I picked it up after turning in a bunch of GBA and PS2 games in for store credit at Gamestop, 
 so I practically got the game for free. That might have to do with the reason that I don't think 
 it is as bad as everyone says. As tends to be the case with Ubisoft games, it was decently enjoyable, 
 and the graphics were as to be expected from a game that came out so early in the system's life. 
 The controls are kind of amusing, and keep me entertained for about an hour a day. The only real 
 probelm I had control wise was sniping, as you had to all but throw the Wiimote foward into the 
 tv in order to zoom. The physics were ok (physics are one of the biggest factors when I look at 
 games...) , though I'm not sure if it was a glitch or not that whenever you beat someone down in 
 predator mode, they flew for about a mile... Either way it was very amusing to say the least. The 
 multiplayer is... different. I don't like its default settings, and haven't played around with 
 it all that much. However, it as funny to watch my girlfriend and her mom try to kill each other 
 with Wii controls, so it can't be all that bad... Anyway, in conclusion, I would just like to say, 
 if you can get it for free, as a present or something, or maybe get it used for like 17 bucks, 
 then it's totally worth grabbing, because it provides hours of amusement, maybe between playing 
 Zelda and Elebits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider-manfan45
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Ok i may not have a great record on gamespot but this game is solid.
  the major letdown on this game is its horrible graphics, sure its wii but come on 
 
  Everything else is great the sound is great, its right a lil bit eecky on the voice acting but 
 the blood makes up for that. The action is mad. let me just show you. I'm so close to Kade arghhh.... 
 another Chinese pukkhh 
  ................... ok got a bit carried away there but you get what i mean don't you?
  overall 
 i think this game is awesome and i'd look forward when metroid comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saga_gemini
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  well, this is my first review of a game for gamespot so here it goes:
  
  ok, where to start... Farcry is about this guy, i alreay forgot his name, which appears to have 
 this animal-like powers (i dont know from where since this is my first time playing farcry) . well 
 the thing is that this guy gets knocked by some military guys in some island and by the time he 
 is being tortured for some information i guess, some explosions and weird stuff starts happening 
 outside, thats the distraction you needed to scape. so you scape and all that fun stuff and then 
 run around killing people, and do some pointless non-background missions in this marihuana filled 
 fields island. i didnt actually finished thegame since the only thing it did was making me suffer 
 for the 50 bucks i spend on that piece of bull***...
  
  yeah, yeah, you wuld say, yeah it doesnt have a good story behind it, but let me tell you that 
 isnt ill. Farcry Vengeance is a complete waste of time, horrible graphics they looked like it was 
 for PS1!!, inteligenceless A. I. (you could actually walk in front of them and they didnt spot you, 
 they dont run, they dont hide, they are just plain dumb) , awful controls (turning around was a 
 pain in the behind, climbing stuff and running around could get you dizzy, the use of the nunchuck 
 to throw granades just wasnt precise) , and of course you actually knew this was a bad game even 
 before the gameplay started, why? because even the pre-rendered cutscenes looked like kids developed 
 this game, it was awful with an awful framerate, it just sucked a lot.
  
  so the veredict is. DONT EVEN RENT THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XpecTz
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Horrible gameplay, boring, bad graphics (even though we're talking about a Wii) absolutely make 
 everything a whole lot worse. Multiplayer is the only good thing about it. However, you'd get quite 
 tired from moving around and aiming for awhile, especially if you have bad wrists. Not worth buying, 
 if you're into FPS games get on your PC or Xbox360. The Wii is not for FPS IMO. Don't waste your 
 money, go pick up the previous far cry titles for PC and just go from there. If I could I would 
 sell it, but for less than $20 on ebay (after spending $60 on release) , I think i'll just keep 
 it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevboard
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  The grafics are BAD
  The Controls are BAD
  The sound is BAD
  
  Thats what i say to this game. Its the Badest game ive ever played on the Wii.
  
  Nothing in 
 this game is Good and because of that i rate it with 1.0 out of 10.0
  
  I played it and i saw the graphics. and i dont wanted to beleve this!!! I closed my eyes and opened 
 them again... and they where stil there ( the bad graphics )
  I asked is this Wii ore N64? . and my friend lol.
  
  and the A. I. oh my god. i walked to an 
 enemy and waited 2 minutes before he killed me!!!!
  
  i say this game is the bades game of the year!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  An unfinished game is the best way to describe Far Cry Vengeance. It&acute; s very hard to enjoy 
 a game that falls on its face on every aspect.
  
  Story clearly expects you to be aware about what has happened to Jack Carver before Vengeance, 
 because there&acute; s next to nothing explanation about his feral powers and current situation. 
 Again a beautiful woman offers him a job in some illegal gun trade and this attracts the attention 
 of a local police. Carver gets captured, but his prison is destroyed by guys using the same feral 
 powers as he has at his disposal. Story is told through cutscenes, but still you don&acute; t have 
 a clear reason to run around in the jungle killing people or why they even bother to attack you 
 on sight. In previous games the story was the main factor pushing you forward trying find out what 
 will happen next, but this is not the case in Vengeance.
  
  Far Cry Vengeance is an incredibly ugly game. Wii can do much better than what this game has to 
 offer and on top of all that the frame rate takes a hit once in a while. Sound effects and music 
 are pretty much taken from previous games and for some reason there are just a few of each. To 
 sum it all up audiovisual presentation is not good at all in Vengeance.
  
  Gameplay is straight forward run-and-gun with occasional driving sequences thrown in as well. Action 
 in itself is boring because the enemies are so stupid and when they die they do the same sound 
 effects over and over again. Controls are not good and again Wii can do much better than this. 
 Aiming is so hard that it&acute; s much easier to run towards an enemy and kill him with a machete. 
 Driving sequences are pretty much just frustrating, because the vehicles are hard to control. Still 
 they give at least some variety to the otherwise boring run-and-gun action.
  
  There&acute; s also a multiplayer component involved, but it&acute; s only a 2-player split screen. 
 This means that the multiplayer in Vengeance is a joke.
  
  Far Cry Vengeance seems to know what it should be doing, but it doesn&acute; t do any of it all 
 the way through. This is simply an unfinished game. Even if you&acute; ve played all the previous 
 Far Cry games and loved them you should NOT pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethsesh
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Don't get this game. I got it for free and regret it. The visuals are terrible, and so is the AI. 
 Goldenye for n64 was better than this. I put the game on hard my first play and breezed through 
 the first few levels not even looking back. Basically the only reason I continued to play this 
 game for more than 30 minutes was because I was having alot of fun with my brothers laughing at 
 the game. The AI is by far the worst in a game. I had the gameon the hardest difficulty, and I 
 could kill someone and his partner standing 2 feet away wouldnt even budge, I could then walk right 
 up to him and knife him. No challenge at all. The only thing the developers could have been thinking 
 when they brought this game to the wii was to make a quick buck. Finally the game might have been 
 ok if it had some decent multiplayer. But unless you enjoy 2 player deathmatch, you wont find much 
 use for this games multiplayer other than a quick once over with your buddy just to check it out 
 and realize you just wasted about 20 minutes playing this stupid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aj567
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Farcry instincts is a solid game with an o. k framerate the graphics at the begining of the game 
 are a letdown but as you go through they get better but with better graphics are consiquences you 
 start to loose your o. k framerate. But to get off the negitives it has solid gameplay and a decent 
 sized campaign. In the first level you start off in a bar and meat a girl named Kade she tells 
 you to meet her at a dock about 2 clicks north from the bar as soon as she leaves a hole group 
 of police come in and knock you out. When you wake up you are in jail and start to get interigated 
 just then a truck exsplodes and you see a shimmer go past the window then the guards are dead you 
 wrip the handcuffs off and then you walk out into the courtyard. I won't ruin any more of the story 
 if you liked farcry on the pc this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendog84
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Why does this game suck? Well to start the graphics are comparable to a Nintendo 64, the gameplay 
 comparable to a game cube game, and the sound isnt top quality. I would not pay 50 bucks for this 
 game even if it was silver plated. All-together this game is to low grade for such a revolutionized 
 console and it took me less than 10 hours to realize that. I recommend that if you are a hardcore 
 gamer your better off finding a game in a cracker jack box and if your thinking about renting then 
 go ahead and waste your time and money, i warned you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is good except i dont know if its just me or not but i have had some
  
  MASSIVE FRAMERATE PROBLEMS!!!!!
  
  other than that this game has a great storyline and alright 
 graphics good controlls good gameplay and is axualy quite hard other than the many many many glitches 
 like your profile sometimes gets corrupted and you start all over again you do all the things it 
 tells you to like kill all the enemys you do and nothing hapens you get stuck and cant move and 
 many more. there is two endings
  both goodbut i dont want to spoil it for you so beat it yourselfthis was a good game and i think 
 if you plan on buing it rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  this was the first game I played a lot of on the wii, so i think that probably left me a little 
 biased. i was still having a blast just moving around and feeling out the new control scheme that 
 comes with owning this great system. the graphics aren't anything special and the story is definitely 
 been there done that, but when I picked it up the 20 bucks I paid was absolutely worth it. there 
 are certainly better titles that I have stumbled into since this, but if you are interested in 
 just blasting the hell of some folks for a few hours, this game definitely will satisfy that need 
 at a bargain price... enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I am VERY disapointed with the port of Far Cry onto the Wii. The Wiimote seems 
 to be perfect for FPS but no one seems to be getting it right. First Red Steel, now Far Cry, and 
 Far Cry is a considerable step in the wrong direction for the FPS market on the Wii. Basically 
 your character has been hijacked and you're on you way to getting vengance by going after your 
 captores. This is the first Far Cry game that I have played, and probably the last since this one 
 left a poor impression on me. So I don't have the nitty gritty details of the characters or the 
 story behind it. I do have to say that I am glad I only paid $20 for the game. The graphics are 
 very sub par, even for the under powered Wii softwear. It looks like a N64 game rather then a current 
 generation console game. The look of the game is very jaggy with poor attention to detail and there 
 are some serious issues with the frame rate. The staple of the Wii is the controller, and while 
 mimicking the movements sound good on paper, this too is poorly done. The Wiimote isn't sensative 
 enough for the different movements and you can just wiggle the controller back and forth. The controls 
 are sluggish and due to the frame rate issues they don't it is VERY difficult to turn around, much 
 less keep the character going in a straigh line. Lucky for the player that the AI is really stupid. 
 Villians are just standing around next to each other and even if you make a ton of noise they don't 
 turn around to see you or react or anything to you. The music and sounds or lack there of don't 
 really add that much to the game. If you are looking for a bargen priced game to play while you 
 wait for the next Wii title this maybe the title for you, but be forwarned hardcore gamers and 
 even casual gamers won't want to do much more then 1 run through at the most with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  OK, ever since the Wii first came out, I was very tempted by this title, simply because Ubisoft 
 made it look so cool (and I also had Far Cry for the XBOX) . Then, I read most of its reviews. They 
 were pretty bad. But I thought, hell, I'll give it a shot, maybe its not as bad as everyone says 
 it  This game sucks at everything!! Let me explain:
 
  
  Graphics: the first thing you'll notice. It doesnt look that bad at first glance, but when you 
 approach your first enemy -you'll be horrified. It looks worste tha 007 Goldeneye for the N64! 
 I was truly dissapointed. The scenery isn't so bad, but choppy framerate cause trees to dissapear 
 right in front of you and the sky doesnt even move!!
  
  Sound: again, horrible. Your character sounds like a 40 year of perv, and enemies repeat the same 
 things over and over again. And their voices always cuts in the middle of their sentence, for example, 
 instead of sayin: ''i'm gonna kill you!'', they'd say: ''i'm gonna kill yo-'' and then they stop. 
 Its so stupid and really noticeable! The music is totally out of place also, it appears, then dissapears, 
 reappears, redissapears, it just makes no sence. And rock music does not work with jungle games!!
 
  
  Gameplay: the Wii controls are completely failed here. They just don't work. And, if you walk to 
 far away from the TV, the game will pause and say: ''please move closer''. It's just stupid, I 
 cant even play it on my sofa, so I have to move up and get a chair just to play this game. The 
 whole experience just doesnt feel natural and you'll probably end up trhowing your remote at the 
 tv.
  
  Difficulty: I played on hard, and the enemies as still very dumb. Ok, you will get killed the first 
 few times you play it, but not because the enemies are tough -simply because you'll stuggle to 
 get your aim on them because of the dumb controls.
  
  Lenght: I havent finished the game, and to be honest, I'm not going to finish it, I'm selling it 
 off. I can't stand to have a game this bad in my library. But I have played it long enough to judge 
 it.
  
  Overall: shockingly bad. Just avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Far cry for the wii is one of the worst games I have ever played. Where do I start to explain the 
 problems with the games. The controls using the wii remote are not just plain horrible. the wii 
 remote was designed to make games easier and more enjoyable, however in this agem they do the opposite. 
 While aiming with the remote your reticule will bounce all over the screen and this makes it difficult 
 to shoot enemies. Also when you try to look around the look to the side of the screen tactic is 
 completely broken. It almost never works the way you want it to. Another major dissapointment about 
 this game are the graphics. Personally I think i've seen better on Nes games. All in all this game 
 is a complete dissapointment, this game isnt even worth paying 19 dollars for if you find it in 
 a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTRIGGER092x
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Story:
  Once again, you're Jack Carver, a freelance boat charter in the Pacific. One day, a beautiful woman 
 named Kade asks Carver to get her to an island, where Pirates are shipping weapons and such, and 
 get a weapon shipment. Natives of the area start attacking, and its now your job to escape the 
 island, and do your job. Sounds okay, but the cutscenes that help you progress in the story are 
 hard to follow. You also have Feral Powers, which were given to you in Far Cry Instincts, which 
 was released on the Xbox and Xbox 360. Players who are new to the Far Cry Series, aka, this is 
 their first Far Cry Game that they've played, will have no idea how these powers came to be. Graphics:
 
  Many people say that the graphics in this game are terrible. I, personally just think they're 
 average. The trees, sand, buildings, vehicles, lighting, and most of the weapons look fine. The 
 water is sub-par, and the character models are blocky, re-used, and overall, just look terrible.
 
  
  Sound:
  This is one of the better parts of the game. The voice acting is acceptable, and the music is sort 
 of cool. The only problem I have with the audio is that it just randomly pops in and out at times. 
 This is annoying because the music is sort of techno-ish, which can be cool at times, but sometimes 
 can ruin the moment.
  
  Controls:
  This is definitely one of the highlights of the game. A summary of the controls is that they are 
 responsive and easy to use. To throw a grenade, you must pull back the nunchuk and throw. This 
 is quite realistic, and fun to do. Jumping is to flick the nunchuk, waving the nunchuk in the air 
 heals you if hurt, and to slash at enemies, you flick the Wiimote. Everything else, like shooting, 
 is done by pressing on the buttons. The only problem I have with the controls is to aim. To go 
 into aim mode, you must thrust the Wiimote forward. This is incredibly annoying and frustrating 
 to do, so I recommend not trying to go into aim mode.
  
  Gameplay:
  Far Cry Vengeance is a port of Far Cry Instincts Evolution for the Xbox and the Evolution section 
 of Far Cry Instincts Predator for the Xbox 360. In the title of the game, there is no Instincts 
 subtitle. This means it is not entirely part of the Instincts series, and it shows. In the game, 
 you do have Feral Powers, which was what the Instincts Series was mainly about, but it has been 
 drastically downgraded. In the Instincts Series, you could use your Feral Powers any time you want, 
 with the press of a button. Now, you must keep on killing, and killing, and killing, to get your 
 predatorine meter up, which in turn, lets you use the Feral Powers. This was a bad idea. It takes 
 FOREVER to get it up, so theres really no point in putting Feral Powers in it anyways. The Level 
 Design is good, and it stays with the games Jungle/Island theme, so I cant argue about that. The 
 levels are large, full of enemies and objectives. There is a good amount of weapons in the game, 
 which is mainly your basic pistol, SMG, Sniper, and Rocket Launcher. However, there is a new weapon, 
 the Magnum. Its extremely accurate and powerful. There are vehicles in the game, like Water Scooters, 
 Boats, and Humvees to drive, but its pretty pointless considering there are trees everywhere. 
 The AI is a major disappointment in the game. In Far Cry for the PC, and the Instincts Series for 
 the Xboxes, the AI was ridiculously smart. They could see just about every move you make, would 
 flank, call in more Mercs, and more. Now, they do barely any of that. Technically, they take it 
 upon themselves to kill you, meaning they dont call in more enemies, they dont flank, and they 
 certainly cant see everything you do. This makes the game much easier. Because of the AI, you 
 can go out there guns blazing, while in the past FC games, you would have found yourself depending 
 on stealth many times. Ubisoft has added 3 new levels to the campaign, which are fairly good, but 
 it would have been better if we had gotten a whole new game. Multiplayer in the game is quite dull. 
 It only supports 2 Player, and only has a standard Deathmatch Mode (Under the name Chaos) . The 
 map editor that made the multiplayer in past versions so great is nowhere to be found. Overall, 
 Far Cry Vengeance is an average game. At $20.00, its an acceptable price, but its mainly worth 
 a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Jack Carver finds himself as the predator again by the injection, and to get thru the game, you 
 have to equip two machine guns and claw enemies till they die.
  
  Gameplay:
  Again, this shows that the Wii-mode has something against FPS games, shooting works fine at times, 
 but weapons like Sniper Rifles are to hard to control, you have to punch the screen in order to 
 zoom in, and sometimes it zooms out out of zooming in.
  
  Riding in vehicles in this game is tedious, you are able to shoot and drive at the same time, which 
 makes it pretty hard to control two things at once.
  
  Far Cry had amazing AI, this game doesn't have amazing AI, enemies stand there pointing a gun at 
 you while you can leap at them and claw their eyes out. In predator mode you can jump high, run 
 fast and scratch people for a quick one-hit kill.
  
  Graphics:
  Tho, the game still has its jungle theme, grass and tree's are made of cardboards, clunky and blocky 
 character designs, same counts for the weapons.
  
  Psychics engine is nice tho, its satisfying to see enemies fly up the air because they got scratched.
 
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Clunky controls, clunky driving, bad AI and decent graphics for the Wii, this game offers stuff 
 other Far Cry titles didn't have to offer, the thing is that the Wii version does everything badly 
 and at snailpace.
  
  If you like the series, give it a rent, FPS fans want to give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilootin
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 25, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible!!! It's so bad i would like to cry. First off the graphics are absolute garbage! 
 they're horrible! If i never heard of this game and i watched a cutscene of it, i would think it's 
 an N64 game! Terrible! The gameplay is so boring i cried after 10 minutes. Never buy this game! 
 The sound of guns is cool basically the only non-garbage part. The enimies dieing is fine sound 
 is berely decent, but the music is horrible!!! it stops for like 30 mins and then randomly comes 
 back! If the music didn't loop so much, and didn't randomly cut off for an hour I wouldn't have 
 given it a 3! i would've probably gave it a 7 if it was so terrible! This game is so bad. This 
 game should be sent back to the firery pits of hell from whence it came!!! It's so terrible!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colborn1000
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 24, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The Far Cry series is a phenomonal series. The new Far Cry Vengeance for the Wii is half decent. 
 The game is essentially remake of the xbox version. Some of the story was taken out and the control 
 scheme was redesigned to fit the wii-mote and the nunchuck. The wii-mote acts as your gun or machete, which 
 is pretty sweet. The story is Jack Carver is merely a shadow of what he once was. It begins when 
 he meets a mysterious lady and... ok, play it yourself and find out. There is several different 
 weapons and such. The predator ability is pretty sweet. The graphics look tweaked down from the 
 xbox version. Just a bit. The cutscenes look pretty bad for the system. So henceforth they aren't 
 very good. The sound is the best aspect of the game. The sound of feet hitting aluminum or wood 
 is very realistic. All the gun and explosive sounds are very authentic. The gameplay overall is 
 decent but could have been much more. Be advised this game is rated Mature for intense violence, strong 
 language, blood and gore and drug references. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan_allison
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  the game truly states the Nintendo idea of GAMEPLAY
  the graphics are worse than its Xbox counterparts but its fun
  the game has a great story but 
 has changed some of the characters have been changed
  the game controls add a new concept to 1st person shooting. to jump you move the nun chuck in a 
 upwards flicking motion and u point and shoot the screen however the controls appear to be difficult 
 to grasp if your not familiar with the Wii (like my friends who kill me on xbox but fail to deliver 
 on the Wii)
  the AI in this game is truly a floor. i recall being able to walk up casually behind one of the 
 seemingly fierce opponents in the Xbox version and he'd pull of a cool spin and shoot attack (ok 
 not that cool) but here the AI has no line of sight for, example prone on the ground i snuck up 
 behind a guy on easy as soon as i went to slash (not stab, bye bye butterfly knife hello machete) 
 he instantly turned around... i could go on, so i will
  then on a different occasion i could walk up 2 a guy on a turret and pistol him to deaf thats right 
 the weakest gun, the weakest attack and i beat him. not just a normal heavy machine gun bu a mortar 
 turret...
  having played many far cry games i can say this is defiantly the weakest and the graphics on the 
 original were better. but graphics aren't important for the wii. Is it fun... well yea but only 
 in small doses.
  All and all its fun and has a decent multi player, the Xbox version in superior in many ways but 
 the Wii version is still awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenFootMidget15
Rating: 6
Date: May 2, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I had no intentions on buying this game but while I was out shopping one day I noticed it was only 
 $20 so I said, What the heck, I'll try it. This is by far not the best FPS I've ever played but 
 it is certainly not the worst. Once you get past the initial shock of thinking you just bought 
 a N64 game ('cause of the graphics) you'll end up liking the overall game. Controls take a few 
 minutes to get used to but they grow on you. I think that this was a nice attempt at a really good 
 FPS. This game shows you what can be done with the Wii controllers. Bottom line, if you like FPS's, 
 then you'll probably like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has been taking LOTS of flak in the ratings, and since i was one of the first people 
 to get it (yes i paid full price) but after all the hate I thought i should write an honest review:
 
  
  Graphics: Yes, they suck. The cutscenes look like ps1 game graphics, although the in game graphics 
 are okay because of the large environments, but its ruined by the repetitive enemy models and horrible 
 draw distances (Ex. you'll see things popping up 10 feet in front of you)
  
  Sound: Here's where they really dropped it. I loved the music in far cry for the PC, it was kind 
 of a combination of techno and rock, and it worked when the action got good. In Vengeance however, 
 theres almost no music what-so-ever, because it randomly cuts in and out, and it loops while its 
 playing. Everything else about the sound is okay though, from the guns firing, to the enemies still 
 making death sounds after they've been shot
  
  Gameplay: The best thing about the game and the main reason i liked it, was the controls. They 
 were downright horrible in red steel and COD 3, but far cry does some things right. Sensitivity 
 tuning, throwing grenades with the nunchuck, using the remote like a machette, all works quite 
 well, although not perfect all the time. Thrusting the remote foward to zoom still sucks though.
 
  
  Value: The game isnt really worth the 60$, its just a straight forward game with no unlockables, 
 no real endings (there are 2, and while their both bad, the crappier one is harder to get) and 
 no real reason to play it again. Multiplayer was a lot of fun I found, with a good assortment of 
 maps and modes, but it was only 2 player. Whats the point of having a 2 player multiplayer mode 
 only? Whats wrong with 4 player? Mix that in with some mentally retarded A. I and plenty of game-stopping 
 bugs (one that actually forced me to manually unplug my wii console) and youve got a game you probably 
 wouldnt want to play again
  
  Overall: Far Cry Vengeance probably isn't gonna be the wii game everyone buys, hell its probably 
 the one everybody mocks, it's sad that theres a great game here, with large environments and good 
 controls, but it's like the developers intentionally sabotaged it in the process with horrible 
 sound design, graphics, and A. I. It's not worth the 60$ it once was, but now that its around 30$, 
 i recommend you check it out if you have a wii and want a shooter fix. Or at least give it a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfoot6072001
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  the good parts- the pros -the fun stuff:  i'm  
 not there isn't many good things about the game. The controls are good for a FPS, I prefer them 
 over a traditional controller. But the jump is unreliable. The bad parts-the cons-the frustrating 
 stuff: MANY MANY THINGS. 1. the graphics, now i'm not a graphic whore but this game is really ugly. 
 The cut-scenes are blurrly and jumpy. Its like your looking thru a fish bowl. The lack of detail 
 makes every environment look the same, which can lead to some confusion 2. the story. The story 
 doesn't have to but interesting if the action is good. But the story in Far Cry interferes with 
 the game play by making the action seem pointless and boring. You will spend all this time fighting 
 your way somewhere, only to see a cut-scene that doesn't make any sence telling you to go overthere 
 for some reason. 3. Lack of direction. The radar is useless. Most of your time will be spent on 
 GUESSING where you need to go next. 4. the sound. it would often cut off mid-sentence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnknprkfan_2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is good enough to spend time while out of town. Though it really isnt quite worth the 
 money. You may want to wait until this game's price drops down a bit. First off, the graphics look 
 like N64's mess. With that, when you are shooting at someone the target doesn't have to be fully 
 locked on an enemy. It's a bit too easy to shoot someone. Everything else with the wilderness needs 
 much more improvement.
  
  Second, the predator mode is pointless. It doesn't help out at all. It looks cool to use and all, 
 but its best not to use the predatorine to go into predator mode. Its best to save predatorine 
 to restore health. The predatorine stuff is more defensive than offensive. Finally, the enemies 
 could use more words to use against you. Its more funny than provoking to hear them curse. I think 
 this game needed much more testing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonHukilau
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance looks like a Nintendo 64 port you'd download from the Wii Store, but as it were, 
 this is one of the only options Wii owners have at the moment for first-person shooters. Although 
 the game is severely wanting in the graphics department, the gameplay holds up quite nicely. The 
 motion controls are easy to adjust to and become intuitive rather quickly. The sound is good and 
 the length of the game is nothing to complain about. The only thing holding this game down and 
 the only thing that will bug you while you make your way through the lush pixelated jungle is the 
 horribly outdated visuals.
  
  The game works just fine if you're looking for a way to experiment with the capabilities of your 
 Wii-mote in a first-person setting, just don't expect too much in the way of eye candy. My suggestion: 
 hold out for the new Metroid Prime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventureseeker
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I personally thought this game was pretty good. At the beginning the game is very fun, and then 
 it gets repetitive. The controls take some time getting used to but the controls are fun. The game 
 is long and will take a longer time to beat it because the snipers in some parts are brutal. The 
 jungle suits this game perfectly it is a big enviroment and it is super fun in mutiplayer. I have 
 never played any previous Far Cry games but this game is a good FPS. If you are not sure about 
 this game just rent it, if you are a fan of the Wii and a fan of FPS you should definetly check 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_xii12
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  About three years ago I bought Far Cry for my PC and completely fell in love with it. Huge levels 
 and artificial intelligence that continually kicked my ass was always a plus. Now, 3 years later 
 I play Far Cry Vengeance on my Wii and expect a similar experience... Wrong!! The graphics are 
 less than outstanding. No texture shading and grainy images send make it impossible to enjoy the 
 nuances of the Far Cry engine. For the first time in years we've reverted to blue animated GIF 
 files for a water effect. There is nothing next gen about that. I honestly believe that this game 
 was basically ported to the Wii as fast as possible to make a quick buck or two at launch. There 
 are a few saving graces. The control scheme is fairly intuitive. point and shoot that's all. I 
 will however complain that turning felt very sluggish. I want to treat the Wii-mote like a mouse, 
 which basically means the faster I point, the faster I turn. This is not always the case. The AI 
 in this game apparently got dumbed down with the graphics as well. I pretty much just ran staight 
 up to whoever i wanted and hacked them with my knife. That's a move that I very rarely had the 
 opportunity to pull off in Far Cry on the PC.
  
  Far Cry Vengeance is a good concept gone wrong. Dumbed down Graphics and poor A. I. ruined the experience. 
 If you want a first person shooter for the Wii get Call of Duty 3 the graphics don't suck half 
 as bad and gameplay is much more fluid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regginator14520
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Graphics: As you all probably know by now, they are crappy graphics that were ported from the PS2.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is alright, not bad, not good, but average.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fun, however the game suffers from stupid AI's. The control scheme is 
 excellent though.
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer is not bad at all, when you are bored and you have a budy around, I am 
 sure this will provide fun for a good while. Multiplayer has Predator and Chaos mode first off 
 as soon as you get the game along with several maps to choose from. For some, this may be the most 
 fun part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noclue_27
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Worst game ever made. I cannot believe this, the graphics look worse or similar to the N64, the 
 game play sucks, right at the beginning it pissed me off when I was about 2 metres away from the 
 TV and it told me I had to stand closer in order for it to read the wiimote (which hasn't happen 
 with any other game so far) . I get closer to the TV it starts reading the wiimote and takes its 
 time loading the first movie. It must have been going at 5FPS because the movie looked horrible 
 and choppy, skipped the rest of the movie to try the game. Words cannot describe how bad the gameplay 
 is, I will simply tell you, I have never had such a bad gameplay experience in my life.
  
  To bad the lowest rating is 1, this game deserves 0 or less. I wasted an hour of my life with this 
 piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltonnaslund
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  To say the game lacks graphics would be an understatement. The graphics for this game were totally 
 ignored when the game was under development. The game DOES offer some fun gameplay..... but this 
 begs the question........... graphics or gameplay? That is a question that many ask themselves....... and 
 the answer is........ you need atleast SOME graphics. The game looks much worse then any game that 
 was released on the gamecube..... and does not (atleast graphically) deserve to be on the Nintendo 
 Wii. Gameplay is fun.... but it doesn't blow you away. If you are wondering if you should buy this 
 game..... it is most definately a no..... possibly rent it if you don't believe me. If you are looking 
 for a good FPS..... either get COD3 or even Red Steel. Another thing that is a letdown is the multiplayer...... only 
 being able to play 2 players is prettymuch no fun at all. This game is a letdown...... sorry to 
 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt_Almighty
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was just ok. I mean, I played it for a while, and I really wanted to like it, 
 but in the end it just wasn't as good as some other games I've played. Like root beer tapper. And 
 elevator action. And, my favorite, crazy climber. I'll say it again: I thought this game was just 
 ok. I mean, I played it for a while, and I really wanted to like it, but in the end it just wasn't 
 as good as some other games I've played. Like root beer tapper. And elevator action. And, my favorite, 
 crazy climber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cirtapk
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Worst game ever...
  I never thought that such a good game for the Xbox 360, could be so ****** (you fill in the blanks) . 
 The game controls are horrible, you have some control, but you can lose it so easily. There is 
 no actual game play, other then running through a level and killing everyone... Graphics... suck.
 
  Sound overall is not good at all...
  There is no point to this game... and even multiplayer has no point. *Bam* shot you... *Bam* shot 
 you back...
  
  Definitely not the best game... if you want to try it, I suggest you rent the game and not buy 
 it. Otherwise its a waste of money.
  I don't know what some people see in this game, well maybe the weapons are O. K. But other than 
 that the game is disastrous... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urm0m90001
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 6 because after you get by the crap graphics, u have a decent game. It does 
 what it has to do to be classified a FPS. But wat pisses me of is wat happened to the 4 player 
 multilayer and all the good stuff that made me love the original. the duologue in this game is 
 really generic and they must of really scraped the bottom of the barrel, and the A I is soo slow 
 that it is not even funny. the only way to be killed is if they accidentally randomly ambush you. 
 so overall it is just a above average FPS with a unique control setup. so in conclusion this game 
 is ok for me until i can find some better FPS on my Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapparee1
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  What happened to this game on the Wii ( I love the Wii Console) but pass on this game DO not buy 
 it I repeat do not buyit ..... this is coming from a big Far Cry fan I loved it on the PC and enjoyed 
 it on the XBOX 360
  Game play, sound and the graphics are horrible. The game controls are even worse beyond horrible... seems 
 no effort was put into this game It does not work on the Wii... the ball was droppped on this one. 
 PASS ON IT I am very happy that I rented this game and did not buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Though Gamespot gave this a 5.5, I still like it, and it is the best Wii game that I have ever 
 played. I think that how much you like this game depends on whether or not you have played any 
 of the previous games in the Far Cry series or not. I have not played any of the other games in 
 this series, and I really liked this game. My friend, on the other hand, has played all of the 
 other games, and he really doesn't like this game. Though it doesn't have that great graphics, 
 the controls sometimes screw up, and ammo for good guns that are cool and good is hard to find, 
 this is a very good game over all, though I suspect it is pretty much like a motion control version 
 of the other games from what my friend has told me. But I like it and I'm gonna get it, and I have 
 already rented it so you can't stop me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario3000
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of the dreadful far cry on the wii, and I use the term dreadful loosely. This 
 game is bad from the moment you pick up the wii remote to the time you put it down. Let me start 
 off with the graphics, yuck! the graphics are horrible this game gives the wii no justice, I understand 
 that the wii is not is powerful and the 360 or PS3, but please UbiSoft could and should have done 
 a much better job. The graphics look ok standing still but as soon as you move you'll see bits 
 of the scenery filling itself in for e. g you'll be walking through the jungle and tree's bushes 
 and grass will appear as if from nowhere, or if you fighting an enemy in a boat and he moves a 
 little away from you he'll disappear as if from magic. Another thing about the graphics is the 
 cut-scenes OMG!! what the hell is going on, the cut-scenes are not even smooth they flicker, it's 
 looks as if someones cut the picture in two with a pair of scissors, trust me it's very painful 
 to watch.
  
  And the A. I. is just laughable most of the enemies just stand around without firing any bullets 
 and let you kill them, and when you are actual in a gunfight with someone they'll normally just 
 get stuck running into a wall before you shoot them dead. They is one saying grace within the game 
 however, and that is using the wii remote. It's very reponsive and easy to use and becomes second 
 nature after a while. It also has some nice features like using the remote as a knife or moving 
 the remote side to side to regain your health. Also they are a couple of wii-exclusive levels but 
 that's if you want to play through the game to get to them.
  
  If your looking for a good first person shooter for the wii, i'd recommend Call Of Duty 3 or Red 
 Steel which are both much better than this rubbish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshalldbdx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  what has nintendo done this game looks more like Golden eye on n64 the a wii game. I was hoping 
 for a much better game then this heck the first far cry looks better. the one think i like is how 
 the crosshares work its pretty fun and i do like the look of the enviroment its a little improved. 
 the bad thing is this game does not look very realistic i mean the enemy's are pretty dumb u dont 
 stand still and reload when im shooting u and ucertanly dont go ugh ohh ahhhhh when ii shoot u 
 in the head when i do that ur dead u cant be alive and go ow . i was really looking foward to this 
 game but now that iv seen it its a total let down im really dissapointed. and i hope the the nest 
 game they make will bring far cry back on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  FC Vengence is a sad game on two levels, one: its almost something thats not worth even playing...
 
  
  two: then again it might be better then what people give it credit for....
  
  This game is one of he first to be completely shut down due to the Wii's innability to make graphics 
 at a next gen pace... for now.
  
  ok Graphicly FC Vengence can be.... er.... bad. but for some strange and really complicated reason... 
 When the game shifts to a difrent time like Dusk it begins to look MUCH better then what you see 
 at the begining, but on one of the first levels, you can SWEAR that the game might make you think 
 this is something that can be played on the N64.
  
  Visuals aside, the sound is actually quite good, its just as bombastic as the other Far Cry games, 
 controls on the other hand are actualy very well inputed and specialy scripted to make it one of 
 the more appealing FPS games in form of play, the game is fun, unless you are a graphics Whore, 
 this game will keep you grinning, even if the AI is as dumb as a Toilet seat, it feels good sneaking 
 up on a fool and rip him to shreds with the wiimote, and never this early in a console's life has 
 a game already made a revolution: Duel wIelding on seprate Wiimotes, though there is no cursor 
 for the nunchuck, its still a step foward, the lack of online multyplayer is very sad indeed! considering 
 how fun the other Far cry games are online.
  
  
  Overall, Far cry Vengence is actually a worthy adventure, but if you really cant stand games that 
 are not to snuff with graphics or other fancy things, this game is NOT for you, but if you are 
 looking for a fun experience that is descent in the gameplay department, go give it a run, if you 
 are not shure, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: am195
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I got it on release and it was not even worth 5$s. I put it in my wii and by 5 minutes into the 
 first level i am puking from the bad graphics. I could not belive that I waited outside for this 
 i gave it a second chance like Red Steel... I was so that the controls were the only thing worse 
 than the graphics when I stoped to play Red steel and Zelda. Sorry to tell you Quebec you suck 
 in comparison to France. Same to go with Far Cry Vengeance and red steel. I had errors saving the 
 game which made me snap and trade in the gave for a down payment for Wario Ware. SAVE YOUR MONEY 
 AND BUY ZELDA!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmxbox
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  far cry vengence is the latest in the far cry seris and a launch title for the brand new nintendo 
 wii. The Game is based on a jungle island with a comunist dictator in charge you play as jhone 
 carver who is on holiday on the island and you start off in a bar when u are aproched by a woman 
 who asks to meet you later at the docks. At this point you will be thinking what the hells up with 
 the graphics and why is this cut sceen all blury? well these are the graphics you will have to 
 put up with and when the action starts you seriously get over whelmed but after 10 minits you will 
 be fine as with most wii games when you frist get them. once you get in to playing it its very 
 enjoyable. the only problem is the fact that nothing is explaned to you in great detail you dont 
 realy know what is going on in certain bits and and the charicters speak realy lamely like come 
 on BABE! lets go and things like that the voice acting isnt very convincing which summs up the 
 main problems with it other wise its very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  In 2004, a first-person shooter on the PC platform was brought to my attention in a cursory investigation 
 of various releases. The game, published by then-unknown German developer Crytek, featured brutal 
 combat amidst a stunning tropical paradise, featuring graphical effects never before implemented 
 in a game such as high dynamic range (HDR) lighting and water reflections that far surpassed anything 
 the world had seen to that day.
  
  The title was released to critical acclaim and strong sales, setting the stage for three Ubisoft-developed 
 sequels for the Xbox and Xbox 360. These titles, while not as awe-inspiring as the original, were 
 solid third-party efforts that featured an innovative map-editor, a rare inclusion in console titles. 
 The latest addition to Ubisoft's Far Cry lineup, and hopefully the final rehash to the original 
 game before the release of Far Cry 2 (sadly not under the helm of Crytek) , Far Cry Vengeance is 
 a bitter disappointment to the quality expected from the Far Cry label.
  
  It seems that no aspect of the game was left unadulterated, all for the worse. Graphically primitive, 
 the game's blocky visuals are inferior to all previous releases of the game, even managing to look 
 less impressive than the original PC title on low graphical settings. It seems the Wii hardware 
 would certainly be capable of a superior effort than what is displayed here, with blocky, drab 
 foes and low-polygon weapon models that seem to be inferior to anything we've seen on the Wii thus 
 far. Aliasing is heavily prominent in the foliage (as well as being readily apparent in every other 
 graphical element) and numerous pixel-shader effects are absent from the final product. To compound 
 these issues, an unwilling framerate chugs along, dipping into the single digits during intense 
 firefights. This is wholly inexcusable, given the lackluster visuals. Ubisoft has shown complete 
 disregard if not open contempt for optimization as of late, given their recent PC ports.
  
  Of course, unattractive visuals are certainly forgivable, particularly for a title that is several 
 weeks removed from a console's launch. The unimpressive gameplay of the title is the primary factor 
 that dooms Far Cry Vengeance to the colossal heap of shovelware that seems to be endemic to gaming. 
 The tactical acumen of the mercenary foes in the original game has been diluted if not wholly lobotomized, 
 leaving in its place dull, uninteresting enemies that will act in a predictable and generally unintelligent 
 manner. Any semblance of squad tactics that was present in the original has been excised. The enemies 
 do not seem aware of their comrades, and will cast a blind eye upon their deaths. Multiplayer is 
 similarly lacking, featuring only two-player split-screen support and a dearth of play modes as 
 a result. The omission of online play and the map editor, two of the Xbox version's most prominent 
 positive aspects, is even more disappointing. It seems as if multiplayer was a half-hearted effort 
 that was rapidly slapped together in a pathetic attempt to raise replay value.
  
  The game seems to lack any improvements over its forebears and shows no indication of being a next-gen 
 title. Why release such a graphically primitive, handicapped product at all, if for no other reason 
 than to amass sales under the strength of the brand name? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I keep hearing how bad Far Cry Venganse is and im here to say it's not that bad. Sure it dos'nt 
 have as good graphics as Far cry instnicts preadater which is on the 360. It makes great use of 
 the wii mote. This no dout the best use of the wii mote in a shooter to date. This game is 10 times 
 better than Red steel. I cant figure out how it is so much better than Red steel when they are 
 both made from ubisoft dont the two componys talk to each other. This game will last a long time 
 as well and is a great wii game. I think that if you have a wii you should have this game. Lack 
 of online play really hurt because that is something Far cry always did good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66lewis99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Not a new game in series, Far Cry Vengeance is essentially the Far Cry Instincts Predator that 
 was made for the Xbox 360, but with three new levels thrown into the mix. For the Wii, Vengeance 
 adds a handful of new vehicles and plenty of arsenal additions available at your disposal. Compared 
 to other first person shooters on the Wii, Veneance is not the smoothest and has below par graphics. 
 The analog stick on the nunchuk Moves you around the luscious environments and jerking the nunchuk 
 upwards will initiate a jump. Slightly awkward, yet manageable, the directional pad on the Wii 
 Remote handles crouching by pressing down and weapon selection by pressing left/right on the directional 
 pad. My favorite feature in Vengeance is dual-wielding, for which you can carry two pistols, machine 
 guns, or shotguns. The trigger buttons on both the Nunchuk and Wii Remotes will fire each weapon 
 individually, but sadly both weapons aim at one reticule controlled by the Wii Remotes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I can't stand how far Ubisoft has gone with the Far Cry franchise. It seems that they just keep 
 milking everything out of the games until all thats is left is a pile of worthless crap.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. As most people know (except Wii owners) , Jack Carver is a dude that 
 gets trapped on an island with a bunch of insane soldiers and poor Jack is placed as an experiment 
 and gets these cool animal powers that is, or at least was, fun to use. Now that it is on the Wii 
 (and it sucks!) people can enjoy the Far Cry experience. Or regret it. Or whatever the hell they 
 want with this crappy pile of trash. The graphics are awful, the AI is very dumb up to the point 
 that you start to question your self if you should kill yourself, and there are nearly dozens of 
 bugs that make this game horrible to play. On a positive note, the controls show potiential as 
 to who future FPS games could work on the Wii. But, Vengeance has dozen problems with it's own 
 control scheme. Aiming is difficult, unprecise, and slow. Plus it goes to show you that the Wii 
 controler can only handle so many different features. Jumping, prefroming a Feral Attack, reloading, 
 switching weapons, throwing grenades and a whole lot more are preformed with the Wii controller, 
 and it shows that it if want an FPS that has good control, simplify the game rather than making 
 the controls complexed and hard to pick up. Make it simple, Ubisoft. Besides, isn't that the whole 
 reason the Wii was made? To be simple?
  
  The game itself was based on Far Cry Instincts: Evolution, (which wasn't that great to begin with) 
 which means Nintendo owners that never play Far Cry will wish they never will. Te enviroments in 
 the game give only a hint as to what the story is leading up to or what has happened, but the game 
 dosen't tell players who the hell Jack is, or any other plot element that could use the littlest 
 explaning.
  
  This game sucks, so if you go and buy it, I truly fell sorry for you. If you consider to buy this 
 game, I will call a hospital for you. If you like this game, I will blackmail you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaze347
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is great and the ai is fairly intelligent but the graphics... ugh. To me it just felt 
 like the game was rushed . Auto save points lock up the game and come at the worst moments like 
 during a firefight with four people but the story is great and the fact that you can rip off mounted 
 guns is awesome .If you need a fps than get this one or cod3 and red steel this would be my second 
 choice as to cod3. On the downside unless you've played other far cry games before ( i haven't) 
 then you may be a little lost at first it's a fairly easier game but harder than red steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w1ggy03
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  this game is wicked my first game for the wii as every one eles i know has every other game for 
 the wii nothing worng at all just a fps whit wii style add to it new stuff just made for wii far 
 cry and yea not everything is next gen as every one wonts it to be but then its not about nice 
 stunning 3dfx stuff whit the wii its all about fun and reinvten how we play games if i like far 
 cry on pc or xbox try it if u looking for a fps like red steal buy it if u wont it too look god 
 like buy a ps3 or 360 dont knock it till u tryed it and well done nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P4uL4d4ms
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Sure the game is a little lacking in the graphics department but only because people see xbox360 
 and ps3 graphics as the new standard. The wii isn't a next gen console, it's current gen. It isn't 
 high def either so you can't expect a game like motorstorm on it. Back to the game..... nothing 
 new in the story department. Still on an island still have magical creature powers that make you 
 run fast and kill everyone, but the controls are what really make the game interesting. It took 
 me about an hour to get used to the controls. Figuring out how far I could move my wiimote before 
 it was too far and made me go the opposite direction. There are some issues with the controls though. 
 You use the nunchuck to jump and to trigger your magical healing powers. This is the problem sometimes 
 you need health really bad but end up jumping instead of healing and vice versa. It really is a 
 good game deep down though and it's better than another ww2 shooter. Right now it's between call 
 of duty 3 or farcry for shooters on the wii. Call me crazy but I'm willing to put up with farcry's 
 flaws so that I don't have to shoot any more Nazis. Seriously rent it. I don't suggest buying it 
 until you've played it but if you do, you can always trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazerith414
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I tryed far cry instincts and far cry preditor for the x360 and xbox but they never caught my interest 
 untill now, Farcry Vengence is a good shooter with solid gameplay. The aiming isn't so sensitive 
 like in CoD3 but is a perfect speed for comfort. I think the controll scheme is greatly set up 
 as well. The graphics may not be the best but im not one to B1tch about that. I got this game the 
 day I got my Wii and I don't see why its so underated I personally enjoyed this more than halo 
 2 but thats just me. Over all a great game that was perfect for transfer to the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lennykutch83
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics: its like N64 meets GC. There are tons of pop ups. Alot of invisible walls. At least the 
 N64 used Fog. Maybe thats what this game needed to hide its terrible graphic design?????
  
  Gameplay: It was fun at first. I even got motion sickness, just once. I really didnt have any problems 
 with the pointer falling off the screen. The gameplay quickly got stale with the lack of any excitement. 
 Bottom line: i bought this game because i wanted to utilize the wimote w/ a shooting game. This 
 isnt the best game for that purpose. Oh well.
  
  I traded the game in 2 weeks later. Why so late? i was in denial 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy2008
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I never liked the far cry game until now this is the best one yet it fun and its easy but not too 
 easy. It has cool guns a good story and it is so underrated its not funny! Now its easy to play 
 but very hard to master. I love it if you are in to FPS that require thinking and brain power you 
 will love this game! If you are in to mindless shooters like me you are better off with red steel 
 i like both. but this is a more thinking mans shooter. overall a superb game! :) ( the rest is 
 ramdom words to post hte review are a game spot gladiator kurt russell) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhysGamma
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for those who think that graphics are everything. Yes, graphics play a crucial 
 part in the enjoyability of a game. However, if you choose to over-look the flaws as I have, you 
 will have some fun in the end.
  
  Gameplay- Very good; the controls are amazing. At first you might think that some of the motions 
 to perform some of the moves are awkward, but eventually they become second nature. However, there 
 is one problem: if you point your WIImote too far away from the sensor, the aiming will spaz out, 
 leaving you a little confused, and your character facing the wrong way.
  
  Graphics- FarCry definitely doesn't take full advantage of the Wii's capabilities, giving the feeling 
 that the game was rushed. Blood is just a spay of red that disappears as quickly as it came. When 
 it rained I thought my television was broken, then I heard the rain and realized what it was. Think 
 of the graphics as a mediocre Gamecube game. However, to compare the graphics of this game to that 
 of the N64 is foolishness. I still have my N64, I still play my N64, and FarCry's graphics are 
 better than N64's. Sound- This category has both good and bad qualities. The guns have realistic 
 firing sounds, footsteps are very authentic sounding, and the rustle of the brush found all throughout 
 the game is enjoyable to hear multiple times. I don't believe they use the Wiimote's built in speaker, 
 pity. The in-game music does fit. During frantic firefights, the music is very fast paced. When 
 you are creeping through the bushes, the music is slow and subtle. There are a few downsides: horrible 
 voice acting during cut scenes, the Koreans... or Vietnamese... or whatever they are, don't have 
 the best English, and the death groans and grunts get annoying. Value- Definitely not worth the 
 fifty dollars. However, if the price was to drop down to twenty or so, then I would recommend buying 
 it. Until that price drop arrives, renting would be the best choice for this game.
  
  The game has a story. If you would call it that. It's not a very good story, nor is it interesting, 
 at all. It is full of very vulgar comments which I find distasteful. Thankfully you can skip the 
 cut scenes since the voice acting isn't what it could have been and the story is so boring. The 
 game has quite a lot of weapons, shame you are able to use some of them only once.
  
  I found it to a blast to play. Running and gunning down the butchers of the English language was 
 most satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance is a FPS game that takes place once again on a tropical island. You Play as jack 
 Carver and there are a aboundant amount of weapons to chose from and vehicles to drive so it dont 
 get boring. The graphics are acceptable for the wii and probably the best choice for shooting games, 
 if u campare to red steel , red steel would be like 1/5 while this would be 5/5. I'm not saying 
 this game isnt brilliant because its not but i still enjoy playing it. If you enjoy the wii games 
 and like shooting games, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I thought Far Cry is a good series and this game is most likely pretty 
 good. I was kind of right. While the gameplay was fun the game felt very very rushed. The graphics 
 are horrible there is a lag when ever you drive. Multi play is only 2 players. who wants to play 
 predator with only 2 players? The sounds are taken from FC: IP. In fact the only new things that 
 were in FC: V were a few new guns. All that aside It is a fun game on the WII but you could tell 
 that Ubisoft diddent take the game seriously and rushed it out the door. The game is still fun 
 to play if you havent played eveloution on the Xbox or 360 then pick this up. dont think that you 
 will pick this up for multiplayer because of all the limitations (2 players, few maps, no map editor, 
 only 2 game modes (predator and death match) , and lag when playing predator. All in all this is 
 the begining of the FPS on the wii and it shows that even if you are lazy the game can be semi-good 
 but lets not be lazy or youll get more bitter-sweet games like FC: V
  
  P. S If you are wondering if I liked the game or not because you cant tell from the review... Well 
 I really dont know if I like it or not its just I am pretty turned off by the effort put into this 
 game which really dampers my gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan874
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  i have absolutely NO idea why most people and game sites say this game is so bad. ive neverplayed 
 any of the other Far Cry's so maybe thats why but besides that, the games incredible. The controls 
 are really intuative and easy to learn, that guns are all pretty sweet, and the story is pretty 
 interesting. The bads are that the graphics are quite terrible but the game is so exciting that 
 you forget all about the graphics. The AI is extremely stupid but it makes for a good laugh. I 
 would HIGHLY recommend at least renting this game. one more thing... the multiplayer is quite a 
 let down seeing that its only 1 vs 1 and no more than 2 players but still, its fun. its no zelda 
 but i think its wayyyy better than Red Steel if your looking for a new FPS for your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  i had high hopes for this game having played it on every system it came out on. little did i know 
 it was marred beyond recognition. graphics are the number one problem. i normally dont harp on 
 about graphics however watching a cutscene is an amophic mess. watching the real time cut scenes 
 you have to wonder why this game was released as shadows and lighting will regulary DISSAPPEAR 
 AND REAPPEAR AT WILL. the people in cutscenes look weird too as their face and body will change 
 shapes at will. i personally dont care about graphics to the point im not going to buy an hd tv 
 for at least three years, whenever i watch tv i usually turn it up and mess with my computer. with 
 farcry vengence i can't turn my eyes away and ignore the horrible graphics problems. the wii is 
 capable of graphics better than the xbox. it truly is. but why , OH WHY is this game worse looking 
 than the xbox version. ubisoft its great you want to support the wii but if we wanted crappy overhyped 
 games wed ask ea to step up developement for it. now that thats over. gameplay is good, later on 
 youll get access to all kinds of powers to let you hunt and kill those who would hunt and kill 
 YOU. playing multiplayer gives you no satisfaction as it only allows one on one play. replay value 
 ends once you beat the game unless you want to play the sotry again though its not really worth 
 it. the controls are atrocious leaving you with a cursor that is either off screen most of the 
 time as you attempt to move the camera or has you looking straight down or straight up etc. etc. etc. 
 if they took everything thatr made red steel good and injected that into far cry vengence this 
 game would score at least an 8. however this game features everything red steel does only worse. enemies 
 dont even care bout cover most of the time as they will simply run at you and fire off rounds wildly 
 waiting for you to drop them. at least in red steel they took cover. i dont care how desperate 
 you are for a shooting game. this game is awfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysfan87
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance is the follow up to the popular Far Cry. This game could be so much more, but 
 several parts of the game felt rushed. There were numerous times where I became stuck in the scenery 
 and could not move or jump out of it and had to go back to my previous save point.... very upsetting. 
 The training 'manual' in the game is very buggy and it crashed my Wii on several occasions. On 
 one crash, I had to completely re-setup my Wii unit. Fortunately I backup all my Wii Store downloads 
 to a SD card, so nothing was lost or had to be re-downloaded. The games use of the Wiimote is cleaver 
 and easy to learn, making this game fun to play, besides the problems mentioned. Also, the ability 
 to destroy the environment makes for fun playing through the tough level again and again. The binoc's 
 mode isn't very useful as you end up wandering all over the screen trying to locate something/someone.... usually 
 getting killed in the process. The inability to turn off the music is another pet peeve, it gets 
 really loud at times and makes it hard to hear those incoming rounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomedge59
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I was really rooting for this game when i heard of it coming out, because so far all shooter games 
 on my console, the Wii, have been terrible. But when i rented this game, i was immediately glad 
 i had not bought it. The graphics are almost ps1 quality, and there is so much lag and frame rate 
 issues, that
  even the great controls do not save it. The sound is ok, but still as with everything else in the 
 game, not noteworthy. Oh and why make multiplayer for only two people? I guess that's ok due to 
 the fact that you will never be able to force anything over one friend to play this load of ( you 
 know what)
  My advice to all the FPS hungry Wii owners is: Wait till Metroid Prime 3 comes out and buy that 
 sure to be masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: many weapons to choose from, many vehicles to ride on,9 large maps to play in the 
 story mode, totaly NOT BAD graphics as GAMESPOT say, very fun MULTI PLAYER mode, all the maps are 
 very long, many FERRAL SKILLS {like a high jump or super speed} , NOT''dumb artificial intelligence'' 
 as GAMESPOT SAY, TERRIFIC ISLAND GRAPHICS, long and fun game play. THE BAD POINTS: not the best graphics 
 for a wii game {some gamecube games have even better graphics [CONCLUSION] a awesome shooter that 
 is TOTALY UNDERADED BY GAMESPOT, all hail that FAR CRY IS PORTED TO THE NINTENDO WII. you can enjoy 
 you for days or weeks {hay its only mine opinion} , you have not to recomend this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This games is awful in every sense of the word the GC had better graphics then this so this is 
 in no way the Wii's fault. This was just rushed out.
  
  Now I'm not a graphics whore but this game is ass ugly the Wii is capable
  of much more then 
 this looking at games like Mario Galaxy ,Metroid
  and SSBB will prove that.
  
  The cut scense in the game are just as ugly as the game it self
  the AI is piitful they just 
 stand around and let you shoot them most of the time.
  
  The only thing this game got going for it is the diffrent ways you use the
  Wii mote but the 
 horrid graphics and the dumb AI will probably have you
  tuning the game off and chucking it into a trash can or taking it back to the store before you 
 get to use many of the ways the Wiimote works in this game.
  
  Don't even rent this game it's not worth the $4-$7 dollars you'll spend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I don't remember ever purchasing a game quite as bad as Far Cry Vengeance.
  
  Granted not everything about the game is horrible. The gameplay is quite good, and the sound has 
 its shiney moments, but basically everything redeemable about this game is the work of its past 
 PC and XBOX incarnations, and everything new about it screams that something went horribly wrong 
 in the development studio.
  
  If I was a publisher and played this game, I would be embarrassed to say Yes, we, Ubisoft, published 
 Far Cry Vengeance. I would have scrapped the project, moved it to some other developer, or quit 
 my own damn job. Because the amount of work done on Far Cry Vengeance makes Red Steel, which was 
 also given a 5.5 by the wonderful folks at Gamespot, look like a masterpeice of gaming. ... which 
 I think it is, anyway, actually.
  
  FC: Vengeance is not, however. With the shadow draw distance of 5 feet, to the character models 
 that look like they came from Goldeneye, to the blurred-beyond-recognition textures ... which ... 
 repeat every 4 inches, to the magically appearing objects, 4-frames-per-second slowdowns, grainy 
 and blurry video, bad acting, sound effects that quit before they're supposed to, horrible AI .... 
 where do I stop? The list doesn't end.
  
  FarCry Vengeance is one of those games that you'd think was made by an Indie developer, and hence 
 you download it FOR FREE off the Internet and after playing it you say Yeah, if those guys highered 
 40 more people they may actually have a future in the video game business. But no. Beyond the level 
 design and gameplay, FarCry Vengeance is an abysmal failure to all those developing for it. The 
 game could quite possibly run on the Nintendo 64, and I'm more than positive that a first person 
 shooter made for the Nintendo DS, could OUT MUSCLE FC: Vengeance graphically. It's just that pathetic.
 
  
  Normally I don't think the graphics matter that much, but I was SO bothered by the low quality 
 of what I saw before me, I just couldn't help but NOT feel immersed in what I was playing. Besides 
 converting some shooting controls, it feels like the development team did absolutely nothing towards 
 this video game (or at least completed absolutely nothing) .
  
  I cannot knowingly recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueEWD
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeances greatest problem is that of the control scheme. More specifically, the motion 
 control is the greatest problem. This game's motion control scheme feels both broken and natural 
 at the same time. I know that is contradictory, so I shall explain my reason. It is broken because 
 when one cannot turn quickly. This is a great problem because, for example, if you walk into a 
 room, looking forward, and you are shot at from your side you are S. O. L. because the enemy will 
 be able to shoot you several times before you are able to turn and greet them with a led sandwich 
 or a knife handshake. The system does feel slightly natural because it is already an instinct to 
 point up to look up of turn right to look right. The positives of the controls do not out weigh 
 the negatives. The game is not only sub-par because of the controls but also it lacks in the way 
 of visuals. The game looks like an xbox game but the textures look like they it could from a high 
 end psp or ps game
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who needs an fps now for the wii but to the rest of us, wait for 
 another game to get the FPS formula right on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninten_fan
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance for Wii is a mishmash of Instincts and Evolution with new additions, such as 
 a modified storyline, exclusive maps and weapons, and Wii controller functionality. The title follows 
 ex-military guru Jack Carver, whose mysterious past has somehow familiarized him with a variety 
 of dangerous weapons and allowed him to unexplainably use feral powers to become part man-massacring 
 beast when the situation calls for it. The Far Cry franchise will probably not be remembered for 
 its compelling storytelling, but previous games did use real-time graphics well to set a mood. 
 However, the Wii version begins with a jarringly compressed and blurry cinematic that should be 
 running in real-time, but isn't. The first time we laid eyes on it, we thought that our test television 
 had malfunctioned and we checked the settings, but alas, it's a software shortcoming. Sadly, the 
 in-engine visuals don't look much better, if at all, which is Vengeance's biggest disappointment. 
 Amazingly, despite all of these technical drawbacks, Far Cry Vengeance cannot even cling to a smooth 
 framerate. The title runs sporadically at 30 frames and usually well below. There are times, especially 
 during big explosions, where the fluidity will chug to a slide-show crawl. And that is simply inexcusable 
 given all the shortcuts Ubisoft has already taken to get the franchise on Wii for the first wave. 
 On one positive note, the game does at least support both 480p and 16:9 display modes. Graphics:
 
  What happened here.. this looks worse then the xbox version.
  
  Sound:
  The voice acting during the cut-scenes are great but too bad the rest of the sound sucks. The gun 
 fire sounds like your shoooting a toy gun.
  
  Gameplay:
  Probably the only good part of the game.. the gameplay seems very fun at some times but the controlls 
 kill it and theres too much glitches.
  
  Lasting apeal: It has a decent single player mode but ounce you beat it there is nothing to do.. The 
 multiplayer mode was just a throw away.
  
  Overall: 5.9
  This is just a throwaway tittle that ubisoft put out fot cash.
  
  Okay port the xbox version 
 of far cry and make the graphics worse.. then make the AI stupid.. take out the map editer mode and 
 you get this game. Even the multiplayer was dumbed down. What a big disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  The original game was a classic FPS, one of the first next-gen FPS prior to Half-Life 2's release. 
 And even that older game, looks about 10 times better than what I'm seeing now. I've seen screens 
 of other games on Wii, and despite it's lack of firepower as far as hardware and graphcis go in 
 comparison to the competition, the games don't look THIS bad. It looks like an old PS1 game. I 
 suggest getting the original on PC if you want the true FarCry experience, or getting the port 
 to Xbox, which seems to even look better than this. What a waste of a license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  My first reaction when my friend told me he was going to buy this game was NO!! Wait... rent it 
 first. We've been having a jolly time playing with my 360 and with his Wii, but some patterns have 
 emerged. The first slap in the face was Splinter Cell, which was such a pathetic mess on the Wii 
 that you just had to wince. Other 3rd party games have been equally painful. However, none are 
 as shocking as FC: V.
  
  The first thing that leaps to mind when reviewing this game is going to get the fanboys very riled 
 up: The graphics are TERRIBLE. Considering that the PC/Xbox (regular, NOT 360) were showpieces 
 for a new generation of graphics in shooters, it's mind blowing how far it's fallen on the Wii. 
 Gamespot is being generous when it calls the look blocky . This game is UGLY, and is more so if 
 you've played games like Twilight Princess... which may not be masterpieces of the visual medium, 
 but at least show that the Wii has more in it than THIS.
  
  It's good to note that the graphics are bad enough that it effects gameplay. Spotting snipers is 
 just not so easy in a mass of nebulous foliage/crud. A second point against the Wii version of 
 FC: V is that the Wiimote is used less as an interface device, and more as a way to cripple the 
 game. The sniping mechanic (thrusting the wiimote forward) either reflects a damning inherent limitation 
 in what the Wii can do (and I don't believe it) or a supreme idiocy on the part of Ubisoft. There 
 is nothing harder than aiming with a wand that you're pumping at the TV like you're... well, you 
 get the idea.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, all of the limitation of FC: V are there, such as weak vehicle physics, 
 only much much more so on the Wii. The stealth and shooting aspects are dulled by the flaws afformentioned 
 to the point where melee attacks become almost the last resort. I have to add, having played the 
 PC Far Cry, and the 360 FC: IP, it's really just amazing that a game that was so much fun to play, 
 TWICE, has been so completely butchered. The sense of immersion in a feral jungle is GONE, replaced 
 by ugly smears of low def foliage, and any gameplay that might have saved it is blocked by the 
 controls.
  
  If this is the future of 3rd party ports of big name games to the Wii, then Nintendo should simply 
 not RELEASE these awful titles, and stick to their first party fare. This is essentially robbing 
 their customers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonedFox324
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this review short and sweet because theres not that much to talk about. Is Far 
 Cry worth the 50 bucks? I don't think so. Is it worth a good rental. Sure, if you wan't an enjoyable 
 FPS.
  
  The graphics are nothing special but they sure aren't N64 quality, though they probably are sub-Gamecube 
 potential. It really doesn't matter though, seeing as how the game is a fun shooter that I feel 
 with a little polishing could've blown Red Steel out of the water.
  
  Things I liked: Stealthily taking out enemies, slashing guys up with a machete, lots and lots of 
 things to blow up, satisfying (if not unrealistic) blood effects) , Wii controls felt natural.
 
  
  Things I didn't like: Predator mode was at times difficult to use (but showed potential) , objectives 
 were sometimes unclear, machete was a bit unresponsive, graphics were rushed and sloppy, lack of 
 ammo brought me back to the same two guns constantly.
  
  Things the game could've used: More open environments, more traps, better variety of available 
 ammo, more predator abilities.
  
  In closing, I liked the game more than Red Steel, but if you're one who judges games by their graphics 
 then you won't even give this game a second glance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4573r_n1nj4
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  FarCry for the Wii is similar to the Xbox version in terms of graphics.
  
  The graphics are in no way close to next gen, however the gameplay is redeeming. The Wii -mote 
 is much better for aiming then in RedSteel. Almost caparable to the mouse and keyboard accuracy.
 
  
  If graphics are not important to you than congratws, you'll enjoy this, otherwise pass it.
  
 
  There are a few minor technical bugs, a bump of lag here and there but nothing game crippleing. 
 Also the AI is somewhat lacking.
  
  Even on hard the game is resonably easy, though I am a first person vet.
  
  But despite these 
 setbacks this is an enjoyable game experience.
  
  Becuase of how well the controls worked out im willing to boost my score to an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace6633
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Farcry Vengeance ends up being not really bad but at the same time not really good. When I had 
 first heard that ubisoft was bringing a version of Farcry to nintendo Wii I have to say I was looking 
 forward to it. Having seen they were consistently good games I figured I'd go for it without consulting 
 a review my mistake. Lets get the good out of the way the gameplay is pretty solid the controls 
 work really well I found blasting people easy to get into and pretty fun until I realized I wasn't 
 shooting people but really dumb, blind, dolls. The AI is essentially so non-existant you can't 
 even call it intelligence . Your enemies really just shoot you they don't aim, avoid, fire, and 
 sometimes they don't even see you. At one point I ran right up into a guys face and he didn't even 
 try to attack until I shot him. I did however notice a couple of bugs the first being hit detection. 
 It seems no matter how dead on target my headshot was it was very rare to get one and I did notice 
 one area where and enemy ran straight through a tree. Regardless of this it's still fun if you 
 aren't looking for any kind of challenge.
  
  Graphics are just plain bad . There are alot of overused textures, and grainy visuals with a muddy 
 feel to them. They seem more like N-64 level then a next gen console. The soundtrack is repitiive 
 and gets old after the first few moments. Voice acting is generally not good and oddly in cutscenes 
 voices some to take a unusually distorted quality. Multiplayer is limited to two people so you 
 aren't going to have any crazy deathmatchs. Not to mention the fact that It's essentially pointless 
 and dull. One odd thing about it is it has an announcer that sounds somewhat like a cross between 
 John Madden and Larry King.
  
  Overall Farcry is a decent game that can be pretty fun for awhile but it's no where near worth 
 fifty bucks. Rent it. By the time it's due back you'll be bored of it anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fool_man_dude
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the first experience I had with Far Cry, so I cannot compare it to the other versions. 
 However I can say that i have really enjoyed the game. Although sometimes it can feel a bit out-of-date.
 
  
  The gameplay is intuitive, and makes perfect sense. Aiming is a breeze once you get used to it, 
 and grenade throwing is fun. However the melee, or feral attack could be a little tricky, since 
 you must slash the controller downward, which often causes the camera to be thrown off if the attack 
 doesn't work. Likewise with the zoom function. Pushing the controller forward, while a good idea, 
 often results in drastically moving the camera in the wrong direction.
  However I must say that after a few hours, I got used to the controls, and the frequency of these 
 problems diminished.
  
  As far as graphics, there is no way around it, they aren't impressive. Blotchy textures, and ugly-pixilated 
 shadows are somewhat embarassing, and the framerate can tend to decrease with intense combat. But 
 somehow I always managed aim and shoot alright despite the occasional jumpy screen.
  
  The dialogue is downright horrible, but actually makes for a good laugh. Though the creators tried 
 to make you the main character witty and sarcastic, they ended up making him an unintelligent goober, 
 who sucks as one-liners. But then again you might not agree with this, since I even thought the 
 dialouge from Gears Of War was bad.
  
  I must add that the game does take some getting used to. I showed it to a couple people who got 
 frustrated after ten minutes and wrote the game off as sucky . Don't make this mistake. With a 
 little devotion, the controls will come naturally to you.
  
  Final analysis: Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridmoments12
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying, if you have the slightest inkling to buy this game, Don't. Unless you 
 are a gamer who is very, and I mean VERY generous with their tolerance of Low Fps, horible controls, 
 and bad AI, then do not waste your time. I ended up buying this game from Gamestop for the price 
 of 50 dollars expecting for it to be a good game, seeing that the original for PC was one of my 
 all time favorites. So I put it in my Wii, and the menus seem a little undone, but who cares about 
 the menus right? Then the horrorfest begins. It starts out with a video that looks like it was 
 made for the N64, horrible graphics, horrible voice acting, and horrible voice syncronization. 
 I end up watching it for some reason, maybe in shock because it's so bad. So I get to the gaming 
 time, and I notice that the aim is a little stiff, so I pump up the sensitivity all the way, but 
 to my suprise, nearly no change. So it takes about 3 seconds to turn around, which is disadvantage 
 #1. Then comes the bad FPS. It's like playing Counter-Strike on a windows 95. I played for about 
 20 minutes and felt like throwing my Wii remote out the window. They tried to put vehicles in the 
 game... That was very unsuccessful. I feel like I am writing way too much for this joke of a game, 
 and Ubisoft, please do not scar the Farcry name any more than you have already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_sniper345
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun Far Cry game that everyone has to check out! The controls are revolutionary 
 and are very easy to learn. The graphics to lack hard though, and throwing grenades takes a little 
 to get used to. If you don't care about the graphics being bad, then you'll enjoy the newest edition 
 of Far Cry. One good thing is that the aiming doesn't suck like the previous Far Cry games that 
 hit the xbox and 360. The AI is retarded but it has been like that since the xbox version. If you 
 don't agree with some of the reviews people made I suggest renting it first and then buying it 
 if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxRobespierre
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  I rushed to get this game when it came out, since I just loved the original Far Cry. However, somewhere 
 along the line the ball was seriously dropped on this one. I think I will get the bad out of the 
 way so the review will end on some kind of a high note. For one, the graphics. The first thing 
 you notice when the game boots is a fairly nice introduction screen in the Wii menu. It's clear, 
 colorful, and, well, it makes you want to jump into the game. Unfortunately, that's where the graphics 
 category takes its tragic plunge. There is an opening cutscene that is so washed out and so blurry 
 it is painful to watch. The acting is terrible and, really, there are no redeeming factors about 
 it. I skipped this one and ended up skipping most of the other ones. The game opens up, and you 
 find yourself thinking one thing, and everyone does. This looks just like GoldenEye. And not in 
 the good way. It is damn fugly. It is slightly less blurry than the cutscenes, but overall the 
 game looks flat, chunky and low res. Pop-up is a serious issue, and the amazing foliage of the 
 original has been exchanged for flat, Doom 1-esque flat plants. The sound is just as terrible. 
 The voices sound tinny and cheap, the music is too loud, although it sounds alright, and the gun 
 noises are completely lackluster. And, to make it worse, there is no way to turn up sound effects 
 and lower music. It is one slider for ALL sound. Now, to the good. This controls are just right. 
 After some sensitivity tweaking, you can find yourself cutting down swaths of bad guys with perfectly 
 aimed headshots. While the game does offer aim-correcting options, they can be turned off without 
 much in terms of consequences, a true first for a console shooter. In conclusion, Ubisoft has hit 
 the nail on the head with controls, but seriously, make the presentation a little better. Zelda 
 looked better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance is a complete wreck of a game. I would have thought that developers would have 
 had to actually try to make a game look this bad. Even amidst a slew of bad Wii launch titles this 
 game stands out as the worst in many ways. The graphics suck, the gameplay sucks, the multiplayer 
 sucks it just suxers! The worst thing is that the framerate is never smooth and the textures are 
 pathetic instead of creating shadow effects they drew dark shadows into the ground: pathetic. This 
 is the worst Ubi Soft game since The Sum of All Fears. Do not buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is just amazing... it takes far cry... a game that simply looks great and nothing extraordinary 
 about it and makes it something extremely fun and intense to play.. i was not only amazed but enthralled 
 by the intuitive controll scheme... only downside is the graphics are not up to next gen quality 
 but it doesn't matter... the use of the wii remote greatly pulls you into the game. I really recommend 
 this game for hours of fun. The splitscreen multiplayer is really fun but damn i wish it had online...... guess 
 i gotta wait till 2007 for online games though: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure anyone reading this review has heard something of it's severe graphical inadequacies. 
 As it is, I bought this game knowing full-well that it wouldn't be pretty but, DAMN! I've seen 
 PS1 games that run graphical circles around this unpolished turd. Aside from the graphics, the 
 AI is so stupid it makes me feel bad for shooting them, like I'm shooting the mentaly inferior 
 or something. I feel Jack Carver should rather call the funny farm and get them a ticket home.
 
  The controls are pretty good... nothing amazing as those who want to find something to make up 
 for the graphics will tell you, but functional and certainly better than this game's slightly older 
 brother Red Steel. They are fully adjustable so you can customize the movements of the Wii-mote 
 to fit your preference.
  The single player campaign is easy, even on hard. That being said there are sections when you will 
 become overwhelmed by mobs of graphically and mentally inferior enemies that will test your ability 
 to rapidly move your Wii-mote from one head (or is it a block of ice?) to the other.
  The weapons are your standard issue FPS foder only they look like they were snatched straight from 
 the N64's Perfect Dark.
  Driving vehicles is fun, except the framerate bounces in and out of playable as foliage and enemies 
 bounce in and out of the quite small field of view.
  For those of you thinking about getting this game for the multiplayer, skip it and enjoy a friendly 
 game of bloody knuckles as a similar experience that won't cost $50. The multiplayer is horrendous. 
 Absolutely the worst I have ever played. It has a maximum two players at a time and if one player 
 headshots or knifes the other player, that player becomes the predator. Basically an unbeatable 
 badass who runs around like a wildcat slashing the crap out of the other player until the kill 
 count runs out or the other player accidentaly kills him while speratically shooting in all directions.
 
  Now, for a detailed look at the graphical inadequacies:
  First off, the cutscenes. They aren't worse than the gameplay, in fact in many ways they look good. 
 It's just there's this flicker that happens the whole damn time that never goes away. The character 
 models in the cutscenes are made of one polygon each and the colors in the entire game but most 
 evidentally in cutscenes are flat. Second, the lighting effects... if you want to call them that. 
 I laughed out loud the first time I walked through the shade and looked on the ground. It looks 
 like it was penciled in as an after thought. Going under foilage or into a house turns your entire 
 visable parts the same shade and, apart from a few blotches of light that show on your arm here 
 and there, nothing changes that gets you to believe you might possibly be walking through shade.
 
  The water looks like it was doodled too. There are maybe two or three tones to it. The only plus 
 to being underwater in this game is that it is the only place that looks like it's supposed to 
 be as murky as it is.
  The explosions are cheeply done and often stutter the framerate... even the little things like a 
 barrel blowing up or grenade going off.
  The draw distance, as I alluded to before with the driving, is really bad. You can actually see 
 a circle around you where textures appear throughout the entire game.
  The blood effects are pathetic. Do you remember the original Mortal Kombat for the SNES? Do you 
 remember that big shower of blood that flung out of the characters when you hit 'em? Yeah? That 
 looks better than this. No kidding.
  Obviously, my overall recommendation is this: Don't buy it, don't rent it, don't wish it upon your 
 worst enemy. If someone tries to give it to you for free that person is an #$^hole! This is the 
 worst game I have played in a very, very long time. Avoid it like the plague! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_81
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game graphic quality is good this is the best Far cry game i have played 
 in a long time but the sound quality could have been a little better but all in all this is the 
 best far cry to date and anyone else that says different should not be playing video games and 
 throwing the gernades with the wii mote is cool being able to manually aim your gun is so much 
 fun if Nintendo keeps this up Microsoft and Sony will be in trouble i can't wait for the Next Far 
 Cry game for the Nintendo Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0diablo0
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is getting bashed for its graphics, but it didnt really effect my time with the game. 
 It is a great accomplishment in the controls department and the gameplay is average. I see many 
 reviews saying this is not a goood game, the graphics suck! now think about this: how good were 
 the graphics in the last GTA?
  Compared to games like halo and fear they were discusting (at least to me) but it was a great game! 
 i dont see why ppl dont take vengance that way, sure the graphics may suck but that is really all 
 that sucks in this game ( i include framerate and stuff like that in the graphics department aswell) 
 over all a good buy but with the sub-par graphics it can seem a little corny at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltscrazy18
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is not completely what i would expect from the wii IN TERMS OF GRAPHICS, BUT... The gameplay 
 is amazing, really fun, ya it takes some getting used to but its well worth it. The only bad things 
 is that its not online, but no Wii games are yet, and the graphics are sucky. I would reccomend 
 buying this ONLY IF you dont mind playing gamecube like graphics. I care more about the gameplay 
 so i like it. The sounds are great for the guns, but the enemys are repetitive. The sound is good 
 with the sound effects. This is a good game for people who love action, but not too difficult. 
 This is a very good game for the wii with the controls. If you are lookin for a game to have that 
 would start you off with a great wii controller experience, then THIS is the game.
  
  All in all: Great Gameplay... Bad graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The original Far Cry for the PC still stands as one of the handsomest first person shooters in 
 existence, so it is rather perplexing that the series first excursion to the Wii turned out to 
 be so  lets face it  ludicrously ugly. Dont get me wrong, Im not expecting next-gen level 
 graphics here, far from it, but what is on display in Vengeance couldnt even be considered acceptable 
 for the last generation of consoles. If anything, it resembles the Nintendo 64s first Turok game.
 
  
  The fact that this is a Ubisoft developed game, a company known for excellence in graphics, is 
 almost inconceivable to me. It can only lead to one of two conclusions: Either the Wii truly is 
 a lousy game machine that is terrible to develop for, or this game port was quickly slapped together 
 without any attempt at optimization.
  
  But enough about the graphics. How, one might ask, does the actual gameplay hold up? Surprisingly, 
 it is fairly decent. Though the controls take some getting used to, they do eventually feel pretty 
 intuitive. I still wouldnt take this control scheme over a mouse and keyboard, but it marks a 
 definite improvement over the way Red Steel or Call of Duty 3 utilized the Wiis controls.
  
  Unfortunately, due to the constant repetition of textures and enemies, the levels themselves 
 get monotonous very quickly. There is simply too little variety to keep one entertained beyond 
 the initial fascination with the games controls.
  
  All in all, this game might be worth a rental for sheer novelty (as with any other Wii game, the 
 major draw) , but I simply cannot recommend it for purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doogkie6903
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I just got done playing a good 4 hours, great game, not totally awesome, but good. It might help 
 that i havnt played any nextgen (xbox 360 or ps3) games except for at walmart, so i probably dont 
 know what super good graphics really look like and this game looks like that games i used to play (ps2) 
 so i can handle it with no problem.
  
  Control scheme is good i cant see how anyone but a real ass cant find these controls good, i had 
 to mess around with the settings , speed everything up and it felt like i was in a well tuned machine.
 
  
  The gameplay so far is good, i didnt put it down to finish off zelda: tp so that has to say it is 
 pretty good.
  
  Basically .... if you likes red steel your gonna really like this game, if you didnt like red steel 
 then you better wait for metroid 3 or something groundbreaking because ubisoft is not into putting 
 way too much time in right now, but nevertheless it is a good game with the wii mote making if 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow, the first previews into the game and I thought to myself what a terrible and horrible game 
 to look at, it can't possibly get worser than the actual gameplay right? Well if I had to choose 
 a game to not judge it by it's cover, for sure it would be this little gem. Far Cry has been built 
 from the ground up with interesting controls and gameplay.
  
  Pros+: Awesome setting as previous Far Cry games have put you in; Some lighting effects are pretty 
 cool, but nothing amazing; Controls are very well thought up and there is a lot of gameplay goodness 
 here and there; Sound is probably one of the better aspects of the game overall, very loud gun 
 affects and excellent music.
  
  Cons-: Not much replay value with the multiplayer; some levels tend to drag or a just a little 
 too long; controls take a while to get used to; Graphics turn to good then to bleh in some levels.
 
  
  Overall: Do yourself a big favor and rent the game first, if you like it sure enough then a purchase 
 may be the way to go, if not you'll have at least a fun weekend blasting through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minijeffro
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Wii control is cool but in the realm of 1st person shooter it needs to be implemented better than 
 it is here. It feels laborious and seems to take away from the action experience. Graphics are 
 a BIG letdown. This game looks terrible.... especially on an HD display. Recalls 1st generation 
 PS2 graphics. I am a big fan of the Far Cry games and of Nintendo, but this game is an absolute 
 letdown. Is it ambitious? yes it is.... Is it fun?..... no it isn't. If you're absolutely desparate 
 for a new Wii game then it might get you by until something better comes out, but for now... avoid!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feniz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  If you you want to play a game that looks like they took the graphics from an X-box game and dumbed 
 them down by 50%, and hap-hazardly added a new control scheme, then by this game. The only thing 
 I can say that I liked about the implementation of this game is the menu system. Other wise I have 
 to advise against getting this game. If you still want to get this game, go rent it first, wait 
 a month for it to drop to a $20 or purchase the game from a retailer that has a very friendly return 
 policy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boney614
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  this version of farcry is just as good as the xbox versions but better since the game is brought 
 to you by the nintendo wii ( which is the best game system ever made) . the wii's controller makes 
 the game a more interactive game. the wii's ability to make the player feel immersed in the enviroment 
 by swinging the remote to hack away at enemies, to throw grenades, and to heal yourself . the gameplay 
 is great and the nintendo wii is on a good step towards creating other immersive games. all in 
 all farcry is the damn best on te wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clopey15
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Vengeance for the Nintendo Wii started out to be a jumbled mess of, why did I just spend 
 fifty dollars on this? The default settings for the control were way to low to start out with. 
 I felt i would have had more speed when turning with the traditional analog stick. The option menu 
 gives you slow, medium, and fast settings for the camera. Once this setting is on fast its much 
 more enjoyable.
  For a launch title, yes this is still launch in my mind, it is not half bad. The sound would have 
 been better had you been able to mess around with the sound settings more than just sound volume 
 . The music is much louder than your guns are. In fact if you have the volume at a decent level, 
 you won't even hear your guns firing. So it would have been nice to change the music and the sound 
 effects on their own. Now for graphics. Nothing impressive... at all. Tons of jaggies and muddy 
 looking textures. I would say they could have been done much better, but I'm not a game programmer 
 so it may have not been possible in the first place. Once in the game, however, you start to become 
 part of the game and not just playing along. For this reason, and only this reason, are the graphics 
 able to be looked past for what they are.
  In closing, FCV is a great first person shooter, however, I would recommend renting before buying 
 it. Take heed on the control options though, they will feel very sluggish at first, just change 
 them to fast and get shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rome0061
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Maybe on a regular TV this game may be fine, but on anything 16:9 you are screwed. Starting off, 
 the menu screen is a standard 4:3 resolution, along with all of the cut scenes. So randomly during 
 the middle of the game, when it transitions into a cut scene, it is in this VERY VERY low quality, 
 stretched out, jittery movie clip. The game constantly glitches and is really jumpy, and the frame 
 rate is very unstable. The Wii controls are fun, but since they are really hard to get used to, 
 the first hour or so will be very frustrating especially with some hard to reach buttons during 
 the middle of a fire fight. But since the controls are hard, I think Ubisoft tried to dumb down 
 the AI, or there isn't any AI at all. Many times you will see 5 men standing right next to each 
 other and kill 4 of them without the 5th one even noticing. He will stand there with his back to 
 you. Maybe it's as easy as 'all the characters in this game are deaf'... But I really don't think 
 that this is the case. The Audio is also a mess! you can hear the tracks click every time that 
 they are about to repeat, some men talk to you while they are DEAD or recently killed, and the 
 jungle noises, gun shots, speech, are nothing even short of dynamic. They plain old suck.
  
  Even Worse is the multiplayer, which really should have been names biplayer because all you 
 can do is have you, and one friend, and a huge gigantic map where you never see each other, and 
 attempt to kill each other. Just 2 player support, no mutilplayer. They may as well have not even 
 included it because it is miserable and it is a waste of life.
  
  I feel like this could have been a wonderful game if it wasn't so obviously rushed out the door. 
 I am a huge fan of the Far Cry series and I would have loved ANY crap that Ubisoft pushed out into 
 the stores. But not this. What could have been so hard about adding multiple aspect ratio menus? 
 Other games do it, even Super Monkey ball has FULL 16:9 support. Why not have clean, non-griddy, 
 non-fuzzy, non-grainy movie clips? Sorry for the disappointment guys. This game suffers from being 
 a complete X-Box port that obvioulsy does not work on the Wii. If I could make an honest guest, 
 it runs at an amazingly fast 15 frames per second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eqrk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  the game seriously is just amazing... it takes far cry... a game that simply looks great and nothing 
 extraordinary about it and makes it something extremely fun and intense to play.. i was not only 
 amazed but enthralled by the intuitive controll scheme... only downside is the graphics are not 
 up to next gen quality but it doesn't matter... the use of the wii remote greatly pulls you into 
 the game and this game is far far far far from being a downer... i really recommend this game for 
 hours of fun... possibly one of the best FPS's ive played since gears of war... damn i wish it 
 had online.. guess i gotta wait till 2007 for online games though ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jogert
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty fun, i've always been a fan of the farcry games ever since it moved from the 
 pc to the xbox to the wii. this episode is just as good as the rest, if not better because it's 
 on the wii!!! visuals are nice, and it's also kinda nice since it takes place on a paradise island (which 
 is always a cool setting) . shooting is fun, aiming with the wii mote is very entertaining, and 
 doing stuff with the controller just goes on forever. like throwing grenades are fun. Sound is 
 good, it could be a little better, but they did program the game with GC settings so it'll pass. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
