-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/fifasoccer08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Customised control system for beginners.
 Official FIFA data adds to authenticity.
 Decent online mode for the Wii.
 Nice player details and animation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control system doesn't really suit the game.
 Missing the new trick system and be-a-pro modes seen elsewhere.
 Laggy online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 340 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EA's football series makes a moderately successful debut on the Wii, with family-friendly control 
 and some neat minigames. 

  EA Sports may release FIFA on pretty much every console going, but the diversity of hardware on 
 the market means that each version is actually very different from the other. Take the DS, Xbox 
 360, and Wii versions of the game, for example -- they each offer wildly different control systems, 
 with each development team designing unique gameplay modes as well. The first version for the Wii 
 offers a brand-new motion-sensitive control system, with shots and tackles now performed by physically 
 swiping the remote control in different directions. EA Sports has also focussed on the Wii's family 
 users, with the option of a two-button control system for football-game virgins. The result is 
 that while the game can't compete with the Xbox 360 and PS3 games on features or playability, it 
 still succeeds in appealing to its intended audience.  

           This may look like your father's FIFA, but the Wii control system means shots and tackles 
 are now motion sensitive.      

  Utilising the Wii Remote and Nunchuk controllers, FIFA 08's default control system means that it 
 plays very differently than any football game you'll have played before. You move players using 
 the control stick, with run mapped to the Z button, pass on A, and through passes on B. The more 
 physical aspects of the game, such as shooting, crossing, and slide tackling, are performed by 
 swiping the Wii Remote itself. A normal shot can be taken with a quick upward motion, while a more 
 controlled finesse shot is performed by moving it downward. The velocity of this movement dictates 
 the power of the shot, while you can also change the direction of a cross or a free kick by tilting 
 the Wii Remote as it's in the air. In a nice touch, you can also do a throw-in by putting both 
 controllers behind your head and mimicking the move yourself. The downside is that the cable can 
 get caught on your chin and make you feel like you're only a small step away from a nasty accident. 

  Thanks to this control system, performing simple moves is easy. However, if you want to do more 
 advanced moves the combination of button presses and movements starts to feel confusing. If you 
 want to do a long pass or a cross, you have to hold A and B together, and if you want to direct 
 the pass to another player you have to press A while swiping the remote in that direction. And 
 with chipped shots requiring a press of the C button while you flick the remote up in the air, 
 you sometimes feel like you're performing a strange juggling act while your face contorts at having 
 to remember all the button combinations. Given that these moves are effectively very commonplace 
 in a football game, the button combinations certainly detract from the fluidity of the game.  

 
  Thankfully, things don't have to be so complicated. The new family play option means you can introduce 
 people to the game who've never even tried a football title before. Ditching the Nunchuk controller 
 completely and handing over player movement to the artificial intelligence, the family play control 
 system only asks that players take care of passing and shooting. This means that you only have 
 to worry about using two buttons, plus the relevant swipes on the remote to shoot and tackle. People 
 with video game experience will probably become aggravated by the lack of control, but it succeeds 
 in giving novices an accessible introduction to the game.  

  While a lot has been done to adapt the game to the Wii control system, it doesn't stop FIFA 08 
 from feeling like it's forcing itself to work with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. Moving the ball 
 between 11 players often feels awkward, especially if you're not using the D pad to make directed 
 passes. Also, using the Wii Remote motion sensor to determine the power of crosses never feels 
 precise enough, which is especially problematic if you're trying to aim pinpoint crosses. Shooting's 
 not too much of an issue as the goalkeeper difficulty has been toned down to compensate, but you 
 certainly never feel like you can make accurate enough shots to feel truly satisfied.  

  Not only is the Wii version different to others in terms of control, it also has a new set of features. 
 Whereas the big additions for the Xbox 360 and PS3 are the new trick system and the be a pro mode, 
 neither of these are present on the Wii. Instead, they're replaced with a challenge mode and the 
 Ronaldinho-endorsed footii party mode. The challenge mode will be familiar to FIFA veterans from 
 previous console versions, as it replicates a number of real-life scenarios in video game form. 
 This basically means that you'll need to meet certain match criteria from historic games, such 
 as "win by two goals as Chelsea against Blackburn." Instead of playing a game from the start with 
 a 0-0 scoreline, you might find yourself in the second half with both teams having scored two goals. 
 There are a decent number of games to play through, with 61 different individual challenges which 
 gradually increase in difficulty. Winning also gives you points that can be spent in the FIFA 08 
 store on alternative kits, game balls, stadiums, and classic teams.  

           The best party game is a table football sim for up to four players.      

  The footii 
 party mode really is a brand-new feature for the series, though, offering three football-related 
 minigames. The first game is called Table Football, and it replicates the famous bar game using 
 the Wii Remote as the handles. The sensitivity of the remote means that control can actually be 
 a bit tricky, especially as you juggle all the handles simultaneously, but it's fun nonetheless. 
 The juggling game is basically the kick-up game that real footballers use to practice, but it's 
 played using a combination of button presses and movements using the remote. The final game, Boot 
 It, is the weakest of the three minigames; it's simply a penalty shootout in which you wave the 
 remote in the direction you want to shoot. All of these games can be played by up to four players 
 simultaneously, and you're even shown how many calories you burnt after each session. Playing through 
 these modes unlocks four Ronaldinho Mii characters, each with a different kit.  

  Thanks to its official licence, the game has a great selection of tournaments and interactive leagues 
 to play through. The 50 tournaments from around the globe cover most of the major leagues and cups, 
 from the English Premier League to the US Major League. You can also create your own custom tournaments, 
 which will be useful if you want to set up a World Cup scenario.  

  EA Sports' online effort also represents the most complete multiplayer Wii experience to date. 
 You need to register your details with EA to play, but once registered you can head online and 
 find a random game with relative ease. The game isn't massively populated -- the number of people 
 in the lobbies was always in the single figures, while the total number of people playing games 
 was usually around the 200 mark. Despite this, you can add people you meet to a friends list and 
 see when they're online once they've accepted, while you can send quick messages like "Do you want 
 to play a game?" or type them out using the onscreen keyboard. The downside is that, unlike the 
 PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of FIFA 08, the Wii online service suffers from noticeable lag and too 
 many dropped connections.  

  The online service also offers interactive leagues, a mode which lets you choose a team and play 
 real-life fixtures as they happen through the season. For example, if your favourite team is Arsenal 
 and they're playing Blackburn on the weekend, you can head online and play Blackburn fans in the 
 run-up to the actual match. The results across all platforms feed into a central database of scores, 
 and the results are decided based on points from all games. It's a neat mode, and although there'll 
 always be a lot more supporters of the bigger clubs, it's a good chance to make you feel like you're 
 making a difference to your club's league standing. EA Nation is nowhere near as complete as FIFA 
 08's Xbox Live experience, but it's much better than anything else on the Wii and a fairly good 
 attempt at providing decent online integration. We also like the ESPN soccernet news ticker that 
 runs along the bottom of the screen while you're navigating the menus.  

           FIFA 08 offers an ultra-simple control system for beginners that uses just the Wii Remote. 

  Graphically, FIFA 08 isn't immediately impressive, although there are some nice touches. There's 
 little detail to be seen from the default camera angles, but closer up the player likenesses and 
 animation effects are actually quite impressive. Goalkeepers who wear protective helmets, such 
 as Chelsea's Peter Cech, also feature them in-game, while the game runs at a very solid frame rate 
 with no slowdown in offline mode. On the audio side, FIFA 08 on the Wii shares most of its music 
 tracks with the other console versions, which means it has a high-quality soundtrack recorded by 
 professional artists. That said, the commentary sounds like it's been recorded in relatively low 
 quality, and while it's slickly produced, you're likely to tire from hearing the same quotes every 
 match.  

  The first FIFA game on the Wii is a decent stab at adapting the famous football series for Nintendo's 
 console. If you're a fan of the series and the Wii is the only console you own, you should definitely 
 check it out -- but bear in mind that it's not as playable or fully featured as the Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 versions. Judged against other Wii titles it's still an addictive and well-rounded package, 
 though, particularly thanks to the standard-setting online mode. As it stands, FIFA 08 on the Wii 
 is an interesting new direction for the series, and one that will hopefully become deeper and more 
 refined with the inevitable sequels and spin-offs.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jonnymario
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  By the first time I got it, i thought that this was going to be indeed, a fun and entertaining 
 game (thanks to the Wii remote) , and indeed it was! The other recent FIFA game that I had played 
 was the FIFA 06 for the Game cube and I thought that it was very enjoyable but that the graphics 
 has to improve. I bought the game thinking that it would have way better graphics but it really 
 didn't which was kind of disappointing to me but I discovered that the game didn't have to have 
 really good graphics to be enjoyable. First of all, I love the all new ways of scoring goals (when 
 moving the Wii remote up or down depending on the type of shot) and I also enjoyed that the type 
 of kicks were very advanced also. The only bad part about this is that sometimes the controls actually 
 react a bit too late, but that only happens sometimes. In addition too, I liked how EA sports gave 
 you the option to play with either family play mode with the wii remote or advanced mode with the 
 wii remote and the nunchuck (I personally recommend playing with advanced controls.) What I also 
 found enjoyable was the mini games that were featured specifically for the wii, especially the 
 juggling one and the table soccer one. The challenges range from easy to difficult and what I like 
 about them is that they are really fun because they featured more teams then the previous FIFAs. 
 Overall, I found this game really enjoyable but I would only recommend it to those who like using 
 the wii controls in their more complex way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  While FIFA has gotten into a good groove on the 360 and PS3, the Wii version is in an awkward position. 
 Visually, it's a notch above the PS2 game, although its qualities aren't ideally suited to a big 
 HDTV. Control-wise, it's always been a risky venture, considering that you're using your hands 
 to control a sport that penalizes you for doing so, unless you're a goalie. Also, Nintendo doesn't 
 exactly have hardware that screams "jump online with your friends." With those barriers in place, 
 FIFA 08 manages to do the best it can, which in this case, keeps it away from relegation, but doesn't 
 qualify it for Champions League.
  
  In order to jump into FIFA 08, you'll absolutely need to go through Soccer Academy, the mode that 
 teaches you the basics. It's an invaluable resource for breaking down the game's fundamentals, 
 although at times it also exposes the flaws of the game's motion controls. You'll learn that upward 
 and downward swings make the difference between a normal shot and a finesse shot (here's a hint: 
 when in doubt, always get the ball to your star striker and swing downward) .
  
  You'll learn how to make through passes, normal passes and crosses. They're all basic building 
 blocks of any offense. It's certain moves, like chip shots and high through balls, that can prove 
 more aggravating than fun. On more than one occasion, our attempted chip shot was misinterpreted 
 as a fake shot or as some sort of fancy footwork. It all comes into frustrating fruition as you 
 attempt to string together some very loose gameplay mechanics to score a goal. While certain advanced 
 moves feel intuitive in theory, in execution they seem to occur less often from skill and more 
 from luck. The best way to phrase it: if you couldn't do it on the PS2 version, you probably won't 
 be able to do it well here. That goes for free kicks and stopping penalty shots.
  
  Once you take these skills onto the pitch, you'll find that once you've gotten a grasp on the controls, 
 they're fairly fun, though the CPU lets you down from time to time. The defensive AI is dull at 
 times, letting opposition carve holes in it, and the camera perspective doesn't help the situation 
 when you're trying to rally teammates to counter-attack. You're effectively sacrificing your depth 
 of field for waggle, and honestly, it makes setting up plays all the more difficult. If you switch 
 camera modes to what is the default on other consoles, it's even harder to control your players 
 and keep up with what's going on. The camera never gels with the gameplay requirements. On the 
 other hand, it's never been easier to control your goalkeeper in a soccer game. If you hold down 
 the minus button, you can control him with the C-stick and set him up to dive and protect the ball.
 
  
  On the other hand, EA's Family Play controls might be good for family members who don't play games 
 very often, but they're far too easy for most gamers, even if you're not really a soccer fan. By 
 playing with just the remote, the controls are distilled to passing and shooting on defense and 
 tackling on offense. You'll basically become a backseat player, as the CPU will setup most of the 
 offensive passing for you; odds are, your human errors will impede the computer from setting up 
 a shot for you. Maybe people who aren't into games will enjoy it, but it's not worth unplugging 
 your nunchuk to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meloen1987
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Allright! My first review. Well, it's a review about a game I was really looking forward too. And 
 when I finally got it with discount, and played it, it was total rubbish! Seriously, it's so bad 
 that I immediatly returned it to the shop and got my money back. I'm really disappointed in you, 
 EA!
  
  FIFA 2007 for the Gamecube was really good. Just a simple football game, with a huge Career mode. 
 And what was missing in this FIFA? Right, the Careermode. Instead, you can play each League, but 
 you cannot change clubs. You just get the cup, and you achieved something. There is no transfer 
 season, there is nothing. It all looks very boring, no it looks very childish. The online options 
 are really dull, and very slow. The controls are terrible, I tried to get used to it, but I just 
 want to play and don't want to swing my arm up and down. IT DOESN'T EVEN REACT THAT GOOD!!!
  
  What were you thinking, EA? "Ohhhh, it's Nintendo Wii, they always have kiddie types of games". 
 My friend has the same game, but for the Xbox 360 and that game is really good. Same goes for the 
 PS3. But this FIFA for the Wii is just a whole different game, and it's just really really bad!!! 
 I hope the 2009 edition is just as good as the ones for the Xbox 360 & PS3, because now I only 
 have the 2007 edition and that game isn't really up to date anymore. That's all for now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyMangtana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  While the Fifa series has always been limited to the PES overall in next gem gaming. Fifa 08 for 
 the Wii is a decent effort to keep football fans entertained with a soccer game that takes advantage 
 of the wii's controls. It's quite solid, with the online mode being by far the games high point 
 (although quite sluggish depending on connection speed) It gives Wii soccer fans the opportunity 
 to play as their favourite team/players against players from all over the world. Replay value is 
 quite good also, as always in fifa, despite the fact you realise the golden spots in which are 
 the only ways you can score from, and it is a tad annoying when online gamers feel the need to 
 continuously pump the ball over the top of the defence with the long ball in order to force a goal. 
 With that being said, Fifa usually is a safe option for a soccer game, you always know what you're 
 getting, and the online mode is a bonus, plus youve got all the up to date squads, kits and stadiums 
 with full commentary, which gives a nice atmosphere to the game. So although not great, you can 
 enjoy a nice competetive match wether it be online, agains CPU or offline multiplayer. While the 
 party games will keep the rest of the family entertained, Fifa is more than enough to keep soccer 
 fans entertained for the year until PES 2008's release.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PKODO
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 on Wii didn't rival other consoles by miles!! I suppose its ok for parties but with the 
 control system and lack of features not to mention no career mode was a major let down for a much 
 anticipated game. EA Sports should take note and make Fifa 09 a better game with a choice of controller 
 for better game play... well at least have a choice of gameplay. Give Sony & Microsoft a run for 
 their money! Setting that aside Graphicswise the game was superb and the party mode was amusing 
 for a short time till I got bored. I was looking forward to playing European tournaments while 
 playing my trusty SPL scedual but was astonished to find that I couldnt even play a domestic cup 
 game without starting a new tounament... Had to go back to playing Fifa 07 on PC for my kicks till 
 09 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eboyy47
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Oleeaaa!! is what goes through the curious and excited viewers when they see me scoring and juking 
 my little bro out. The game is awesome and addicting. First of all I would like to say that all 
 those people who said that this game is horrid, crappy and hard are really weird because this game 
 is absoloutly comfortable to play with if you've played with the wiimotes or played another fifa 
 game before. The graphics although not as sexy as the PS3 and 360 versions, are still high quality 
 and look real up close. I would though, like to point out that if you start with the first camera 
 angle they give you it will look a little cartoonish. What you have to do is put the view closer 
 and play on brodcast. "Ahhhh!!!!!!!! how can it be so much better" is what I said!!
  The gameplay is really awesome and fast paced and shots are really cool and professional. The goalies 
 are good and dive accordingly to the type of shot. One thing that is a little hard is free kicks. 
 I have not yet scored of one and I used to score one every game with 07. 
  Overall this game is really good and the gameplay is extremely fast paced and graphically beutiful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyjoesh
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  this game has no features no making characters no manager mode you can not even change your song 
 list. all you do is play quick games what a disgrace. it is a shame. i played it for about fifteen 
 or sixteen hours and did not notice anything different it might be a rental but it is deffinitely 
 not for keeps. do not waste your money if you are a real soccer fan the fifa for other systems 
 though happens to be spectacular. do not buy this game i repeat do not buy this game you even juke 
 by moving the wii remote if the rest is not bad enough do not do not do not do not do not do not 
 do not do not do not do not do not do not do notdo not do not do not do not do not do not do not 
 do not do not do not do not do not do notdo not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not 
 do not do not do not do not do notdo not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not 
 do not do not do not do notdo not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not 
 do not do not do notdo not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not do not 
 do not do not buy this game!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is EA Sports' first step into the Fifa franchise for the Nintendo Wii. It's a game based 
 on, probably, the most popular sports in the world: Soccer. You can call it Soccer, Football, Futbull, 
 Ballon or whatever you want, everybody knows this, what it is about and so far EA has (mostly) 
 delivered the same experience you could get in this sports but in a video game format. Will it 
 do the same for the Wii? Let's find out 
  
  As you would expect, Fifa 08 for the Nintendo Wii uses motion sensing controls. Does it work all 
 too well? Not really. A is used for passing, B for through passing, the control stick to move your 
 player and the Z button to run faster. Now this all seemed pretty simple right? Well how do you 
 shoot? By making an upward swing with the Wiimote and let me tell you that it is actually one of 
 the most frustrating things in the game, it never works like you want it to. Pretty much all of 
 the ''physical'' moves are controlled by motion sensing. The more you swing the Wiimote, the stronger 
 your shots will get  but there's a little tricky thing; if you swing your controller a little 
 too much on the left/right, you'll only send your ball into a nice flight outside the stadium. 
 The shooting demands a lot of precision.
  
  While it does seem somewhat decent on paper, this control scheme doesn't fit in well with the game. 
 When you're approaching a goal keeper and you're about the shoot, you don't have the time to go 
 into precision, you just want to shoot. Ultimately this does make the game a little harder (if 
 you're playing at a medium or high level of difficulty) but the good side is that when you make 
 a goal, it's very rewarding because you've made a lot of efforts to get it. But in the end, the 
 boring controls hurt a lot the replay value. Fifa 08 also features controls for casual gamers (called 
 Family Play) , you only perform simple tasks like shooting or passing while the game handles the 
 rest. This is a very good addition if you want some non-gamers to play with you in this game.
 
  
  The game also features mini-games like table Football (aka Baby Foot for some) , Juggling (where 
 you just perform simple little moves to keep juggling the ball) and Boot it, where you just shoot 
 the ball at a goalkeeper. None of those mini-games are really worth your time (except maybe the 
 juggling one) especially the table Football game; you need to rotate your Wiimote in order to play 
 and you move the players with the D-pad which makes this mini-game totally uncomfortable.
  
  Fifa 08 also has a lot of regular Fifa games features missing such as the be-a-pro game mode, 
 all you have is ''Kick-Off'' and some challenges (which are mostly dull by the way) . But, no Fifa 
 game would be a Fifa game without Online Play right? Well luckily Fifa 08 for the Wii features 
 online play! And you know the best part of it? No Friend Codes! Yes the game uses your EA Nation 
 ID and nothing else, but you still can't communicate with strangers which isn't really that useful 
 in the first place so it doesn't really matter. Online Play can be a little laggy and for some 
 reasons the connection can drop even if technically your connection is fine so this really makes 
 it a little more frustrating. The worst part of Online Play is that the other gamer can see which 
 player you're using (by that I mean that they can see that Triangle on top of your player) and 
 vice-versa which really makes the whole experience cheap since the other gamer would know where 
 you'd be coming from in the game. There's also Interactive Leagues mode for online play which is 
 actually a decent one: You represent you own club online and each club gets a ranking too, compete 
 and win more matches to raise your club in the ranks.
  
  As you would expect from any Fifa game out there, licensed music are also thrown into the mix. 
 Many songs from a wide diversity of artists make the whole menu navigation in the game a pleasant 
 one. Of course in Fifa 08 you can also unlock many things like extra balls, kits and even stadiums 
 by playing in the challenge mode and winning points. The visuals for that game are somewhat decent, 
 the crowd looks horrible and so does the field on a close-up. At least the animation is fine and 
 the player models are decent. The framerate doesn't drop which makes the whole game running smoothly 
 and any important glitches are also missing which makes the game feel even more real.
  
  Ultimately Fifa 08 for the Wii has many flaws and isn't really worth your money or in some cases, 
 your time. The boring control schemes, along with the lack of any good game mode that could keep 
 you occupied really kills the game. But at least its licensed music, decent online mode and decent 
 visuals could help to not make your experience with this game the most horrible one. Rent it first 
 if you're really that interested in the game, otherwise I would absolutely not recommend it and 
 this is coming from a big Soccer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The fifa series is a long line of succesful football (Soccer) games and has since steadily become 
 better and better however that doesn't mean the road hasn't been a smooth one, several bumps have 
 appeared and along the Wii road, theres a pretty major bump and thats with the control method in 
 general, it simply doesn't work for fifa 2008, its frustrating and terribly inaccurate and I say 
 this again for ANY wii developer, just because the wii uses motion sensors doesn't mean you should 
 use it for your game, for some games, traditional control methods are the way to go.
  
  The biggest problem with the control method is the sheer lack of senstivity, quite often you would 
 use alot of force shaking the wiimote around and be rewarded with a pitifully low powered shot, 
 or sometimes gently trying to make a shot without much power only to boot the ball way out of bounds, 
 fifa 2008 should have been created with the wii joypad in mind over the wiimotes, sure it adds 
 some thrills and some player partipation to some games, but for others, it simply breaks what could 
 have been a great game, EA please learn next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazmanfc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  short story long:
  
  This is one off the best football games ever the controls are brilliant the graphics are the best 
 and i like the basic controls for beginners
  and the gameplay is the best the season mode could of been beter and there could of been a be a 
 pro mode but still it is a very good game the challenges an the unlokables are really good another 
 thing that makes it good is the licences an the leages it even has the irish leage [even tough the 
 teams are rubbish and are all rated one star] its just briliant and so addictive
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about Fiffa i was a little excited how will a Fiffa game operate on the Wii, 
 then my cousin got the game the day after it came out so i went to his house and started to play 
 on it all i did was training (Football Academy) then i had to go so i did not play against an opponent 
 .So a week after i got the game and i got straight to the matches it was great but the only problems 
 are the skills are a little hard to do near an opponent so that was a let down also when you have 
 a shot at the goal keeper in a match the swing to shoot is not very good. The graphcs on this game 
 is very good you can tell which stadium you are at also you can tell which player is which. There 
 is also very good tournaments (so many in every country) I have only got 6 cups which is good so 
 far. Party Football is great too the mini game i love is table football there is also juggling the 
 ball and shooting. Overall i give this game 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiSofos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Great game I must say.
  GRAPHICS: Gets the job done. Crisp Graphics. Nothing more, nothing less.
  SOUND: Well, it has 
 the best commentary than any football I I must say.
  CONTROLS: For me I found the controls more challenging and intuitive than other versions of the 
 game. (My take)
  GAMEPLAY: Awesome, especially the online part. That's it. 
  
  I say purchase this game if your are a football fan.
  For many sports fans the manage mode (which 
 is missing) might be an important aspect but for me it is not. And since PRO EVO might turn out 
 to be a dissapointment on wii as it is in other versions I say go for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaze_no_Mirai
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  FIFA lands on the Wii for the first time with FIFA 08. If you played previous FIFA entries on other 
 consoles you have an idea of what to expect, the only (major) differences now are the addition 
 of an online mode and the Wii remote controls for the game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Right here, there will be immediate differences in opinions. The new controls will take 
 some getting used to, if you manage to hold on and practice enough the new control system can be 
 a complete blast to play. Kicking will take some practice, there might be some slight confusion 
 between a finesse shot and a regular shot at first. Some of the more advance controls will be more 
 confusing that the basic controls. (kicking, passing, etc)
  
  GRAPHICS: There isn't much of an improvement in this game graphically. However there is a good 
 level of polish in the animations, character models, and the stages. Its enough to notice immediately 
 if you had played the previous generation versions of FIFA 07, but not enough to wow the player.
 
  
  MUSIC: Love it or hate it, tracks recorded by real artists, music from all over the globe. There 
 will be some songs you like, and more than likely some you will not like. Overall it has a large 
 soundtrack thats very varied and not so bad to listen to, impressive.
  
  AUDIO: Commentator comments sound a bit over-used. If you've played the previous versions they 
 will sound all too similar. The option of having the commentators in English or in Spanish is a 
 nice touch that Spanish speakers or bilinguals will appreciate and enjoy.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: Tons of leagues, tons of teams, tons of players, tons of tournaments, tons of trophies, 
 tons of achievements will keep you busy for a while if you feel like doing it all. The inclusion 
 of an online mode and the Interactive Leagues is a nice and welcome addition, although the lack 
 of a Manager Mode or other features available in the PS3 and 360 versions (such as the Be A Pro 
 Mode) are missing. Mini-games are somewhat entertaining.
  
  OVERALL: Good fun game. Good controls once you get past the learning curve. Inclusion of an online 
 mode adds more depth to the game although it lacks other features. Mini-games are somewhat fun. 
 and can be played with family members. Everything in the game is solid and fun. Presentation, however, 
 is a bit bland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngmansfield
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews I was skeptical about buying this for the Wii, and at first I was disapointed. 
 Once I got used to the controls however, I found myself thoroughly enjoying it. The graphics aren't 
 great (it is a Wii afterall) but the new playing angle is fun and once you master the controls 
 the game play is very fluid and works well. Personally I like that the call a second defender button 
 and shoot button are no longer the same. Too often on the 360 I found myself calling a second defender 
 only to tackle the ball and then launch it by mistake. To my knowledge the Wii version doesn't 
 offer the ability to call a second defender, but the AI seems to do a pretty good job of sensing 
 you're in trouble especially with the more skilled players you're defending. Trick plays and bending 
 shots are also easier and more intuitive on the Wii version. Fixed pieces are much easier and have 
 a higher success rate for scoring or picking out a player.
  
  All in all, it takes a bit to get used to, but it well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Hi and welcome to another review, this time i'm gonna review a game that i don't even have, but 
 it sucks so hard that i had to review it:
  1. Graphics: Decent graphics for a wii game, actually really cool about this.
  2. Presentation: 
 I mean, the presentation was great but the game...
  3. Gameplay: This gameplay **** asses and you know why, i mean it just sucks its like diarrea coming 
 out of my dick ( avgn phrase) , it just sucks, its impossible to win in wi-fi because actually rivals 
 are kind of perfect, like if they were playing with the gc controller, and us? I dont know you 
 but i cant just play with this ameplay, i mean it just SUCKS!
  4. Community: Nothing to say except the game could have had a microphone to talk or something like 
 that, but its still normal, nothing to say
  5: Story: L soccer games have no real story so i cant just review this.
  
  Conclusion: i wish 
 i could use the gc controller in this game
  
  ps. No career mode? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suker009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  OK, so i bought this game 5 days after it came out and have been playing everyday eversince. My 
 first thughts of the game were, that it was to hard and don't really like. Couple days pass and 
 i start getting the hang of it and start loving it. i'll explain bits and pieces of the game.
 
  
  New Controls:
  Ever since the Wii came out last year, people were and still are a little skeptical about the wii 
 remote sensing capabilities, well i have to say there should be no skepticism. The are several 
 times where you have to wave the wii remote or nunchuck to do something, once you get used to it, 
 it starts feelling natural and not difficult at all. For example to shoot or finesse shoot you 
 have to wave the wii remote either up or down, i find this very nice and easy to do. But I've been 
 hearing people say that sometimes it doesnt register the wave, well than you are'nt waving hard 
 enough because it is so rare for me not to have a shot when i wanna shot ( maybe once a gamei will 
 have non-registered shot) . I've also been hearing that sometimes when you want regular shot and 
 not finesse, you might get finesse, all i have to say is to make your movements clear and try to 
 make one clear wave not multiple one's because than either shot could be registered. They have 
 also added trick moves by waving. for example cuting right is hold C and wave the remote left to 
 right but to clear the ball you wave upward, so sometimes if you're not careful you might clear 
 the ball to ooponents keeper/defenders. The only thing I dont like about the waving is throw ins, 
 throw ins seem like a lot of work and sometimes dont register, this has to be the only thing where 
 i might have to try multiple waves in order to throw in. Thats pretty much it for the sensing, 
 i've only laft keeper, slide tackling and header/volley but those are pretty simple.
  
  Graphics:
  Now I know that nintendo has'nt got the greatest reputation when it comes to graphics 
 and this game is no different. Sometimes this can be overlooked but when you buy FIFA 08, 08 as 
 in 2008, you might expect something clear and nice. But no you still get the 2D crowd and wierd 
 glitches. But graphics arent everything thats why gamplay makes you forget about the goal you just 
 scored that went through the keepers arm.
  
  The absence of Manager/Pro Mode:
  I was angry as next guy when i figured there was no manager mode. All i have to say is, wtf EA, 
 what were you thinking. No just kiddin, the last fifa game i bought before this was FIFA world 
 cup 06, that game had no manager mode, club teams, custom leagues and formantions and no online 
 play and i still found that game one of the best fifa games i had ever bought, the reason why is 
 just because its fun. I know not having manager mode sucks, but other factors more than make up 
 for it. EA please add manager mode to fifa 09.
  
  Comparision:
  First i would like to compare this fifa to past Fifa's, all i have to say its the best so far. 
 Now to compare it to PS3 and 360. I know that the 360 and PS3 are powerhouses when it comes to 
 graphics but as i said before graphics arent everything. The wii version got a rating of 6.5 and 
 the other two have have 8.5. Now I dont think gamespot should give the wii version as much of a 
 rating but should at least raise it. Here would be my ratings, PS3 9.0, 360 9.0, and wii should 
 at LEAST 8.5 maybe 8.0. CHANGE YOUR RATINGS GAMESPOT.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  In the time i've had this game it has been very fun and awesome multiplayer, all i have to say 
 is rent it and dont give up if you dont get it your first couple of times. Remember to rent it 
 before you buy it. Please after reading this either Agree or Dis-agree with this review, I would 
 like to know to know if my explination was clear enough. Thank you for reading my review.
  
  
  Suker009 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongebob4Prez
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off hugely disappointing, with the lack of a true career mode. But as you do the 
 tutorials and get used to the controls, the game becomes easier and you become more fluent in the 
 odd way this game is played. Party mode is fairly entertaining, although more than just 3 games 
 would be nice, since they advertised that the most. I think the graphics were even worse than Maddens, 
 and the sound is of horrible quality. Though this review may seem negative, the is just fun. Overall, 
 a good first performance for FIFA on the Wii. But next year, I expect great things... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad697
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about Fifa 08 because it would be the Wii's first proper football game but when 
 I first played a match, I was terribly disappointed.
  
  First of all several modes that were a great addition to just plain old matches and tournaments, 
 such as there is no Manager Mode. Also the controls just don't feel right and don't respond properly, 
 tricks especially. So many things that are just missing or a bad idea doesn't make this worth your 
 time and money. The Wii only Footii Party with Ronaldinho isn't that good either. Table Footy is 
 no doubt the best of all three with you trying to score goals against three mates or the rather 
 annoying Ronaldinho, the others you'll try once or twice and then you'd just forget about it. The 
 real bad point about the footii party is there is no online option for it. The main online mode 
 is very limited, only allowing you to go head to head with one other player.
  
  If you want real Fifa action, get it for PC or the other consoles, or if you want it for the Wii, 
 wait for Pro Evo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is EA's popular football series first outing on the wii and it's everything you would expect. 
 The gameplay is solid, the visuals decent and it packs lots of fun and replay value. It's huge 
 roster of teams and players remains but sadly manager and career modes didn't make the wii version. 
 However it does contain some features unique to the wii version.
  
  Lets start with the controls. Player movement is controlled with the nunchuck as you'd expect whilst 
 you pass with A, sprint with Z, chip with C, through ball with B and long ball with A + B. One 
 big difference from the normal football controls is shooting. Shooting is controlled by flicking 
 the wii remote up for a power shot or down for a controlled shot. The powerof your shot is determined 
 by how hard you flick the remote. Slide tackles and headers are also controlled in this manner. 
 Throw-ins are controlled by holding the wii remote and Nunchuck behind your head and moving them 
 in a throwing motion. If you choose to you can opt for the family play control option in which 
 the game controls player movement allowing you to focus solely on wii remote controls.
  
  Now onto the gameplay. Fifa 08 doesn't reinvent the way football games are played infact it really 
 is just more of the same. One of the reasons I like it so much is simply that I like football games 
 not becaus eit's really special in any way. Although it is a compotent football game that any fan 
 of the genre will enjoy playing. Matches play out as you would expect and there are a variety of 
 game modes to choose from. Kick-off which is a one off match. Tournament which is either a league 
 season or cup competition, online play and footie party. Online you can play a random match agains 
 tanyone online, play some off a similar skill level in the lobbies or play as your favourite team 
 in the interactive leagues. Everyone online is ranked and has a certain level. You gain levels 
 by winning matches and gain a higher ranking by winning matches as well. Each lobby only allows 
 people of certian levels in which is how you can avoid playing against players who are much better 
 than you. The interactive leagues follow the real life fixtures in the English premier league, 
 French Ligue one, German Bundesliga and bizzarely the Mexican top flight. You pick a club of your 
 choice and play against other people using their chosen club when that fixture comes along in real 
 life. The tema that gains the most wins gets the points in the league table.
  
  Footie party is put simply a selection of mini games against a mii version of Ronaldinho or your 
 mates. The games are table footie which is a game of table football, a keepy up game and a game 
 which involves shooting into targets in a goal to gain points. They don't detract from the game 
 but don't make up for the lack of career or manager modes.
  
  The graphics work well but sometimes you can see wierd edges around the players akin to those you 
 might see in the graphical design stage of creating the game. However they only really appear around 
 the edge of the head. Commentary is well read but often the wrong lines are said by the commentators. 
 For example the playermight miss the goal with a shot but the commentator says something about 
 the goalie making a save. It's only a minor niggle and doesn't damage the gameplay at all.
  
  Overall fifa 08 is a fun football game that does everything you'd expect without offering anything 
 new. Footie party is a nice additon but it would have been much better yo have seen manager and 
 career modes.
  
  Score= 85% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicnash
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is somewhat good on the wii, we cannot expect much from it , since its EA Sports first 
 try of the francise on the wii as well as with the new motion sensing controlers. Furthermore, 
 this is what I think of the game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  In terms of graphics, They are much better than what the gamecube had to offer, the cutscenes look 
 much better, and as always the crowd looks blurry. Of course, you are able to instantly recognize 
 all the superstars from the world of Futbol, You could argue that they are better than the original 
 xbox. And for future games, they can only get better.
  
  SOUND:
  The Sound is EA Caliber. As always, great fan chants and sound effects. It also has a pretty good 
 music soundtrack, featuring artists from all over the world, giving FIFA the Global Culture that 
 it has. The comentaring is as great as always, but repetitive after a while. I say about 10% of 
 the time the commentary says the wrong thing. And one thing I love about the commentaring, is the 
 fact that they added the spanish track as well. Previews itirations of this game for a nintendo 
 console lacked the spanish commentaring.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The new gameplay thats involved with the wii is a hate it or get used to it kind of game. pretty 
 much has 2 kinds of controls, the family controls, where you dont move the player, you just pass 
 and shoot. (not that great if you are a soccer gamer) . The advance controls might work, but not 
 to the extent one will enjoy. The controls are often confusing, specially if you are trying to 
 pull of trick moves or moves as simple as lob through pass (the normal stuff one is used to in 
 the fifa series) . Now, to be able to shoot or pass the ball, the motion sensing capability never 
 seems quite right, or precise enough to get the feeling of ball positioning, seems more like random 
 when you move the wimote. It is very dissapointing that EA didnt give us the choice of using the 
 classic or even the gamecube controller, thanks to the confusing controllers of the wii, it is 
 necesity to have that option. Heck , i would even enjoy if you could have just strapped the wiimote 
 somehow in your feet and be able to use it that way hahaha. Anyways, the default view of the game 
 is front to back , not the usual side to side, to me in particular is not that good, but at least 
 you can switch the camera angle.
  
  FEATURES:
  Well, the bad news is, that you dont get the new trick system that the other next gen consoles 
 have, nor you have the be a pro mode. As a matter of fact, you dont even have manager mode. Instead 
 you have the regular challenge mode that have come in previous games, you also are able to play 
 in all the cups and leagues of real life fifa. And yes, for the first time a nintendo console has 
 online capabilities to play Fifa regular games including the interective leagues, although if you 
 are using a wireless conection it lags all to often, so if you are into that, consider buying the 
 usb lan adapter for the wii so you can hook it up with the ethernet cable. And finaly, a feature 
 that is wii exclusive, we have footi party, a table soccer game, a shoot and score and be a golie 
 game, and a drible game. all pretty much are nice in the beginning but get old quickly. Also forgot 
 to mention, no create a team or player, you can do team transactions, but you cant edit country 
 squad teams. All in all its a pretty decent game. What you would expect from a first try. FINAL 
 COMMENTARY,
  If you have either an xbox 360 or a ps3, go with that one, heck i even recomend the ps2 version. 
 I say the only thing that keeps this fifa from being a better game, is the confusing unprecise 
 control squeme. As a matter of fact, up to this point in video gaming, things like manager mode, 
 create a player or team should be already there as standard, which is part of the reason why its 
 hard to recommend this title. I say try renting it first before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  I like football-games. Every year I am looking forward to the next Fifa, this year was not different.
 
  The reason I like these games is that it is a way to relax. Just pressing some buttons to shoot, 
 pass and walk and dash around, completed with some tackling clears my mind. I was hoping I could 
 do the same thing with the wii-version of Fifa.
  
  The truth is, playing Fifa on the Wii is some hard work!
  Besides pressing buttons, you need 
 to wave the remote to make a hard shot, precise shot, sliding, precise pass, tricks etc. etc. You 
 also have to make combinations of waving and pressing buttons.
  
  This is fun for a while, but not the whole time! There is no way to play with the classic controls, 
 which is a great miss. I also miss the be-a-pro-mode, manager mode, and a decent online mode! There's 
 no way playing a game of football online with lag. It is also impossible to change a player in 
 online mode due to the slowdown. Anyone playing online with fifa will know what I mean by this. 
 I hope Pro Evolution soccer will come with the classic control, otherwise it will fail to become 
 a winner. With each game I buy, my doubt in the wii becomes bigger and bigger. Nintendo, please, 
 enough of all the innovative and revolutionary controls, yes it is fun, but I want to be able to 
 choose how I play a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luchoadm
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  It was a long time ago when i played Fifa 02 on my PC, i've never tried on another console until 
 xbox360 (it was fine) and now on the Wii. It's a disaster.
  
  I know people are saying, you should see the graphics... but hey a game is a lot of stuff involved.
 
  
  The control for this game are to hard to get . They teach two ways of kicking and suddenly when 
 you try both of them playing a match you do the movements but you do the same shot, you try to 
 do a pass and you kick a large shot. Come on EA what were you thinking?
  
  I gave it a 4.0 because of the minigames, you know, it's handy.
  
  Video 7.0
  Audio 7.0
 
  Gameplay 5.0
  Controls 1.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam_hawkins
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 14, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  At first this game seems fun. As you pass the ball round the defenders shoot from range and win 
 about 5-1. Then you play again and its the same thing. The shots from range go strait at the keep 
 and the one on ones go in. Crossing is pointless as the header and volley system doesnt work properly. 
 So the way to score is run at the keeper and swings your remote. And no matter what difficulty 
 it is. It always happens. So as your board you think ill start a career. But you cant. After being 
 tolled the wii will have all the modes the other ones do. They have left it out. They had career 
 mode on ps1. And they cant have it on the wii.
  
  So as be a pro is gone and the trick stick doesnt exist youre forced to play tournaments were 
 you dont want to carry on as its too hard work and your arm aches and your bored. So I expected 
 to spend my weekend playing fife and what do you get. Watching malune rouge. (Really bad film) 
 although I new it was more fun watching that then it was playing fife. Two players arent as bad 
 and online are good until you play a match. Were all the players go is kicking it up to the strikers? 
 You find the game is absolute rubbish. It is as good as the single player mode on super smash brothers 
 melee. And is now the final straw on the wii as I now go and buy a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyeusedto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  ok so after having fifs for a full two days and learning how to play it better i must say that 
 its not bad, its pretty good. You may actually want to wind up getting it instead of live, especially 
 if you really like the fifs series in the past that much more. Here are the pros and cons so its 
 simple to understand what youd be getting:
  
  Pros:
  - The graphics are actually pretty good, especially up close
  - The Trick moves are improved, 
 and can really help if you know what you're doing.
  - Passing is slightly crisper
  - You can actually outrun someone (in 06 it always seemed like you couldnt pass by someone cus 
 you were slower with the ball)
  - The tilt spin on the crosses, once you have it figured out, is the coolest thing about the wii 
 motion sensing controls. The more you tilt the nunchuk to either side, the more spin you put on 
 the ball while delivering a cross in-game or in a set piece. This also applies to curving shots 
 off set pieces which is pretty hot.
  - The foosball minigame (wii exclusive) is actually really sick, pretty addictive, as gay as it 
 sounds
  - Online tracks alot of stats and fools are always on, unlike live at wee hours
  - Shootouts are a little better, and being the keeper is a lot more fun
  - The game is actually 
 more realistic in terms of being on point with long passes and curving crosses. might be a turn 
 off at first but once you learn it, its hot.
  
  Cons:
  - Sometimes it confuses your 'power' shot with your 'controlled' shot gesture. or maybe im doing 
 it wrong.
  - barcelona is the only team in the entire game (including international) that has five-star status.
 
  - Online is pretty good, but there is slight lag (nothing compared to madden) and some soupy animations 
 here and there. Ive had a couple good matches, but the worst thing about it all easily is that 
 fairly often i have a match that will lose connection, and unlike live 08, if youre winning the 
 match at that point you DONT get the win, which is REALLY gay because i missed out on a few wins 
 that way.
  - At times you can tell the animations arent exactly smooth in game action, and its a little worse 
 online, especially against someone with a **** connection, but there isnt that much lag; which 
 would be worse.
  - no create a player, and no edit-a-player (features that are also lacking in live)
  - no user 
 profiles. beats me. this is the same with live. (the only stats tracked are your points in party 
 mode [foosball] , so no bragging rights for wins unless you write it down or do it online)
  
  
  ok thats enough. but i would say its a go. the game is definitely better in person because 
 its a bit smoother and more on time, but online definitely has some potential for some fun, provided 
 you can actually stay connected.
  
  holla! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister_L
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  I tried this version of Fifa for the last two nights with several (Fifa-Veteran) Friends an we 
 are all sure that this control-scheme is simply not working... Gameplay is boring and the controls 
 are imprecise.
  There are a few quirks that ruin the gameplay and the most ridiculous idea was to simulate certaiin 
 real-life-moves . If this is a tribute to the typical Wii-Audience (I am a first-time Wii-owner. 
 And I am neither a mentally deficient so-called casual Player nor a 5-year-old) EA totally missed 
 it. But nice to imagine all the kiddies choking themselves while trying to make the perfect throw-in.
 
  
  If you like playing Football on Wii you need to get Fifa07 for Gamecube or wait and hope for PES08! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speddypoo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  The field is fuzzy, the fans are cardboard cut outs, and the players don't look as good as they 
 do on the 360. But frankly I could care less. The gameplay is fast and quite fun. I always felt 
 that with the Xbox Fifa games the players looked like they were playing knee deep in some invisible 
 sludge that slowed everything down which led to many a frustrating curse offs at the machine. The 
 game feels more like a player friendly Winning eleven, and for me thats definitely good.
  
  I am annoyed that there is no manager mode. I really wanted to see Messi in a Man U jersey. But 
 then I figured out all I needed to do was swap his teams in the transfers menu and then just play 
 out the normal Barclay's league. All better now.
  
  Honestly the controls are not as bad as the other reviews might say. I actually quite like the 
 controls since I got the hang of them (took about 2 games) . Conservative tackles work much more 
 effectively and even though it sometimes mistakes my desire for a power shot for as a finesse shot, 
 it still puts the ball right where I want it. No more space balls (you know, your right in front 
 of the goal, hit shot, and suddenly you kill someone in the upper decks) .
  
  This game deserves a better score, and not just because I am trying to validate my purchase, I 
 am, but because I do think it's a solid title with fast solid gameplay, passable graphics, and 
 fun controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  I have the 2005 version of Fifa, therefore will compare the two games I have, to see what has been 
 aproved, what has not been improved, what have got worse and what's new.
  
  What's new: In fifa 08 it is the footii mode, which is a party mode where you can play with your 
 mii. This is kind of bad. The only good thing here is the table soccer game, however it is hard 
 to play and you will get easily sick of it. There is also the football academy, where you learn 
 how to pass, shoot, defend etc. Of course the control system is new. You do tricks by holding the 
 C button and tilting the wii remote or the nunchuck in a direction. You shoot be moving the remote 
 up and down, you do sliding tackles by moving the remote down. You also do freekicks and goal kicks 
 with the remote. The camera angle is set end-to-end, but you migth want to change that to action 
 imediatly, because it is crap. The challenge mode is new, and it is good. There is a given time 
 less and you have a mission, so you need to score a given number of goals to complete the challenge. 
 The challenges are unfortunatly pretty simular to each other, but they are good.
  
  What has been improved: Running with the ball is sligthly better. In 2005 you could hold down the 
 speed button, like the whole match, but now you got to have better skills. Another thing is that 
 the comentators know the names of more teams and players. The graphics are better, but that doesn't 
 mean it looks better, because most of the time it is to dark, so not really an improvement.
  
  What is the same: There were som things I thought they could have changed by now, which they 
 hadn't. For instance, you still don't have full controll of who you pass to. You migth pass to 
 the wrong guy, and when you swich player you migth get the wrong guy. Also, the keeper do not understand 
 when it is danger, so he migth walk slowly when you need him to run (see my video bad reaction 
 ) . Controlling players that don't have the ball is still crap, and sometimes the player will not 
 shoot at first touch when you tell him to, even though the keeper is close, so the keeper will 
 steal the ball. Also the gameplay is pretty much the same and you can still use points to unlock 
 certain things.
  
  What is worse: Taking freekicks is worse. It is imposible to score, so you migth want to pass and 
 then shoot (see my video about that) . Also, you throw with the same movement as in real life, which 
 means you will possibly have to try more than one time before he throws, which is frustrating. 
 The penalty kick has been changed, which is crap. it is now impossible to win a heading duel when 
 you cross in. The corner system has been changed for the worse.
  
  In 2005 you could score by dribling your way to the line, then pass to a player in the box (what 
 we in Norway call a 45 degrees pass) , you could pass to a teammate to get him through the defence 
 lines, you could drible through the defence and take on the keeper, score on a corner, score on 
 a free kick or on a cross. Passing a teammate into a good possition is harder, because your teammates 
 aren't good at taking initiative. You can give up the last three. The best one is the 45 degree 
 pass and doing a solo run is also possible. In amateur mode, it is pretty easy to run past the 
 whole field with your keeper (see my video goal by Given ) and then score, but already at normal, 
 dribling will be much harder. So it is a much harder game, and you will not get much use of the 
 new ways of long passes, because they are hard and bad, so a long step backwards for the fifa serie.
 
  
  If I could give it the Classification worst in series, I would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the adverts, videos and screenshots for the latest Fifa installment on the Wii 
 I must say I was a little put off. How would it work I asked myself. Intrigued, I looked up all 
 the resources I knew and found a great deal of information and clips on the game.
  
  Walking into this as a firm PES fan, I was very sceptical. But the tutorial was quick and told 
 me what I needed to know. The game, however, is fundamentally hard with some slightly confusing 
 controls. The learning curve is the steepest I have played on the Wii but it is explained well 
 with a good few levels of difficulty for beginners through to the advance players. At first sight, 
 the graphics are very good for the Wii. The shirt is wrinkled and not perfectly ironed mid way 
 through a World Cup final, the players faces are very well done with the kits a perfect replica. 
 On closer inspection, however the crowd is a huge let down. Slightly comical, the 2D crowd jump 
 up and down with a red outline staying with them. That can be over looked as it isn't often you 
 see them up close. The crowds chants are realistic and the sound rises and lowers depending on 
 position on the field.
  
  Game modes are great with plenty to do. However EA have taken the manager side of things out of 
 the equation due to reasons best kept to themselves. If they had included a small transfer engine, 
 the tournament side of things would be lot more enjoyable. However the variety in the game keeps 
 it fresh.
  
  Online play is brilliant with lots of opponents to challenge your ability. For me, my connection 
 is slightly weak so a lot of the time I am struggling to play a full game. However, often when 
 I do I find myself playing 120 minutes and being on the edge of my seat the whole way. Overall, 
 it is a more arcadey style of FIFA with the players taking a slight cartoon look about them. It 
 is very enjoyable with loads of different dimensions to the game. However, moving the player around 
 is difficult as the Nunchuck joystick is not meant for football games as the divots really affect 
 your direction. If you are put off by a steep STEEP learning curve, don't but it but if you feel 
 you can persist then fork out the money for a great game on the Wii. Much better than it's counterpart, 
 Mario Strikers Charged, FIFA 08 on the Wii is an excellent addition to any games collection. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
