-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 09 All-Play
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/fifasoccer09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep and rewarding standard game.
 New eight-player Footii matches are fast and more stylised.
 Much-improved online support.
 Great new control system and support for classic controllers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames are derivative.
 Lacking Be a Pro mode from other platforms.
 Some occasional AI blunders.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 238 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New controls, improved online play, and eight-player support make FIFA 09 All-Play a fine upgrade 
 to last years Wii debut. 

  When FIFA first appeared on the Wii last year, its simple control system and assortment of minigames 
 offered an accessible but ultimately unrewarding football game. This year's update carries the 
 All-Play subtitle to emphasise its accessibility, but with new control system, better online play, 
 and a new eight-player mode, it ends up being a more robust package.  

           The eight-player Footii mode is a faster, more cartoony take on the standard game.    
   

  The most substantial change to this year's game is the control system, which has been overhauled 
 and expanded to the extent that it completely changes the game. The advanced control option uses 
 an onscreen cursor to direct the action. If you point somewhere and press the A button, the player 
 in possession will pass the ball, or if you hold B, he'll dribble there. It's a tricky system to 
 get a handle on, but once you play through the tutorials, you'll find it's elegant, as well as 
 particularly suited to free kicks, corners, and crosses. The only real weakness is that when you 
 swipe the remote to shoot or perform a sliding tackle, it can take a split second to realign the 
 cursor onscreen. In truth, this is a very similar system to the one Pro Evolution Soccer introduced 
 earlier in the year -- the main difference in FIFA is that you don't have to plug in the Nunchuk 
 as well. This option is available, though, meaning you can use the analog stick, as well as the 
 cursor, to move players around.  

  Despite the new controls, purists may still yearn for a standard setup. Thankfully, FIFA 09 also 
 supports GameCube and Classic Controllers, giving you a much more traditional control system that's 
 ultimately even better than the Wii Remote. The All-Play system replaces last year's family option, 
 handing player control over to the AI while you tell it when to pass and shoot. This is great for 
 football game virgins but won't appeal to most, so it's probably best to have a Classic Controller 
 around for friends who just fancy a quick multiplayer match.  

  FIFA 09 features most of the game modes you'd expect in a football game, as well as a collection 
 of Wii-exclusive minigames. Traditional football gamers will be satisfied with how well FIFA 09 
 plays. While it's somewhere between arcade and simulation, the player animation plus opponent AI 
 make for an engaging game of football. There are three main options. There are quick matches for 
 simple one-off games, as well as tournaments, such as cups and leagues. Then there's a Manager 
 mode where you take on the transfer and training of your favourite team. The only notable absence 
 is the Be a Pro mode from the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. But this is compensated for 
 somewhat by the Footii Party mode and its selection of minigames. Table Football, Juggling, and 
 Boot It return from last year. They're still just simple diversions, but the new eight-versus-eight 
 Footii match is more substantial. It's a cartoony, Mii-focused take on the game for up to eight 
 human players, with stylised graphics and faster gameplay. There are only 12 teams to play as in 
 this mode, but it's a fun and substantially different variation of the standard game. It's worth 
 a go if you happen to have four Wii Remotes and four Classic Controllers or GameCube controllers 
 on hand.  

  Last year's FIFA offered online play that lagged, but it's been much improved in FIFA 09. You can 
 now avoid EA's sign-up process by logging in as a guest, but you can also carry over an existing 
 EA Sports account or create a new one to keep track of stats. You can play ranked or unranked matches 
 with friends or strangers, and the online system automatically finds people for you to play against. 
 There are also interactive leagues, allowing you to represent your favourite team and take on fans 
 of other teams across the world. These modes were both present last year, but what has changed 
 is that the game is now almost completely free of lag and dropped connections. It's also feature-packed, 
 with leaderboards, player profiles, and even an ESPN news ticker at the bottom of the screen.  
 

           FIFA 09 might look like FIFA 08, but its controls are much-improved.      

  There's not much in the way of extras in FIFA 09, but playing through the main game modes wins 
 you credits to spend on new kits, balls, and stadiums. You can also customise and save tactics 
 for each individual team, while the custom formations feature lets you tweak player positions for 
 offensive or defensive play. Finally, the football academy teaches you both the advanced and All-Play 
 control systems, with individual challenges for most situations in the game. FIFA 09 features particularly 
 good player animation. While the facial likenesses may not be as impressive, the Mii incarnations 
 of Wayne Rooney and Ronaldinho are well produced. The sound is similarly impressive, with accurate 
 commentary from Clive Tyldesley and Andy Gray. There's also a well-chosen music selection from 
 the likes of Duffy and MGMT. Presentation is immaculate, with all of the official players and teams 
 from the major footballing nations, as well as a menu system that presents information in a concise, 
 easy-to-understand manner.  

  By adding greater player support, new game modes, and better online play, FIFA 09 improves considerably 
 on last year's game. The traditional game plays well and offers a deep, rewarding experience. While 
 the minigames are still too lightweight, the new eight-player Footii mode is a fun and novel take 
 on the game. But it's the new advanced control system and the standard controller support that 
 really result in a better game, allowing you to play the game in radically new but also very traditional 
 ways. It's certainly not the definitive version of FIFA 09, but for the Wii, at least, this is 
 the best player on the pitch.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: squaredude44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed with Fifa 09 because of it being the second soccer game for the Wii and everything. 
 There are so many pros about this game, the list keeps on going on. First of all, the team selection 
 is huuuuuge! There are so many teams you can chose from from different leagues like the MLS, International, 
 English League etc. Another great thing about the game is that the graphics are amazing for the 
 Wii. If you compare this game to NBA Live 08 and 09 for the Wii, this doesnt even look like the 
 same system!!!! The modes in this game are also great. There is the franchise where you are the 
 gm and the players, and you get to trade, sign, and release different players. There is also an 
 unlockables store where you get points from playing games in franchise and doing other things in 
 the game. You can buy different balls, shoes, and stadiums with these points. I also love the fact 
 that theres a footii mode which is 8 on 8 soccer but all the players are miis you have created 
 or miis that have been created by the computer. And the player miis look hilarious like rooney, 
 renoldinho, and renaldo! Overall i think this game is probably one of the most fun games for the 
 Wii currently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattamierda
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a game of football (soccer) so i play the PES 2008, it was a simple gas, but 
 it was ok, it has a new way to play the soccer as a coach, buy i like better the control of the 
 another consoles, because i feel the emotion of the "fantasies" with players such C. Ronaldo or 
 L Messi.
  
  So i though lets buy another soccer game, and i found Fifa 2009, so ok, Fifa was the best soccer 
 game until the PES came, in that time it was known as Winning eleven, or International super star 
 soccer... ok, so i start to learn how to use the control, IT USES TWO KINDS OF CONTROL, a advanced 
 and another for rookies, i started with the advanced because it is as similar as PES 2009, it was 
 easy.
  
  I play a league, the difficult was kind of easy and the keeper was a dumb, but i thought that it 
 was ok, and i also started to play a network game, and what happened?? the control change!!!! what 
 that...??? and what about the keeper in the match?? it absolutely sucks, not matter who was playing.
 
  
  So i think that the multiway control its the worst invention for a game, i think that the best 
 for soccer games i go back to basics (only for soccer, football, baskettball, rugby, or jockey) . 
 I almost forgot, the minigames are unusseful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykesjs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  I've been playing FIFA since I first purchased FIFA 96 for my Sega Genesis. Over the years, the 
 graphics have improved but the basic gameplay seems to take incremental steps up each year.
  
  With the new controls introduced for FIFA 09 on the Wii the title has taken large steps ahead. 
 First, using the advanced controls with pointing for passing is a must. It is very refreshing to 
 be able to put the ball exactly where you want it to go. Depending on the camera angle, this can 
 be a bit problematic if you wish to pass to a player on the bottom of your television screen as 
 a smaller portion of the field is displayed there. At the same time, crossing is much easier and 
 much more fun with this version of the game. Since the passing is more accurate and easier to control, 
 the difficulty levels seem to be more about strategy and less about how fast you can mash the buttons.
 
  
  I wish that EA would separate the control so that the shooting control isn't the same as the slide 
 tackle. Both involve shaking the Wiimote and depending on what is going on, you can accidentally 
 slide tackle when you are simply trying to shoot or volley the ball. This kind of problem is really 
 silly and the two should be separated.
  
  The skill moves are much better in this version than in the 08 Wii title and the addition of the 
 Manager Mode fixes a large problem with to 08 title. I agree with persons who point out that there 
 isn't a way to change which jersey is worn for a game and sometimes kit clashing is a problem. 
 This feature seems pretty easy. Also, to change other options (game length, difficulty, etc.) you 
 need to exit from Manager mode and change the main setting: this seems to be an obvious oversight.
 
  
  The 8 v 8 mode is lots of fun and I enjoy playing this mode with my kids. Having less players on 
 the field simplifies things for them and they get a kick out of seeing their Mii's on the screen. 
 I'd like to see EA expand this feature for next year's edition. All in all, a nice addition to 
 the FIFA series and a great purchase since the price has dropped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticklife123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is a great updated game, although there might not be much difference from last years (just 
 a 8x8 mii mode) there is still a lot to keep you hooked until next years game. There is the quick 
 play mode with all the teams you can think of (except you'r dodgy town team) but there is also a 
 mii 8x8 mode game where the visuals are a lot more cartoon to fit inwith the mii's playing. Both 
 modes are very fun but the 8x8 mii mode is slightly easier than the realistic version meaning the 
 more supporting players may go for this mode. You might not hear it to well while you'r organizing 
 you'r teams about but there is also a very nice new soundtrack in fifa 09 with great tunes, only 
 a few of which you would have heard before (so get you'r ipod ready as well) . There is a few mini 
 games in footi parti but these are quite broken and not enjoyable, there is a juggling mini game 
 where you make movements and press buttons on the wii remote as the ball gets to the circle to 
 header the ball or volley it. This is quite easy and the ball doesn't go fast enough. Another mode 
 is the table football, this is quite pointless and yuo dont always feel like you have control over 
 the table. You will quite commonly knock the ball into you'r own net and this is frustrating and 
 pointless. An dfinally the last of the minigames is kick it.... this is terribly broken, i don't even 
 know how it works because its supoosed to be if you flick the remote right or left you shoot right 
 or left and if you flick frward it gos forwards. But the controls make it go all over the place 
 in a frustrating game of hit the targets. This is brought back up by the excellent mangers mode 
 though, you firstly pick a team and play allof their games to try and win the cup, but behind just 
 playing the games you also have to buy the players, keep contracts going and generally keep the 
 team in tip top condition. This is a nice change from just playing games and is the best mode in 
 the game. There is some challenges whioch reward you with points from the fifa shop. There are 60 
 challenges and will take you some time to complete them all although they are all quite simple. There 
 are also millions of cups and trophys to unlock in the trophy cabinet, you'll definitley still be 
 playing by next year. The shop contains quite a lot of items to buy with the points you have won, You 
 can buy different  2) and alternate shirts. There is a lot of replay 
 value and the controls are very good. You can either use the gamecube controller, the wii remote 
 on it's own where you point where you'r players go and the wii remote with nunchuck for more easy 
 movement. This is a great game and the online mode will keep you playing competitive for a long 
 time. Thank you for reading my review!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_canada
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I have fun with this game, despite its flaws. Let's start with them. The career mode is addictive 
 but obviously poorly developped : I started with a bad team and there is no way you can make it 
 become a good team (no TV money if your qualified for european championship, stil crappy sponsor 
 etc.) . It is then really tough to achieve good result with a team that can't score and can't defend 
 correctly. Big issue is the color of the ball, sometimes barely visible, a real pain. Same for 
 the jersay color in Career mode (you can't change the color !.. so white against white is all but 
 fun) . Player do not call for ball... I guess, we need PES for that. Lastly, you have no control 
 over the quality of shooting.. so scoring looks like a lotery. Online is so bad (lag, lag, lag... 
 you are not really playing) ... a real shame.
  Despite that, Fifa 09 wii is a game I played (and still play) a lot. Playing a world cup is extremely 
 fun (with a good team) as you feel like you are effective, and tension is there (when you are 0-1 
 in semi) ! The game is beautiful (wii standards of course) and presentation is excellent.
  As good game waiting for PES 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannydude65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  After the realease of Fifa 08 Pro Evoloution Soccer 08 was claimed the Best Football Game on Wii. 
 Now EA return with Fifa 09 All-Play to try and get the title back.
  
  Teams:
  All Teams from the following leauges are in the game:
  
  A-League 
  Austrian Bundesliga1 
 
  Belgium Pro League 
  Campeonato Brasileiro2 
  Gambrinus liga 
  SAS Ligaen 
  Premier League 
  Football League Championship 
  Football League One 
  Football League Two 
 
  Ligue 1 
  Ligue 2 
  Bundesliga 
  2. Bundesliga 
  FAI Eircom League 
  Serie A3 
  Serie B4 5 
  K-League 
  Primera Divisin Mex 
  Eredivisie 
  Tippeligaen 
  Polska Liga6 
 
  Liga Sagres 
  SPL 
  Liga BBVA 
  Liga Adelante 
  Allsvenskan7 
  Axpo Super League 
  Turkcell Sper Lig 
  Major League Soccer 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  +Great 
 Control Scheme
  +Able to use Gamecube/Classic Controller
  + Loads of Different Modes (Tournament, Manager 8 Vs 8 Mii's)
  - Lacks Be a Star Mode
  
  
 Graphics:
  
  +Good Graphics - Could be Better - E. g. Crowd Players
  
  Sound:
  +Crowd Sound Good
  +Good Sound track
  
  Multiplayer:
  +Local Multiplayer is Great
  - 
 Wi-Fi Could Be Better (I Lose there connection to much)
  
  Overall:
  
  Best Football Game On Wii So Far Pro Evoloution 09 has a challenge to beat it!!!!! 
  
  Teams: 
 +
  Gameplay: +
  Graphics: -
  Sound: +
  Multiplayer: +
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sudarinho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 09 has progressed from last year on Wii. Although the 8v8 mode is quite "Cartoony", its still 
 more fun and more faster than the original mode, an addition you can use your Miis! But if there 
 were more teams then 8v8 would be a solid mode.
  Be A Pro is still missing in the Wii version, it would of been great on it, which means its the 
 same old game as last year. But the game has its improvments, like how you can now use the GameCube 
 Conroller, for those who are fustrated with using the WiiMote. Freekicks, Passes and Corners look 
 far more better than last year.
  Official Data is solid, unlockables are a good addition to the game with alternative jerseys, new 
 game balls and more which makes the game more challenging.
  Overall FIFA 09 is perfect for when there are a group of people playing, playing alone is not as 
 quite fun, but still FIFA 09 on Wii is AWESOME. (despite its failure last year with FIFA 08) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike-23
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I am so mad at EA. It clearly seems that they didnt make any effort of making a good FIFA09 for 
 Wii, why? Terrible graphics, same celebrations, no match intro, not even game presentation, and 
 worst of all, goalkeepers AI... I cannot stand they have not fix this, it is extremely easy to 
 score one-on-one with the goalie, can anybody explain this to me?!?!? Havent EA FIFA producers 
 played the PES series? I mean, it is really challenging to score one on one against the goalie, 
 and if they really want to compete against PES series, they must fix little things like this which 
 makes a huge difference in the games gameplay. I dont know if the same problem is on the PS2, 
 360 and/or PS3 version because I have not played these versions, but I will be even more disappointed 
 if the other version dont present issues like the ones on the Wii version. I have been a huge 
 fan of the series since FIFA98, so I think I deserve more. Sometimes I try to fool myself thinking 
 it is a good game, but when I see the lack of interest of making a good game, gets me mad. I live 
 in Costa Rica, and most of the people here have this chip installed on their Wiis so it can read 
 cheap game copies since original games are way too expensive; I dont have a cheap chip installed 
 on my Wii thinking that good companies like EA deserve people buying original games, so after 
 spending a lot of money buying FIFA 09, I expected a little effort from EA to make a good game 
 and not just take previous FIFAs and changing so little things.... cmon!!! Who are we trying to 
 fool here EA?? I really wish EA could read this letter...... CMON!! Lets make a Revolution about 
 this everyone that agrees with me!! that way we can get EA to read complaints like this (if it 
 is that our opinion counts for them....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irot
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Before anything, I always play both FIFA and PES, last year PES was awesome by the controllers, 
 although it was a little too complicated... FIFA 09 has corrected that and made the game playable 
 for anyone... but at what cost?
  
  Once again, the matches are way too easy to win. just keep passing the ball and youll be celebrating 
 in no time. 
  
  The Extras put in the game are nice, the MII version of National teams are fun to play as well 
 as the other mini games (which were in the previous FIFA aswell) .
  
  The controllers are the perfect part of this, anyone can play, And not only that, but have fun 
 scoring and playing great.
  
  The downside would be the graphics... they are horrendous, similar not only with what we saw last 
 gen... but previous to that... I know Wii is not as powerful as the other systems... but... I cant 
 believe the laziness on that as well as no introductions for the matches nor even the Be a Pro 
 mode... Lets say its a FIFA 08.5 with the most improvements on the controllers.
  
  My opinion is that you should rent this game first to give it a try, if you like the control scheme 
 so much, then buy it, if not, stick with PES 08, or wait for next years PES and/or FIFA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rami_keyblade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  At first thought is wow, what an improvement, it feels much smoother, more tactical and there a 
 lot of depth.
  The graphics are good, better then a lot 3rd party games. Playing with the wii-remote gives it 
 a PES tactical feeling. Playing with the gamecube controller gives it the classic feeling. Its 
 a great game and my only problem is that when online ppl sometimes disconnect when i score. 
  
  Graphics 8.5/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  controls 9.5/10
  Online 8.5/10
  depth 10/10
  
 
  
  overall good game, alot better then pes 08 on the wii, awesome physics, with a pretty good online 
 mode
  overall.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  At first 
 thought is wow, what an improvement, it feels much smoother, more tactical and there a lot of depth.
 
  The graphics are good, better then a lot 3rd party games. Playing with the wii-remote gives it 
 a PES tactical feeling. Playing with the gamecube controller gives it the classic feeling. Its 
 a great game and my only problem is that when online ppl sometimes disconnect when i score. 
  
  Graphics 8.5/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  controls 9.5/10
  Online 8.5/10
  depth 10/10
  
 
  
  overall good game, alot better then pes 08 on the wii, awesome physics, with a pretty good online 
 mode
  overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7BLADES7
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  The last Fifa game i had was Fifa 07 on the gamecube, and I was shocked to see alot of the same 
 animations from that put into Fifa 09 all play (and im sure they used the same animations for Fifa 
 06) , i played a short tournament to start with and won only to be greeted with the same team celebration 
 as Fifa 07.
  I cant believe how lazy EA have been with fifa 09 all play, I look at fifas on PC, PS3 and the 
 360 in awe, and have decided to buy a 360 with Fifa 09 mainly because of how bad this game is, 
 it looks terrible, the controls are rubbish and there's no Be a Pro mode.
  With past consoles it was easy to stick to one with the quality being much the same as all the 
 others, but now when you compare the wii to everything else, there is no comparison, the Wii is 
 no improvement to the gamecube (unless you call waving your arms about an improvement) .
  im sick of lazy develepers making half-assed games for the wii, DO IT RIGHT OR JUST DONT BOTHER!
 
  Im getting so close to selling my wii, the worst ever Nintendo console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  it's a gd game nd i would give it 8.5/10 it's got updated squads and just generally feels so much 
 better 2 play than other fifa games. but theyr'e are some stupid fings on the game. wen u take 
 goal kicks wen u try and play a short pass there's no1 there except the opposition striker who 
 powers it home into the top corner wrong footed 30 yrds out. the fouls and the players reactions 
 wen touched pulled hit etc are loads better. but the stupid parts bring it down. players like ronaldinho 
 and bojinov are far too highly over rated. and it's far too easy too play. in the champions league 
 final i scored from the half way line with ageuro! nd it was against liverpool. money features 
 still need changin the sponsors are the same old pizzeria roma and that rubbish. some teams play 
 at oval stadium and some teams play at the same ground away or at home!?! madness. and its so easy 
 to score. if u want a cheat. save up buy daniel sturridge. play or lob through ball and he'll pick 
 it up and score. i did that 5 times in one half once. against man. u! but despite all my moaning 
 i've played it too much and have thouroughly enjoyed playing it. oh yh another cheat gamecube controllers 
 are so much easier too play with. DJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Well here we are... another year and wow shock and horror yet another fifa game, (Fifa 2010, already 
 in development one would guess) . While very different to the PS3 and Xbox360 versions this game 
 can still hold its own... barley
  
  Now as for the game itself, well gone is the goal to goal view and back in is the length view, 
 making Fifa 09 much more playable, with the added option of being able to use the gamecube or classic 
 controller it makes the game more easily available to gamers who were turned off by the awful motion 
 controls. So how does it play? were good, just you expect it would. Simple passing and shooting 
 abilities make it one of the most enjoyable Fifa games in recent years, but this is were the joy 
 ends. To say this game looks dated would be an understatement, while the stadiums and pitches all 
 look good, the player models are no different then those of Fifa07 on the gamecube, in fact the 
 Fifa07 game looks and plays much better then this version of game.
  
  Now while all the game features you would expect are back such as full licensed teams and leagues 
 and manager mode some new additions have been made. The first of these would be the new 8 vs 8 
 Footii Match Mini-Game:
  Play 8 vs. 8 in a completely unique mode where you can play an arcade version of football with 
 the focus on fun. Populate your team with your Mii characters captained by one of our FIFA 09 cover 
 athletes created as customized characters. Make outrageous shots and steal the ball by simply waving 
 your Wii Remote. while it sounds like fun and can hold your attention for about an hour... developers 
 have to start to realize that gamers are getting sick and tired of seeing Miis thrown into games 
 as a cheep ploy to sell them.
  Another new feature is the improved online abilities such as interactive leagues, were you pick 
 a team and play matches against others. If your team can get more wins over the opposition then 
 you get the over all win and climb the interactive table, now while this sounds good... it doesn't 
 work, go online and shockingly the top clubs in the world (man utd, Chelsea, Barcelona, AC, Inter, 
 etc...) are all taken up meaning its almost impossible to get an opponent if you chose a mid to 
 lower table team.
  
  And as for online single player? well it works well in principle but fails on several levels making 
 it frustrating and very trying at times. The first thing you will notice is that after choosing 
 your team and kit (which is all you can do) you are then thrown right away into the game, never 
 given the chance to change tactics or swamp players around, in fact only when you have the ball 
 in your possession can you make any changes, and then only for a few times, meaning enter the game 
 menu while playing online to many times... and it stops you from using it, i mean whoever thought 
 it a good idea to not let you chose your players and tactics before a match and then limit the 
 amount to time/actions on making changes in game made a HUGE mistake. Also get ready for the other 
 play to "disconnect" (i. e turn off their console) when ever they let in a goal or are losing, now 
 while this problem as be addressed on the official EA forums, it seems unlikely they will do anything 
 about it at all, so get ready to be disconnected whenever you are winning or a goal up, leading 
 to much frustration.
  
  While better then Fifa08 this game is still lacking a lot of things, no player creation or editor 
 mode, tacky use of Mii's and dated graphics means that while a vast improvement over the Fifa08... this 
 is still a miss then a hit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  This game is just the best, it is much better than pes2008 on the wii because the graphics of that 
 game look the same as the ps2. This is a bargain and really good to play. The 8vs8 is really fun 
 and enjoyable to play with friends and the online gameplay is the best it icludes a lot of excitiment 
 and one of the best players of all time is on the front cover Ronaldinho its much better than fifa 
 08 and pes2008 so this is a must to buy. So i expect everyone to buy this game it should cost 30.00 
 at least so buy it i hope that most people will buy this game because it is full of joy and excitiment. 
 Buy this game from Gamestation of either HMV because Game are bumps its like 39.99 there never 
 get it from game. the game also has a lot of joy in it and pride. you can also play as your favoutire 
 teams because 500 teams are liscensed there is the premier league french league and more 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
