-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo's Dungeon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/chocobosdungeon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging gameplay.
 Charming presentation.
 Job-changing system adds depth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A lot of luck involved.
 Very annoying voice acting.
 Occasionally frustrating dungeon rules and traps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 337 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: h. a. n. d. Inc.
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Jul 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Final Fantasy flavorings keep this dungeon crawler enjoyable for fans in spite of some tiresome 
 and frustrating elements. 

  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo's Dungeon marks the third time Square Enix has paired dungeon-crawling 
 with the world's most adorable yellow bird, capitalizing on the public's seemingly insatiable appetite 
 for anything with a cutesy Final Fantasy theme. The game is an aesthetically pleasing continuation 
 of its PlayStation predecessors, boasting charming visuals and soft melodies. It also introduces 
 a job-changing system as popularized by Final Fantasy Tactics. But don't let its endearing, child-friendly 
 exterior fool you: Chocobo's Dungeon is an intense, often grueling challenge for even experienced 
 dungeon crawlers.  

           The job system gives Chocobo's latest adventure a fresh Final Fantasy twist.      

 
  Chocobo's Dungeon opens with treasure hunter Cid and his feathery sidekick, Chocobo, searching 
 for an ancient trinket known as Timeless Power. A familiar foe beats them to it, however, and then 
 uses the bobble to send our heroes to the town of Lostime in an alternate world. The citizens of 
 Lostime harbor a dark secret that has been sealed inside their lost memories, and only Chocobo, 
 with the aid of a boy who fell from the sky, can unlock them by braving the dungeons of their minds. 

  The bulk of the gameplay occurs in randomly generated, grid-based dungeons that you explore in 
 a turn-based manner. Moving a single panel, or performing any action qualifies as a move, which 
 prompts every monster on the floor to receive a turn. The beauty of Chocobo's Dungeon is that some 
 strategy is required to keep Chocobo in tip-top shape, because it's far better to ambush enemies 
 in hallways or lure foes to you than to go on a rampage and find that you're quickly surrounded 
 and overwhelmed. You'll also have to keep an eye on the constantly draining food gauge because 
 starvation saps Chocobo's health points. If you run out of health points, your bruised, broken 
 chocobo is immediately kicked from the dungeon. A welcome addition that'll help tip the scale in 
 your favor, however, is the ability to upgrade your weapons and armor at the local blacksmith's 
 forge. There, you can even transfer seals that imbue equipment with special effects, which enable 
 you to customize your gear for the trials ahead.  

  Differentiating Chocobo's Dungeon from the slew of other dungeon crawlers is the inclusion of the 
 job-changing system made famous in Final Fantasy Tactics and recent games in the series. Chocobo 
 can now embrace the ways of the black mage, dragoon, or ninja at will and use numerous spells or 
 abilities that are faithful to the franchise, as well as don adorable class-specific gear. You're 
 free to level your favorite jobs by defeating enemies for the occasional job point, though there 
 are times when playing a particular job has its benefits; curing yourself as a white mage is a 
 definite boon during boss fights and casting elemental spells as a black mage is an effective strategy 
 against a monster with a specific weakness. The addition of popular monsters from the franchise -- from 
 tonberries and cactuars to powerful summons like Ifrit and Leviathan -- is another treat that successfully 
 blends Final Fantasy with dungeon-crawling gameplay.  

  Despite the game's cutesy Final Fantasy theme and its simple gameplay mechanics, surviving Chocobo's 
 Dungeon can be an arduous journey involving a lot of luck, which cheapens the experience. In some 
 instances, the game will seem too easy, like when you enter a dungeon right next to a staircase 
 that moves you on to the next floor or when the majority of your enemies can die with a single 
 attack. At other times, the game's heavy reliance on random, invisible traps can ruin a dungeon 
 run from the onset because it's hardly feasible for you to walk around kicking empty air to check 
 it for traps before each move. This makes it much more likely that you'll be pummeled by washtubs, 
 flare spells, and rock falls. You're also more likely to summon monster traps that'll finish you 
 off before you've even begun exploring, and each dungeon loss costs you all of the gil, as well 
 as unequipped items, you have on hand.  

  The special dungeons, which are optional exercises that reward you with new jobs and other abilities, 
 can feature very restrictive, annoying rules. In one, you and all monsters are limited to one health 
 point, so just a single hit or unlucky trap can send you reeling back to the start. To worsen matters, 
 you're not allowed to bring any items or gear into special dungeons. And to add to the frustration, 
 it becomes increasingly difficult to level each job because you're unable to earn experience or 
 job points from special dungeons, which is a pity because you'll be attempting those a lot. This 
 means that you're forced to reexplore shrines, where the guardian beasts rest, to level up your 
 weaker jobs if you're getting bested by a primary dungeon, which is a dull and tedious process. 

  What's even more boring is the game's lack of variety, with most dungeons relying on the same generic 
 design shrouded in a different color. Shrine dungeons, however, are highly varied and well-detailed. 
 These have vivid colors and unique aesthetic elements that add to their atmosphere, like the intricate 
 coral reef that serves as Leviathan's shrine. You'll encounter some visually impressive sequences 
 at key moments and when summoning guardians and, on the whole, exploring the quaint little town 
 of Lostime is a pleasant treat complemented by a strong Final Fantasy flair and familiar, soothing 
 music. The cutscenes are less pleasing since they're plagued by poor dialogue and are highly melodramatic, 
 with ridiculously exaggerated voice acting and no Japanese voice-over option to replace it.  

 
           You'll face off against famous monsters and guardians from the series in intense battles. 

  Completing all of the primary dungeons should take about 40 hours, though you can easily spend 
 almost twice as long playing through special dungeons, planting flowers, catching fish, leveling 
 jobs, or visiting the local arcade for minigames. The cute pop-up card game from Chocobo Tales 
 makes a triumphant return and allows you to summon monsters to fight for you in a manner reminiscent 
 of Pokemon. Creating the perfect deck can be a fun task, and even more enjoyable is the option 
 to play online via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.  

  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo's Dungeon offers challenging dungeon-crawling gameplay mixed with 
 attractive Final Fantasy lore, but its high difficulty level may prove a little intimidating for 
 some.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RyanTykwin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I've played most old school Rogue-esque games and they range from diabolical to dull. Telengard 
 on the Commodore was likely my first venture into this world in graphics. Dungeon Hack on PC was 
 a memorable one. Chocobo is the most recent and made me nostalgic for the simpler RPG that these 
 games present. Not that I don't enjoy a more engrossing, complex RPG, and at times a party to adventure 
 with, it is just sometimes refreshing to be able to play an enjoyable, simple indulgent of a RPG 
 like Chocobo. 
  
  The story is a good one. The slight twist you begin to see from a mile away. The ending doesn't 
 offer any final twists ... except a small one. Yet, it kept me wanting to see the next chapter 
 and the game play excelled at giving me a very enjoyable and addictive game play especially on 
 nights I was exhausted from a day of work.
  
  Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArielHope
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Chocobo's Dungeon for Wii is a great game if your in love with final fantasy characters and cut 
 scenes. The vocals annoy some players and the difficulty of the game is either too easy or too 
 hard depending on the player's skill level in turn based dungeon games.
  
  If you absolutely hated pokemon dungeon and their monster houses, this is definitely not for you 
 and if your expecting hours and hours of game play, it isn't for you either. The cut scene graphics 
 and music are great but the dungeon graphics get pretty boring after awhile and the repeated vocals 
 cannot be stopped. The entire game can be completed in around 20 hours if you catch on pretty quickly 
 and the online feature of the card game isn't anything to rave about. 
  
  Still, it's a fun game if you like this genre but I would either look for it on sale or research 
 the dungeon style games before purchasing. It's a love it or hate it and replay value is quite 
 low. On any other console this game would probably be considered a failure but since it's the Wii, 
 it's still one of the best. Hopefully the next Final Fantasy game on Wii is better but for now 
 this should hold you over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a lot of these types of games, but after playing Chocobo's Dungeon for the Wii, 
 I probably should. It's an entertaining and interesting take on the dungeon-crawling genre -- only 
 made better by the inclusion of the time-honored elements of the Final Fantasy series.
  
  The game begins with Chocobo and Cid (in one of his younger forms) seeking out a tower in the middle 
 of a desert. Making a long story short, the two end up in a quaint little town called Lostime, 
 inhabited by residents who lose their memories for each time the Bell of Oblivion chimes. Things 
 get really complicated when a mysterious young boy falls from the sky, and begins creating dungeons 
 inside the townsfolks' minds as a means of retrieving their lost memories. As Chocobo, you're supposed 
 to explore the dungeons and get fragments of their memories, unraveling some disturbing and frightening 
 story developments and plot twists which I won't spoil here.
  
  Dungeons are randomly generated, so it's a new area each time you play. Combat is turn-based, even 
 though it almost appears as if it's real-time. Enemies don't move or attack until after you've 
 made a move, so you're never in any real danger unless you somehow find yourself surrounded. The 
 bad thing is, you don't have anyone else to adventure with you, despite the many characters you 
 meet in the game. This forces you to strategize when you're faced with potentially difficult and 
 unsettling situations.
  
  The graphics are colorful and pleasant to the eyes, almost giving the impression that this is a 
 game for the younger set. It most certainly can be, but many of the game's dungeon challenges can 
 prove too frustrating for both kids and grown-ups. Nonetheless, Square Enix has done a remarkable 
 job with the detail. The voice-acting is a bit grating, and a little off at times. But I thought 
 Dungeon Hero X was hilarious.
  
  I also like how you can use different Final Fantasy-inspired jobs when you're exploring the dungeons. 
 The Chocobo cos-play is very cute, especially the Dark Knight. You can level individual jobs by 
 gathering job points when defeating various enemies, but the problem with this is that job points 
 don't come as often as the EXP does, so in a way you're forced to repeat dungeons to gather job 
 points -- which can get tedious. Each job can be capped at Level 8, and you'll get a nasty letter 
 from a jealous Dungeon Hero X when you get individual jobs to their maximum level.
  
  The mini-games are a cool distraction for the most part. Three arcade games are avaiable at the 
 outset in the Mog House, with an additional game unlocked when you finish the game at least once. 
 They make good use of the Wiimote, and I personally think the Bat Basher game is a lot of fun. 
 You can also play an interesting Duel Card game using cards you receive during the game against 
 a CPU opponent, or a friend through Nintendo Wi-Fi. 
  
  Chocobo's Dungeon provides an entertaining challenge to both young and old. Final Fantasy fans 
 will probably take interest in this if they're not put off by its cuteness, but the cute nature 
 of the game is what makes it appealing.
  By all means, give this one a shot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havicwind2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  Chocobo's Dungeon heavily presents its self as a cute title, and the main character, Chocobo ,is 
 one the cutest characters I can think of in a long time. Whether he is sipping a cup of tea, fishing, 
 or clawing at a cactaur, he makes even my burly, manly ,self swoon a little. The graphics are technically 
 capable and heavily stylized in a way that makes things nice to look at, it is one of the better 
 looking Wii games but by no means the best. Some of the dungeons are note worthy and have a great 
 style to them.
  
  The music for the game is spectacular, but if you play final fantasy games you already know all 
 of it, it's a mix of remasters, remixed, and more often than not just a straight copy of music 
 from previous final fantasy games, and not the new stuff either, it's mostly the old Nobuo Uematsu 
 stuff. It's always a pleasure to listen to and their choices of which songs to use where was rather 
 smart. The includes very large selection of music so almost every dungeon has a different tune, 
 some have multiple even. However as nice as the music is to listen to the voice acting is some 
 of the worst I've ever heard. The game includes the ability to skip these cut scenes and you may 
 want to think about, the nails on chalk board style voice action combined with poor sampling and 
 sometimes even noise defiantly brings the game down.
  
  Speaking of skipping cut scenes you won't be missing any plot if you do. The plot is predictable, 
 and not terribly interesting. Chocobo and treasure hunter final fantasy clich Cid arrive in a 
 town where a bell steals everyone's memory. Once stolen Chocobo can enter these memory labyrinth 
 and retrieve these memories. It sound interesting but doesn't play out so well. The characters 
 don't develop and your silent hero seems to do all the right things, but never gives any reason 
 for it. But this is ok because you won't be playing this game for its presentation, no matter how 
 cute, you will be playing it for its game play.
  
  Game play:
  
  Chocobo's Dungeon is a dungeon crawler though and through, thought it's an interesting take on 
 the niche genre. The combat and dungeons exploration is turn based yet doesn't feel turn based 
 at all. Every time you move or take any action the monsters do likewise, this, ranged attacks, 
 buffs, and a large number of special attacks add a strategic feel to the combat that while easily 
 learned takes a bit to master. 
  
  To assist you in your dungeon crawl the game contains a rather in-depth and interesting item development 
 system where you can fuse special ability between items, such as protection against status effects 
 and delivery of status effects. As well as fusing your items together, you can hone them to make 
 then stronger. You also can find a number of other items throughout the game that cast spells, 
 heal you, or even summon.
  
  The Dungeons themselves are randomly construed and will, as often put you next to the exit as they 
 will put you on the other side of the, in most cases, small map. The dungeon themselves are full 
 of traps that will hinder your progress. Some dungeons have specific rules, such as everyone having 
 1 hp, some of these dungeons are rather fun but some are simply frustrating and come down to luck 
 not skill. Should you die in the dungeon you loss all unequipped items Gil (money) and get treated 
 to and cute and inspirational message.
  
  Perhaps the most intriguing element to the game play is the job system. The game contains 10 job 
 classes. These range from the magic wielding black mage to the jumping dragoon to the eccentric 
 dancer. The classes level up independently of the main character and gain new abilities as you 
 level them. The classes are rather well balances with a few over and underpowered expected and 
 the game can be beat if you focus on any one that you happen to like but you would probably be 
 better off focusing on 3 or 4 favourites. These jobs are unlocked mostly as you progress through 
 the story but with a few exceptions you gain through other means like stealing the thief class 
 from dungeon hero X.
  
  Extras:
  
  The game contains 3 rather unremarked mini games that you have probably played already in one form 
 or another and other then getting the items they unlock you won't feel compelled to play them for 
 any length of time.
  
  Around town you can do some more interesting things like fish for money/items/bank space, farm 
 for some rather useful flowers, or do cute things like play in the playground. There is a also 
 a jukebox you and kick to change the music and listen to the large and generally fantastic classic 
 soundtrack.
  
  But the one extra that might catch your eye is Pop-Up Duel. This rather interesting card game allows 
 you to construct a deck based on cards you have found, unlocked, or looted throughout the game. 
 Once constructed you play a game of matching cards where special ability of the cards play a large 
 role in deciding the victory. This game can be played over Wi-Fi against friends or random opponents 
 and there is even a world ranking. The game is fun and interesting and a worthy addition, you may 
 even find yourself spending time farming for cards in the dungeons to get your whole set rather 
 than levelling Chocobo. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you're a final fantasy fan the music alone will sell you on this game, provided you don't have 
 all the sound tracks and chain listen to them when playing other games. But for anyone the simple 
 yet challenging and engaging game play will make this title enjoyable. It's not without its major 
 flaws but in the end it's what's most important of any video game, fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Fables - Chocobo's Dungeon:
  
  ==================================
  Note: This Review May Contain Spoilers!!!!
  ==================================
  
  Being a 
 Fan of Chocobo's Dungeon 2 for the Playstation, I was looking forward to this title to give me 
 something to do on my Wii. This game takes everything from Chocobo's Dungeon 2 and adds on to it 
 with some decent voice acting, more detailed graphics, fun mini-games, and much more...
  
  Story: 9 / 10
  The story revolves around a little chocobo named ... Chocobo... who is a treasure 
 hunter along with his friend Cid. The duo is looking for a great treasure called "Timeless Power" 
 which Cid wants in order to power his Airship. Right when they were about to obtain their goal, 
 it is stolen from them by their Rivals, but then something happens, they are teleported to a strange 
 town, where no one remember anything. Cid and Chocobo are determined to help the people of Lost 
 Time regain their memories, but there is another power at work behind the scenes.
  Chocobo's Dungeon has a nice story line that is about 20-ish hours long, the characters in this 
 story are all unique, although some of them are horribly annoying.
  
  Music: 10+ / 10
  The soundtrack to this game is amazing, I love how they brought back songs from all the old Final 
 Fantasies and just re-made them. You got songs from Final Fantasy V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, and XI. 
 If you are an avid Final Fantasy player as I am, this sound track will not disappoint.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  As I said in the opening, I find that Chocobo's Dungeon is much like a cuter, 
 less bloody version of Diablo 2 for the PC. You got your randomized dungeon every time you go in. 
 You will spend hours killing monsters for the best gear you can get, and the job system in Chocobo's 
 Dungeon makes for extra time trying to max out all jobs. Another piece that added up the score 
 here was the mini-games, four in total, you will really only be playing one of them once you beat 
 the other three. The Flip-up duels were defiantly a good way to kill some time and with all the 
 cards there are to get, you will be spending a lot of time in the dungeons if you are looking for 
 the best cards.
  
  Overall: 9.5 / 10
  I know, I am really generous with scoring but this game really is a must have title for anyone 
 with a Wii, but I would recommend renting it first, as some people may not enjoy the kind of "child" 
 like atmosphere in the game, but if you can look past that, prepare for hours upon hours of dungeon 
 exploring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramic
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  In Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Dungeon, you take control of a cute little big headed chocobo 
 character in a semi-turn based strategy game where you explore various dungeons either in the real 
 world or inside people's minds (sort of like Psychonauts only not nearly as cool) . Set mostly in 
 the town of Losttime where every time the clock tower in the town's square rings, the citizens 
 lost some of their memories. This usually happens right when they're about to tell you something 
 important. The plot mostly involves helping people regain those lost memories by delving into their 
 minds with the aid of a green haired space baby (or something like that) . The plot, characters, 
 and dialogue all give the presentation that this is a game for little kids while the frustration 
 level tells otherwise.
  
  While in town, you are given free movement and will spend most of your time walking around, talking 
 to citizens to advance the plot. You'll never lose track of where you have to go next because the 
 mini map has big red markers telling you where to go. A lot of the dialogue will give you the feeling 
 that you're watching a show for preschoolers and the plot is pretty standard and predictable. In 
 fact, there is one constantly appearing character who's voice I found so annoying that I just skipped 
 anything he had to say, kupo.
  
  The worst part of the game is when you're in the actual dungeons. All of the dungeons are randomly 
 generated, which means that it's just a series of hallways and rooms. The gameplay works like a 
 semi-turn based strategy game. You're restricted to eight way directional movement on a grid. Every 
 time that you take an action, which includes everything except for turning, every monster on the 
 floor takes an action. Needless to say that fighting more than one monster at a time puts you at 
 a crippling disadvantage. The key to staying alive boils down to funneling the advancing monsters 
 into a hallway and picking them off one at a time. This becomes increasingly difficult in later 
 dungeons, as there will be monsters with projectile attacks and invisible traps that will automatically 
 surround you on four sides with monsters- to which there is almost no survival. There are even 
 some dungeons that will play this little sadistic game where it gives you and every monster only 
 one HP. Meaning that you HAVE TO get the first hit in a battle every time, and never miss an attack, 
 or get surrounded, or get hit with a projectile attack. You'll die frequently in this game, and 
 to no account than to just having bad luck. Speaking of luck, this game does feature a collectable 
 card game that you can play online to help distract you for a bit. But once again there is practically 
 no strategy involved and it comes down to pure luck. And you'll quickly not want to play since 
 its hosted by the most annoying character in the game, kupo.
  
  The game does cut you some slack by making items very cheap abundant. But than it kicks you in 
 the nuts by enforcing a very limited amount of items you can carry. There's a bank in town where 
 you can store your items but even that has a very limited capacity. And what's more is that there 
 are some dungeons that won't let you carry any items into it, giving you the option to automatically 
 place any times or money you have on you into the bank before entering but won't let you enter 
 the dungeon if the bank doesn't have enough space to hold what you have on you. Meaning that you'll 
 have to go and sell most of your items before entering the dungeon. And what's even more is that 
 if your die in a dungeon, you'll lose all of your money and unequipped items that you had on you. 
 In short, you can't play his game like a pack rat and you shouldn't bring any item into a dungeon 
 that you're not prepared to lose.
  
  The game does have the perk of letting you change your character class not too far into the game. 
 Giving you the classic final fantasy rolls of knight, black mage, white mage, and others that you 
 have to unlock. Each upgradeable class will give you specific skills, modifications to your stats, 
 and an outfit change. The problem is that you can only change your class at the beginning of a 
 dungeon or at certain checkpoints. And since the strategy for fighting the monsters or navigating 
 the dungeons never changes, you'll likely just pick one class and stick with it, leveling it up 
 above all others.
  
  In summary, this game is too kiddy for adult gamers, and too frustrating for kid gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshilila
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  In Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobos Dungeon you are playing "chocobo" who is a chocobo (wow what 
 a surprise ^^) and you are the partner of a treasure hunter who is called cid and he wants to build 
 and airship (somehow most final fantasy games have a person taking care of an airship and the person 
 is called cid) .
  
  At the beginning you land in a town called Lostime people keep losing there memory and chocobo 
 has the ability to go into the memories of other persons and to restore them.
  
  You are able to walk around freely in town and to buy stuff there or go fishing or to do 1 or 2 
 other things.
  
  In Dungeons (Memorys most of the time) you can choose jobs (first has to be unlocked after the 
 3rd or 4th dungeon) and use there abilitys for example the black mage uses black magic like blizzard, 
 thunder or fire at job lvl 1 or the shoolar starts out with a skill to identify the enemie and 
 see what element he is or how many hp the enemy has. There are about 12 diiferent jobs and its 
 quite fun playing the dungeons since the dungeons always have the same number of floors but they 
 change everytime you re-enter the dungeon for example the guardian of fire dungeon has 20 floors 
 and it will always have 20 floors but the floors change in shape at every new visit.
  
  The gameplay in the dungeons is turn based which lets you think of new ways to save your self or 
 of ways to get the monsters into a tight spot to use a spell that hits alot of spaces around you.
 
  
  You can always updgrade you taloons or sattles and even fuse them together to get different effects
 
  
  Now to the last thing here 
  the Outfit
  outside of the dungeons (which means in town) you always look like the beginner class chocobo 
 
  inside of the dungeons you are able to see your taloons and the costum of the job ure using... 
 yeah you dont have bad eyes cause i didnt say anything about the sattle cause thats the only equipment 
 + the accesoire that you want be seeing in the dungeons and in town you wont see any of you equipment
 
  
  Oh wait there is one more thing i forgot
  
  the game uses the nintendo wi-fi connection so you can use the cards you collected in the game 
 to play against others over the world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjik2k2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh, Chocobo's Dungeon. Anyone else remember this game back in the day on the original Playstation? 
 Well I'm glad to say that there has been some improvement to the original formula. Not much mind 
 you, but just enough. The Job System has been added to this game and it makes for a unique twist 
 to the random dungeon crawler of yesteryear. It's a little on the easy side at first, but it gets 
 progressively harder as you go, easing you into frustration rather then throwing you into it. The 
 dungeons are still randomly generated, and while they look mostly the same at first, there is actually 
 a few different textures used so it usually doesn't have too much time to wear on you. 
  
  Game play is a blend of action and turn based in that every step you take or action you choose 
 gives whatever monsters in the dungeon with you a chance to move or react in kind. There are a 
 number of jobs to choose from (about 10 or so) , though you have to unlock each of them by finding 
 specific memories in order to have access to them. Every time you enter a dungeon you are able 
 to pick and choose which job you'd like to play as, such as knight, dragoon, black mage, white 
 mage as well as a number of others. You advance these in the usual way; by killing monsters who 
 might or might not drop job points (or some other equally useful item, or sometimes even nothing 
 at all) . Every level gains you slightly better stats and HP while every Job level provides you 
 with a new skill related to whatever job you are currently using. It's a simple addition, but It's 
 enough to put some strategy into an otherwise non-strategy based game. 
  
  It would have been nice to be able to rotate the map to some degree to get a better view of whats 
 going on around you, but this isn't a necessity as there is a tool that basically highlights all 
 the grids around you, showing where you are allowed to move and which grid actually contains the 
 monster you want to attack. Story line seems interesting so far in that you are transported to 
 a world somewhat separate from your own in which there is one town, and a bell tower that makes 
 everybody within range of the bell forget.... just about everything. Chocobo has to make people 
 remember by entering their memories (which translates to a dungeon crawl for our famous yellow 
 feathered avian to complete) . Not a great game but not a bad one either, I have fun with it every 
 once in a while when i've got nothing better to do. Because of the ease of the first several dungeons 
 this game would probably be a good one to start someone on who has never played an RPG before.
 
  
  EDIT:: Having played the game a little bit longer I can further say this game is not for those 
 who dislike doing the same thing over and over. There is a lot of "Grind" to this game as you will 
 have to often go back into the same dungeon multiple times and fight the same monsters over and 
 over in order to increase your stats and abilities to the point that you are able to advance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Chocobo Dungeon is a turn-based RPG for the Nintendo Wii, however it's probably not the classic 
 turn-based system you're used to playing, like many of the other Final Fantasy titles.
  
  All creatues move at once. You take a step, the enemy takes a step, no matter where they are in 
 the dungeon. All actions you take (with the exception of turning around) counts as a turn. The 
 whole game is built on grids, and you'll soon realize that if you approach an enemy, it means you 
 won't get the first attack. The most important rule to surviving Chocobo Dungeon is remembering 
 to waste turns until the enemy approaches you.
  
  However, on occasion you'll be attacked by creatures with a range attack (meaning they won't approach) 
 or multiple creatures at once (meaning you'll be surrounded and almost definately be defeated, 
 especially early in the game.) This means you'll soon learn rule #2 of Chocobo Dungeon- find a 
 hallway and funnel your enemies into your attack range.
  
  You'll pretty much follow these two rules for the entire game, which makes the game sound repetitive 
 but with the addition of a Job system (sort of like Final Fantasy Tactics) you'll be able to switch 
 things up and make the game more exciting. There aren't a lot of different Jobs, but the ones that 
 are there are decently fleshed out with abilities your Chocobo will learn. Also, changing jobs 
 will change your Chocobo's outfit.
  
  Chocobo Dungeon is a Rogue-Like RPG, meaning when you die you will lose all of your items and money. 
 Sometimes in rogue-likes you will also lose the levels you've gained, but that is not the case 
 with Chocobo Dungeon. Also, the game is forgiving in the fact that it lets you store items and 
 money in a bank, so when you die al of your valuables will be safe. Just remember to visit the 
 bank often.
  
  The story of Chocobo Dungeon is cute, however, cute doesn't equal good. The citizens of a town 
 have all lost their memories due to this mysterious Tower of Oblivion. Every time it rings people 
 lose their memories. Fortunately for Chocobo, a green haired baby falls from the sky in an egg, 
 and he has the ability to open portals to people's memory dungeons, where you can retrive their 
 lost memories. This may not sound too bad at first, but when accompanied with terrible voice acting 
 and cliche characters, the plot comes off a little boring and awfully predictable.
  
  There are side quests you can do to escape the dungeons for awhile. For example, when you complete 
 certain parts of the game you will recieve mail with hidden words. Decipher the hidden word and 
 you can win playing cards for a card game you can play against computer opponents or online against 
 friends. The card game isn't very complicated, but it's a welcome bonus to the game.
  
  Overall:
  Chocobo Dungeon isn't the most inventive title. It's a cliche RPG with a few interesting 
 additions. The story was made for children while the difficulty of the game often suggests the 
 game was made for adults.
  
  While the story will drag and the dungeons will get repetitive, Chocobo Dungeon still provides 
 enough fun to warrant a purchase. As a side note, there aren't any other games like it available 
 for the Wii, and it could very well be the RPG some Nintendo fans have been waiting for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Chocobo's Dungeon for the Wii is a roguelike RPG developed by h. a. n. d. and published by Square 
 Enix. It's main focus is in the title. You are a Chocobo and you have to go through dungeons. But 
 even though I say that, it doesn't really delineate the depth of this game.
  
  The story talks of a Chocobo and his friend Cid who are treasure hunters. By same strange twist 
 of fate our heroes are sucked into another dimension into a city known as Lostime in a place called 
 Memoria. The bell rings in that town causing everyone to forget, and with the help of a weird baby 
 that falls from the sky, you must enter people's memories and help them remember their past.
  The story isn't particularly great, but there is a bit of a theme to it and can be thought-provoking.
 
  
  The memories in the game are the dungeons. You must go through randomly generated dungeons in a 
 turn-based format. When you take a turn, your enemies on the same floor will take a turn. Each 
 step you take, attack you do, skill/spell you cast or item you use will constitute a turn. You'll 
 encounter traps, find equipment and items, fight bosses and eventually save the day.
  
  Though the game has been stuck with the label of "roguelike" it has been developed with the western 
 gamers in mind. In most roguelikes if you die you lose everything, and I mean everything. Money, 
 levels and all your items will vanish. But such is not the case in Chocobo's Dungeon. When you 
 die, you will lose all your money and items, but your levels and equipped items will remain. There 
 is also a bank to store money and items in case you fear death. This makes the game easier in some 
 aspects. But the game itself is not that easy. It'll start off easy, but will ramp up in difficulty. 
 You won't be able to just plow right through unless you build yourself up to near indestructable 
 levels. But even then there are special dungeons that will set restraints to ignore all your level 
 grinding and focus more on strategy. For example, in one dungeon, you and the monsters will all 
 have 1hp. With a dungeon like this you'll want to use range attacks to avoid unwanted and immediate 
 deaths.
  
  An FFlike Job system is implemented in this game. When you enter a dungeon you can choose from 
 10 different classes such as Knight, Dragoon, Black Mage and Ninja. You need to level these up 
 in order to get new skills. This adds variety to the gameplay.
  
  The presentation of the game is mixed. There is english voice acting, however you may find it quite 
 annoying and lifeless. There is no option for japanese voices, though I wish there were. The soundtrack 
 is absolutely amazing and if you are a big fan of past Final Fantasies, you'll find quite a few 
 memorable tunes remixed from different games. The graphics in the dungeons are pretty decent, while 
 the graphics in town are much more bare. Nothing amazing, but it serves its purpose. Despite trailers 
 you may have seen, there is actually very little in the way of FMV in this game.
  
  There are several minigames, but they are simple and forgetful. The most impressive of the minigames 
 is a cardbattling game. You collect cards throughout your adventure, build up your special deck 
 of 15 cards and go head to head in typical monster card duel game. There is online play for this, 
 but it is hard to find random matches because very few people have the game to begin with. It also 
 uses friendcodes so it could be a nice diversion if your friend has this game as well or if you 
 hook up into a community and do tournaments.
  
  In the end, whether or not you get this game will depend on how much you want to play a good RPG 
 for the Wii. If you have never played a roguelike, this is a good way to get a taste. While it 
 has a cute presentation, it can be a quite challenging game for adults. The bulk of the game is 
 running through perilous dungeons, leveling yourself up, maxing out job levels, forging the best 
 equipment and fighting against classic Final Fantasy beasts. If that sounds about right for you, 
 then you should buy this game. It has a starting price of $40 new and may help to satisfy your 
 J-RPG needs until next year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
