-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/fireemblem/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic cel-shaded 3D cutscenes.
 Good variety of mission goals.
 Allows midbattle saving.
 Ability to port clear-game data from Path of Radiance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Laughable plot.
 Frustrating difficulty will alienate newcomers.
 Doesn't even try to adapt and make use of the Wii.
 Little to no improvement graphically over its GameCube predecessor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.9, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,780 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Nov 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With a terrible plot and an unforgiving difficulty level, Radiant Dawn is best left alone by anyone 
 but the most hardcore of strategists. 

  The Fire Emblem series of strategy role-playing games is best known for two things: deep, compelling 
 stories and challenging tactical battles. War-devastated nations, subtle political machinations, 
 and young heroes who rise to the occasion of defeating abject evil to save their people have all 
 been hallmarks of the epic stories that take place, and Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn attempts to follow 
 this tried-and-true storytelling method but somehow gets mired along the way. This is despite the 
 fact that it's a direct sequel to the GameCube's Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance, which had one of 
 the strongest stories of the series. The strong tactical-combat system is thankfully intact, but 
 the difficulty has been bumped up so high that it at times becomes infuriating, and the end result 
 is a game suited only to hardcore fans of the series or of strategy RPGs in general. If you haven't 
 played a Fire Emblem before, this is not the game for you.  

  As previously mentioned, Radiant Dawn is a direct sequel to Path of Radiance. It takes place three 
 years after a brutal war in which the nation of Daein and its mad king, Ashnard, attempted to throw 
 the entire world into chaos to free an imprisoned dark god. Ironically, the game begins in the 
 heart of Daein itself. You will take command of Micaiah, the so-called "silver-haired maiden" of 
 the Dawn Brigade, a friendly band of Daeinish rabble-rousers who fight the oppressive Begnion Empire 
 that now occupies their homeland. Throughout your journey, you will encounter many of the allies 
 you met in Path of Radiance -- most of whom will once again fight on your side -- as well as a cast 
 of entirely new ones. With your army, you will battle a series of villains that are for the most 
 part so laughably one-dimensional that they might as well be cackling while tying young damsels 
 to railroad tracks and twirling their handlebar mustaches. For a series known for its detailed 
 backstories (particularly those of its villains) , these knavish ruffians, who act like they're 
 evil because it's the new black, are severely underwhelming and disappointing. To Radiant Dawn's 
 credit, the story and quality of villainy do improve later in the game, but chances are you wouldn't 
 give the story long enough to really develop if that's why you were playing it in the first place. 

           The gameplay interface is as familiar as ever.      

  The game is divided into four parts, each of which provides a different perspective of the events 
 unfolding -- unlike the previous game, Radiant Dawn has no set main character, and it's not uncommon 
 for you to have a different army with a different leader from chapter to chapter. Each chapter 
 consists of a battle or series of battles, and it is in these fights that the vast majority of 
 your time will be invested. Battles feature a variety of goals, such as "defeat all the enemies" 
 or "survive for x turns." They even manage to put a new spin on traditional objectives, such as 
 one mission where you must work alongside an  ally and protect 
 its units until they arrive at a specific spot. Like in many strategy RPGs, you will begin combat 
 by selecting which of your units you wish to field onto a grid-based isometric arena, and then 
 fight by taking turns moving and attacking your enemy.  

  However, unlike in other similar games, each of your units are unique characters that have their 
 own stories and motivations, and they'll die permanently if not carefully guided. To this end, 
 Fire Emblem continues to be more strategic than its peers because you're less likely to take risks 
 that endanger your soldiers. That said, be prepared to restart often because your soldiers  will 
  die frequently: Radiant Dawn is easily the most difficult game in the series thus far. Where in 
 previous games in the series the vast majority of your troops could easily take one or two blows 
 and live to tell the tale, you will have no such luxury here as, particularly in the early parts 
 of the game. Your soldiers are for the most part weaker than ever, and the slightest of miscalculations 
 will end in tragedy, even on the easy setting.  

  Although some may see this as a boon, the difficulty ventures beyond the realm of challenging and 
 into the bitter waters of maddening, and it will easily overwhelm even experienced tacticians. 
 The ability to save in midbattle is a welcome new feature that helps to mitigate the punishing 
 difficulty, but because you are essentially forced to rely on it all of the time, it cheapens the 
 overall experience greatly -- unless you like the idea of starting entire battles over again upward 
 of seven times until you can complete them without losing precious allies. There are three difficulty 
 settings, but as previously mentioned, even the easy setting is extremely tough.  

  As is standard, there are dozens of types of units that you will recruit into your ranks throughout 
 the game, each of which has a different weapon specialty that fits into a rock-paper-scissors combat 
 system: swords trump axes, which trump lances, which trump swords. Magic-wielding units work in 
 a similar way. The laguz -- beast-men that can shape-shift into full animal forms -- make their return 
 and are thankfully more useful than they were before, but they still play second-string to the 
 various human warriors you will command. Between battles you will generally be able to buy and 
 sell weapons and equipment, learn new important information, and award bonus experience earned 
 in your missions to help level units. As in previous Fire Emblem games, you can pair up your units 
 to earn stat bonuses when they are near one another. The big payoff has always been the often hilarious 
 or backstory-developing conversations between support pairs, and these have unfortunately been 
 reduced to mere battlefield chatter. But considering how uniformly awful the dialogue is, this 
 can be seen as a mixed blessing.  

  In terms of presentation, if you played Path of Radiance, you've essentially seen everything Radiant 
 Dawn has to offer. Though there are new and more detailed character animations, the overall quality 
 of the game's graphics has had little to no improvement whatsoever. The infrequently seen cel-shaded 
 3D cutscenes are beautiful and incredibly well done, and it's a shame that the rest of the game 
 didn't look more like them. The soundtrack is good but generally not memorable, and the sound effects 
 are fitting and appropriate. One interesting feature is the ability to port over weapon levels 
 and support relationships from a GameCube memory card that has a Path of Radiance save on it.  
 

           Cutscenes like this are the game's graphical high points.      

  The biggest problem with Radiant Dawn is that it proves just how firmly rooted Fire Emblem is in 
 its ways; it makes absolutely no effort at all to adapt and change from its predecessors. Despite 
 being a Wii game, it doesn't make any attempt to use any of the system's strengths, such as Mii 
 support, online support, or motion controls and pointing, even though the advantages of such integration 
 should be plainly obvious. There is almost no voice acting, save for the uncommon cutscenes and 
 painfully terrible after-chapter narrations done by Captain Obvious, who repeats everything you 
 just learned in a poorly imitated Movie Trailer Guy voice. Finally, the series' chosen storytelling 
 method -- putting sometimes-animated character art over a static background and bombarding you with 
 text -- comes across as played out as well. Without any way of tying one stationary backdrop into 
 another (given that cutscenes are so rare) , events often occur inexplicably, such as one case early 
 in the game when Micaiah is in a forest one moment and in a prison the next.  

  Ultimately, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a huge disappointment. It seems that nothing was learned 
 from the making of Path of Radiance, and as a direct follow-up, Radiant Dawn can't even live up 
 to its predecessor's epic story. The walls of text and unforgiving difficulty level will do nothing 
 but alienate and discourage newcomers and even some veterans, which makes it a game purely for 
 the hardcore crew who are dedicated to the series or the genre -- anyone else need not apply.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (161 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rasse397
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure what game GameSpot was reviewing when they gave this a 6.0.
  
  Back in the day I played Path of Radiance and loved it. When this game came out, I knew I had to 
 get it, and I loved it, too.
  
  Terrible plot? I LOVE the plot, and I love the characters.
  
  Unforgiving difficulty level? 
 I wouldn't call it UNFORGIVING. If by unforgiving they mean that you have to be really careful 
 at times and always make sure to save your game before trying anything risky so you can re-start 
 from there if you mess up... With the advent of mid-battle saves, I would think that this game 
 is even MORE forgiving than PoR. If you messed up mid-battle in PoR, and you weren't willing to 
 live with the consequences of X, Y, or Z character dying, then you had to start over from the beginning 
 of the mission, even if you had been playing it for 30+ minutes.
  
  I have no idea what GameSpot was smoking when they reviewed this game. If you like Fire Emblem, 
 and love PoR, you will love this game. (Of course, I wouldn't recommend playing this game unless 
 you have played PoR first. Otherwise I think you would be quite lost with a lot of plot things, 
 ect!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schimik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  After the appearance of two Fire Emblem characters in Super Smash Bros Melee, many gamers demand 
 an outside-Japan release of the game of the series. When Nintendo finally accepted their wishes, 
 everyone was happy. I was pretty indifferent. I tried Sacred Stones on GBA and it was one heck 
 of a game. I ended up having all the U. S. released games of the series. Path of Radiance was the 
 first game to be in 3D. Though it wasn't as good as the ones on handheld, it still deserved to 
 have sequel.
  
  The game starts with a group named the Dawn Brigade whose objective is to help their country Daein 
 to overcome the tyrannic rule a Begnion over them. The main characters in the group are a girl 
 named Micaiah and a familiar face, Sothe, who was pretty useless in PoR if you don't remember him. 
 They are not the only main characters of the game. You'll meet Ike who will appear later in the 
 game. You'll recrute more characters as you progress in the game. Most of them are from the first 
 game, but there's also some new faces you'll meet. The story itself wasn't as good as PoR, but 
 still enjoyable.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the other FE games. You move your characters on squares on the grid 
 to attack your enemies. There are many classes of units, each one with his/her own characteristics. 
 A feature that makes FE unique is that weapons can break if used too much and characters cannot 
 be used again if they are killed in battle. If your commander dies, it's game over.
  
  The game is harder than the other three games. Some missions have massive number of enemies that 
 never has been seen in the other games. You start the game with relatively weak characters unlike 
 the other settlements of the series. I played on normal mode, and it wasn't easy at first. Fortunately, 
 the game becomes easier after finishing the first part of the game because you get some new strong 
 characters. The game's high difficulty requires good strategies to finish each mission, especially 
 with weak units.
  
  As for the graphics, nothing special except that they are better than PoR. The cinematic scenes 
 have interesting visuals. The style look somewhat cel-shaded like Wind Waker. Anyway, they're unique. 
 As for the voice acting, they need some improvements because they are pretty dull.
  
  The gameplay mechanism is the same as always with slight changes. Considering its difficulty level, 
 beware newcomers of the series. Hardcore gamers of tactical RPGs should find this game quite satisfying.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  I like Fire Emblem games alot. They're not my favorite Strategy RPG series, but they're up there. 
 In some ways, I like Radiant Dawn more than Path of Radiance. For one, the missions are bigger 
 and tougher, the CGI cutscenes are AMAZING.
  
  There are a few things I preferred about Path of Radiance though. In Path of Radiance, you followed 
 Ike and his mercenary group. The story was alot easier to follow. In Radiant Dawn, you follow three 
 groups. The stories intertwine and get really confusing. Radiant Dawn takes place 3 years after 
 Path of Radiance. I don't think you would NEED to play Path of Radiance to play this, but it wouldn't 
 hurt. The graphics haven't been updated at all. They could have put a LITTLE more effort into the 
 character animations and backgrounds. 
  
  It's still a good game, and I still recommend playing it. I just wish they put a little more effort 
 into it.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Fire Emblem is a turn-based Strategy RPG. The turns are round based. So you move all of your characters, 
 then the enemy gets a chance to move all of theirs at once. The advanced of going first means you 
 can strike first, and strike one enemy with multiple characters. If you strategize correctly, you 
 can even have an advantage while defending. 
  
  Each time you attack or use an item, you lose 1 point of it's durability. When you exhausted that 
 weapon, then it breaks. You can easily buy more weapons and items between fights though. The more 
 you use a certain type of weapon, the better you get at using those weapons. The higher your weapon 
 level also means the better weapons you can equip too.
  
  You gain experience for each battle, but not each move. For example, if you get attacked or you 
 attack, then you'll gain experience, even if you miss. If you use an item though, then you won't 
 gain experience. You gain a level after each 100 experience points. When you gain a new level, 
 then your stats are randomly boosted by 1 point. It's different each time. Some stats can be maxed 
 out though.
  
  The human characters change their job classes three different ways. Some of them will change their 
 job if they get to their 20th level. Once they hit the next level, then they will change their 
 job and start back at level 1 with the new job. Some characters will change their jobs during storyline 
 moments. The final method is by acquiring an item which can change your job prematurely if you 
 want. When you change your job classes, you gain between 2-5 stat points for each stat. 
  
  Missions are pretty predictable for a Fire Emblem (or Strategy) game. You either have to kill a 
 boss, defeat EVERYTHING or seize a certain spot. This is probably the hardest Fire Emblem I've 
 played. You usually have to kill 80+ characters on an entire map. They even send in reinforcements 
 most of the time. Which means, you might fight 100+ characters per map. This can be TOUGH.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  Radiant Dawn doesn't focus on a single character's 
 journey, like in Path of Radiance. Actually, it bounces between 3 groups of characters for the 
 most part. You start off with Minaiah, the Silver Maiden. She has the ability to heal people without 
 using magic, this makes her an oddity. She forms a rebel group called the Dawn Brigade, and tries 
 to save her fallen empire.
  
  Ike is back with his Greil Mercenaries, fighting for what he sees to be right. Ike sides with the 
 Laguz Alliance against the Daein Empire. Queen Elincia is the third perspective. A rebel group 
 forms within her country and tries to over throw her rule. She squashes the rebellion and decides 
 to join the war. 
  
  I think Suikoden III did the multiple perspectives thing a lot better. Radiant Dawn is just REALLY 
 confusing actually. It's more confusing than Final Fantasy Tactics. They throw so many characters 
 and plots and settings at you, it just gets hard to follow. It's not a bad story by anyways, but 
 a game like Path of Radiance was easier to follow since it didn't jump from group to group.
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Oh.. ouch. The graphics are horrible. Path of Radiance 
 didn't even look good. This looks roughly the same as Path of Radiance, but now everything is in 
 widescreen! First gen PS2 titles like Summoner have better graphics than this. However, I LOVE 
 the CGI cutscenes. They look like a mix of celshading and CGI, and it blends perfectly. There are 
 a ton of cutscenes (for some reason, they're mostly shown in the later chapters) . The scenes are 
 also pretty long and fleshed out too, which is pretty cool. I like the anime-cells of the characters 
 on dialog scenes, but I wish they had just a LITTLE bit more animation.
  
  The battle animation isn't anything special either. You can choose to turn them off though. I did 
 after a few hours because it just took so long to load. Some cutscenes use the battle system engine 
 for action. They're terrible to look at.
  
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  There's alot more voice acting in this game, however, there is none during dialog scenes or even 
 battle. That is my biggest pet peeve. I WISH they included full voice work. I know there is a TON 
 of dialog and branching dialog paths, but a game like this needs voice acting. Like Path of Radiance, 
 they include full voice work over the CGI cutscenes. They also toss in a narrator between missions 
 (I'm not sure if that was in Path of Radiance or not) . There are also alot of Dream sequences that 
 include voice work too.
  
  The music is good, but sounds familiar, so it's probably rehashed stuff from Path of Radiance. 
 Not that it really matters or not.
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  There isn't technically a world map in this game. The progression is hardly unchanged from Path 
 of Radiance. Which is a shame because I really enjoyed the Sacred Stones map. The game flows linearly, 
 stage to stage. In between stages, you can buy weapons or items, change your skills, equip items, 
 and award experience points to your characters. You gain bonus experience if you complete hidden 
 objectives from previous missions. Then you can level your characters up with this bonus experience. 
 This was done to eliminate the extra encounters from Sacred Stones.
  
  There's also the "Info" mode, which gives you optional dialog sequences. Most of the time you get 
 an item, skill or even a character out of the deal. You can also set your "connections" with characters. 
 Only two characters can connect in this game though. When a character connects with another one, 
 they can chat on the battle field. They also get bonus stats if each character is close to each 
 other. 
  
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ---------
  38:19:16
  
  Holy crap, that was a long game of Fire Emblem. Seriously, there was more missions than I could 
 count and most of them lasted an hour. My longest mission was about 1:30h, my shortest was about 
 14 minutes. My most used characters in terms of kill rate was Sothe (100) , Tibarn (102) , Titania 
 (119) , and Ike (121) . 
  
  After you beat the final stage, you are treated with possibly the longest ending sequence ever 
 implemented in a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RICARDOROSA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  FE: Radiant Dawn is a thrilling game. It was a few but very well done cut-scenes. The map and the 
 attacks scenes were also cool, especially some of the attacks which look stunning. The story was 
 very interesting and dramatic. The events were also interesting and were useful, 'cause the player 
 would get a item now and then, and funny too. A great part of the playable characters kick ass 
 thanks to their high stats, abilities, humor and/or good looks (the gals, of course) . Some of the 
 enemies were also cool. The only thing were the game disappointed me was that there was no wi-fi 
 connection stuff, like a war between 2 persons which had 2 equal armies, testing the abilities 
 of each player as a strategist.
  In summary, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn ROCKS!!!!!
  
  PS: FIRE EMBLEM 4EVER!!!
  PS 2: This is my first review and I can say that it was pretty good 
 ( I think :P ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  This was my second time playing a Fire Emblem and I have got to say... this game is really fun. 
 It is super easy to get used to and can spend countless hours playing. Despite it being single 
 player only this game is a good game to play on those rainy days or just when you want to use your 
 brain a little. Unlike other games this one requires some kind of thinking. It's sort of like a 
 chess game but you have characters and can move wherever you want. It gets very difficult if you 
 don't know what your doing. You need to finesse your skills very well in order to succeed in most 
 missions. I like this game because it kind of reminds me of Final Fantasy and Runescape. i was 
 hooked on those 2 games for years and now I have another one to get into. I hope they make more 
 Fire Emblem games for the Wii or DS because it will definitely be played by me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthkaiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Fire Emblem arrived in the US, I've been a follower of the series I like the plot, the 
 strategy the units, the sprite animations and much more, you could say I enjoy playing a fire emblem 
 game. 
  When Fire Emblem was released in the Gamecube I thought it wouldn't be as good as a GBA game but 
 I was wrong. The essentials of the game weren't forgotten, this was one of the reasons I liked 
 Path of Radiance. 
  After I read the review about Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn I was a bit doubtful when I had the oportunnity 
 to buy the game, now that I own it I have no regrets, this is a true strategy game.
  The game is a direct sequel to the Gamecube title Path of Radiance. 
  Radiant Dawn is placed 
 three years after the events in PoR, after Crimea won the war against Daein we thought everything 
 would be good, the thing is that Crimea let Beginon occupy the country of Daein, with no king and 
 no political goverment Daein is now ruled by Begnion. Citizens are mistreated by the Begnion forces, 
 there is hunger, poverty, injustice but when everything is dark a new rising star appears in Daein, 
 The Dawn Brigade, this band of people are warriors who fight the begnion forces in order to win 
 back the former freedom and glory of the country that they loved, this army is led by Micaiah one 
 of the new faces in this game, she is also accompanied by Sothe a familiar face from PoR, along 
 with other set of new characters, this is only one of the armies that you'll be able to use in 
 one of the four parts of the game in which we'll see several new and old characters.
  The game has 45 chapters in which you'll fight enemies, recruit soldiers and upgrade your army. 
 The gameplay is similar to PoR but with some new skills and terrain effects. You'll have acces 
 to different classes (swordmasters, dracoknights, mages, soldiers) and you'll gain exp points for 
 every enemy you fight once your units gains enough exp points it will level up, once it gains enough 
 levels it will change classes which will make it stronger.
  There is a weapon triangle (Sword beats axe which beat lances which beats swords) and a magic triangle 
 (Anima beats Light which beats Dark which beats Anima) these are some things that you have to keep 
 in mind when sending your units into the battle, which adds a lot of strategy element to the game, 
 the map is divided in squares a certain unit moves a certain kind of squares every turn once your 
 turn is over, starts the enemy turn which will be controlled by the AI.
  The AI is smart and you'll have to think a lot in this game which I like because that's what strategy 
 is. Gamespot complained of the game's difficulty level calling it extremely difficult, I don't 
 agree with this due to the fact that this IS a strategy game and you have to think the best strategy 
 in order to win the battle, so far I've seen no problem with the difficulty level I already played 
 it on normal and found it rather easy, I've started my hard playthrough which poses a real challenge 
 but nothing impossible.
  The graphics look a little more detailed than the ones in PoR but there isn't much of a change. 
 The animation is fluid and the cutscenes look amazing. As for the music let's just say it isn't 
 bad but I prefered most of the tracks the used in PoR.
  The battle system is the same of a fire emblem game, you'll see the unit hp in the battle the total 
 damage and the critical percentage, and a very lovely animation in which the units fight. The main 
 attraction.
  The game itself is a long one, the plot is original not so terrible like they say, I mean 45 chapters 
 the last one had only 30 and it covered pretty much everything, this one will give you 50+ hours 
 of gameplay, another good point for the game. The maps aren't just copy paste, they look well created 
 and fit with the themes (snow, wastland, swamp, castle, plains, rivers) you'll find almost everything.
 
  You'll see some familiar faces from PoR for example Ike and the Greil Mercenaries, The Apostle 
 and the Holy Guards, Queen Crimea and the Royal Knights and many new faces. The game offers a support 
 system in which to characters talk during the battle, something common in the FE series. This time 
 the characters doesn't necesary need to have something in common (brothers, lovers, friends, haters, 
 and more) almost anyone can support.
  In my opinion this game has almost everything that a strategy game needs, no online support though 
 but besides that, Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn will be a title worth of a place in your collection, 
 if you are a FE fan then you must get it, if you aren't but you like RPGs then I highly reccomend 
 it, if you don't like rpgs or strategy games then just don't play it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogert
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  First came Fire Emblem for the GBA then for the GCN. And now the best of the series comes Radiant 
 Dawn for Wii. How is it the best. The controls to start, there so easy a Pig could control it. 
 But it would have to think about the deep strategic gameplay with a lot of thinking needed. It's 
 not like Capsule Monster Colliseum, when you attack once and the enemie does not attack back. This 
 version when you attack the enemie has a counter attack after you attack. Also theres a lot of 
 advantages and disadvantages. So be aware and awake. And the gameplay, the tuotorial and the cintematics 
 are incredibly solid. But the graphics are almost identical to the Gamecube version. plus the cintematics 
 were rarely shown, which was very dissapointing. But the intro was very long but awesome. This 
 game is awesome, i'd prefer this for strategy fans, but thoose who don't know much about strategy 
 or dont like strategy. I'd perfere to rent the game first like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teckblader
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  When i finished fire emblem path of radiance i felt like something is missing: What is happening 
 to the black knight? Did he really died? What about Sothe? Did he found his friends?
  
  When i heard there is going to be a fire emblem for the wii, i got very excited. When the game 
 was released i saw some gameplay videos on the internet and i saw sothe as a grownup. And that 
 made me anxious to buy the game because i want to know what happens next.
  
  Im not telling the story of the game because i spoil it for the people who wants to play it so 
 i am going to tell what i think about the game.
  
  The gameplay is simple: You got an small group of men with different classes like the mage archer 
 and mercenary. You can move a character towards the enemy and enter combat. The main objective 
 is to move the main character to the clearing spot without dying. If your character is defeated 
 he is dead and disapears from the map and you can't choose him anymore for the next battles up 
 ahead.
  
  Lets talk about the difficulty: you got easy, normal and hard (i think there is a very hard to) . 
 I played first normal mode because i thought i got experience, i know the classes. Its not, on 
 the first chapter my main character didn't survive and game over. I thought ok i got overconfident 
 and try it again. It amazed me how weak your men are. Normally in other fire emblem games you got 
 the lord, almost the strongest class you got. But this one on the first chapter she is very weak. 
 But its normal mode so its logical its a bit harder than easy mode. But that's not all, If you 
 think youre on a winning streak don't get cocky that you can marge your forces to the clearing 
 point because some enemy's reappearing unexpected.
  
  The story is a tad short and disapointing for me. Why? its going to fast like they want to wrap 
 it up and say: Its the ending of our story and lets get it over with. Some of you who played it 
 disagrees with me but i got to tell you Fire emblem games has always a good story. Not to long 
 and not to short, just right
  
  Anyway this game is not that really bad but i recommend this game to people who played fire emblem 
 path of radiance because of the story. People who never played any fire emblem game buy first one 
 of the other fire emblem games because i got a feeling this is a bad start for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaushik813
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  I totally disagree with the gamespot review. This is an awesome game. It is extremely addictive.
 
  
  This is the first fire emblem game I have played, and if this is the worst in the series the others 
 must be out of this world.
  
  The game follows a pretty deep story-line, with a few unexpected turns (such as micaiah being sanaki's 
 sister and soren being almedha's and ashnard's son) .
  The game is a turn- based RPG. Characters carry a variety of weapons, most of which fit into a 
 rock-paper-scissors system. The battles are extremely difficult if without using tactics. A word 
 of advice, save after every turn.
  
  The good-
  The game has a deep story-line.
  The battles are challenging.
  There are lot of different characters and weapons.
  Can save 
 in mid-battle.
  
  The bad-
  Some battles can get frustrating.
  Some characters are much stronger than others in the beginning itself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbshook
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  I must disagree with Gamespot on their score. This game is solid, and anyone who has played games 
 of this type before, like Shining Force for the Sega Genesis, or Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance 
 on the Gamecube, will find this game quiet satisfying. However, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn might 
 be best suited for fans who are familiar with this type of game.
  
  Despite Gamespot's opinion of the storyline, I personally think it is engaging enough to play through 
 the entire game, and bringing back the characters from Path of Radiance makes it all the more solid. 
 I love the battle system of moving my army from point to point on the screen, and figuring out 
 how best to strike the enemy. Also, there are many characters from which to choose all of which 
 can equip a variety of specific weapons. What is really an added bonus is being able to save anytime 
 you like during battle which comes in handy because some fights can last a long time.
  
  What is most frustrating about the game is the difficulty. I love this type of strategy and know 
 how to position my army, but sometimes I still had key characters eliminated. Once they are gone 
 they are gone baby! I started saving every turn. A word of advice "SAVE EVERY TURN IN BATTLE." 
 This may get repetitive, but it's better than fighting a battle for an hour only to get one of 
 your best players killed forever.
  
  Pros:
  -A solid turn-based strategy in the line of Shining Force and Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance
  
 -The game offers great variety, and a good cast of characters.
  -Save anytime you like in battle.
  
  Cons:
  -Difficulty is at times frustrating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjohnston007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm a dedicated Gamespot fan, but don't do a lot of reviews. Maybe because I agree 
 with them most of the time, but of late I'm seeing some really dissapointing wii reviews. This 
 one topped it when they rated it at a measly 6. Normally I wouldn't buy a game rated that low, 
 but all I can say is BUY IT!
  They missed the mark on nearly every point as far as I can tell. I played it on easy at first based 
 on their review... I ended up starting over again on normal because it wan't challenging enough. 
 Graphically, I have no issues with the gameplay, and the cutscenes were amazing. The voice acting 
 for the most part was superb.
  As far as not adapting it to the wii specific controls... well first of all, with this style of 
 game, the controls themselves are just fine the way they are. They work extremely well. The only 
 reason I didn't rate this game a 10 is on two points. First, an online portion would have been 
 a lot of fun, but considering how time consuming it would be, I'm not sure how much it would get 
 used by any except the hardcore. Second, they were right about Captain Obvious's narratives between 
 boards. He was mildly irritating.
  
  Beyond that, it's one of the best games that's been put out. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishopphoto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review as I truly think this is far better then the 6.0 score written here. I 
 think this game was enjoyable and had a great replayability factor. I have given it a 7.5.
  
  First off, the flaws. The story is weak, no doubt about it, and a little difficult to follow 
 even if you were paying attention, as I obviously was not.
  
  I have read complaints about the difficulty. The game can be unforgiving, but if you save regularly 
 and pay attention to one fact (if a character dies at any point, they are dead forever and certain 
 characters are necessary to get through certain battles towards the end) then it actually progresses 
 quite nicely.
  
  The sound is repetitive and could have had more thought/heart put into it.
  
  The graphics 
 are Wii, so you know what you are going to get, best case scenario.
  
  Alright, on to the GOOD stuff. The 
 actual RPG element in this game was very well done. Each character brings a lot of unique skills 
 to the table. I really enjoyed most of the characters I had, though some were expendable towards 
 the end (as you can have more units on the team then can be actively on any given field) . Figuring 
 out who needed to live and who could die was kind of cool. A few levels really stood out for me 
 (the bridge level was hot, as was the swamp level) as being perfect difficulty levels.
  
  So yeah, maybe I did not sell it as best as I could, but I played through this game twice and was 
 constantly learning little helpful things that made the next battle a little easier. You still 
 MUST save constantly or run the risk of being screwed at some point later in the game, but TOTALLY 
 WORTH IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  The Fire Emblem series stretches back to pretty much the beginning of all time - from cosy old 
 NES classics to the more recent Path of Radiance on GameCube, and the Game Boy Advance essential 
 The Sacred Stones. But while almost every game in the series has been a shining beacon of the strategy 
 RPG genre, Radiant Dawn feels more like a stepping stone on the path to the next true advancement 
 for the series.
  
  Not to say that this is anything less than a brilliantly balanced game with oceans of tactical 
 depth, but simply that Radiant Dawn is regrettably similar to its GameCube predecessor. None of 
 the Wii's available features have been implented - you won't find any motion controls here, and 
 the game is sadly bereft of any online options. 
  
  
  Shepherd's Delight
  As a strategy RPG staple, Radiant Dawn has you commanding a massive cast of characters across over 
 40 turn-based battles, each fought on a tactical grid. At its simplest, the battle tactics require 
 you to adhere to the timeless rock, paper, scissors philosophy but with with swords, lances, axes 
 and so on. At the same time you also have to take into account direct and ranged damage and the 
 order in which you attack. At the more complex end of the scale, you'll be processing an unyielding 
 flood of intimidating statistics, while promoting units and juggling their various skills to ensure 
 success. 
  
  Advance Wars is the best reference point for those unfamiliar with the series as the same mechanics 
 of movement costs, unit effectiveness and attack ranges come into play during every turn.
  
  Empowering you to strategise in every detail of the battle, the game throws information at 
 you at every turn - from showing you the amount of damage you'll inflict before you attack to the 
 chance of your attack missing, or the chance of the enemy retaliating with a critical hit. 
  
  Radiant Dawn delivers a satisfying and precise breed of strategy, leaving very little to luck, 
 and everything else down to that piddly blob of grey you call a brain. In fact, there's very much 
 a right way and a wrong way to play any Fire Emblem title, and the problem for newcomers to the 
 series is that both ways look extremely similar. 
  
  This is a harshly difficult game to wrap your head around and it doesn't tolerate complacency for 
 a second. Every action must be deliberate, and failure can be staggeringly swift. Leave a weak 
 character unguarded for just one turn and the enemy will most likely nip in and tear them to little 
 pieces, regardless of how well you thought the battle was going.
  
  
  
  Corpse Bride
  The death of one of your handful of main characters punts you rudely back to the title screen. 
 For the rest of the cast, death is surprisingly - if realistically - permanent. The game simply 
 continues without the deceased, their demise affecting the storyline to varying degrees. It's an 
 unforgiving consequence that will deter players who will, quite rightly, hate seeing all of their 
 hard work fall to irreversible pieces. 
  
  A newly implemented Battle Save system softens this blow though, allowing some much-appreciated 
 recourse when you've irresponsibly allowed your favourite character to be thwacked. Using this 
 system you can essentially save and resume games mid-battle, rather than the usual 'suspend' system 
 (which allows you to resume only one measly time) .
  
  The introduction of new characters is equally dynamic, with the ability to talk with some enemy 
 units during battle leading to dialogue that might not only be helpful, but could lead to that 
 character joining your team. Likewise, visiting houses on the battlefield rewards you with items, 
 information and weapons, and supportive conversations between your characters in the midst of all 
 the fighting lend Radiant Dawn its unique RPG flavour. 
  
  Forging new and more powerful weapons for your characters has become simpler since the previous 
 game, with stat increases (the weapon's strength, speed, chance to do a critical strike, etc) limited 
 only by your cash and the weapon types you've already come across. Rare coins found in the battlefield 
 can be used in the forging process to add a random bonus to your weapon, and the final product 
 can be customised with a colour and a name. 
  
  Dj vu
  Otherwise, there's not a vast difference between this and Path of Radiance, and that remains the 
 game's biggest problem. For stone-hearted Fire Emblem fans this lack of progression is more than 
 forgivable, and to them Radiant Dawn comes highly recommended.
  
  
  
  However, for the fans that have been waiting for a Fire Emblem title more in tune with Nintendo's 
 latest hardware, there could be some disappointment waiting in the wings. Even in terms of appearance, 
 Radiant Dawn is only a slight improvement over the previous game, which isn't good news considering 
 that Path of Radiance wasn't exactly pushing the GameCube to its limits when it arrived two years 
 ago. What we've got now is a slightly ragged looking title with lacklustre battle sequences and 
 some often dull animations.
  
  A finely honed and perfectly balanced strategy RPG this may be, but it's one that could have been 
 so much more. Our hopes turn to the upcoming DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been annoyed with another game for a few weeks, and then tried this game. The other game 
 I was annoyed because of the horrible controls. First off when you start to play the level of difficulty, 
 is very high. Which added to my aggravation. However once you get the hang of it hold on for an 
 amazing ride. 
  
  I cannot stress enough how impressed I am with the AI for this game. After playing hundreds of 
 strategy games, I know what to expect. You get a game that is really easy, then sort of easy, then 
 on the hardest level it does not play well, it just cheats you blind. If its a dice game it rolls 
 perfectly ever time. If its a RPG its inferior units crush your superior guys, if its madden the 
 79 WR can always catch the ball while being tripled covered by 99's, and break every tackle for 
 a TD. Ok well you get the picture. This game really makes you think and its fantastic for that. 
 
  
  The game is very deep and makes you think. You have so many units, each of which has a different 
 objective which makes you really become a strategist instead of the usual button masher. 
  
  The only flaws I can find with the game are as follows. The graphics are really sub par, but 
 hey if you like a game you deal with it. The story is very simple and can be boring and slow at 
 times. The music and sounds are just ok nothing really to wrote home about. 
  
  At the end of this game I felt so satisfied, that I had beat it! It was really a great game which 
 requires thinking, being able to really understand a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurli
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  The game starts out in a great story line with an awesome cutscene. It continues on to a difficult, 
 yet awesome battle. It is an rts game with a twist, any of your teammates that are killed in battle 
 are dead forever. This instantly causes the reckless, throw all of your armies at one place for 
 a huge bloodfest process to be rendered void. It causes you to act conservatively and realistically. 
 You develop attachments to characters and find yourself doing everything in your power to not let 
 your characters die. However, if one of your characters does die, you simply reset the game, because 
 you may save at any point during any battle. Anyway, after the first part, you view the war from 
 an old enemy's perspective, then an ally of the old enemy, and you eventually have to fight people 
 that at one point you controlled. It tackles the heavy issue of race and prejudice and the issue 
 of genocide in an impeccable manor and also shows the corruption of politics and its relationship 
 to war. All in all, this game is utterly fantastic and is one of the best games for the Wii I have 
 played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight_33
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I heard about the fire emblem series from a friend of mine and I picked up path of radiance and 
 radiant dawn. They were both amazing games! Radiant dawn is a great sequel and I believe the the 
 story was extremely compelling. Great game play as well. This game really puts your mind to the 
 test it is like a huge game of chess yet with a story and epic battles. The cut scenes are great 
 as well the only regret I have of them is the fact that their arent enough of them in fact their 
 are very few unfortunately... Another great part of the game is that you can see how the characters 
 evolved from path of radiance. For example when we see Sothe in path of radiance he is a young 
 boy and joins Ike in search of his friend (Micaiah) . When we join him in Radiant Dawn he is with 
 Micaiah but, also a grown up adult instead of a boy. The class system on this game is great also 
 it really makes you want to level up your characters to see what kind of amazing class they evolve 
 to. Like turning a sword master Edward to a True blade is great you see the power difference and 
 everything. One more thing I would like to address with the story is the fact that it attaches 
 you to your characters. As you read along with the story of this game you will find characters 
 and simply come attached! I am simply attached to Sothe in this game! Yes this game is extremely 
 difficult and can be frustrating at time yet that just compels you to keep playing!! Overall this 
 is a great game and great sequel. I give it a 10 out of 10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokefreak113
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Fire Emblem game I had played, and I was disapointed at first. I had expected 
 it to be more like a Zelda game. I discarded the game for a few months afterward.
  
  However, the game has grown on me. I am rather pleased with the gameplay, characters, and how they 
 interact with each other. The game's few cutscenes are a wonder in CGI graphics, and you can really 
 get a grip on it's characters.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.0
  GAMEPLAY:9.0
  DIFFICLUTY (1 being easy, 10 being hard) : 7.8
  
  Let's face it. If you've played the game, 
 you've probably been pissed off a few times. The game is rather hard, but I like some spiciness 
 in my stew. If games were easy, that'd take away the challenge.
  
  The gameplay is rather confusing, but that doesn't take away from the tactical abilities you could 
 learn. It's a lot like a Command your Army game, but it's much an RPG as well.
  
  Music is great. The soundtrack is really inspiring. I was inspired in Part III to do a part in 
 a fic that I hadn't done in a while.
  
  If you're looking for a good strategy game, this is a must buy if you have a Wii. If you are new 
 to the Fire Emblem series, play a few of the others first before this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiImBrendan2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this is my first Gamespot review, and I'd like to make it a good one. Let's start with 
 a few things.
  
  1) Gamespot's score of 6 is definitely unfair to the game. It is, in fact, very good.
  
  2) 
 The beginning of the game is difficult, and the plot is bad, don't be turned off by the bulk of 
 the game (Which is very good) , by the beginning.
  
  3) You're hero is a Light Mage. Pretty irrelevant, but it's cool that you get one of the rarer 
 classes as a beginning. That's right, no teenaged sword wielding spiky blue haired main protagonist 
 here.
  
  If you've ever played a Fire Emblem game before, you know how the gameplay works. You bring a wide 
 assortment of units into a gridded map with you. You move units by selecting them, and then selecting 
 a grid square for them to occupy. Units gain experience points as they fight, gain new weapons, 
 new abilities, and even change classes at certain points in the game. Combat is typical to the 
 Fire Emblem series. When one of your units is next to an enemy unit, you select them and then select 
 the fight option. It will bring up a table with predicted battle results, and you can choose whether 
 or not you want to press the fight. If you choose to, a battlefield screen comes up with both units 
 3-d sprites, and you get to watach the battle that played out between them. This option can be 
 turned off so all the battles occur on the main screen, but you'll be missing some of the cooler 
 battles. A giant black lion pouncing on a powerful archmage about to assail him with one of the 
 more powerful, and impressive looking spells in the game doesn't get old to watch. There is a very 
 large character roster, typical of a Fire Emblem game. And while characters will belong to the 
 same classes, they all feel totally different due to unique models and different statistics. If 
 you've got two blademasters, for example, you may have to choose between the speed-based one who 
 deals less damage, has less health, and takes more damage, but can double attack, critical, and 
 evade more frequently, or the one with lots of health, good defense, great damage, but a bad speed 
 stat. Speaking of characters, this brings me to another problem I have. The Laguz Kings are very 
 powerful units, and you gain about... 5 or 6 of them I believe. If these guys are at max level 
 (many of them come at max level, or near it) , it makes the last level fairly easy. The last level 
 has about 4 or 5 parts, and I didnt have to restart my game once, and never lost a unit, because 
 these powerhouses made it so easy. Also, many of the Laguz who arent Kings (the Kings are the only 
 ones who get to stay permanently transformed) are just as strong as the kings. For example, the 
 Prince of the Lions, Skrimir, was more powerful statistically than the King of the Lions in my 
 playthrough. The rest of the game is on the hard side, though not too hard (save for the beginning) . 
 The ease of the game's end with these units is in total contrast to the game's beginning. The beginning 
 is very difficult, and is probably the main reason Gamespot gave it a poor score. For the first 
 of the four acts, you play as a resistance group called the Dawn Brigade. The levels they are featured 
 in are frustrating to no end, and will require many restarts. The permanent death feature, which 
 normally adds a strategic element, just adds to the frustration. Brace yourself for Part 1 though, 
 because after you finish it you'll find yourself in for joy ride with great, entertaining gameplay, 
 and a beautiful storyline (contrary to Part 1s, which, for the most part, sucked) . The soundtrack, 
 in my opinion, was pretty average, save for a few tracks which were absolutely epic. It clocked 
 in (for me) at over 50 hours of gameplay, which is pretty meaty in my opinion.
  
  Overall, this game has great gameplay, a nice battle system that's sure to tickle the strategist 
 in all of us, an entertaining story, an okay replay value (you unlock new difficulty modes, and 
 can earn new and unique characters on your next playthrough) , an average soundtrack, a nice character 
 advancement system, but a terribly cruel and slow-paced beginning. The commander in all of us will 
 definitely want to give this game a try.
  
  Note: This was done at the Normal difficulty setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn 
  
  Sound: the music in this game is very memorable I find my self humming it all the time. There is 
 music room you unlock when you beat the game so you can listen to them when ever you feel like 
 it.
  
  Gameplay: Best turn based strategy game I've ever played and I usually don't enjoy them but this 
 one is out standing. In the game you control a group of young heros trying to free there homeland 
 from the powerful Begnion empire. As you play through the story your units will gain experience 
 points, level up, and go up classes increasing there strength, speed, and hit points, and when 
 one of your characters die their gone for good so be careful. The games plot is very griping you 
 just want to keep playing and playing to find out what happens next. I was kind of disappointed 
 that the game didn't have multi-player but its still a great game anyways. It took me 25 hours 
 to beat the game and that's just on easy, it'll take much longer on hard.
  
  Graphics: graphics haven't really improved much from Fire Emblem: Path to Radiance but there still 
 great. Also unbelievably beautiful cut scenes are gorgeous, I wish there was more of them though. 
 As well as the music room you unlock when you beat the game there's also a theater were you can 
 watch the cuts scenes as many times as you want.
  
  Overall: This is an amazing game even if your not a fan of turn based strategy gaming you should 
 at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  A follow up to an amazing strategy game, made by Nintendo, tons of characters, what could go wrong? 
 Nothing; and nothing did go wrong. The main characters are Micaiah and Sothe (who played a very 
 small role in Path of Radiance) . They are trying to create freedom for Daein which is being terrorized 
 by Begnion. This game has a good plot, and interesting characters with plenty of depth. It has 
 the same strategic formula as the first, but is much better. Ike returns as an even more powerful 
 form of his father Greil. Most of the other characters from the first return as well. Changing 
 the subject, let's get to the gameplay. Each character can move a number of squares depending on 
 their weight, or what they're mounted on. You basically move and pulverise enemy forces. So what's 
 so addicting about it? I can't figure it out. It's simply and amazing and powerful game. I definitely 
 recommend it to anyone who loves strategy games. I typically don't, but this games awesome! 10/10, 
 you won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GashKun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  A really great game and very addictive, but diferrently of what many people say, I don't think 
 it is too difficult. Moreover, it's frustrating when you die after a looong time on the same stage 
 and have to begin all over again. However, this is all clearly made up for the great game and storyline 
 that it has and you can easily spend hours playing it. It's a continuation from "Fire Emblem: Path 
 of Radiance" and if you liked it, you should really go for this one, because it is even better. 
 This is, without a doubt, a game for you that like fantasy turn-based games and because of the 
 graphics, for you that is an anime fan ;P.
  Okay i need at least 800  I forgot to mention that this game 
 it's very long, and it's not boring at all. You can always play in a different difficulty after 
 finishing it once, because the differences are huge xD. But, if you have also finished it in all 
 difficulties, you can try to unlock all characters, but this is just for the best palyers. Also, 
 after finishing the game once, you unlock new stuff... wanna know what it is =D? So go play it  
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higheclipse
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Many of the reviews of this game put this game as having an unforgiving difficulty, in some way 
 it is true, but it's not as hard as people want to make it look. You will pay for your mistakes, 
 true, but it makes you be more careful, and create a good strategy.
  
  The characters are very varied, and there's a whole bunch of them to pick from, there are like 
 70 something, and u have them all, from the usual myrmidon to the royal laguz...
  
  3rd tier is a good addition to the game, I just wished there's a little bit more change in the 
 attacking style between a character from 2nd to 3rd tier...
  
  The graphics are very good, if there were more cut-scenes it would be perfect, but it's good, and 
 they look good.
  
  The game is quite long, but it's worth the time... So people, please don't say the game is hard 
 just because u are not able to create a good strategy and adapt to the situation...
  
  And when you do finish it, it really feels as if u really had succeeded, because it's long, difficult, 
 but just great...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boreddoom
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  this is the first fire emblem game i played its great fun and addictive i don't know why gamespot 
 rated it so low. the plot isn't bad it's great. and its not that hard if it's your first time playing 
 it then turn it down to easy mode play through it once then play through it again on normal. the 
 graphics are good too they have cutscenes about once every part. they should have rated it higher 
 on gamespot i mean it doesnt really matter that they dont use the wii censors i like it better 
 without having to move the wii remote. overall this game was great!!!
  (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill 
 up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill 
 up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill 
 up) (room fill up) (room fill up) (room fill up) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game is hard! Especially in the beginning, one wrong move and you are most likely to lose a 
 character. Once the story progresses it might get easier because of getting better characters later 
 on. Besides the very unforgiving difficulty, it good, the battles are nice and some new weaponry 
 and you can still customize a weapon. It's a good follow up from Path of Radiance and if you transfer 
 data the returning characters get a bonus, but the catch is your character in Path of Radiance has 
 to be lv20 and changed class. This game i do not recommend beginners to the series. This game is 
 best left with hardcore strategists or fans of the series. This one has the most chapters estimating 
 around 40 maybe more, which will keep you busy for quite awhile. The graphics are a bit dated and 
 i thought they can do better. Also the voice acting was terrible. Hopefully in the next Fire Emblem 
 for the Wii, it will be much better than this one and with updated graphics. Im a Fire Emblem fan, but 
 this is not the best in the series, i think its Path of radiance that is the best so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  fire emblem radiant dawn is a wonderful game but i only recommend this title for veterans of this 
 series. my reson being is that radiant dawn is nothing like path of radiance. if you do just one 
 thing wrong, no matter how small of a mistake it is. your units will go dwon within an instant.
 
  
  for me, the difficulty was quite challenging a t first, until i started to actually used tacics 
 to prevail through missions. 
  
  this game does a good job at turing maps into all out wars. unlike path of radiance where the dialouge 
 talks about you having this huge army, but on the battle field there nothing but the main characters. 
 in radiant dawn, there are many maps where your nations army is present as an ally party. i like 
 this fact because it is makes the experience better to see a grip load of units on the fiel than 
 just the ones you train.
  
  overall this game is superb. but new comers to this series might find it a bit difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  You begin Radiant Dawn as Michaiah and Sothe a pair of friends who live in Daein and are trying 
 to reclaim it from Begnion oppression. After the previous war against Cremia and Begnion the country 
 is in a shattered state now under a tyrannical rule by Begnion being forced into slave labor. Leading 
 the Dawn Brigade a band of rebellious friends who wish for the freedom of Daein, Micaiah and Sothe 
 find themselves being pulled into a much larger struggle than their own.
  
  Although you start as Micaiah you get to play as various characters throughout the game including 
 the main character from the previous games Ike of the Grail Mercenaries. Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn 
 is the sequel to Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance making it the first actual sequel in the Fire Emblem 
 series. For any fans of Path of Radiance do not hesitate on this one it has all the big characters 
 and much more giving you a lot more insight into your favorite characters from Path of Radiance. 
 I was unsure at first how good Radiant Dawn would be but once I started playing I was hooked into 
 its fascinating storyline.
  
  The combat system of the Fire Emblem games are all very similar strategic combat, this involves 
 various units battling on a grid based map using strategy to win. Basic units work as rock, paper, 
 scissors does swords defeats axes, axes defeat lances, and lances defeat swords. Other than those 
 basic weapons there is also 5 elements of magic, knives, bows, crossbows, and other various weapon 
 types. Through these you build teams to combat your various challenges you enemies propose to you 
 giving you the upper hand even though your opponent always has you out-manned. The system provides 
 you with a very challenging strategy combat that most games stray from but personally challenge 
 is only positive in my book.
  
  In Fire Emblem: path of Radiance they put an emphesis on the Laguz, a race of people who depending 
 on their tribe have the ability to take the form of animals such as hawks, tigers, ravens, wolves, 
 or even dragons. They continued this in Radiant Dawn adding in more and more laguz giving you choices 
 to work with in your various battle ahead. Controlling a laguz requires you to choose the right 
 times to transform so you aren't caught in battle in your weaker human form.
  
  The visuals of Radiant Dawn were combining the old-school sprites with cool new Wii graphics. It 
 surpasses the other Fire Emblems by far with crisp and flashy animations for the various skills 
 and attacks in the game. The sound quality of Radiant Dawn was also good, although unlike most 
 features of the game none of it truly stood out to be fantastic. It brought a good mix of new tracks 
 and battle musics along with some older songs and themes from the previous games in the series.
 
  
  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a blast and if you have played Path of Radiance which you should for 
 sure before playing this, you will love using and seeing all your favorite characters again. Overall 
 Radiant Dawn is a fantastic addition to the Fire Emblem series proving they can have true sequels 
 if they wish and that graphics do not make the game. I hope that with Radiant Dawn on the Wii being 
 so good it will breathe new life into the series and we will begin seeing many more additions coming 
 out on the Wii and DS as well. I would rate Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn a 9.5 out of 10 for an amazing 
 tactical SPRG with a nostalgic and intriguing storyline. You should defiantly play Fire Emblem: 
 Path of Radiance first but I highly suggest both of them as games with great strategic gameplay 
 and a fascinating storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkKid44
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out in the land of Daein 3 years after the war with Crimea (3 years after FE: PoR) . 
 The the land is under tyrancy by the Begnion Empire. But from beneath the chaos come the Dawn Brigade, 
 a band of heros fighting against the rule of Begnion. The leader of the group is Michiah, a girl 
 with mysterious healing power. With her as the symbol of hope, the people of Daein will oppose 
 the tyrannic rule of Begnion.
  
  But that's only the begining...
  
  The game is seperated into 4 parts each with a different point of view from the war of Telius. 
 You will tavel to different countries, recruit many allies, fight many battles and much more!
 
  
  The game has only good things about it. If you've played a Fire Emblem title before, you know the 
 basic drill. A chapter begins, the story unfolds, you engage in battle and more story.
  
  Battles are played out on a field divided into square spaces. You move your allies, attack enemies, 
 use items, open chests (on occasions) and can even recruit new characters in some chapters. After 
 you've moved your allies, it's the enemy's turn. They do the same things (except the computor is 
 moving them) . Battles go out in a fun and intuetive manor. When you attack an enemy, a fight begins. 
 Another screen appears and both enemy and ally attck each other. An enemy dies when you wipe out 
 all its HP. But if one of your characters die, you wont be using them EVER again. AND, if your 
 (or one of your) commanders die, the game is over and you must restart the chapter. Different battles 
 will have different goals (ex: Defeat Boss, Defeat all Enemies, Escape, ect.)
  
  Beofre battles you will pay a visit to your base. In your base you can award collected EXP, buy 
 and equip new items/weapons, engage in base conversations and manage skills. This makes battles 
 more intuitive and makes characters more customizable.
  
  On the topic of characters...
  During the game you will recive allies. Each character is unique with they're own story, class, 
 weapons and look. This makes the game fun because you can choose wich allies to take into battle, 
 award more EXP (which can be won after defeating/attacking an enemy) to, and use more.
  
  But the best part of the game is it's AMAZING story. It will take you well over 20some hours to 
 complete and is intuitive the WHOLE time. It can be sad, funny and most of all compelling. 
  
  So to some it up, if you're an RPG fan or in the mood for a good story or some epic battles, 
 Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a MUST HAVE! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogboypaul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Gameplay - 8/10 (for tactical players)
  
  Fire Emblem is a beautiful story about a fortune teller who is a fugitive in the continent of Daien. 
 She is named the Silver Haired Maiden and puts her efforts to find a way to save the people of 
 Daien after the defeat of the war.
  
  This is a story about two parties to restore peace to the world but annihilating bloodshed to prevent 
 the release of a horrible dark power released by the medallion Fire Emblem.
  
  Each party tries to restore peace for their own people with the help of certain royals and warriors 
 famous for the battle in Path of Radiance.
  
  
  
  Positives and only a few negatives.
  
  Positives
  1. Graphics are cell shaded and have their 
 high points of good FMV graphics with interesting visual effects and characteristic designs.
  
  2. Gameplay, if you are interested in the strategic and tactical gameplay, otherwise this could 
 get annoying.
  
  3. Interesting storyline, with twists and turns.
  
  4. The sound is loud and yet adjustable if you hate loud sounds.
  
  5. Magic have interesting 
 design animations and have a powerful effect for every element.
  
  6. Levelling up, the more your characters survive and engage in battle the status of each character 
 can increase and by doing this, characters become more resistant to death and accurate in battle, 
 also allows characters to evade combat.
  
  7. For each character at a maximum level their job changes, allowing them to again increase status 
 and change their characteristic structural design.
  
  8. The memory card input trick. By having characters from Path of Radiance, this can increase status 
 for characters earned in Path of Radiance to Radiant Dawn.
  
  9. Weapons are optionally customizable in colour and status of the weapon.
  
  10. Characters 
 have different job class.
  
  11. Highly addictive
  
  
  
  Negatives
  
  1. Game can lag when the wii is a tab bit overheated, and this can get annoying.
  
  2. Difficulty 
 can get to your nerves especially if you don't want anyone to die in your party and their levels 
 are lower than expected to the level requirements.
  
  3. FMV's could show up more often.
  
  4. A bit too addictive :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybeegood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  this game provides a great sensation of challenge to all of the former fire emblem players. Warning, 
 if first time playing fire emblem, dont be an absolute retard, put it on easy.... or pay the price 
 of deep humiliation and frustration.
  this game brings the olden game type difficulties with new graphics. i couldnt beleive that they 
 had the guts to actually make a game that raised the standard of difficulty. gamespot abused this 
 cause half the people here are just looking for easyer ways to beat the game. well guess what. 
 here's some advice. TAKE YOUR TIME AND LEAVE OUT NO DETAIL. cause if you do the enemys gonna pick 
 off your preist or weak mage with bolting meteor balista etc. if your looking for a game that will 
 keep you temporarily entertained... this isnt the game for you go play mario kart or something. 
 this is a game that you gotta put your heart into. if you beat a chapter in under 30 mins. you 
 got really lucky.... or you powered through with ike.. and even that dosnt work all the time.
  
  in conclusion. i loved what nintendo did with the game.... but i hate what gamespot did with 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you're a Fire Emblem fan, get this game. It's more strategy goodness packed with 
 awesome. If you like tactical games, like Final Fantasy Tactics or Disgaea, you'll like this game. 
 IF you're reading this review, you've probably read about the game, so I'm not going to go into 
 detail about its features and such.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Awesome strategic gameplay, but kind of uneven difficulty. It starts off insanely hard, then gets 
 easier, then gets really easy, then hard again.
  
  Graphics- 7/10
  This is the only real fault I have with this game. These graphics could be on a Gamecube. But, 
 graphics aren't really that important anyway.
  
  Sound- 8/10
  Good music, realistic sound effects. 
  
  
  Even though this score's average would add up 
 to be about 8, this game deserves a 9.5. 
  
  Get this game if:
  -You like Fire Emblem
  -You like RPGs or Strategy games
  
  Don't get this game if:
  -You don't like Rpgs or strategy 
 games
  -you're obsessed with graphics
  -You would consider yourself not good at video games
  
  Although this is a great game, there 
 are better Fire Emblems to start with, as the difficulty in this game can be unforgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caleb723
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so this is one of the more controversial Fire Emblem games in the series. Lots of people 
 think it lacks a lot, but then a lot of other people think it's incredible. It really all boils 
 down to preference, and IF YOU'VE PLAYED THE SERIES BEFORE. If you've never touched a Fire Emblem 
 game before now, it'll be tough. The difficulty is, in fact, hard. (Though, past fans of the games 
 and those who use the Data Transfer from Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance for the Gamecube shouldn't 
 have too much trouble.) Once you understand how the game works, though, the fun increases tenfold. 
 The story is complicated- just enough to make you want to keep playing- and the characters are 
 fairly well-presented. Granted, like my grammar nothing is perfect, so you may find yourself scratching 
 your head at times, confused by what is going on. It's all the better if you played and enjoyed 
 Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance for the Gamecube for more story and gameplay stuff, but you don't 
 have to. It's just that much better if you do.
  
  Visuals and music are both fairly good, more than good enough for this humble gamer. (Though, as 
 it's been stated numerous times, some people felt it was less than adequate.)
  
  The gameplay is good; lots of strategy with a level-up system that can screw you over or bless 
 you, which is the point of it, in the end. Really, without wasting tons of time, that's the most 
 general I can be. 
  
  This game doesn't have a support system as in-depth as past Fire Emblem games, but it does have 
 a library for all your Path of Radiance supports if you use the Data Transfer. Get playing, soldier!
 
  
  Did I mention there are things you can do only on your second playthrough or more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Champion57575
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys, don't read this review if you haven't played the game because there are a lot of SPOILERS. 
 The game has a crappy story anyway so, you might as well read if you haven't played the game. I 
 wasted two weeks of my life on this game! I had to restart the game because I had no idea what 
 I was doing and I didn't wanna use Ack (aka Ike) ! I had no idea cowardly Ack would have ANOTHER 
 face off with the Black Knight or... that he... could use... hammers. So anyway, I see Micaiah's face 
 and I'm like "she's horrible but cooler lookin' than Mist, she can't be worse than Ike". And then 
 she spoke. All my dreams of Fire Emblem creating the first cool character that I've seen died. 
 And then, I found out she was a magician and then I started screaming "WHYYYYYY"?! And Sothe. But, 
 nothing could compare to the pure disgust I felt when I saw Ack, the recreation of Ike. Ack's blockhead 
 expression made me laugh always. I could always picture Cartman's voice as he spoke. And anyone 
 that says "that game was too hard", "even the easy mode was hard" is a coward and should admit 
 to be so. Sure, the game was more difficult than it had to be but that is no reason to whine. I 
 went through 19 hours of FFX2. Yeah, the constant changing from Ack's team to Macalahima's team 
 to Goffrey's team ruined everything. Ack's team was good, Goffrey's team was awesome, and Macalahima's 
 was too underleveled. Your entire party's on level 7 while your enemies are on 30. It was sick 
 how fast your entire party died. But, Ack's team is far better leveled up compared to all the other 
 teams. He has the longest sections as well just furthering the gap. Macalahima's team basically 
 had... the black knight and Edward. Macalahima sucked, Sothe was horrible, Aran died, Fiona might 
 as well have died, Mog commited suicide to save Edward, Zihark was okay, Jill sucked and was way 
 too slow to hit anything or not get doubled by the world thus rendering her unable to level up 
 (don't know why you'd use her anyway when you can have Haar) , Laura also took her last one for 
 the team, I wanted to kill Lusanavitch (I heard he was good but archers are terrible and I wasted 
 all the extra expierence on Edward and Zihark cuz they're a thousand times better", Wolfman was 
 so horrible that I tried to kill him but realized "he's the only shield we have", and uh... whoever 
 else on that team that I can't remember was horrible too. Speaking of Wolfman, another awesome 
 character is Nailah. Haar's girlfriend... the second. She an eyepatch wearing purplish wolf. Oh, 
 she was so awesome. I put her in over Cinagurk in the last battles cuz she has an eye patch and 
 he was cool enough to be IN the group. Oh yeah, you never got ANY money in that game either. I 
 thought they were merceneries. Why are they charging like a dollar to destroy an army? I mean, 
 I earned like six thousand dollars in that game and had to sell everything to make Haar Ack Killer 
 axe. The battle system was good. I liked the battle save. That's it. That's all they improved on. 
 Oh yeah, I like sending one man armies. Particularly Haar or Mia or Goffrey... oh man, Goffrey. 
 Even sometimes Volken to champ the world in like the three battles that he's in. As for the story, 
 I was curious cuz I heard the last one was so bad. The entire story was laughable at best. It was 
 predictable, I saw that "she's actually your sister" thing comin' from a mile away. And not to 
 mention "Zalbag is actually your father's murder, the orange knight". I'm not even gonna touch 
 the "Soran is actually Ama.. della's sandwich". How did that even work?! My favorite part out of 
 the entire game was when the eagle guy dropped Sothe. I imagined someone saying "kill the boy" 
 and then laughed when he was dropped. I wanted him dead! And then Micaiah to throw herself off! 
 Normally, I do not complain about the graphics because that doesn't really matter as long as the 
 game's awesome. But, this game doesn't make up for the horrible graphics and the graphics are so 
 horrible that I'd be staring at random objects wondering what they might be. It wasn't until like... chapter 
 nine that I realized it told me what it was in the top left hand corner and that was an argument 
 waiting to happen. It would say "rock" and I would say "that's a hole dude". I'd be wondering why 
 I can't pass this yellow object until I realized "oh, that's a guy". The graphics were so cheaply 
 done that they were practically the same graphics from the last one on the Gaycube! No detail whatsoever. 
 The only graphical thing that improved was the characters' robotic movements. They seem more human 
 this time around. But just a little bit more, nothing drastic here. There tryin' to keep it under 
 fifty bucks. They got a budget. Oh, as for you guys that complain about how "the game didn't make 
 use of the Wii remote". That would've been horrible. Whenever I was plopping in the game I was 
 dreading the fact that I would be pointing at the TV hoping that my Wii remote doesn't vibrate 
 suddenly causing me to attack a wall! How would that have been good at all?! You would flung at 
 random objects that you'd thought were enemies but were actually poorly designed holes that you 
 fall through! Oh my gosh! Okay, I hated the dark levels the most. You know, the ones where you 
 run around and there's enemies appearing randomly attacking you from all sides. I had to use Rolf 
 in one of em and I believe they kicked him and stole some of my money. The only levels that I did 
 like were whenever you were held up in a keep defending something. Those were the most fun unless 
 you were playing with Macalahima's team. Even in those you found SOME joy. In the dark levels, 
 you find nothing but pain and agony. Who decided it was a good idea to bring BACK the bridge level? 
 Oscar still can't make it out without falling in a hole every single turn! He gets out of a hole, 
 you try to run up to enemy and suddenly he's in another hole. I like the fact that this game was 
 more challenging than the last one. The last one was so pathetically easy that the missions that 
 people called "hard" were usually just long. Most of the missions could have been completed with 
 three people in the last game but instead you get stuck with sixteen. I try to make use of the 
 characters and entertain myself by forming shapes with the characters that I don't use while I'm 
 leveling up two other ones. In the last one, the enemies were usually grouped in threes in a giantic 
 map where you have more units than THEY do. In this one, there are ALWAYS way more enemies and 
 more expierence as well. This one proved challenging so all you cowards began whining and complaining 
 about how the easy mode was three times than the last game on hard mode! I liked the challenge 
 but, that doesn't change the fact that I have a hole through my TV now. I honestly wish the main 
 character had been Haar! He was the most hardcore thing in that game! Haar was an eyepatch wearing 
 dragon rider! He probably HAD a functional left eye but he chose to wear that eye patch out of 
 championship. My favorite part about Haar was taking him and sending him into fifty troops with 
 twenty HP and only half an axe and watch him survive and come out on top killing all of them. He 
 got a champion stamp every battle because I'd always put him in those positions. Never battle saving 
 either. He died like three times in that game and one was because I was attempting to kill Mog 
 in one of the battles with the black knight sitting right next to her. The other one was trying 
 to kill Macalahima with the black knight literally sitting a space away from her. Then, the third 
 just sending him into the black knight to see who would win. He almost won. Hey guys, you ever 
 wonder while playing this game "what happened to her being a foreteller? I mean, wouldn't she be 
 the best general in the world if she was a foreteller"? Appare But, probably the true main character 
 is Geoffry. He was noble, he had blue hair, he was Ephraim's brother, he had a sister, he WAS the 
 main character and he looked awesome. And since when has a Fire Emblem main character been a homosexual 
 in love with his best friend?! Ack was literally gay too. He couldn't end up with A girl. Geoffry 
 ended up with THE girl. They had to keep Geoffry out of the game cuz otherwise you would all join 
 me in wondering "why am I playing with this coward as the main character" In conclusion, Fire Emblem 
 Radiant Dawn delivers annoyance, cowardice, and possibly the worst main characters in videogame 
 history excluding anything out of FF12. The only reason why you would play that game is for Haar's 
 eyepatch and dragon. This Champion signing off saying that I'm not TRYING to be offensive... just 
 to people that like this game. But in all honesty, I am just... mostly joking. Don't delete me! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokay411
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what to say about this game, other than that it is absolutely amazing. The story and 
 gameplay had me hooked from the beginning, (minor spoiler) and when all of your parties joined 
 in Act 4, it made me so excited to make a juggernaught team of my favorite characters.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  
  The game takes a good amount 
 of time, especially if you don't want to lose any characters along the way, while not being to 
 difficult. Of course if you like hard stuff there is always a hard mode. :p
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------
  
  Bottom line: Buy it now if you 
 like tactical games, and don't mind a little fantasy! Don't wait!
  
  
 
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Don't over look this one if you're a strategy fan. It's actually a much better game than the gamespot 
 score would imply. I too would have passed on this game if i weren't subscribed to a game rental 
 service. But it would have been a big lose. This is the game that has consumed 27 hours of my life 
 in the last 7 days. It's not without its flaws too though.
  
  The graphics are a low spot. They look very much last gen on the fights and about 10 years old 
 in the map view. No upgrades here. The sound is also quite lacking. There's almost no voice over. 
 It's 90% just reading text. I don't really have a problem with that but at this point it would 
 be nice to have some OV. This isn't the type of game that would be tough to OV since there are 
 almost no dialog options.
  
  However I felt that the good overshadowed the bad. The gameplay was classic strategy and implemented 
 well. I'm playing under easy difficulty because of how hard the Gamespot review made it sound and 
 while I did low a few characters sometimes, I didn't find the game hard. Granted I might take longer 
 per turn than the average person but I'm used to playing strategy games (Heroes of Might and Magic, 
 X-Com, Syndicate) . 
  
  Lastly I wanted to say that the story is pretty good. At first it's your classic and maybe cliche, 
 "young hero of destiny out to free her country from tyranny" but that's only the first part of 
 4. The plot gets much more political and factions you think are the good guys aren't always on 
 your side and the dialog between the characters lets you see that they all have there on personalities, 
 loyalties and motivations. 
  
  If you're a strategy fan this is not one to miss. You'll end up playing it for hours easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxol
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  I think "Fire emblem: Radiant dawn" Was a COMPLETE Let down. Multiple things were quite annoying 
 through my eyes but I would say the worst was switching between Armies. That was a pain in the 
 neck because you had to sometimes fight you're stronger army with the other being incredibly weak. 
 For example, you play as mickiah and you train Illyana the most. This would put you in a horrible 
 position, considering you lose Illyana to Ike's team. So it's managing 3 different armies at once 
 and you can't make one too much better then the other. I also hated the fact that you can use the 
 black knight. that was a completely pointless add-on to the story and made thing's way to easy. 
 Don't you think you would get annoyed that he get's all the kills and it takes away Exp from all 
 the other units? I did like that you can see the stats in the middle of the battle like you could 
 in the GBA versions and the skill feature but that was basically it. I did not like the new sprites 
 for the characters either. I defiantly like Ike in 9 a lot more then in 10. The third Class I'm 
 indifferent about. On the plus it gives you something to try to go to with your units. However 
 in the negative It would be way too easy running around with Class 3 units destroying High leveled 
 class one and low leveled class 2. I also don't like how some units have unnecessary stats. Why 
 does Ike need magic power? I realize that was in 9 too and i didn't like it their either. Overall 
 i will give this game a 4.5 and i believe that this is a generous score considering all the things 
 i found wrong with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  this game is incredibly fun and you souldnt be put off by the difficulty because on easy mode it 
 is easy but then if you go on to medium you will get stuck and then on hard its impossible but 
 that makes it fun
  
  the graphics are actually good and it doesnt really have a story that much unless you have played 
 the old one and then it would make more sense but it does explain it well but i bet you would get 
 it more if you played the old one
  
  it has some nice cinematics but there not that many but they are nice looking
  
  this game 
 seems to bore me a bit now but i know how much fun i had with this game and i recommend you atleast 
 play on it and there is so many combinations of troops but if you like the character you should 
 keep them safe becuase if they die they stay dead so it makes it hard and you cant replay levels 
 so it makes it harder if you have soe weak characters but this game is fun and i love it one of 
 my best wii games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolfownsall
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Radiant Dawn is a direct sequel to Path of Radiance, a gamecube video game that was disputably 
 the best in the series. I disagree with that judgement.
  
  Marks taken off: (out of 100)
  
  -5: No online or other wii features (mostly online)
  -20: No support conversations!??!?!? 
 WHAT WERE THEY THINKING!?!??!?
  -3: All of the voice acting, excluding Micaiah, Sothe, the Narrator, and Ike, was awful. Rolf in 
 particular was voiced by a thirty year old-sounding woman. Okay, I agree that most video game voice 
 acting is generally bad, but how could they use a THIRTY YEAR OLD WOMAN to voice a FIFTEEN YEAR 
 OLD BOY. See last line about support conversations.
  -2: A particular boss from Moment of Fate in path of radiance is so easy that it kind of ruins 
 him.
  
  I would like also to contest the primary reasons for putting it down.
  
  Difficulty: Choose easy and save often... That isn't a good reason to pan it.
  Graphics: This 
 is a good reason to dislike it, but the graphics DO improve as the game goes on, especially in 
 the final chapter. I in particular thought they should've done the FMV for all of the combat animations, 
 but it isn't enough to bother me.
  Villains: I don't know where you came up with this one from.
  "Laughable Plot": The plot is in 
 particular what, excluding the major major problem of the LACK OF SUPPORT CONVERSATIONS, made me 
 think it was the best. If they had support conversations and character endings, I would say that 
 it's the best game in the series.
  
  And the music is extremely good in my opinion, rivalling even legend of zelda. In particular I 
 loved the songs on the first and last levels of the game.
  
  Now to the review:
  
  To anyone who has played path of radiance, you will be surprised that you will not start out playing 
 Ike. Instead, you will be playing a light mage (yes, light) named Micaiah, and her "brother", Sothe. 
 It starts with an amazing FMV cutscene, and then the rather blander graphics.
  
  Instead of amazing graphics, you now get very good music for the first level. This is a strategic 
 rpg, similar to and produced by the same development team as Advance Wars, but is extremely different. 
 You cannot create any new units, and whenever you lose a unit, it is gone forever. Think of it 
 as more like an RPG than a strategy game, combining both elements perfectly.
  
  Some of the high points of the game include the varying objectives, the intricate plot, and the 
 music.
  
  I would give it an overall score of 7/10. If they hadn't cut support conversations, I would give 
 it a 9/10. I seriously miss those more than anything else, but also wish there was online play.
 
  
  7/10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sentinus333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  I admit, I expected more from this game. Don't get me wrong, it's a good game with a nice story. 
 That's the thing... I like the story, I like the characters, I like the graphics and art, but I'm 
 disapointed with the game.
  
  Nonetheless, it has introduced some of my favourite characters, like Volug, and re-introduces old 
 favourites like Ike and The Black Knight. I also like the fact that once a character dies, he/she 
 stays dead. While this adds to the difficulty level, it means that the player will try to think 
 more defencively to protect his/her favourite character instead of recklessly trying to destroy 
 the enemy in one try.
  
  This. Game. Is. Long. Most Fire Emblem games are long. People who complain about the length don't 
 have enough patience. It took me 40 hours to complete this.
  
  In conclusion, if you're a FE fan, you're interested in the story or if you just want a challenge, 
 then by all means buy this. If you're not really into strategy games, then rent it or ignore it. 
 Your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I do have to agree that Gamespot was a little rough, but not too rough, also I think this game 
 should have gotten alittle bit more of a better score, then a 6.0, but that what Gamespot thinks 
 then ok.
  
  But now on to my reveiw, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn, is a strategy battle RPG kind of game where 
 you have to control every player of your Team and try and beat the other team, the main leader 
 of this game is a Silver haired girl named Micaiah is the so called Commander of your gruop and 
 then there is also another Team member that is called Sloth, he is a very skilled member of your 
 team, and mostly never gets hit, so use him as much as possable, and then there is also Nolan, 
 Edward, and Leonardo, who you start with at the beginning, so now that the team is set how about 
 we talk alittle bit about this game.
  
  Well there is this army called The Dawn Brigade, who takes over your Army's land, and it up to 
 you as Micaiah, and the rest to try and stop them from take your army's land and you out, as the 
 game goes on you get more members and more people helping you.
  
  Ofcouse I won't say how it ends but I will say that this game is alot more fun then gamespot wants 
 you to think it is, but other then that I will say that this is the frist Fire Emblem that have 
 played, and I reallly liked it alot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooboogoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is not that great but what it lacks in gameplay it remorses for graphics. The graphics 
 are astounding and very advanced from the older games. Though I said the gameplay wasn't great, 
 it still would be useful for you to be able to swing your wii remote to use your weapon, but wecan't 
 always get what you want. The story starts three years after the war between Crimea and Daein. 
 The Greil Merceranies are gone, and Beginon took force of Daein after the war. Beginon was a foolish 
 country and destroyed the land. Crimea had the right to keep it, but instead they gave it to Beginon. 
 The Dawn Brigade, whose job is to help the suffering people of Daein, wants to restore the beauty 
 Daein was. The Dawn Brigade is made up of five people, Nolan, Edward, Leoarndo, and the two siblings, 
 Sothe and Macaiah. Macaiah is a legendary healer who heals without using an item. Overall, This 
 game was great fun and still is today.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a tactical strategy RPG. In general, fans of the Fire Emblem series 
 will still be able to enjoy this title, as it is (somewhat dissapointingly) like most other games 
 in the series.
  
  I'll start off with the positives to this game. The game provides a more challenging play-through 
 than the others in its series, with which I was disappointed at the difficulty level. This could 
 also be a bad thing if you're not very good at strategy games, but if you're not good at strategy 
 then don't buy one of these games in the first place. The battle animations look nice as well. 
 There's a sensible weapon strengths / weakness system, in which axes best lances, which best swords, 
 which best axes. Really, other than that, the rest of the good lies in the gameplay itself. You'll 
 either enjoy it or not.
  
  Now, the negatives. First of all, for new players to the series, you might find the difficulty 
 a little unforgiving. It throws you into the first level without much explaination. Also, the storyline 
 isn't anything to brag about. Finally, some missions become obnoxious when it's time to protect 
 your more vulnerable units. Since you lose any units that die permanently, it comes as a great 
 annoyance when a lone unit finds a way to run up to one of your mages, past your wall of warriors, 
 and kill him/her. However, this becomes rarer as the game progresses and the "vulnerable" units 
 become much more capable of defending themselves. Finally, the level-up system is somewhat irritating, 
 randomly increasing stats by 1. However, on the positive end, this can improve replayability, as 
 new characters will become important and your strategy will have to change accordingly.
  
  All in all, this isn't a bad game, it's average. Just make sure you rent it first to see if you 
 like the gameplay, because that is the biggest factor that makes the series fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninwin99
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  fire emblem has always been one of my favourite series and radiant damn did not disappoint in the 
 slightest. It's extremely addicting and rewarding when you clear maps and has a perfect blend of 
 rpg and strategy. I've had this game when it first came out so my review came very late, but it 
 wasn't until recently that i beat the game a second time and had to do the game justice by writing 
 a review for it. 
  If you enjoyed any fire emblem game in the past, do not get turned off by gamespot's review, this 
 in my opinion, is the best fire emblem game to date. The fact that this game has two class changes 
 and allows you to save at any turn in the game, gives it a great advantage over the past games. 
 The story is good and the cutscenes are amazing to watch. However, I do admit that the difficulty 
 of this game can be quite intense, especially if you're new to the series. In the past games, I 
 could always use an uber-strong unit to wipe away entire armies, but that is now suicide in radiant 
 dawn. This game requires you to carefully plan out your moves and to almost always keep your party 
 together to help prevent deaths. 
  In short, if you liked fire emblem before or feel like this might be your game, don't hesitate 
 to try it out cause this is truly an amazing game that will have you hooked for hours on end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatly0
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best type of game for the strategy game player. This turn-based strategy game 
 is a great game. Also very challenging. This game requires you to think very hard about your next 
 move and sometimes, will also put you against a move limit clock. This game takes a little while 
 to get used to your characters abilities, as well as their strengths and weaknesses. After you 
 get used to the way this game is played, you will be able to sail through it no problem. This game 
 should be at the top of your list if you are a strategy lover. If not, you will still enjoy the 
 action this game has to offer. At first, it may look like a simple rip-off of Final Fantasy. There 
 are many similarities between this game and Final Fantasy but this game still has it's own unique 
 challenges. If you enjoy Final Fantasy type games, you will enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyrocks619
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  so i have absolutly loved the fire emblem for like, 5 or 6 years. it all started when they made 
 it for the GBA. ever since, i loved it. but i read the gamespot rewiew before i bought it, just 
 to see what they thought of the game. and kind of scared me cause of how horrible they made it 
 sound. knowing in my trust in the series, i took a chance and bought it. one word i could use to 
 desribe it with...... EXCELENT!!!!!! the story was not boring at all, it keept me playing through 
 the game without bordom. and, in the gamespot rewiew, they absolutly could not stress the dificultly 
 level of the game. i had absolutly NO problem, exept that "the silver-haired maden" died, but that 
 was my fault cause i forget to give her an herb. ;0
  
  it was no different in difficulty between the GBA and gamecube verion. i absolutly LOVE how powerful 
 your allies are when they join you in your quest.
  
  i could sit here and just continue and continue to say great things about this awesome game, but 
 i am gunna be late for hockey practice, so i really got to go, but i recommend this game to absolutly 
 anyone, even if this would be ur first time playin the series. 
  
  CYA!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RK-Mara
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Intelligent Systems Fire Emblem series has been around for nearly two decades dating all the way 
 back to Famicom. Unfortunately it took 13 years before the series finally made its way to western 
 markets. Over the several years it has been here, Fire Emblem has already gathered quite a large 
 fan base, and now with the tenth installment (fourth in North America and Europe) , can Intelligent 
 keep the quality next to its predecessors or their other classics including Super Metroid?
  
  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a direct sequel to GameCube's Path of Radiance. While recommended, 
 it's not necessary to have experience with it or any other Fire Emblem. Throughout the game, you 
 will be often reminded what has happened in the past. Three years have passed since Path of Radiance's 
 story ended with Daein loosing Mad King's War against Crimea. Now Begnion troops occupy Daein and 
 try to maintain peace with an iron fist. You follow the story of Dawn Brigade, a group of Daein 
 rebels fighting against the oppression. After that you quickly jump to Crimea to hastily see what's 
 going on there, and then join the laguz fighting against the empire of Begnion. In each part you 
 control a different group of characters, most seen in Path of Radiance - as a matter of fact all 
 characters from the previous game make a comeback here, including a few dead ones. First the story 
 feels very shallow and generic and regrettably it takes twenty hours before it finally starts to 
 develop and twist. Of course you'll have to make it that far first.
  
  If you've played Path of Radiance, the carbon copy gameplay won't hold any surprises. Long-time 
 fans may find it a good thing but for me the game feels out of place. What's the point of making 
 a Wii game if you won't take advantage of the one strong point? You can use GameCube controller, 
 CIassic or Wiimote sideways to play the game. In combat the system works well, but a click-and-drag 
 system with the Wiimote pointer could have done wonders in the menus and point and click in battles 
 should even be more fun. In the current state, it can sometimes take way too long to do the basic 
 maintenance after every battle. Talking about menus, you may encounter strange stuttering in the 
 inventory and shop screens once your team has grown larger and Wii's DVD drive does the best it 
 can trying to keep up with the massive amount of items.
  
  There are two human races in Fire Emblem, beorc and laguz. Beorc are the ordinary humans with warrior, 
 mage, thief and archer cIasses. Laguz also known as the beast people don't wear armor, use weapons 
 or cast spells, but rather shapeshift into animals. Unfortunately they can't stay in animal form 
 forever and are completely useless in human form. Beorc have stronger nations and unsurprisingly 
 find themselves superior to laguz bringing up the game ethics and philosophies. Laguz are divided 
 to hawk, raven, dragon, wolf, tiger, heron (sort of angel) and cat tribes. Every cIass and tribe 
 has their weaknesses and strong points and you'll have to keep a close look at the rock-paper-scissors 
 system. Lance wins sword, sword wins axe and axe wins lance. The same method continues with magic 
 as fire is superior to wind, wind to thunder and thunder to fire. That alone is enough for a newcomer 
 to learn, but it's not all. Every turn you'll also have to think about terrain advantages, mounted 
 and flying units, bows and counter-attacks. Fight against your weakness and you'll find yourself 
 dead in no time. Even on the easiest difficulty, you can find yourself reloading after mistakes 
 to keep characters alive as if someone dies, he is gone forever. Thankfully, an option to save 
 in middle of battle has been added making the experience a lot more enjoyable.
  
  Except for choosing the equipment and few special skills there isn't much character customization 
 going on. Though you can rarely get the gears you want because except for gaining money at predetermined 
 locations, there is no way to obtain cash as the game is completely linear automatically taking 
 you from chapter to chapter. As your characters gain experience and level up, they gain attributes 
 in predetermined order. Once beorc characters hit level 21, they gain a cIass upgrade and start 
 again from the beginning. As a change from Path of Radiance, the level cap for laguz has been raised 
 to 40 and all beorc cIasses have gained an additional cIass upgrade. When certain characters have 
 fought enough together, you can set them to support each other gaining a small skill bonus whenever 
 within the range.
  
  Graphics have never been the high point of Intelligent Systems' games and neither is it the case 
 now. Path of Radiance was no beauty queen and strangely the graphics haven't improved at all. Some 
 of the higher level magic effects are joy to look at but otherwise the game doesn't come even close 
 to the best looking GameCube games and are simply dated on Wii. Intelligent hasn't even tried to 
 mask how the game started off as a GameCube project - on any field. At least the cutscenes are 
 still gorgeous, but now with more powerful systems available, I wish the game was on one of them 
 so the whole game could look as good.
  
  Besides the cutscenes, the whole story is told through long conversations with static cardboard 
 cut-outs. The dialogue is vast and usually sharp. Ironically all of the characters remind cardboard 
 cut-outs as none of their personalities go further than their cIass. Ike is your ordinary hero, 
 Laura is ordinary priest, Skrimir your ordinary young lion prince and Soren your ordinary tactician. 
 And as strange as it may sound, the conversations have no real widescreen support even though rest 
 of the game does. It wouldn't be such a big problem if you didn't spend hours upon hours reading 
 the dialogue. Widescreen could have really helped the presentation as if there is more than three 
 persons in a conversation, all of them won't fit the screen at the same time.
  
  Voice acting is quite rare in the game and you won't find it outside cutscenes and narration between 
 missions. And frankly with the usual JRPG teen heroes, I couldn't stop laughing when I heard some 
 of the characters for the first time. Especially the (very) young archer Oscar and Silver Haired 
 Maiden Micaiah are quite something to listen to. Fortunately all of them aren't quite that bad 
 and cutscenes only pop up once in five hours.
  
  If there is a field where JRPG's usually shine, it's the score. Unfortunately in Radiant Dawn the 
 music is rather generic. Some of the tracks have a chance to rise over the grey mass but lack the 
 kick to become memorable. And the same problem continues with sound effects. A massive explosion 
 that covers most of the screen sounds like a puff and attacking an enemy resembles bug squishing. 
 Though this emphasizes the powerful critical hits which become more and more rewarding with flashier 
 animations the longer you advance.
  
  Radiant Dawn is a fan service. Old players of the series are hungering for more of the same, while 
 newcomers may find the unforgiving difficulty and overall stuck-in-the-past feeling major turn-offs. 
 Everything from the dated graphics to Game Boy controls and bad voice acting screams last-gen. 
 Nearly everything from the gameplay to presentation could just as well be on Nintendo DS, only 
 thing missing would be the beautiful cutscenes. The game still has the magical strategy feeling 
 but all the small annoying flaws do a good job of burying it. As long as you can get past the first 
 twenty hours, you'll get another good twenty out of it. It is often said that only Nintendo knows 
 how to develop for Wii. As a first party developer, the lack of effort from Intelligent Systems 
 is a real shame. Even though it's not a Wii game, it's the best strategy title on the Wii. If you 
 don't count Path of Radiance that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireEmblemTerra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favortie games of all time! This game is the whole reason why I still have a 
 wii. I am a huge fan of the series and this one has unbelievable cinematics and a very tough AI. 
 You play as three different sides throughout the game, in four different parts, and eventually 
 these sides meet and some of them clash. 
  
  You begin as part of the Dawn Brigade, setting out to liberate the country of Daein, the country 
 you worked so hard to bring down in Path of Radiance. After the war you ended the war in Path of 
 Radiance, the country of Begnion who treat Daeins like filth. You take control of the silver haired 
 maiden, Micaiah and her rebel friends. This is one of the hardest parts of the game because they 
 all suck, except for the rogue Sothe. Your units are pretty much killed in a hit or two and do 
 not get any help until they start to recruit some of the returning characters from Path of Radiance. 
 
  
  Part 2 lets you play as neutral Crimea. Under the rule of Queen Elincia, a civil war threaten to 
 breaks out and you must quell this uprising. Here you take control of many familiar faces such 
 as Lucia and Geoffrey. This part is considerably easier, because you have people who know how to 
 fight and realize that the enemies weapons are something to be avoided instead of just thinking 
 they are made of foam, like the Dawn Brigade often does.
  
  In Part 3 you are now the Greil Mercenaries, led by the always popular Ike and the core characters 
 from Path of Radiance. Here you join the Laguz Alliance, who are being threatened by the country 
 of Begnion. This is perhaps the easiest part of the game, because you play as the main heroes, 
 who are much strogner than the majority of the other characters. 
  
  Part 4 combines all three groups, but they split up into three seperate groups. The great thing 
 is that you can choose for the most part who goes to which group. Here you fight some of the hardest 
 enemies in the game. Part 4 leads into the Endgame, a five part chapter in which the game ends. 
 You must select a few people from the entire list of available units, because like in all Fire 
 Emblem games, if someone dies then they are gone for good. My choice besides the ones you have 
 to take, (Ike, Sanaki, Micaiah, Sothe, Ena, Kurthnaga, and a Heron) are Zihark, Geoffrey, Nephenee, 
 Soren, TIbarn, Caineghis, Nailah, Volke, and Mist. 
  
  Now, that's the summary, and it is time for the pros in cons.
  
  Pros in this game are the 
 difficulty, the cinematics, and the characters themselves. Each character can change classes wither 
 through the use of a master seal, or by reaching level 21. Upon reaching their final class they 
 learn their ultimate attack. I love the fact that when you take away a skill, it returns to your 
 inventory. As always you can dish out extra XP you get by completing a mission and creating your 
 own weapons is brilliant. For fun I created the ultimate weapons from the Sacred Stones.
  
  Cons in this game mainly include the difficulty, the graphics should be a little better and the 
 uselessness of some of the characters, take the Dawn Brigade for example. I am also still waiting 
 for a way overworld map like the one in Sacred Stones for the GBA. While the graphics could be 
 better, Fire Emblem is not known for their graphics. The difficulty is almost insane at some points 
 with the amount of reinforcements arrive, and later on in the game they teleport in. 
  
  This game is a must play for fans of the series, and even if you are not a fan of the series, but 
 like hard strategic games, this is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbogs
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I can tell that the reviewer did not play the game all the way through and for me that completely 
 takes away all of his credibilty.
  
  Just a few things that he forgot to mention are that this story line manages to finish up and tie 
 off all of the loose ends from the first one. If you felt like the end of the GC version was anticlimatic 
 and a waste of time, then you will greatly appreciate this sequel.
  
  You will finally find out the truth with the herons, the black knight's true identity, his master, 
 and how a maiden of dein here's the gods which Sanaki empress of Beignon has longed to hear all 
 her life. Not to mention, at the very end of the game you have a chance to get infinite usage on 
 any one weapon of your choice for each character WHICH HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE. That's sweet 
 and fun to mess around with.
  
  While I did get frustrated with the game many times and agree with some of the comments, I think 
 the reviewer was very close minded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  As you can see i have less than 20 hours playing time here and i love it! This game is not too 
 challenging and if a fun experience to any RPGer. If you enjoy games that require more strategy 
 then attacking monsters and button-mashing, this is for you. There are 4 Parts to the game, and 
 each comes with its own set of characters and clever Endgame. Even if you are not a natural strategy 
 player, you may want to at least rent this game. The music is nice, and if you miss anything during 
 a chapter, a narrator will retell the days events afterwards, in a informative if not somewhat 
 dull manner. If you have played any other Fire Emblem games before you will almost certainly enjoy 
 Radiant Dawn. From the Dawn Brigade to the Grail Mercanaries to the Crimean Royal Knights, you 
 can experience battle from severl different fronts. All in all, a must have for Wii owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush512
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what the big deal is with people calling this game hard. i loved the cutscenes. I 
 never did play path of radiance but if its half as good this game then i want it. The gameplay 
 has enough variety to keep me interested but not too much. although when characters die the die 
 forever its no big deal cause if they die u don't want them except haar and the laguz kings [ not 
 that they are going to die] . the graphics are a little short but its still cool. so here ny rating 
 broken down.
  
  gameplay: 9.6
  
  cut scenes: 10
  
  graphics: 8.7
  
  difficulty: look above
  
  plot: 9.8
  
  Overall i know it was worth my money no matter what 
 game spot or anybody else who says this game is bad. t his game is awesome and worth your money. 
 im playing for the 3rd time and its still an amazing game. best ever!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasadora
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  First off gamespot have managed to create yet another rubbish review, for thid game is definitely 
 one of the best strategy games ever to appear. 
  
  Radiant dawn offers the challenge that RPG players long for and provides a great storyline which 
 is epic in all rights. One of the things that radiant dawn can probably be criticised for is the 
 fact that when a character dies, they are gone forever (as long as they are not a main character 
 of the story as a whole) , but this feature really keeps a player on their heels as the enemies 
 themselves are not simply CPU soldiers who just walk into walls.
  
  Each battle is highly strategic and will require you to use your units to full effect, giving the 
 player the urge to see what each class can achieve in solo standards.
  
  The battl system is simple enough and requires a bit of maths, but it doesnt take albert einstein 
 to see if your going to kill a unit or they are going to kill you, for the damage you are going 
 to apply is already shown before you fight so you dont get those random hits which are just highly 
 frustrating and vice versa.
  
  Radiant Dawn offers an array of awesome characters in which some you will just fall for as you 
 play through this epic struggle of good and evil and this game is definitely a must by for all 
 people with a wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaman_Cid
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  To me, the Fire Emblem series is one the best fantasy turn-based games out there since the Final 
 Fantasy series. A lot of people were disappointed with this game, but I think they're expectations 
 were to high.
  How much can you possibly change a turn-based strategy game? Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn has amazing 
 graphics, although you can't do much with them but appreciate it, but if you're buying a game based 
 on animation, maybe you should get your priorities straight?. If you're into action-packed, fast 
 paced games, maybe you should consider Street Fighter again?
  This game is aimed towards hardcore strategists who like to think things out. Not a game you would 
 buy for your younger cousin, the game is just to complicated. 
  The storyline isn't exactly the greatest so there was one fault I found in the game. The difficulty 
 of the game is great however. A game where I am finally challenged without having math involved.
 
  The characters are very unique and use different weapons, so you can bring your own preference 
 into the game based on which weapon you like, which is one thing I really like about the series 
 is that you're not limited to just one character. You can alternate and train whoever you wish.
 
  I found that the Hero character was just too strong, so if you're a noob at the games, he becomes 
 a crutch, and you won't make it far.
  One thing I found greatly superior about Radiant Dawn is that it's for the Wii and I don't have 
 to be active to play it. Some people complained about the game having zero interaction for the 
 wii. But don't you just sometimes wanna chill, lean back and play something? So I'm glad that Radiant 
 Dawn has no action for the Wii becuase isn't about time we all relaxed physically?... not mentally 
 of course.
  The game is tagged at around $50+, which I think is appropriate. If you're into the strategy and 
 gameplay, then it will be totally worth it.
  If you are one of those people looking for a new game and you're interested in Fire Emblem: Radiant 
 Dawn, I recomend buying the Gameboy Advance versions or even the Gamecube prequel, to get a feel 
 for the game and how things work, simply renting it won't be enough.
  Overall a very good game but definatley underappreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelseyxo
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  So the new Fire Emblem is here and on the Wii, and it is not as different from Path of Radiance 
 (previous Fire Emblem installment for the GC) as some think. Though there is a lot of text and 
 the difficulty level can be a bit frustrating, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a great game because 
 it is lengthy, has an intersting story, and has an awsome soundtrack.
  First off, this game can be a bit frustrating. Sometimes you will get 20, 30, mabye even 60 minutes 
 into a chapter and one of your characters might die. You have to constantly think ahead, and worry 
 about the consequences. It is especially punishing if you're like me and want every character to 
 survive. However the punishing difficulty can be overlooked because you are always wondering what 
 is going to happen next.
  Next, almost the whole story is told in text. It can be very tiering to sit there and read and 
 read and read and read. This is a whole other frustration all in itself. Rarely, though, there 
 will be a few cutscenes. These are great because the voice acting is done well and the graphics 
 are beautiful. The text problem can also be overlooked because, even though almost the whole story 
 is told in text, it is a GOOD story, which leads me into my first merit.
  First of all, this game has a great plot. The game is separated into four parts. However, all the 
 characters come together near the end of part 3, during a huge war that has seven countries in 
 awkward positions. It has ally vs. ally because of strange but interesting twists in the story. 
 It has a climatic ending, which is good in a story-game. The characters help too because they are 
 full of personality.
  Next, this is a lengthy game. This is a rather long SRPG, which is one of the factors that makes 
 the Fire Emblem series so great. It will take you at least 20 hours on your first playthrough, 
 and there is a lot of replay value because of certain things you can't get or do in your first 
 playthrough.
  Lastly, this game has a freakin' awsome soundtrack. This is one of those games that has songs that 
 you will find yourself whisling or humming while you are reading a magazine. There is 85 songs 
 in all, all of which can be listened to once you beat the game once and unlock the Sound Room. 
 
  All in all, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is an absorbing and lengthy SRPG. Once you start this game, 
 you can't put down the controller until Mom pries it out of your hands and screams at you to do 
 your homework at 9:00 at night. This is an awsome game because, while it may be frustrating and 
 textmuch (I made it up, shut your mouth) , these two problems can be overlooked because it is long, 
 has a great story, and a catchy-slash-beautiful soundtrack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmpdesign
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  When I read through the "The Bad" section of the Gamespot review I thought I had been looking at 
 a review for a different game. I personally feel the review is way off base for this game.
  
  I'm going to attack the original review and try to put the game into the proper perspective.
 
  
  Number 1, "Laughable Plot" .
  
  - I am really not sure why this was in the review highlights as the game has a very contiguous 
 and meaningful storyline. If you have played any of the previous games in this series, you will 
 already know that the characters you play will be a part of a resistance toward an overpowering 
 evil kingdom. What is wrong with that?
  
  Through dialogue sequences during fighting and in the safe house I think the game produces a set 
 of good character personalities. The story unfolds smoothly in my opinion and the overall scheme 
 of the game is readily understood by the first chapter. I dont mind that the plot is clear to me, 
 the game isnt meant to be a mystery.
  
  Number 2, "Frustrating difficulty".
  
  - Are you serious? The game is easy to understand and there are constantly optional tutorials to 
 teach you every new aspect of the game as you play through it. If you have played any of the predecessors 
 you will pick this game up without reading a word from the manual or tutorial and play just fine.
 
  
  Like all Fire Emblem games, it is of course built on strategy, and if you mess up and get one of 
 your comrades killed, they are gone for good. This is nothing new to Fire Emblem, and with the 
 ability to award bonus Experience to your weaker members inbetween fights, there should never be 
 a moment where your characters are too weak to compete in the next battle map.
  
  If the game ends up being too difficult for you, buy the strategy guide.
  
  Number 3, "Doesnt 
 try to adapt to the Wii"
  
  - Thank god! Im sick of every game for the Wii having to be based around some sort of gimmicky 
 Wii remote control system. This game is not for 5 year olds who need to be entertained by by swinging 
 their controller around like a light saber... its a strategy RPG based on the same successful style 
 as its predecessors. Im quite thankful that for a change someone didnt try to screw up something 
 that works well as is by putting an unnecessary "Wii control" in it.
  
  Number 4, "Little to no improvement over the Gamecube graphics".
  
  -Well shouldnt you blame 
 the Wii's hardware for that? I mean after all they are basically the same system graphically.
 
  
  This game is a continuation of the Gamecube game, you can even import info from the gamecube version 
 over to this one, I see it fitting that the game stayed in the same style.
  
  All in all, I feel this reviewer had a bad attitude about the game. If strategy RPGs arent your 
 thing, have someone else review the game. Suck it up Lark Anderson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  Ike and the gang return in this new Fire Emblem installment on the Wii. It is the sequel to Path 
 of Radiance back on the GameCube and is the tenth installment in the series. Though it may have 
 not improved from PoR graphically, that is however made up with it's brilliant battle system. While 
 it's not the best SRPG out there, it's still great to see another RPG come out on the Wii.
  
  Let's begin with the gameplay. The battle system is within a grid of turn-based combat, pretty 
 much like most SPRGs out there. In every turn, characters can be moved through a certain amount 
 of squares and can take out enemies if they are in range of combat. Character classes range from 
 your usual Swordsmen, Archers and Mages to Shapeshifting animal creatures known as the Laguz. If 
 one character dies, then they're permanently out of the game, therefore "life" spells do not exist 
 in this game. There's that odd chance of some of them "retreating", but usually that doesn't happen. 
 Also, if a key character like Ike dies, then it's Game Over for you. This is the main reason why 
 many Reset the game so many times. Characters level up every time they get 100 EXP and the higher 
 level you character is, the longer it takes for them to Level up. Some characters can even get 
 a class upgrade when they reach Level 20. There are many enemies out there to get you with a boss 
 at the end of the map. Depending on where you are, you can also visit buildings during battle, 
 and you might get useful items. There are many different objectives that very on what map you are 
 in. Objectives such as "Defeat the boss", "Survive for X turns" or "Seize the location" will come 
 up. 
  
  The battle system may be almost flawless, however the rest of the gameplay is not so good. Outside 
 of battle, you're back at your base. You can level up your characters further with the bonus EXP 
 you won in battle. You can also go to the market and buy items and equipment for your team. Unfortunately, 
 you never get much money so buying stuff is very limited. Weapon synthesis is very weird. I also 
 found it a bit painful that there aren't any side-quests, which is usually one of the key elements 
 in making an RPG. No bonus missions or any fascinating secrets to discover Towns cannot be explored 
 and you cannot interact with the townsfolk. Absolute zero for extras. Also, something worth mentioning 
 is the Info section. You can talk to certain people about a certain topic. There's a rank of it's 
 importance. One star means it's not important at all, while three stars means it is very important 
 and you can get a special item from it. This feature isn't very good and doesn't add much to the 
 FE experience. Now, don't get me started on the difficulty. Radiant Dawn is a very difficult game, 
 even if you're playing through Easy. Any newcomers to the series will want to play through Easy 
 first. When playing through Easy, you'll be able to watch many tutorials on how to master the FE 
 series. The AI is very smart and have clever tricks up their sleeves, meaning you're gonna need 
 to plot in advance how you're gonna pass the chapter without your comrades dying.
  
  There are three ways to play Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn. The first way is with the Wii remote, you 
 hold it on the side; This way may feel weird at first, but you get used to it and it is quite comfortable. 
 The second way is using the Classic Controller. I do not own a Classic Controller and I don't think 
 i'll be buying one anytime soon so I cannot say what it is like playing with it. The third and 
 final way of playing it is with the GameCube controller like you did in Path of Radiance; I found 
 it a lot better playing it with the GameCube controller than the Wii remote, and you will most 
 likely agree. I'm more used to the GC controller and I like the comfort. Many critics have criticised 
 the fact that there is no Motion sensing whatsoever in FE: RD. I don't understand why this is. 
 As an old-school gamer, I can only say that I don't care and there's a lot worse of a situation. 
 In my honest opinion, there's no need for a SRPG to have motion sensing. I won't help it in any 
 way. The controls are fine the way they are.
  
  Graphically, Radiant Dawn isn't very good. The normal graphics haven't improved much from PoR, 
 if not at all. They aren't the best example on the Wii, and there has definitely been a lot better. 
 However, you are still gonna be treated with very good-looking cel-shaded FMVs. Unfortunately, 
 FMVs aren't very common in Radiant Dawn. There are also the cutscenes with the characters interacting 
 with each other. These are always in anime style. But overall, I think they could've done a better 
 job with the graphics.
  
  The sound is very good. None of the songs in the game are annoying in any way and stick to your 
 head for a while. Sound effects are also decent. Voice acting also occurs, but only in FMVs and 
 the cutscenes with the Narrator in it. Maybe a few more good songs to the game and it would be 
 a bit better. Overall, the sound is pretty good.
  
  Radiant Dawn is divided into four parts. Each part is structured similarly, beginning with a prologue 
 chapter that introduces the situation, followed by a series of chapters that is resolved with an 
 "Endgame" chapter. The game begins three years after the Mad King's War, the events of Path of 
 Radiance. Daein, the war's instigator and eventual loser, and the victorious nation Crimea are 
 still in the process of rebuilding. Although Crimea is ruled by Queen Elincia Ridell Crimea, Daein 
 lacks a proper successor and is instead ruled by the occupation forces of the Begnion Empire. The 
 Daein people are oppressed by the corrupt senate and imperial soldiers. The story is decent. It 
 might not be the best and maybe a bit too complicated, but it's still a neat war story.
  
  Overall, this is a must-own title for the Wii. It's very entertaining, especially for those who 
 live SRPGs. The gameplay lacks a lot in some areas, but the Dawn is still Radiant. Worth checking 
 out if you own a Wii. I think i'll be looking forward to the next Fire Emblem title.
  8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  The game is very good , clearly a great game in the fire emblem serie's, the story pick's up after 
 path of raidiance and the story as you progres in it it will get better and better the gameplay 
 and style of playing has not changed but it got much better they have put new classes and even 
 better level up i will admit the game is hard to play but dosent that make even more challenging 
 and satysfiying i really liked the game i won it once and im going to win it again because i will 
 almost nevenr have enough of the game but what really made me sad is that the game was short i 
 know it is long for some player's but for me i wanted it to be even longer i wanted it to be much 
 much longer and i just can't wait for the new one to show up because im going to try and fininsh 
 every new one that come's out the game is just amazing but i wanted it to be longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a sequel to the GameCube game Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance. Its been 
 3 years since Crimea was invaded and the Daein invaders attempted to cause a continental war which 
 would release a dark god and morph the world. Daein's king Ashnard though was killed by a young 
 hero named ike and his friends at Crimea castle, with Daein in strife after the exhausting war 
 and without a permanent ruler, Daein was taken in by the empire of Begnion who is seperated by 
 a serene empress and a corrupted betraying senate.
  You start the game leading a small group of Daein rebels known as the Dawn Brigade who are trying 
 to shake the suffocating hand that Begnion leads them with, the further you get into the game the 
 more deep complex and broad the plot gets, starting off from trying to free a country you strive 
 with Ike to stop the continent from being turned to stone.
  
  To be frank the gameplay really hasn't changed at all but all Beorc now have an extra class and 
 Laguz are now restricted to 40 levels not 20 along with Bronze Weapons and an added greatmace and 
 bowgun factor, though overall the game is the same its always been.
  Although many critics marked it down for a 'high difficulty level' the 3 levels of difficulty which 
 i found not to be that hard at all but the stats of the enemy's have escalated that make throwing 
 units out in the open almost instant death. So if you find easy seriously difficult then this game 
 isn't really for you.
  
  I think you should play the prequel first, although the game briefly fills you in on what happened 
 you are left with very patchy information of what happened before there though is also a feature 
 where you can import data from the GameCube game. 
  
  I think the GBA feature of battling should have been introduced and a advance wars style map maker 
 would make for a fun multiplayer. Though this game is an awesome strategy title and should by all 
 means be picked up by anyone roaring for a challenge and strategy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sword-Demon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn was simply amazing. continuing the story of Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance, 
 it is set 3 years after the previous game; when the country of Daein's "Mad King" Ashnard attempted 
 to start a continent wide war that would release a dark god and change the world. Ashnard was defeated 
 by a young hero named Ike, and the rule of Daein was given to the empire of Begnion, whose power 
 is split between the empress and the corrupt senate.
  
  You start the game leading a small group of Daeins known as the Dawn Brigade, who is trying to 
 throw off Begnion's hold over them. the more you progress through the game, the deeper and deeper 
 the plot gets. Starting off trying to free a country, you end up joining with Ike once again to 
 save the entire world from being turned into stone.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much at all over the entire Fire Emblem series. there are a few slight 
 changes regarding weapons and laguz transformation, as well as a new class for beorc and a level 
 cap of 40 for laguz. Other than that, though, it is still the geat turn based strategy that it 
 has always been.
  
  There are many objectives in the game depending on what level youre are on, ranging from defeating 
 all enemies, arriving at a certain spot on the map, defeating the boss, to simply surviving. You 
 must complete this objective with as few casualties as possible, because if one of your people 
 dies, they never come back.
  
  The difficulty level is fantastic! What would a game be without a good challenge in it? Well this 
 entire game is a challenge. There are 3 difficulty levels as always: easy, medium and hard. If, 
 somehow, even the easy mode is too much for you, there is now a battle save function in which you 
 can save in mid battle. So if one of your people dies, you can restart right where you left off, 
 rather than starting at the beggining of the level again. Then again, If you have too much trouble 
 on easy mode, this game probably isnt for you...
  
  I highly recommend playing the prequal: Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance before playing this game 
 because of the extremley complex plot. Radient Dawn does give a breif explanation of what happened 
 in its prequal, but you will still have a very little idea of what happened or what is happening. 
 Also, you can use your save data from Path of Radiance to affect the game in Radiant dawn.
  
  I would have liked to see some online functions or multiplayer that the wii could have taken 
 advantage of with this game, such as online battles where you could assemble a team to fight another's 
 on a chosen or built map (much like in the first fire emblem released in the US, but a little different.) 
 Sadly though, there are no such options (which is why I rated it a 9 rather than a 10.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VBallOH517
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Great story line that fills in details from Path of Radiance
  Incredible cut scenes
  Three levels of character evolution rather than the usual 2
  Snipers 
 can attack 3 spaces away without a long bow
  Better growth on some of the characters (some mages get strong def as well as res etc.)
  New 
 "Battle-Save" option (helps avoid the critical hit KO on your leader during the last turn)
  
  
  The Bad:
  Playing on any difficulty level except easy is asking for trouble
  During 
 parts of the game, you are forced to use certain parties. Problem here is that you have to use 
 some of the characters you hate.
  Difficult to know who to train the first time through without a walk through. 
  Because of the 
 intense difficulty, battle saves become an annoying essential to survive (save, die, try something 
 else, die anyway, try something else...)
  
  
  
  Overall the game is great, and anyone who enjoys turn-based strategy is in for a treat. They have 
 taken the best parts from the rest of the Fire Emblem series, and stretched them further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The Fire Emblem series may perhaps be new to some of you. Perhaps you've never heard of the FE 
 series, until the appearance of Marth and Roy in the Gamecube hit, Super Smash Bros. Melee. However, 
 overseas our fellow Japanese gamers have been enjoying the series since the NES days up to now. 
 
  
  Now we have a new game in the series that thankfully doesn't require much knowledge of the past 
 FE games to play. Just the GC game that it's a direct sequel too. 
  
  Radiant Dawn is the sequel to the Gamecube hit turn-based-strategy (TBS) game Path of Radiance. 
 While the game maintains the same level of strategy, looks, and TBS system of previous games, it 
 does have it's own system that keeps it different from other TBS games alike.
  
  Like many other grid-based TBS games, FE operates like other games of it's like, be it Final Fantasy 
 Tactics or countless other games of this genre. You take turns battling out your opponents, using 
 the field of battle to give you a an edge, while using a bevy of weapons, spells, and the like 
 to keep you alive and your enemies dead. 
  
  However, unlike most every other TBS game, FE is known for taking the familiar elements and changing 
 them up. For instance, in normal TBS games you are able to revive dead allies with a spell or item 
 usually. However in FE, you cannot revive your fallen allies, and should the fall to their knees 
 in battle, it's game over for them... unless you choose to reset the game. Another element to FE 
 games is that you cannot abuse a strong weapon of your choice to the end of the game. In most cases 
 here, FE's weapons will break when used over time, and in particular, the stronger weapons wear 
 out much faster. So there's a mix of balancing your items out to ensure you have the right weapon 
 for the battle at hand. 
  
  Well now, enough of the gameplay elements. What's new in Radiant Dawn you may ask? Well, it keeps 
 the same die-and-they-are-gone-for-good element, and yes... you're weapons will break over time. 
 However, they've now taken the "skills" system that was in Path of Radiance and tweaked it up a 
 bit in Radiant Dawn. In Path of Radiance, you were given scrolls or "skills" to equip on your character 
 of choice. In PoR, this was a welcome mix to add some nice strategy to the game. However, on problem 
 with it, was that once you gave a character that skill, it had to remain with them or if you chose 
 to remove it, it was gone for good. Now in RD, the skills and be equipped and unequipped at any 
 time, giving you the opportunity to fix and mix your characters how you see fit. 
  
  RD proves to be every bit as deserving of the FE name, as it comes with a bevy of challenge to 
 the players. However, that is not to say one may consider it perfect. The formula does indeed work, 
 and by no means does this reviewer have a problem with the system, but rather a bit in the conditions 
 for winning battle. In most FE games, defeating the boss of the current battle resulted in a win... 
 However, it seemed as if the devs really wanted you to just go and slaughter endless waves of enemies, 
 as most missions turn out to be "Rout enemy" or "slaughter and cover the land with blood" because 
 you cannot finish the level, even if you kill the boss, until all enemy units are destroyed. That 
 includes reinforcements as well. Perhaps it may not sound problematic to you, perhaps because you 
 can gain lots of Bonus EXP (which can be used at the base to give to your troops) , but when you 
 have weapons that will break over periodic use, you find yourself scrambling through your convoys 
 and other characters not being used in battles to try and scrap up as many "like new" weapons you 
 can, that will sustain the long battles soon to come. 
  
  Another bit of info to share, is that previous FE games would have you restart the entire battle 
 all over (if you choose) , should your favorite character meet an untimely death. Now in RD, you 
 can actually save during mid-battle and just restart from the previous save should you wish to 
 correct your mistakes, making the level of difficulty very easy, if you choose to do this route. 
 This reviewer pretty much avoided such events, as he believes it is one aspect of FE he favors 
 most. However opinions will very, and be it a pro or con is merely the choice you have to use it 
 or not. 
  
  Next, we come with the story. FE games are pretty synonymous with epic stories about giant feuding 
 wars brewing between kingdoms, and on country or party that rises up to the occasion to stop this 
 conundrum and bring peace about the land. RD continues three years where PoR leaves off. The mad 
 king Ashnard of Daein is dead, the country is in turmoil and you play as a girl named Micaiah and 
 her faithful companion Sothe as they try to help free Daein and revive the city. It must be said 
 though, that RD doesn't stay on one viewpoint of a single party, and thus you also will see the 
 hero of PoR, Ike return and the Greil Mercinaries as well, along with many other familiar faces. 
 Each protagonist of their story has a certain goal to reach, and the way the game ends leaves you 
 with a sense of closure and resolve that makes for a great sequel. Also like PoR, there are time 
 where the story is told through some beautifully rendered CGI and thankfully the amount in RD is 
 more than twice the amount of that found in PoR... which was rather scarce. The voice acting in 
 these scenes, and the narrator of the story scenes before beginning each chapter are tradtional 
 Nintendo fashion unfortunately. It's not that this reviewer found really anyone too annoying (partly 
 because there isn't that much dialouge) , but rather.. it's because they are pretty Subdued in the 
 music (the narrator) or just making it through the lines that no one really shines out much. Still, 
 it's nice to see Nintendo at least give us voice acting that doesn't destroy the mood too much. 
 Yet, hopefully we can see more improvement on this department in future titles... perhaps even 
 during the countless amount of text you will still read? 
  
  Lastly, we come to the graphics. Now... I realize TBS perhaps isn't one genre that needs Crysis 
 level details or even RE4 level. RD still looks like a game that could easily be runned on the 
 GC, yet the GC game looks like it could be runned on the N64 frankly. Some may just wish for highly 
 detailed 2D sprites, but it doesn't come off here. Yet, RD does in fact include 480p scan support 
 and 16:9 as well as a graphical lift from PoR. Character faces are not blurred a la ToS, and there 
 is some fancier lighting/spells/critical effects. Yet, it's nothing drastic and is very reserved. 
 Animations will repeat over and over, all enemies are copy and past except for those you can recruit 
 and bosses. The level of detail in the battle field is minor as maps all are tile sets pretty much. 
 So don't go expecting anything fancy that will wow you truly.
  Still the 2D art is richly drawn, even if some of the same art from PoR is in here, and the cutscenes 
 are still breathtaking in their own style. There's no artifacting to be found, you get a very clean 
 and polished CGI that at least shows the devs spent some time on the graphics somewhere, where 
 it counts at least. 
  
  With all that said, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a great sequel to the game. It doesn't make any 
 breakthroughs or stirs up the same formula too, yet when the system is as solid as this it's perhaps 
 not necessary. Still, I would have liked to see more effort in the other departments like voice 
 acting. and perhaps the graphical point seems moot, but maybe the console versions could give it 
 a shot in giving some smoother animations, or perhaps going the 2D sprite route or even putting 
 some nicer detail into the battlefields. 
  
  However with that said, if you are looking for a challenging, and enjoyable TBS game on the Wii, 
 or in general, FE RD should be given a look at. It's a very enjoyable game, with a really compelling 
 story that makes you want to try and reach the end or the next scene at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Die-Hard-Hippie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I am one of those people who was captivated with the Fire Emblem series ever since I played Super 
 Smash Bros. Melee and was curious as to who Marth and Roy were. I picked up the first American 
 game and fell in love with the turn-based strategy games.
  That doesn't mean I would rush to buy every other FE game that came out afterward, but after playing 
 Sacred Stones and Path of Radiance I thought for sure that Radiant Dawn would follow in their footsteps 
 and deliver hours of great gameplay and storytelling. Since playing the game, I have found that 
 I disagree with many people's opinions that Radiant Dawn fails to give what we expected. It was 
 what I thought it would be: Intuitive, fun, addictive, intense, and well worth the bits where it 
 does get rather difficult. 
  Among some other little things, Radiant Dawn lacked a little when it comes to:
  Support conversations, 
 I remember laughing my head off when Eliwood and Hector from the original American game talked 
 about one another slacking off at school and snoring in the cabins. It's sad that Radiant Dawn 
 seems not to have included any of that.
  Difficulty, everyone says it and I agree, at times the game is rather hard (this coming from one 
 who still hasn't tried Hard mode) . Although, I still found it to be easy to keep my units alive 
 and experienced.
  Story, I think it could be better. Just seems too similar to the plot of Path of Radiance. Especially 
 with Miciah and Sothe being these "crusaders" for the only heir of their country.
  Good points:
  Very well done graphics in those cutscenes. Wow.
  Some great new things to improve 
 on Path of Radiance. Some being laguz transform meters, climbing up the walls, the return of Dark 
 magic, and some others.
  Such a game deserves more than to be discarded just because it wasn't quite as knock-your-socks-off 
 amazing as Path of Radiance. It is not a big deal that it doesn't use much Wii controller stuff, 
 I mean come on, Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Paper Mario were both great and they hardly did 
 anything amazing with the controller. 
  Also, there are a lot of gaps in the plot that only a Path of Radiance player would understand, 
 for example, in the beginning, they hardly give you any idea of who the heck Ike even is. 
  If you're not a big FE player, I suggest starting with a different game in the series. But even 
 if you've only played one in the past, then this is a great game for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEfan555
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Fire Emblem for a really long time, but I have beaten every American Game and 
 I am on my 4th play through of Radiant Dawn. Fire Emblem is an amazing series that has never produced 
 a bad game. In this sequel to the 3rd American Fire Emblem, Path of Radiance, for the game cube. 
 Radiant Dawn takes place in the continent of Tellius and has pretty much no flaws, besides minor 
 things. 
  
  Pros
  1. Fire Emblem has an amazing story that has many characters. 
  2. The Combat system is the best turn based combat system you will ever use.
  3. The graphics 
 are very cool. Not anything out of the ordinary but there are AMAZING cut scenes
  4. Lasts a really long time. One playthrough can take 20-40 hours, and you will want to play it 
 again.
  5. I Don't really care to much about sound but it is pretty good.
  
  Cons
  1. It can be really hard, and has its hard moments on easy, but it is redeemed by everything else 
 the game has to offer
  2. Doesn't use the Wii remote like it could be used in many games, but it really doesn't matter 
 in this game. 
  
  I give this game a 11/10 which is impossible. But I'll do it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grizly-sword
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a direct sequel to Path of Radiance. The story picks up three years 
 after Path of radiance. It is recomended to have played por, but its not necesary to enjoy the 
 game.
  
  The story this time is, that the Begnion empire has ocupied Dain after the last war. A small group 
 of freedom fighters led by Michaia or the Maiden of Dawn. This groups quest to take back their 
 homeland, starts a series of events.
  
  The story has four separate parts that involves several points of view. even though the individual 
 parts can be a little confusing, the story ties well together by the end.
  
  The Graphics, is not top notch, but the art style is simply amazing, the combat scenes look very 
 much real. But the most amazing, is the cut scenes. They push the wii to the limit and set the 
 scene for a great setting.
  
  The Music works well in the setting. Most of it composed exclusivly for the game while some have 
 been brought back from por for some great nostalgia.
  
  Gameplay is the main reason, you are going to play the game or not. It works like an advanced chess 
 board. where you have to play each character to their strengts. Some can attack near and others 
 far away. everyone will have an unique individual skill, and you can always tool up your character, 
 with extra skills, weapons and stats.
  
  All in all RD delivers on all points. Good looks, Epic story, killer gameplay. around 60 unique 
 characters. loads of skills, weapons and items. The difficulty can be a litle harsh, but for a 
 fan or an experienced gamer, the difficulty is just right. chalengenges you to keep going.
  
  One of the better games you are gonna play in the strategy or rpg genre.
  
  10/10!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a sequel to acclaimed Path of radiance for the gamecube console which 
 received good views from a majority of reviewers and so its sequel is expected to deliver the same 
 if not better amount of game play. Radiant dawn is a see-saw when it comes onto this aspect as 
 it has its ups and its downs.
  
  For a hardcore fan this sequel with seem like a ode to their prayers but for newcomers this will 
 seem like a level-grinding beat down of a game designed to make you cry. While it is true that 
 the game is frustrating when it comes on to difficulty that does not completely hinder the game 
 but it does set it back quite a bit.
  
  You start off as a girl named Micaiah who is being hunted down by soldiers of the Begnion Empire 
 who seek to hunt and kill you. In the midst of all this you get wrapped up into a political conspiracy 
 plot among troubled senators and the sort but only as you trudge deep into the game. Which is an 
 aspect all in itself as the game starts out a bit weak but by the middle the story manages to become 
 fairly engaging if at the least, tolerable but by the end of it all things will drastically change 
 not to hint to anything. So story-wise the plot is a see-saw in itself and in addition for newcomers 
 the story will also involve a plethora of allies from Fire emblem: POR so understanding many parts 
 of the game does require you to have some knowledge of the predeceasing game before it.
  
  Game play wise the sequel sticks to its predecessors game play in which you follow the turn based 
 formula which brings us up to difficulty which can range from easy to downright punishing. For 
 someone who is new to the series easy should be the way to go as even normal can be downright frustrating 
 but not for the fact that enemies have more health, better weapons and higher levels but for the 
 fact that your characters die and at a point where one of them is crucial they may be long gone 
 never to return to your party again. 
  
  The game does two things to balance out that situation, one: they supply you with a plethora of 
 characters a bunch of which you will not need nor use because of the increasing number. Then the 
 game gives u mid-battle saving which is a life-saver especially when one of your important characters 
 dies and you have to start from the beginning which instead you start from your last save point. 
 This is a great addition but because of its difficulty you will often find yourself having to constantly 
 reload as you attempt to take certain routes. The backfire to this is you taking a wrong route 
 and accidentally saving believing your safe which forces you to start from the beginning of the 
 chapter.
  
  The graphics are almost completely the same from the gamecube the focal point of it being beautiful 
 pre-rendered cut scenes that are in short supply as it is. The sounds are a bit dull when it comes 
 onto weapons but are slightly better when it comes to the in-game music which can sound surprisingly 
 motivational. The dragon roars, the sounds of heavy armor clanking and the abundance of spell sounds 
 makes up for the dull weapon noise.
  
  
  For you to even unlock the hard mode you must beat normal which is a challenge in itself but hard 
 mode is not just steep difficulty but a chance to unlock even more characters that for some could 
 be well worth the work. The game is pretty lengthy and will take you much more than an hour or 
 two to beat especially at the harder levels. In fact it can take you well over 10 hours to complete 
 but for the most part the game is solid only lacking in the sense that the difficulty can completely 
 put-off newcomers. With a little bit more charisma radiant dawn could have been the much anticipated 
 sequel fans had been waiting for but because of its dull story, frustrating game play and tired 
 sounds it only manages to go so far. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I had read a review or two of this game before I purchased it a few days after its release and 
 was incredibly surprised to find out how much bad press it was getting. I had already decided long 
 before its release that I was going to purchase Radiant Dawn, as I was a big fan of Path of Radiance, 
 and was confused to how such a great game could get such low ratings.
  After only a few hours of Radiant Dawn, I had already noticed its incredible difficulty, and admittedly 
 I was worried how difficult it would be in the later stages of the game. It is fair to say, that 
 newcomers to this style of RPG should stay away, but anyone with any experience will greatly appreciate 
 its difficulty.
  But then after slogging your way through giant battle after giant battle, you end up feeling great 
 achievement at the slightest thing, from killing off a heavily armoured soldier with one turn of 
 one of your weaker units, to having a character successfully survive a suicide run to the objective.
 
  There are alot of critics who seem to comment on the lack of updates to its graphics from its 
 predecessor, but Path of Radiance had amazing graphics anyway. And there are alot of comments on 
 how there's a disappointing lack of Wii technology used. But how can a game like this actually 
 use it, other than pointing where you want to go. And that would be a waste. For example, Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl has been receiving high scores all around, yet nearly everyone I know uses the 
 Gamecube controller anyway. So why isn't SSBB being marked down, while Radiant Dawn is?
  
  So best advice here is:
  If your a newcomer to this style of game, stay away, or play through 
 Path of Radiance a couple of times first.
  If you've played Path of Radiance this is obviously a must have as it is a good follow-on.
  If 
 you haven't played Path of Radiance, but love this style of strategic RPG, then it is also a must 
 have, simply due to its level of difficulty. Its a great challenge.
  
  This is by far my favourite game out for the Wii, thought I am yet to get my hands on SSBB. Ignore 
 the critics, listen to the public. We know what we're talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Hey GS,
  
  I have played every Fire Emblem since they started to appear on the Game boy advance a few years 
 back. Those games were a great combination of tactical combat, RPG mechanics and beautiful sprites. 
 The game cube got a 3d title and now we have the sequel to that 3d title. 
  
  Fire emblem Radiant Dawn hasn't changed at all from previous fire emblem games, apart from the 
 smoother animations, better musical score, improved sound effects, amazing cutscenes and better 
 graphics, However, gameplay wise, it is still using the classic tried and tested formula. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Graphically, it looks pretty nice, i mean its a step up from the Game Cubes 
 installment, but it could have looked nicer. When you look at games like Mario Galaxy and Metroid 
 Prime 3, you start to realise how much better it could have looked. However, it makes up for this 
 in fast, smooth animation and some pretty sweet lighting effects. 
  
  SOUND:
  
  Like the previous fire emblem games, Radiant Dawn has a pretty awesome sound track that is constantly 
 fitting with what is happening. Which may sound stupid, but it stands out when you play certain 
 games that have music that just doesn't fit in with whats going on and what you are doing (you 
 know what games i mean) . Sounds effects are acceptable, but you couldn't really get sound effects 
 worse unless you tried to purposely make the game sound crap.
  
  CONTROLS: 
  
  Simple and effective, doesn't use wii mote motion sensing at all which is a good thing as it would 
 make it gimmicky and rather crap in all honesty. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  As stated before, fire emblem uses Turn based strategy with RPG style gameplay set in a Fantasy 
 Setting (swords, axes, magic etc.) . It also has a very, VERY high death penalty, when someone dies/falls 
 in combat, they are either permanently dead, or mortally wounded and you can never use them in 
 combat ever again. This means you have to plan every move almost perfectly other wise you might 
 loose a main character (if so, game over) , a magic user of some description (if so, i recommend to 
 restart the level) or a warrior type character (i also recommend restarting the level) . This may 
 seem harsh, and is indeed frustrating in early levels as everyone is a vital character, and the 
 level of difficulty is pretty high. 
  
  However, once you pass these early few levels, you have 30-40 hours of gameplay that does not disappoint. 
 With a great, if basic story and some loads of fun to use characters. However, it remains difficult 
 throughout and i would stay clear if you are put off by games that are difficult. If thats you, 
 id stick with Halo (yes, i went there) . 
  
  Overall, fire emblem is a good game, that is very old school that could do with some slight graphical 
 tuning, and if you give it some time, its well worth the effort. 5.5/10.
  
  P. S. Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my 
 score is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game thats this good... period.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timpegoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I have fallen in love with this game over the past few months. I have played all of the previous 
 installments and finished all of them except for fe8, but I would have to say that this is my favorite 
 one. I enjoy the storyline for the most part, it has many twists and turns and almost always keeps 
 you interested. The one thing I don't like about this game is the support conversations. They are 
 only 1 or 2 line quotes from each character, and are not different based on who they are talking 
 to. Overall I really like this game, and it definitely has replay value because you unlock more 
 things if you play through the game a second time. I would recommend it to anybody looking for 
 a good turn-based strategy game. Even if you have never played this type of game before I would 
 recommend checking it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlord94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  One may have noticed the reviews that fire emblem radiant dawn has been getting are exeptionally 
 poor. If one person looks at the other games that the series has then you'll notice that people 
 considered the other games actually pretty good. Why is it that Radiant dawn is lagging behind 
 with being the longest and newest fire emblem so far?
  The graphics of Radiant dawn have been improved over the path of radiance, that much is evidental, 
 but that still makes the graphics a unfortanate weak point. The story is sometimes filled in with 
 small cutscenes which are really nice, but voice acting can bring it down. Also in between chapters 
 some dialogue appears which the anime pictures of characters appears which gives a good impression 
 of the character of the characters. The in game graphics are compared to the cutscens not that 
 wonderful but they still keep the style of fire emblem with them.
  The story is at the beginning not what you expect. The story just happens too fast and you really 
 don't get too good of an impression of the characters. To put it bluntly, the game starts at a 
 badly. Yet as the story progresses it begins to pick up and a good plot begins.
  The easy mode offers dangerously few amounts of tutorials, and makes picking it up for beginners 
 hard. Yet if you have already played a previous fire emblem game you will find that actually the 
 game offers the average difficulty of a game from the series. The easy mode for me wasn't too hard 
 and at the end my characters managed to defeat the final boss with not that much difficulty. And 
 I have just begun playing the game again on normal and I find that the plot somehow seems more 
 complete and the difficulty isn't that great of a difference.
  Overall fire emblem: radiand is actually a pretty good games for veterans of the fire emblem games, 
 it offers enough new stuff to say something about and is great enough of a challenge. Even with 
 the not-to great graphics and terrible beginning weighing the game down from actually achieving 
 a place under the spotlight, it still will offer something to everyone who is a good fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FE_guy111596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is the tenth installment in the Fire Emblem series, a series known for 
 good gameplay, and great stories that can sometimes be so deep and intruiging that you cant put 
 the remote down.
  Radiant Dawn takes place three years after Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance, in which Mad King Ashnard 
 of Daein is trying to throw the entire continent into war and is conducting twisted and wicked 
 experiments on the prejudiced laguz tribes, which are humans that can transform into animals. In 
 Path of radiance, you play as the Griel Mercenaries and you slowly grow from a band of mercenaires 
 to an entire army, and, with help from other nations, such as Begnion and Gallia, you kill King 
 Ashnard and free Crimea from Daein's clutches.
  So Radiant Dawn starts out with you being a band of street fighters called the Dawn Brigade, with 
 the famous Maiden of Dawn being their leader, Sothe, who claims to be the Maiden of Dawn's brother, 
 and a few others. The Dawn Brigade live on the streets of Daein for a change, and it's actually 
 quite nice being able to see the story through Daein's eyes. So what does the Dawn Brigade do? 
 They start to try freeing Daein from Begnion's clutches, because Daein was left to Begnion (the 
 guys who SEEMED nice in the previous game) because Crimea was too busy rebuilding their country. 
 The story is a nice story, but gets even better later in the game.
  The difficulty is a very frustraiting part of the game, because even on easy it can still send 
 you stomping off. One very frustraiting part of the difficulty is that on some levels, enemy reinforcements 
 keep on coming. It's not so bad if you have an objective like defeat boss or arrive somewhere, 
 but if it's something like kill all enemies, it is very frustraiting (especially on the later levels 
 where reinforcements appear litterally out of thin air, and no, it's not a glitch.) .
  The graphics in the game are pretty good, some levels more than others. Like on one level it was 
 a battle with one of the characters standing in water, and there was a beautiful reflection of 
 the characters in the water There also just AWESOME cutscenes, but unfortunatlly there are are 
 not a lot of them, so they are rare treats.
  The overall gameplay is pretty good, and the couple blemishes there are here and there are made 
 up for with nice battle scenes, a great variety of mission goals, creative terrain, the ability 
 to set up for a battle before it starts (except for the first few levels) , a wide variety of units 
 and weapons, and how nicely the battle blends in with the story.
  The sounds aren't bad, but they aren't super good either. They are just average. The soundtrack 
 is the same, but can sometimes get annoying during battles. but if it is, just turn the music volume 
 down from the options menu. Overall, don't fret about the sounds, because they are fine.
  Overall, I'd recommend buying this game if you already have Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance, since 
 you'll know what they are talking about. If you don't have Path of Radiance, lucky for you, the 
 Wii has a gamecube player, so go out and buy Path of Radiance first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  At its 10th installment but only 4th to America, Fire Emblem has become a popular series to RPG 
 and Nintendo fans. It made a successful 3-D debut with Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance ( POR for 
 short) . Radiant Dawn serves as a direct sequel to POR and continues the formula and the success 
 bringing a strong story, and gameplay that any type of RPG fan will enjoy.
  
  
  Story:9/10: 3 years have passed since the Mad Kings War when Daein's king Ashnard was defeated 
 by Ike. The countries have since been rebuilding from the damage of this war. You go through 4 
 stories each involving their own set of characters. To those who have played the 1st, you will 
 see many returning characters.
  
  Part 1: Starting with a group called The Dawn Brigade. Daein has been overun by troops from the 
 Begnion empire and The Dawn Brigade plans to take back their homeland from the invaders. You find 
 yourself starting with Sothe and mystical silver haired maiden Macaiah. You journey not only to 
 fight off the troops but to locate the mad kings lost son Pelleas to become the new king of Daein.
 
  
  Part 2: 3 years ago Elincia was crowed Queen of Crimea, since then the kingdom has weakened and 
 many wish to have Elinicia removed from her position. Crimea fights the nations to keep the kingdom 
 as a whole but to an intensifying extent with betrayel and kidnapping leaving an opening for a 
 hero's return
  
  Part 3: Ike and his group of mercenaries return from their disappearance and this is were another 
 war truly begins. Some high apostles of Begnion have betrayed the Empress, forming alliances with 
 laguz tribes ( more on the laguz later) to take down the apostles and Daein's new king. With the 
 occurance of war however, the mysterious medallion containing the dark god shines strong as their 
 goddess would waken to recleanse the world to start over if a massive was to break out.
  
  Part 4 Will not be revealed as it would spoil to much storyline. As a story of war, it does deliver 
 the type of epic story that many RPGs contain. You'll find an entertaining story that can touch 
 you emotionally ( not crying wise) . To those who've have played the 1st, you will see who survived 
 the war and questions you may have will be answered.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10: It's a simple idea loaded with content to make it fun and exciting. Take your players 
 and move them on the board, when your near an enemy you can choose to attack, use some items or 
 trade items with nearby allies. You can attack close with a sword, or far away with a bow & arrow. 
 Certain items like the hand axe can attack from several distances. Weapons come in all forms and 
 materials: axes, lances, swords, knives, daggers, bow & arrows, even magic being made from being 
 made from: steel, iron, silver, bronze, wind, fire ( last 2 are for types of magic) . There's also 
 a whole system of which weapons beat what, like paper scissors rock. Lances beat swords, axes beat 
 lances etc. It gives certain weapons small advantages. When you fight, you gain experience points 
 to level up, raising stats such as health and attack. Your characters can level up to level 20 
 and then they change class, changing class makes a huge improvement over the character. Example: 
 An archer can become a sniper. Some characters can evolve more than once making then extremely 
 powerful. Not all classes follow this formula however. The laguz are humans who have the power 
 to change into an animal. Once a certain bar fills up, they can shift making them much more powerful 
 than in human form. They do not require weapons and can grow to level 40 because they do not evolve. 
 The strategy in beating a chapter constantly changes in the game. You may have to beat the boss, 
 or kill every single enemy, survive for a number of turns or just escape the map. When your off 
 the field you have several options to help you and prepare for the next battle. You can buy more 
 weapons, some health recovery items, level up your characters with bonus experience points you've 
 earned from battle, and gather info about your next battle. A few unique items and options have 
 been thrown in, you can customize your own weapon depending on how much your willing to pay, and 
 some information that's given to you also includes items. Building relations between characters 
 can also help improve status, the more they talk, the stronger the relation leading to improved 
 stats thanks to the friendship. Radiant Dawn also contains what is a Wii 1st. Before starting the 
 game you are allowed to insert your Gamecube memory card and load content from path of radiance 
 and transfer character data over to the Wii. There's a large variety to mix spruce up in the way 
 you play but then comes 3 fatal flaws that can interrupt it all. 
  #1. Things seem to be more realistic in this game as in real war. Once you lose a character, there 
 is no way to revive them unless you restart the chapter.
  #2 Weapons can break down, you can only use a weapon for a certain number of times. Though the 
 numbers are high like 30-40 times, a weapon breaking during battle can be crucial.
  #3 It has said that games in a series seem to be less challenging as compared to 20 years ago on 
 the old systems. This is not the case for fire emblem, its difficulty level can be unforgiving 
 making you repeat a chapter over and over again but in the end leads to a satisfaction if you can 
 overcome the difficulty. 
  Only the 3rd flaw should come in the way as this is on of the hardest games on the Wii, but its 
 also on of the most enjoyable bringing more than enough content to make last for a while.
  
  Graphics: 7/10: The game looks decent at least, but it looks like it could've been on the gamecube 
 near the end of the gamecube's era. It has nice effects, pretty good animation for the movies but 
 goes in the category "High-end gamecube graphics" in the long run
  
  Music 9/10: The music is greatly orchestrated showing all the thrill and excitement of battleing. 
 The pieces changes as you shift from boards scenes, to battle scenes as well as progressing though 
 the story. It feels thrilling going into battle when a nice piece is orchestrated in the background 
 and fire emblem is one thrilling game
  
  Another Nintendo series arriving on the Wii, another success. Radiant Dawn is superior to is predecessor 
 and proves that a Wii game can be good without any motion controls.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Every year at this time the big consoles seem to have a plethora of titles come out. From the beginning 
 of October to Christmas the big games that gamers look forward to all year get released. I liken 
 it to a summer of blockbuster movies. Nintendo's Wii is no exception to the yearly trend. We've 
 seen GH3, Battalion Wars 2 and Super Mario Galaxy is right around the corner. Well there is also 
 another title that has been recently released for the Wii, the cult favourite Fire Emblem Radiant 
 Dawn. I first played Fire Emblem Scared Stones on the GBA and I loved the RPG and strategy theme 
 of the game, so I was more then happy to review the latest Fire Emblem chapter on the Wii. This 
 latest iteration of the continuing storyline is a direct sequel to the Gamecube chapter called 
 Path of Radiance, which was a great title as well. I must say I am most curious to see how this 
 long running series, developed by Intelligent Systems, translated to the almost one year old Wii.
 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn won't have the masses clamouring over each other for the revolutionary 
 graphics system. In fact, to most gamers the game may look a little too rudimentary but I can say 
 that it does look quite a bit nicer than the Gamecube predecessor. It run in 16:9 widescreen at 
 480p resolution, and for the most part it runs at a constant framerate throughout the whole game 
 too. I did find the game stuttered during some of the more intense battle animations, but nothing 
 distracting enough for concern. Everything during the game is very crisp and clean, with rich colors 
 and filtered hues. The game boosts an ample amount well done of FMV, but the draw for Fire Emblem 
 is the hand drawn graphics that the game is presented in. All the battle animations throughout 
 the entire game are beautifully hand drawn art, which I'm a big fan of. No 3D poly's here, only 
 incredibly detailed characters and surroundings. Of course there are some static pictures with 
 sprites pasted on them while some of the storyline is being played out, but overall I still found 
 them to be pleasing. During battles the screen will switch to a side view and may circle the group. 
 This added a somewhat artistic flair to the available graphics. Overall I think it will be a matter 
 of taste how you view the games visuals, and for my tastes they were very appealing.
  
  
  Sound
  
  Like most Wii titles the audio portion of Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is in Dolby Pro 
 Logic 2. Where the difference may come into play is how each individual developer handles the sound 
 and voice work of each title. Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn has very little voice acting but what is 
 there is very good. The voice acting takes on a sort of Shakespearean tone set in medieval times. 
 Unfortunately the cut scenes that have the voice acting really are very far and few in between. 
 It would have been nice to see a little less text and more spoken word.
  
  The various sound effects also play an important role in the story as they convey accurately each 
 weapon or horse, carriage, and even footstep. I found that the sound of slightly echoing footsteps 
 in a corridor are very different sounding than those in an open courtyard or field, a detail that 
 most would take for granted. The sounds of weapons during battle were also audibly different. If 
 in a street alley or a grassy plain the weapons did not sound the same, as one was an enclosed 
 area, while the other was an open setting. This was very cool and a nice attention to detail as 
 well. Finally, the music that surrounds most of the game is of orchestral nature, with some being 
 somewhat memorable while others were somewhat annoying. Overall the developer took some time in 
 making the title sound quite good and I can appreciate that the developer put work into the audio.
 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  At first most gamers will notice that Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is very similar to the Gamecube 
 version Path of Radiance. As a sequel the game uses many of the options from the prequel, as well 
 as many characters. In the time it takes to figure out how this game differs I would think most 
 may get turned off by the somewhat 'been there done' that feeling. I found after delving deeper 
 into the title that Intelligent Systems has crafted a no frills RPG/strategy game. It has very 
 little in terms fluff as it is all about the gameplay, and for a hardcore RPG/strategy gamer like 
 myself that is okay. The storyline is not long and convoluted as that would really just confuse 
 things. In fact most Fire Emblem fans already know the history of the series and won't mind the 
 stripped down progression. The game does fill in some blank spots which continues to drive the 
 game forward and I found that I enjoyed what was there.
  
  I like the control scheme offered in Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn as there are three different styles 
 to choose from. One can choose to use the Wii Remote on its side (which reminds me so much of the 
 NES controllers of old) , the Classic Controller, or the Gamecube Controller. The game recognizes 
 which controller is plugged in and adjusts the button placements for each. They all worked pretty 
 well although I have always thought the classic controller was a bit slow in its analog toggle. 
 There are no Wii remote or nunchuk applications in Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn, therefore the control 
 options are easy enough that anyone playing should be up and running in no time as it is essentially 
 three buttons. The 3/4 overhead look gives a full view of the surroundings and field grid. From 
 here you instruct characters or units to wherever they may need to be, instigate attacks or retreat 
 if need be. The simple interface lets the gamer do what they want with amazing efficiency.
  
  Fire Emblem's well known permanent death clause is back as well. Basically if anyone in your 
 party perishes they cannot be revived or brought back in any way. Knowing this makes one really 
 think about each and every move they make with the various units as one wrong move and your assault 
 could not only is thwarted, but you could lose a high ranking ally for the rest of the game. I 
 quite like this option as it makes me really plan my moves, but for those who can't stand losing 
 a valued party member may reset the game and start over.
  
  One disappointing feature left out for this latest version of the Fire Emblem franchise is online 
 support. Unfortunately the lack of Wi-Fi online play really hurts this game. It could have been 
 such a great MMORPG for Nintendo. The premise is perfect, fast gameplay and a clean interface really 
 makes this game scream for Nintendo Wi-Fi support. I am not sure why the game has no support for 
 it, perhaps the next Fire Emblem game will.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Hardcore RPG/strategy gamers should love Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn. Along with some stylized visuals 
 the game has simple and streamlined gameplay including very basic control which really makes the 
 game easy to pick up and play. On the downside I think the game may be a bit too streamlined for 
 some. I feel that my time with the game really does warrant a recommendation, especially to those 
 RPG/strategy game fans. However my fear is that in a time when so many other huge titles are being 
 released on all the consoles out there Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn may get lost in the crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Path of Radiance, Radiant Dawn's predecessor, was an excellent turn-based strategy RPG. The plot 
 and character development were absolutely incredible, and combined with the excellent strategy 
 and unit customization made Path of Radiance an amazing experience. 
  
  Radiant Dawn improves upon Path of Radiance's individual unit customizability, allowing you to 
 switch around skills as you see fit, and giving you a pile of Bonus experience to use (even though 
 BEXP is worth a lot less this time around) . There's also more units overall to work with throughout 
 the game. 
  
  That being said, you're also given less time on these units, as you switch parties numerous times 
 throughout the game. That's quite a downer, especially because you're not the Greil Mercenaries 
 for the whole game, which was one great thing about PoR. Some units just aren't that great too, 
 and some are only given to you for the last chapter or 2 or 3... meaning you don't get to work 
 with them as long as you may like. Some units also get promoted too late, and you don't get to 
 use their special skills until this time (Ike doesn't become a Vanguard until Part 4... which means 
 you have about 3 actual chapters to use Aether... lame) . 
  
  The plot of the game is pretty good overall (as long as you play more than the first 12 chapters 
 - like whoever wrote the GS review did) ; it's epic, for sure, and it races along once you leave 
 the Dawn Brigade part. The break neck pace tends to be a little detrimental occasionally, and sometimes 
 it seems things aren't grounded very well. Some characters seem to jump to decisions, which instigates 
 the plot down a path that could've easily been avoided with a little bit of thought. The Dawn Brigade 
 portion of the game is just lame, with maybe 2 or 3 interesting parts, most of them nostalgic reunions 
 with some of PoR's characters. The game gets much better in Part 2 and into Part 3, where you are 
 once again the Greil Mercenaries (who make the game so much better its ridiculous) . The end of 
 Part 3 and all of Part 4 are alright, with some little instances here and there filling in some 
 plot points, making things quite interesting (many little sub-plots like the Kilvas incident and 
 the mastermind of the whole plot are excellent) . The game's Endgame rocks, with several battles 
 that fill in many holes if played with the right characters. Overall I really liked the plot due 
 to its depth and epic nature; it also explains many things from PoR that you may or may not have 
 questioned (some you wouldn't even have thought of - they may come as huge twists to you, which 
 is great) . 
  I would've liked more character development though; the support system in RD is seriously lacking. 
 Gone are the often hilarious, character building support convos from PoR, and in are the crappy 
 in-battle conversations that you can use to upgrade 2 characters' support with each other. The 
 bonus' are better and easier to use, but I would've preferred the better character building method 
 of upgrading. You can also only use support between 2 characters - again, it's easier, but I preferred 
 PoR's system. 
  
  Character development, due to this, is limited to only what you see in the plot's many scenes. 
 This means that you still get a lot of character, but it's limited only to more major characters 
 (usually) , and you won't get to know all of those many units you get your hands on, like you could 
 in PoR. You still, however, get to see many characters (like Ike, the game's main hero, and other, 
 mostly high-end characters like the royalty/generals) develop throughout the game, and though things 
 aren't quite as well done or interesting as Path of Radiance's, it's still a great, immersive experience, 
 very worth playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Granted easy still isn't that easy, I'd say you don't have to be the most hardcore strategist to 
 be able to get through this game. This is only my second strategy RPG. Are normal and hard difficult? 
 HELL YES! But that doesn't mean that you have to go through those difficulties to get all the awesomeness 
 of the game.
  
  Gameplay: 24/30 There are two things that most people (critics) will criticize this game for that 
 I either agree with only to a certain extent or agree with but don't really think it brings the 
 game down:
  
  1. "This should've been on the GC." While I agree that it would've gotten better RATINGS on the 
 GC because the graphics and controls are more suited to it, that really shouldn't automatically 
 bring this game down immediately. 
  
  2. "It's too hard." Like I said before, on hard and even normal difficulty, this game is very difficult 
 and takes a lot of patience and good judgment. But hey, there IS an easy difficutly. It still gives 
 you a run for your money, but it's not like you're going to die every 5 seconds and have to start 
 the mission all over again. What really pisses me off is that GS seems to expect everyone to immediately 
 go to the hardest difficulty level, just like they did with GH3. "Oh, geez, it's SOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
 hard! TTFAF is impossible, which means that no one will like this game." Expert isn't the only 
 difficulty in GH3 just like hard isn't the only difficulty in Fire Emblem. Can we get that through 
 our thick skulls? Please? I'm getting the message that we can't. However, I will say that it is 
 kinda crappy that once someone dies, you don't get that person back EVER. Now THAT is unfair. Other 
 than that, this game is playable.
  
  I guess another thing that people really complain about is how basic it is compared to some other 
 recent games like Mario Galaxy, Rock Band, and Call of Duty. Yes, it's very basic, but who said 
 "basic" means "without fun"?
  
  One thing that I found interesting is that, to a certain extent, I actually had more fun planning 
 my moves than actually executing them. Even on easy, this will work your brain more than most games 
 out there (as it should) . Don't get me wrong, easy difficulty doesn't make you think THAT much. 
 It's the normal and hard difficulties that really make you think. (I haven't even tried it on hard 
 and I don't hink I'm going to.)
  
  Another good thing is that you can take out the battle animations, which really only waste time 
 and make the battle more tedious. Every now and then, I turn them back on cause the music to that 
 is pretty good, but I rarely do so. 
  
  Graphics: 12/15 I'm still amazed that Nintendo could only make Metroid Prime 3 have great graphics 
 and basically not ANY OTHER WII GAME (prior to Fire Emblem because Mario Galaxy came out after 
 it) . They were better than what I had heard, but still, come on people. The name by itself won't 
 get the game off the shelves.
  
  Sound: 9/10 I actually really like the music. Even the battle music doesn't seem to get old. I 
 guess you kinda tune out the music because you're thinking so hard about making your next move. 
 I dunno. All I do know is that I found the music very pleasant to listen to, but I would never 
 listen to it outside the game.
  
  Value: 13.5/15 The game took me around 43 hours to beat. I did die a few times so I had to start 
 over some chapters. That means I probably spent a little over 50 hours on the game. This makes 
 for probably the 4th longest game I've ever played. It's especially impressive because there are 
 no sidequests, and there is no multiplayer.
  
  Tilt: 27/30 For the most part, played in somewhat small doses, this game can be a great experience. 
 If you can get past the whole, "This game is slow-moving, simple, graphically lacking, and can't 
 go online (by GOD I hope nobody's saying that last part) ", then chances are, you're good to go.
 
  
  Overall: 85.5/100 = 8.55/10 = 8.5/10
  
  And yet another extremely underrated game. Well, by GS at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Omikron666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  What's the Fire Emblem series well known for? A deep and compelling story and challenging battles 
 of strategy. Radiant Dawn doesn't fail to disappoint those who have come to love the Fire Emblem 
 series, and newcomers to the series who may start from here will also love the game. Radiant Dawn 
 being a sequel to Path of Radiance, I suggest starting there first though, since it's a good idea 
 to fill in the story that you wouldn't want to miss while playing Radiant Dawn.
  
  To start, there's nothing special done with the Wii-mote, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. 
 The graphics aren't much improved over Path of Radiance, but the cutscenes look fantastic. The 
 difficulty also may be a little tough for those just getting into the series, but for those who 
 are familiar with the series or are just good enough strategists shouldn't feel like missions are 
 overly difficult or too easy. Starting on easy is a good start for those who are unfamiliar with 
 Fire Emblem's style of strategy. 
  
  Some of the tweaks to Radiant Dawn over Path of Radiance is the addition of a 3rd class change 
 and when the 3rd class is gained, the character will gain a special skill which can be the difference 
 between killing and over-kill. This time around you can also remove skills without losing them 
 like Path of Radiance. You can remove skills and assign them to new characters, which will become 
 a great asset for later chapters. There's still experience you can give characters at base, a shop 
 for weapons, selling, forging, and also a new section that sells special items such as Wyrmslayers, 
 Laguzslayers, Arms Scrolls, etc. There's still the support you can give to 2 compatible characters 
 and this time it shows the bonuses you get when the 2 characters get support in battle. 
  
  The story takes place 3 years after Path of Radiance and those who played Path of Radiance will 
 enjoy seeing many familiar faces returning. The story is split into 4 parts that will have you 
 taking control of a different army and a different view from that parties perspective. I don't 
 want to go into the events of the story, but let me tell you, the story gets much more enthralling 
 as you progress and it will suck you in to where you want to continue playing even though you told 
 yourself this would be your last chapter before you go to sleep. 
  
  Radiant Dawn won't fail to disappoint the veterans of Fire Emblem or the newcomers to the series, 
 who I suggest start with Path of Radiance. This is a more than worthy sequel to its predecessor 
 that will absorb you into its story and great strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kisameboyz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good with all its new improvements from the last game but it is true that its 
 a little harder then the others. newcomers to the fire emblem series will like it if they can think 
 ahead because u will die if u just send anyone anywhere.
  
  gameplay: the best yet...... 3 classes instead of 2, lots more characters and interesting objectives 
 besides route enemy, great game play overall. 9 out of 10
  
  graphics: not very good but it doesnt matter much when it comes to fire emblem. there not bad just 
 very cartoony. 7 out of 10
  
  difficulty: i would say newcomers will die alot but if you have beatin at least 1 other FE game 
 then u should go through this game without too much anger and frustration
  
  over all this is a good game but just a little hard and the game play style doesnt go well with 
 all people. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EX_Commander
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the 2nd best in the series. And i only say that because its a sequel to Path of Radiance 
 for the GC.
  
  The Good
  _________________
  1. Nothing has changed about the battle system which is good, sticking to originallity. 
  2. Graphics 
 are better than the GC PoR. As to be expected.
  3.3rd tier class added for the humans. 
  4. Faster bonus exp gain.
  5. More units than any other FE game.
  6. Music is epic. like any other 
 FE game.
  
  
  The Bad
  ____________
  1. special attack scenes downsized a bit.
  2. too much dialogue for those who dont like reading. (though i like it)
  
  The Discussion
 
  ____________________
  
  I said this game is addictive well, because you cant put it down once you get into the first battle. The 
 story will make you think that you are playing a book where you can make the story as you go. Though 
 there arent that many story-changing options, they do have a big effect. For example you can choose 
 whether a prince lives or dies by one word. This also follows every other FE games system: You lose 
 a troop, they never come back, unless you restart the battle. Like PoR for the GC you have a bonus 
 experience section where you feed your weak units exp to make them stronger, without fighting. 
 
  It also still has the Pre-battle info screen.
  
  This review proly will reflect more to those who have PoR, or other FE games. Well idk wut else to 
 say, this game rocks, so check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn's story may not be the best in the series, but the gameplay makes up for 
 the not so interesting story. The gameplay consists of you and the opponent moving units across 
 the battlefield turn by turn and the battle scenes are better then Path of Radiance . The cutscenes 
 look amazing though and they showcase the best graphics in the whole game. Your units consist of 
 the normal suspects you'd see in a Fire Emblem game from mages, to archers there all here and when 
 you get a unit leveled up enough they will class change and get even stronger, instead of Path 
 of Radiance's 2-tierd classes Radiant Dawn has 3-tier classes (for example take Mia instead of 
 the class Swordmaster being her last class change the class Trueblade will be her last) . The difficulty 
 for this game is perfect not to hard and not to easy. All in all this is a game that is worth adding 
 to your Nintendo Wii collection, no matter what the other reviews for this are. You will not be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  This game can be summed up into a couple of words wtf... its a great game for people who have time 
 on their hands and like those kind of games where you just play by yourself. There of course is 
 many problems with this games. It is obviously to hard for people who are inexperienced with tactic 
 video games and of course they punish you to hard if one of your characters dies, they go away 
 forever making you want to restart cause you get attached to the character who died and then just 
 starting the stage all over again. This game also makes 0 use of the wiimote just holding it sideways 
 to play. Lacks a lot in depth to the game with simple weapons and lvl up system that simply lets 
 your characters grow in a way you choose other characters over the other. Graphics are just blah, 
 they look like they came strait from the gamecube, except for the cutscenes that show up rarely 
 This game is long, i mean extremley long. Has a great story that you probably won't catch cause 
 there is no voice acting, just text, not including their pretty cutscenes that rarely show up. 
 Overall it's a game not worth the 50 dollar price tag so wait a while if you want it or borrow 
 it from a friend if he or she has it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  After playing both Fire Emblem games on the GBA I have been rather dissappointed with Nintendo's 
 attempt to turn the series into a console hit. It has fallen short of that goal with both Path 
 of Radiance (GC) and Radiant Dawn (Wii) . Radiant Dawn is particularly difficult to accept considering 
 all the time spent on its development. If this was, and one would have to assume so concerning 
 the games general make-up, merely a Gamecube game the developers did a nasty job upscaling it to 
 the Wii. Indeed, it appears they did very little at all. One must wonder, if this game resembles 
 the GC title so much, why was it not released sooner? Perhaps as a launch title I could have been 
 a little more forgiving.
  
  One peculiar note is the split in reviews of this game. There seems to be people who think its 
 superb and those who were dissapointed. The difference may not be that we are playing different 
 games, but on different TVs. It also likely depends on if this is your first or one of your first 
 Fire Emblem games. Those who've played the others are more likely to hold higher standards and 
 may experience a sense of "more of the same."
  
  That said, if you played Path of Radiance (GC) then expect the same game here. Here you will run 
 into the same controls, same grid-based system, weapons, units, and so on. If you enjoyed POR then 
 you will probably enjoy Radiant Dawn. However, if you're like me and found POR to be rather mediocre 
 by Fire Emblem standards then expect to be similarly dismayed by the Wii title.
  
  
  
  The presentation is the weakest point of the game. If you're using a standard definition TV or 
 AV cables then the game probably looks at least somewhat decent. However, if you are using a widescreen 
 HDTV it looks downright ugly. Pixels are displayed horrendously during the battle cut-scenes and 
 the static images with the painted backgrounds don't even fill the entire screen. Instead, there's 
 merely a wallpaper in the background. The graphics are sadly severely outdated. The GBA games, though 
 technically inferior, boasted a better presentation with its limited hardware capabilities. With 
 no added Wii-functionality or support this truly was a game that made no difference as a Wii or 
 GC game. The full $50 price is also a bit mesmerizing. 
  
  I actually found the game so boring that I have yet to finish it, I don't know if I can. It literally 
 puts me to sleep, which doesn't bode well for a strategy game where you need to be on top of your 
 game. The sound effects are almost none-existent. Nothing has any impact. Characters remain practically 
 silent throughout all the battle scenes, swords make mild noises, and characters are so slow moving 
 in the battle scenes... The criticals, which really had some impact on GBA, feel strangely bland 
 in the console versions. 
  
  The gameplay is the real kicker too. It's not really a difficult game, it just has a tendency to 
 be incredibly cheap at every opportunity. It's like playing with someone who has no expectation 
 of winning, so they go to extremes to merely agitate you by indiscriminately sacrificing their 
 own units to take a single weak unti of your own. It's just cheap, and not fun. Part of this dilemmia 
 is due to the oversized range units can travel in a single turn. I assume this was meant to speed 
 up traveling in the game but what it really did was force you to move your team in a constant defensive 
 state. It's incredibly annoying to see CPU units completely go past your frontline fighters. What's 
 worse, is apparently your weaker units have poor evasion (or at least poorer than the GBA versions) . 
 When I recall playing the GBA games, yeah you had some weak units but their evasion helped to counteract 
 that. Here, it just doesn't seem to work that way. 
  
  Which brings me to another issue. The game feeds you false hit percentage indicators. Several times 
 I have had a 90% hit miss, while I have seen CPU units land hits with less than 50% odds. How can 
 you form any strategy if you're constantly being feed false information? You can never get your 
 weaker units out to the battle field because you are too afraid they're going to get wiped out 
 (which in Fire Emblem is permanent) . So I guess that's what the bonus EXP is for after battle right? 
 Wooo exciting. It's like you don't even get to play the game, you just wait for the CPU units to 
 come to you, let your powerful units do all the work, and wait for the next slide-show to start.
 
  
  Well, I have to give the game some credit. The portraits and backgrounds truly look as though they 
 were painstakingly created from scratch. The artwork is good, and the text is decent. The gameplay 
 and presentation are just way too standardized. You can create some weapons, buy this or that, 
 but it just isn't enough. The game lacks, at least initially, anything inspiring to keep me wanting 
 to play it more. Drop the once dead always dead feature - it doesn't add to the difficulty, only 
 the frustration.
  
  I'm a big fan of these Fire Emblem games so I have to be extra critical. I recommend that new players 
 to the Fire Emblem universe pick up the GBA Fire Emblem or Fire Emblem The Sacred Stones (also 
 for the GBA) . The advancements in gameplay and design of those two games were apparently lost when 
 being adapted to the console titles. The use of static images and backgrounds worked for the GBA 
 because it was the best way to present the series on THAT system. It's time for the series to innovate, 
 reinvent itself so that it can best be represented on the next generation of consoles. Merely copying 
 the GBA format to the GC or Wii is obviously going to have an outdated feel to it because the GBA 
 is outdated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn
  ----------------
  Gamespot has something wrong; this game was much better than the six it got.
  
  ----Note: This 
 Review May Contain Spoilers ---
  
  -- Story: 9/10
  Fire Emblem had an awesome story line; the story starts with a girl named Micaiah, who is part 
 of the underground rebelion "The Dawn Brigade"; which is trying to free Daein from the control 
 of the Begnion Empire. The story switches between Micaiah, and Ike. 
  
  -- Music: 8/10
  The music in Fire Emblem wasn't all that bad, and the voice acting was alright; but I found there 
 really wasn't enough of it. The music did portray the current situation really well; but it wasn't 
 enough to get you really pumped up for a battle. Unless you got the Black Knight's theme. 
  
  -- Graphics: 9/10
  So far the graphics on the Wii don't really impress me, but I don't really 
 play games for graphics if it has a really good story line; like Fire Emblem did. Although, Fire 
 Emblem had really decent graphics for a strategy game, and the cut scenes were really well done, 
 I love the style they used to do the cut scenes in.
  
  -- Gameplay: 10/10
  I don't know what Gamespot was talking about when they said this game was way to hard and only 
 veteran strategy gamers could play this; yes, the game does get really challenging at time, but 
 that is what the battle save was for, if you were going to make a move you didn't think was good, 
 battle save then try it. Radiant Dawn was my first shot at the Fire Emblem series and I was expecting 
 something like Final Fantasy Tactics; but this was a very welcomed changed. You can re-do moves 
 after doing them, see an enemy's attack/move radius, check your damage and hit percent before the 
 battle. If anything Radiant Dawn isn't overly difficult, just enough to make it challenging and 
 fun.
  
  -- Overall: 9/10
  A great strategy game that was well done on the Nintendo Wii; it was incredibly long, fun, and 
 had a great storyline. If you are someone that is sceptical about this game because of the score 
 and review Gamespot gave it; don't listen to them. Read the user reviews and you will see how great 
 this game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyjoesh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  awesome game!!!!!! buy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it awesome game!!!!!! buy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy it awesome game!!!!!! buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it awesome game!!!!!! buy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it 
 buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it awesome game!!!!!! buy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy it awesome game!!!!!! buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy itbuy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achmed_Assassin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Gamespot has made a huge blunder. This game is NOT a 6.0, it is 
 a 10.0. The plot is not easy to follow, granted, but if you pay attention, you will have absolutely 
 no difficulty understanding the main events of the game. It may take a second playthrough to catch 
 all the minor details, but this game has what I believe is the best plot in any recent videogame 
 release. 
  This game occurs 3 years after Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance for Gamecube and is divided into 4 
 chapters. The country of Daein has lost the war with Crimea, and the Begnion Empire has occupied 
 Daein. After terrible acts by the governing General Jarod, a group of freedom fighters known as 
 the Dawn Brigade rise up to fight against the occupational forces to free their countries. Events 
 occur through animated chat sequences, cut scenes or on a grid-based battlefeild. After the events 
 in Daein, you'll change characters, and view what's happening in Crimea, where a rebelion threatens 
 young Queen Elincia. The nobles of the country are unsatisfied with her way of ruling and her choice 
 of allies. This chapter has probably the most shocking of all cut scenes in it, as well as a major 
 spoiler, so please, if you're going to play the game, don't go look for this scene. Anyway, the 
 third chapter reunites you with some old friends and they lead an army of half beasts to fight 
 against the Begnion Empire. The fourth and final chapter sees all three different armies unite 
 to fight a higher threat. 
  So much for the plot, the gameplay takes place on an environment divided as a grid. Units move 
 across the grid one turn at a time. You move and attack, then your enemy moves. Sometimes, you 
 also gain allied units, which you can give general commands to, and "other" units, who can usually 
 be recruited for your army. Strategy, as well as some luck, are very important, as some units will 
 perform better against certain foes and terrible against others. Adding to the importance of strategy, 
 if one of you're units die, they're gone forever. On the plus side, Priests, Bishops and Saints 
 can all heal your units as well as some special, but common, items.
  The game is not without flaws, but they're so minor that it's easy to overlook them. Some levels 
 can be rather difficult unless you follow one very specific plan, and sometimes, recruitable units 
 will attack you and die before you can convince them to join you.
  On the whole, this is a great strategy fantasy experience the should not be missed. Playing the 
 Gamecube version first would be smart, but isn't necessary as the game does a good job of filling 
 in the blanks. Fire Emblem fans will not be disappointed, nor will anyone else who is willing to 
 put some quality time into this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is the latest game in Nintendo and Intelligent System's beloved strategy 
 franchise, the tenth in the series although only the fourth to hit American shores. Gamers have 
 counted on the series for almost twenty years to deliver a fast-paced and fun strategy experience, 
 and always got it, as the series, for better or for worse, has tendency to stick with the familiar. 
 Now that the series has made its way to the Wii, which has been constantly praised for its innovation, 
 has it tried anything new or will it stay with what was previously established?
  
  In a rare case of direct sequelage, Radiant Dawn takes place three years after Crimera defeated 
 Daein in Path of Radiance. Crimera, who was without enough resources to rule another country, gave 
 Daein over to the neighbouring region of Begnion, who sent in occupation forces. When their new 
 rulers proved to be too oppressive for their liking, a group of renegades called the Dawn Brigade 
 try to thwart Begnion and bring Daein's royal family back to power.
  
  The story is definitely not the most compelling you can find on the system, and neither are the 
 characters. While a couple of them do have really good personalities, Micaiah for instance, others 
 seem to be saints, helping and protecting the innocent at no matter what the cost to themselves. 
 One mission early on will have you infiltrating an armory with a full battalion stationed inside 
 just to get some old geezer's medicine. Very gracious of the Dawn Brigade, certainly. But do they 
 have any common sense? Would they rather go on some crazy mission where every odd is against them 
 for the good of one person then try to liberate their country? Despite the somewhat unbelievable 
 characters, however, Radiant Dawn's story is fairly good for the most part. You'll never feel confused, 
 and despite the main characters trying to bring the country that was evil in Path of Radiance back 
 to power, you'll almost always be aware of who's right and who's wrong.
  
  As always in the Fire Emblem games, you play as your party's strategist. Your role in each battle 
 is to ensure the victory of your characters, by accomplishing a preset objective; kill all enemies 
 or escape an area, for example. While controlling your troops, you have a number of tools and commands 
 at your disposal. If you want to move your troops towards an enemy while staying at a safe vantage 
 point, you can check your opponent's attack radius with the touch of a button. You can also check 
 a unit's status in about two seconds if you know what you're looking for.
  
  There is command after command to issue your units, and after you get good at the game, you can 
 figure out what to use at pretty much every moment in battle to get you the upper hand. Off the 
 top of my head, you can move your units around, attack enemy units in your attack radius, pick 
 up and protect a smaller unit, trade items with an ally, use items on yourself, shove an ally out 
 of the way of danger... There are incredible amounts of options, all waiting for the right moment 
 to be used; so many, in fact, that some gamers may find it a bit overwhelming. Still, figuring 
 out what to use and when has always been half the fun of the series and that holds true here. 
 
  
  The other half of the fun comes from figuring out how to use each of your characters. Each character 
 has its own distinct class; and each class has its own list of unique abilities. You're given a 
 solid set of characters from the start of the game; your Light Mage, Micaiah, can attack from either 
 one or two spaces away, allowing her to attack soldiers or archers without fear of a counterattack. 
 There's a Fighter who relies on the brute force of axes to bring down his foes. There's also a 
 Rogue, which is like a thief, only he can take care of himself; you'll use him in hand to hand 
 combat as often as you'll use him to loot chests and steal from foes.
  
  More important than class abilities, however, are the weapons. Much like classes, weapons have 
 varied characteristics which make sure you know each one's strength and weaknesses. For example, 
 the weapon triangle which appeared in pretty much every other game is intact - swords beat axes, 
 axes beat lances, lances beat swords. While you will come across weapons that don't fit into the 
 triangle (knifes, bows, etc.) you'll mainly use the main three types, so obviously, knowing what 
 beats what will be crucial to victory. The magic triangle from Fire Emblem 7 also makes its triumphant 
 return; light mages are no longer the weak link because they can best dark magic. Dark beats anima 
 (fire, thunder, etc.) and anima beats light. Any way you look at it, you're getting an incredibly 
 deep strategy experience for your cash.
  
  Easily the worst aspect of the game, the presentation looks and feels like a Gamecube game for 
 its entire (40 hour plus) duration. Intelligent Systems has decidedly taken out waggle, IR, online 
 multiplayer (the game is actually played with the Wii remote on its side, but you can actually 
 use a Gamecube controller) ; in short, anything that would make this a Wii game. And that really 
 is sad. While some fans say Fire Emblem any other way just wouldn't be Fire Emblem, to me, it just 
 feels like either laziness or cowardice on the developers' part. Look at what Nintendo has done 
 to some of its other franchises! Two years ago, we would have shuddered at the prospect of Mario 
 or Zelda with waggle, or StarFox with stylus control. But Nintendo has managed to pull them all 
 off beautifully! Even Intelligent Systems themselves have made a Wii game into a Wii game with 
 Super Paper Mario. So it's not like they're inexperienced or anything! Super Paper Mario did have 
 waggle/IR, if only minimally. It could be distinguished as a Wii game, where everything in Radiant 
 Dawn would hardly make the Gamecube break a sweat.
  
  Yes, everything. If you've already seen the screenshots then you already know Radiant Dawn features 
 graphics which do absolutely nothing to push the little white box; in fact, in many instances the 
 game hardly excels over its predecessor, Path of Radiance (which was, you know, kinda ugly) . Some 
 texture problems have been fixed, the battle animations flow a lot better, the FMVs are simply 
 breathtaking, and the character portraits have been much improved. But still; there's nothing here 
 which couldn't have been done on the Gamecube.
  
  If you're one of the hardcore Nintendo fans who feels the Big N has deserted you in favor of simpler 
 games for simpler gamers, then Radiant Dawn is for you. It's easily the most hardcore game I've 
 played on the Wii thus far in its lifespan... and despite the mild ranting above, it's one of the 
 most enjoyable games on the system. But casual gamers, be warned: this is not a good entry point 
 to the hardcore world. If you're looking for a hardcore Wii game, I'd definitely suggest Super 
 Paper Mario, Twilight Princess, Metroid Prime 3 or Super Mario Galaxy over Radiant Dawn; they are 
 much more forgiving in their difficulty and you actually may complete them! But if you're already 
 an established tactician, there's no reason not to pick up a copy of Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitaltiger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game even though some have under-valued it. The pros and cons of this game 
 really depend on what the player likes. This game is hard and some people like the challenge while 
 others just want to breeze through the game, I liked the difficultly. I enjoyed the plot, it wasn't 
 a masterpiece but it was good. There were a few places where I was surprised and it was well thought 
 out. The game play is good and fairly strait forward, no silly gimmicks to slow the pace down. 
 The graphics are ok but this easily could have been release on the Game cube and has a very Game 
 cube feel to it. There are two things that I feel they should have done to really improve the game 
 though. First; I wished all the dialog had voice actors; I really enjoy games that do that. Second; 
 some of the characters don't get leveled up enough because I didn't get enough missions with them, 
 specifically the Dawn Brigade. Over all it's a great game and I recommend it highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbabud
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a great game to add to the series. This game has a lot to offer that 
 hasn't been seen in other Fire Emblems. For example a 3rd tier class is available to promote to 
 extending the limits of experience. Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn has key things to offer that make 
 it a must have. First off the game play is similar to POR's (Path of Radiances) , with a few tweaks. 
 Also the story is not a boring little fairy tale; it is almost a perfect addition to pick up from 
 where POR left off. Lastly the difficulty for this game is just right not too hard and not to easy. 
 The game play for Radiant Dawn is not entirely the same as PoR's. It has a few additions to it 
 that should satisfy the fire emblem gamers. One new feature it offers is an opportunity of a third 
 class. With this third class comes a special skill that you receive automatically, these skills 
 are a great asset in helping you achieve your goal in the game. Another new feature is the support 
 system which has been tweaked nicely to the users liking. The support system now tells you the 
 exact bonuses you receive, and you receive them as long as you stay within a few spaces of your 
 teammate.
  
  The story of Radiant Dawn starts in Daien which had lost a war in PoR. The game doesn't just stay 
 in Daien that is only part 1, there are 4 parts to this game each one focusing on something different. 
 Part 2 is all about Crimea and the issues of rebuilding the country with angry citizens, and a 
 fear of an uprising. Part 3 is the beginning of a war between the entire continent once again. 
 I won't go much into Part 4 seeing that it is a spoiler for all those who haven't beaten the game 
 yet. There are some shocking twists that you won't see coming keeping you completely enthralled 
 in the story. The difficulty is not too hard and not too easy. Personally I have played it on normal, 
 but I know a friend who's played it on easy. Easy is a good way to start out for all those who 
 haven't played a whole lot of Fire Emblem, but if you have played a lot of games in this series 
 normal would be just the right amount of difficulty for you. This game will make you think on what 
 move you want to make but is definitely not impossible to beat. Might take a few tries but what 
 game doesn't. All in all Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a must have addition to the series and will 
 not let you down. The story will keep you into this game until you have completed it. The difficulty 
 will not make this game a quick 10 hour rental, and never playing it again. This game will keep 
 you enthused for a long time and you will want to play it more than just one time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheetacuz007
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Radiant Dawn is the fourth Fire emblem game to reach North American shores and it is pretty much 
 just like Path of Radiance with a few changes. Along the journey you will add to your group with 
 new characters ranging from an Armored Sword to a Dracoknight. While the depth in classes can make 
 it difficult to choose which characters to bring into battle, you will often find yourself just 
 choosing the ones with the highest level. Another new feature is that whenever a unit dies in battle, 
 their dead! There is no way to bring back the character other than restarting the battle, which 
 brings in the midbattle save.
  Speaking of difficult, this game is by far the hardest of the series. You will be restarting the 
 battle a lot because of losing your allies.
  A plus for the game is the beautiful cut scenes that there are limited amounts of. But when there 
 is one, you can't take your eyes off the screen. Otherwise, the story is told through dialogue 
 boxes with the character's head beside it. 
  So you're probably wondering, how's the story. Radiant Dawn starts off with a group of "bandits" 
 known as the Dawn Brigade who are trying to liberate their home country of Daein from the occupying 
 Begnion Army. Micaiah is the leader of the Dawn Brigade and is know by the people of Daein as the 
 Silver-Haired Maiden. So, will Micaiah and the Dawn Brigade free Daein from Begnion's grasp. Well, 
 you'll have to play the game to find out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: notwearingawire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem - Radiant Dawn is not a perfect game... but it's nowhere near as bad as Gamespot's 
 reviewer makes it out to be. Unfortunately, people who might really enjoy this game could easily 
 be turned off by Gamespot's review.
  
  I have played one Fire Emblem game in the past, on the GBA, and I didn't beat it. I didn't play 
 the GC predecessor to this game. I have never played any other turn-based tactical game. Therefore, 
 I wouldn't call myself a die-hard fan of the genre or the series. Even so, I think this is a fun, 
 enjoyable, and challenging game that really makes you think and plan ahead. (It reminds me a lot 
 of chess, actually.)
  
  First, the good points:
  
  - The tutorial system is well-implemented, allowing you to skip tutorials as desired, and explains 
 vital gameplay information for new players, or those who might be a little rusty.
  - The interface is fairly intuitive. I haven't needed to crack the manual to figure out how to 
 do something.
  - There are great resources to help you keep track of the storyline, such as a glossary of terms 
 that grows as you come across new things and a character tree that shows how the characters that 
 you meet throughout the game relate to one another. This is especially helpful as the story weaves 
 from one group of characters to another.
  - The cel animations are visually appealing.
  - The game is challenging, but not impossible. With careful planning and patience, you can complete 
 entire battles without losing anyone and having to reset, and still get your weaker characters 
 into the action so they can gain XP and level up. (My boyfriend says he can't stand to watch me 
 play because I put so much time and tactical analysis into every turn... but it works for me!)
 
  - The storyline is interesting and engaging.
  - The game is just fun!
  
  Then, the bad points:
  
  - The Wii controls are not taken advantage of at all. To me, this 
 is not as big of a deal because I can't think of a way they could be used that would add to the 
 game in a meaningful way.
  - The dialog is sometimes very cheesy or predictable. The worst offenses happen in the side storylines 
 (see: Meg and Zilark) . The main storyline is okay, for the most part.
  - The animated (as opposed to static) game graphics are sorta weak. They're a little angular and 
 boxy... low polygon count.
  - The gameplay is challenging and does take patience and forethought... if you're looking for a 
 lot of action, this game is not for you. This game would probably not be much fun for kids, unless 
 they're the kind of kids that like to play chess or Risk.
  
  
  Overall impressions: If you're willing to give this game the time and patience it requires, I think 
 you'll really like it - storyline/graphical/control faults notwithstanding. The variety of scenarios 
 and the permanent death mechanic really make you think and plan; not many games have such a severe 
 penalty for mistakes, and so the challenge level increases, but not so much that you'll just get 
 frustrated and want to quit. Fire Emblem - Radiant Dawn will not appeal to all gamers, but if you 
 like a challenge and have the patience needed for in-depth tactical planning, then don't pass this 
 game up just because of Gamespot's review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessSamus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn it probably the worst game scored ... according to the critics. But i 
 must argue that fact .Because I loved it, the story maybe a little rushed but you will notice that 
 it actually is still a good story. The gameplay is still the same as path of radiance but with 
 new magic spells and weapons and enemies. Some things have been altered: for ex. wyverns are no 
 longer affected by bows and only affected by lightning (or is that the other way around?) well, 
 i know its something like that.
  
  Gameplay 9.0 - Still the same good ol turn-based strategy that fire emblem always delivers
  
 
  Graphics 8.5 - Pretty good ... for a gamecube game
  
  Sound 8.5 - Pretty good ... for a gamecube game
  
  Value 9.5 - Longer than path of radiance 
 and most fire emblem games, thereofre earning a 9.5 in this category
  
  overall - 9.0, definite must buy for al Fire Emblem fans ... hands down!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafasosa
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that a Fire Emblem game was being developed for the Wii I couldn't do anything but 
 wait patiently for its release. And the wait was worth it. This game has the right difficulty for 
 every player, if you are new to the series then you pick easy, but that doesn't mean that it will 
 be a piece of cake, because the game challenges you. And if you pick other difficulty it will be 
 a lot harder to beat and the game will have a few surprises for you. 
  
  This game is the sequel of Fire Emblem Path of Radiance, and is ubicated three years after the 
 events of that game. If you have this game in your collection you can import some of your data 
 to the sequel. 
  
  If you are worried about this game being a sequel do not worry, because the story is explained 
 very well and if there is any reference to the last game it will be explained
  
  The game is divided in four parts each one having its story and characters. The first one is the 
 liberation of Daein, and in here you control Sothe and Micaiah and the Dawn Brigade, the second 
 part is about an uprising in Crimea, the third part is the war between the Laguz and Begnion, here 
 you can control the Greil Mercenaries; and the last part I'm not going to spoil it for you. Although 
 this game is divided in parts the entire different parts story has something to do with the last 
 part you played, that causes that there isn't four different stories but one long immersive chain 
 of events.
  
  Each part is divided in chapters that follow this scheme: Story and events, a base in which you 
 make preparations, more story/events, the battle itself and the consequences of the battle.
  
  The battles are turn based and they go like this: player phase, allies phase (if there are 
 any) , enemy phase and other phase (if there are any) . Each battle has an objective and it isn't 
 always routing the enemy, it changes with every battle some of the objectives are rout the enemy, 
 defeat the boss and escape, just to mention some of them
  
  The music in the game is pretty varied and it changes depending if you are attacking or being attacked, 
 it also changes with the characters that you play with, more over it changes with how the situation 
 changed after the battle and so on, to be brief there are over 80 songs in the game.
  
  There are very little bad features in the game, which are: some parts of the story are pretty hard 
 to believe and very unlikely to be true. Another bad point is that with the constant changing of 
 characters the first units you play with are likely to be every thing but usefull and the problem 
 is that you will have to use the in the last parts of the game putting them in loads of trouble. 
 And the other bad point is that if you lose a unit you will lose it forever, meaning that you have 
 to move them with care.
  
  About the controllers you can play with the wiimote in horizontal position (this is the default 
 setting) whit the wiimote held vertically, using the classic controller or you can use a GameCube 
 controller if you have one. With everyone has a different button set up, and if you played Fire 
 Emblem Path of Radiance the controller set up is the same.
  
  In conclusion it is very good game with enough twist to keep you waiting for what is going to happen 
 next. It has a very nice soundtrack, a difficulty that grows with the game (begins easy but in 
 the end is not so easy) , has a lot of know and new characters with personalities defined perfectly. 
 If you have played any Fire Emblem game you will know what to do in every part of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn for the Nintendo Wii is by no means a simple pick-up-and-play game. For 
 those that see a difficulty setting and immediately go for the highest difficulty will in no way 
 enjoy this game. There are three settings in Radiant Dawn, and each setting stays true to its name. 
 Easy is fairly easy to play through, but still having enough challenge to not be overly boring. 
 Normal however (the highest difficulty without unlocking Hard Mode) , is brutal from the start. 
 Normal difficulty will put those that are unprepared in their place, most likely causing up to 
 even twenty tries on a single mission before completing it successfully. That being said, Radiant 
 Dawn is more of a love-hate kind of game, for those that want a challenge this is your game, for 
 those that want a simple game stay clear.
  
  Radiant Dawn plays similar to other Fire Emblem games, or members of the Strategy Genre. You move 
 your units around on a board trying to accomplish a specific goal ranging from killing all enemies, 
 killing the leader, or just getting your own leader to a certain point on the map. The different 
 objectives are fairly diverse, so you will not constantly be going for the same objective every 
 mission. Something that can still add to the game, is that the objectives also vary by difficulty 
 level, some more difficult things like killing every enemy, might appear more on a higher difficulty.
 
  
  Like previous Fire Emblem games, if you lose a character you lose them for good, but if you lose 
 a major character, or a character that still plays a role later on at some point, it is Game Over. 
 On a low difficulty this is no problem because rarely will you lose a unit, but on a higher difficulty 
 this is the cause of much frustration. The variety of units however is still very impressive. There 
 are plenty of different characters ranging from Archers to Swordsmen, as well as Mages and the 
 Laguz returning from Path of Radiance. Each unit has different strengths and weaknesses that will 
 force you to keep an eye out on every possibility of danger that may approach them.
  
  The story is fairly questionable however as to how everything unfolds. I will not reveal any parts 
 of the story, but things do get very strange later on and you might begin to wonder how you got 
 to where you are now. Characters are usually given to you during given parts of the game or under 
 certain in battle conditions that you meet. The development of these characters however, is very 
 minuscule, very rarely will you learn more about a character that is not part of the main story 
 itself. 
  
  Radiant Dawn features a variety of cut-scenes at key moments in the game to help bring the story 
 together or draw you further in. These scenes are very well done and do just what they are meant 
 to do, they will draw you in. The voice acting for some characters is questionable, but other than 
 that the sound effects and most character voices work very well and add to the experience.
  
  If you are a gamer looking for a challenge and love Strategy games, this is definitely a game 
 to look for. The story alone on one play through lasts around 35 hours on easy with very little 
 restarting of levels. However, if you are not so 'strategic' yourself, this might not be the game 
 to play. On easy mode the game is far more enjoyable if you are playing for the story, but if all 
 you want is a brutal challenge, Normal and Hard modes will give it to you. With a few unlockables 
 for beating the game, or slight twists in a second playthrough (or more) , the game is worth checking 
 out and does warrant at least two playthroughs to find everything in Radiant Dawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  They weren't kidding when they called this a "strategy" game. Since the death of any main character 
 (or sometimes of any character at all) in any battle spells an immediate "Game Over", the slightest 
 of errors in your thinking and planning will often lead to an instant end to your game. The challenge 
 is nice in a way, though, since it means you really have to think your tactics through, which leads 
 to a greater feeling of reward for successfully completed battles. They did overdo the challenge 
 a bit though, as this extreme "one false move and you're dead" philosophy should have been reserved 
 for the more difficult challenge ratings. I started the game on "Normal" difficulty, and am considering 
 switching over to "Easy" since it frequently takes me 5-7 tries to win a particular battle, and 
 while not an expert, I consider myself pretty skilled in the strategy genre.
  
  Aside from the excessive challenge, the game is nice but not amazing. The graphics are good, but 
 seem under-achieving for the Wii. The sound is fine, and what you would expect from a game of this 
 type. Hopefully the replay value will be good since you acquire many characters to play with, but 
 I haven't gotten far enough to make that determination yet.
  
  I'm giving this game a "Rent it first" rating because you should really, REALLY play this game 
 a bit before committing $50 to it, just to make sure you're willing to put up with the recurring 
 desire to break the disc in half or throw your Wii Remote through the TV after your tenth failed 
 attempt to complete even the 4th or 5th battle of the game because you accidentally left the enemy 
 a path to a character that can't survive one hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay3695
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Radiant Dawn is absolutely one of the best games i've played recently it has a great story plot 
 and awesome game play. this game features alot of characters from the game before it and includes 
 alot of new ones also. the game is a little challenging but fun, it can be really difficult if 
 your trying to keep everyone alive which i do because like all fire emblems if you lose a character 
 then they don't come back, adding to the challenge. This game is an amazing strategy rpg that has 
 some great cut scenes best graphics of any fire emblem. But one of the best things of this game 
 has got to be the main characters, such as Ike also the main character of the last game, in this 
 game he just becomes more god like his skills are superb and they need to be to beat the endgame. 
 But i don't want to spoil anything in the game, so to say the least this game is beyond exelent, 
 it does take some skill and time though so if your not a strategy type gamer then you mite want 
 to back off this game, and just possibly this game is only for a hard-core fire emblem lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people are going to overlook this game. Why? Because of Super Mario Galaxy, Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl, and "Generic FPS with Wii-controls # 17". It is really a shame, as Fire Emblem: Radiant 
 Dawn is a fantastic game with a great story and engaging characters.
  
  If you have never played Fire Emblem before, specifically Path of Radiance, do not let that stop 
 you from diving in now. Even though Radiant Dawn is a continuation of Path of Radiance, it is not 
 necessary to have played the prequel. Radiant Dawn is set 3 years after the events of Path of Radiance. 
 After Ike and his Greil Mercenaries successfully defeated evil King Ashnard and the country of 
 Daein, sanctions were imposed upon Daein to "keep the peace". We pick the story up as the country 
 to the south, Begnion, has established a military presence in the country of Daein to ensure no 
 more uprisings take place. The problem is that the Begnion senate has allowed the military presence 
 to oppress and subjugate the Daein people who are without a king.
  
  Enter our first main character, Micaiah, a citizen of the country of Daein and leader of the Dawn 
 Brigade. She seeks to rid Daein of the enslaving rule of Begnion occupation forces. Will she succeed? 
 Who will rule Daein if she does? Meanwhile, what has happened to Queen Elincia as she rebuilds 
 Crimea and where is Ike? All of these questions will be answered in a story consisting of four 
 parts full of political agendas, backbiting, deceit, and constant conflict.
  
  This is a strategy RPG, as you can tell from my superscription above. Basically, each of the four 
 parts are divided into chapters. Each chapter contains a map on which you will battle. The map 
 is layed out on a grid system. Each character takes their turn moving on the squares, some farther 
 than others. You will think quite a bit before you move any of your characters. To speed things 
 up, I would suggest you turn off the battle animations and set the battle speed to max. Make sure 
 to protect the small and weak fighters with the tough ones. If not, you will die in one or two 
 hits. The enemy will not hesitate to target the weakest character if they can get to them. If your 
 character dies, they are actually gone. You can't revive them at all.
  
  The beauty of this system is that when you do get attached to the characters (and you will) , you 
 will not want to keep going if one of them dies. It makes for a few resets here and there; but 
 generally, if you make good decisions and play defensively, you will be ok. Besides, if you play 
 in Easy or Normal mode, there is a battle save option that can save alot of time if you have to 
 reset. By the way, I recommend using the Classic Controller.
  
  The battles follow a rock, scissors, paper triangle mechanic; atlthough it is Lances, Swords, and 
 Axes in the game. Lance beats sword, sword bests axe, and axe takes out lance. Simple but effective. 
 There are more advantages like terrain, magic, support relationships, skills and weapon levels, 
 but I will allow you to discover that on your own. That is what the great in-game tutorials are 
 for.
  
  I can truthfully say that one of the things that kept me thinking about the game during the day 
 at work was the character growth system. It is obsessive. The only way to get experience for a 
 character is to attack and defeat enemies. In this way, the game forces you to choose who to focus 
 on for leveling and who to leave out. You do get some bonus experience at the end of each chapter, 
 but it is good to save it for later when you need to cap your chosen characters for the final battles. 
 Each time your character grows 21 levels, they class up and become more powerful and even look 
 different. When you get to the 3rd and final tier, your characters are powerful and have some really 
 cool skills. It is very satisfying to watch a character go from a weak baby barely able to defend 
 themselves to a powerful soldier that strikes fear and terror in the hearts of the enemy.
  
  I am not going to lie to you and say that the graphics will blow Super Mario Galaxy out of 
 the water. Geez... they barely hold a candle to Trauma Center. Radiant Dawn could have been played 
 on the Gamecube. It has no special Wii remote features at all. Do not be discouraged by this. It 
 is not the graphics that make this game great. It is the story, the characters, and the insane 
 amount of management you can apply to your characters that will draw you in. Having to choose which 
 characters to build up and which relationships to create is so much fun.
  
  I can't recommend Fire Emblem enough. Sure, it is not for everyone, but it is an experience and 
 a delight that every RPG fan who owns a Wii should partake of at some point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Fire Emblem and even if you aren't, this game is THE must own Turn- based Strategy 
 this year. The story is, unlike the critics so wrongfully deducted, a complex masterpiece, which 
 ties in perfectly to Path of Radiance (its predessecor) . The sound is outstanding and the booming 
 exotic sounds from your stereo and brilliant orchestral music will blow you away. A big point Gamespot 
 put up was the lack of motion controls, Ask yourself this: How do you put motion controls in a 
 turn-based strategy? Anybody who plays this game would understand there is no place for motion 
 controls possible. The only thing it would contribute is difficulty moving your character to the 
 desired space. Furthermore, critics ponder why they didn't just release it for 360 or PS3. Obviously, 
 Intelligent Systems and Fire Emblem are loyal to Nintendo consoles and anyone who bought Path of 
 Radiance on Gamecube would trust it to be on the next generation of Nintendo Consoles. And then 
 they complain about the graphics? The Top down animation is a classic to the Fire Emblem series 
 and the battle animation is both crisp and detailed and the scenery is refreshingly realistic. 
 The conversations between battle are played out on a Cartoon style text driven format, with the 
 occasional incredibly high quality cinematic. What more could you possibly ask for graphically? 
 The only thing the critics got correct was the hard difficulty level, which is occasionally tedious, 
 as you have to restart when a main character dies. However, the new level class and incredibly 
 deep strategic elements mitigate this. The difficulty gets smoother later on but if you are looking 
 for a great challenge or an incredible RPG then this is the easiest game to reccomend. I beg you 
 to ignore the baseless criticisms of Gamespot and give Radiant Dawn a try, whether new to the series 
 or a veteran, You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helmetVIII
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  What the hell is wrong with the critics?
  Why are they saying this game is hard?
  What have they against the plot?
  What is wrong with this game not making use of the wiimote?
 
  Is the plot to complicated for some to understand?
  Would the game be better had it been made for the ps3 because then it would not half to adapt?
 
  
  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn was made as a sequel to the gamecube's Fire Emblem Path of Radiance. Of 
 all the Fire Emblems in the Series, Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is the longest and has the most complex 
 storyline. A few new features have been added that were not present in the previous game. In Fire 
 Emblem Radiant Dawn, skills could be removed from your characters and would not removed from your 
 inventory. Meaning a player could remove the shill "Parody" from Astrid and give it to a more usefull 
 character so that he could level up twice as fast. Many more usefull skills have been added to 
 the game providing many different benifits. Another addition to Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a second 
 class change. That's right, once your Myrmidon has changed to a Sword master, he can further change 
 to a Trueblade. This alows for 20 more level ups. The stats also get much higher in this game. 
 player stats get as high as 40 (excluding HP) , but last chapter boss stats can get as high as 50. 
 Some other improvements include; more item usage (8 vulneraries) , more 3 star rated info conversations, 
 and more items to be found on the maps. All these new additions add more excitement to the game 
 and since the game has more chapters than any previous Fire Emblem, players can enjoy more hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  There are only a few flaws in this game. One is that Ike does not look as cool as he did in the 
 previos Fire Emblem. He has no sleve on his right arm and his neck is so thick it almost makes 
 him look chubby. Another flaw is that the storiline keeps switching between three groups, Ike's 
 Elincia's and Micaiah's. The worts part about this is that in some chapters two of those groups 
 are fighting each other. It is especially annoying in the chapter where Ike is the boss. If they 
 had altered this game's storyline to be more like the gba's Fire Emblem game (the one with Eliwood) 
 where the game begins with Lyndiss as the main character but after 10 chapters Eliwood becomes 
 the main character. If Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn did something like that and used Micaiah as the 
 main character then switched to Ike in about the tenth chapter and had Ike's team Elincia's team 
 and Micaiah's teem join early in the game rather than the last chapter this game would have been 
 amazing. If they did that and had Ike's appearences fixed, this game would have been nearly perfect. 
 I must admit I honestly think this game deserves around 8.6/10. But I just had to boost it to 10 
 to make up fr the fact this game is so underappreciated. This game is not hard. There are a few 
 levels that are challenging, but if you favour the right characters and use skills and bonus exp 
 correctly, each character you use will easily reach the max level before the last battle, each 
 of those characters will have maxed more than half their stats and the game will be just as easy 
 to beat as any other Fire Emblem game. It is true that enimies will do more damage, it is also 
 true that weapons are harder to come by especially since you earn less money than in previos fire 
 emblems, but this is all made up for with all the ss ranked weapons aswell as the fact that they 
 can become blessed in the last chapter and recieve infinite uses and it is also made up for by 
 the fact that most enemies have such low skill speed and luck that they will miss nearly 70% of 
 the time. Also some characters can hit criticals as much as 50% of the time (not always) . Most third 
 classes have a skill that boosts there critical rates. Doesn't that make the game easier? There 
 is an ss ranked weapon for about half the characters you use in the final chapter and they also 
 become blessed. Doesn't that make the game easier?
  As for the storyline, it is similar to all the other fire emblems the main difference being that 
 it switches between the three groups. It pisses me off how this game is rated so low. At game rankings 
 it; s average rating is 80%. One of the main reasons it's average is so low is because of a certain 
 critic who does clealy does not appreciate this game.
  
  This game is not difficult unless the difficulty level you choose is difficult.
  I didn't have 
 reason to press the reset button every level only about every fithth level if a preist died or 
 something. I would only consider this game difficult if it is difficult enough for it to be HARD 
 to make it through the game. This game's difficulty is satisfactory not frustratingly difficult..
 
  The story is long, interesting and complicated not laughable.
  And lastly, some people should not be alowed to review games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  [This is my first real review on here, so I'll go in the following format: I'll give a little intro, 
 talk about little points, then give a final statement.]
  
  Fire Emblem is one of the least known major Nintendo franchises in the U. S. of A. Yes, I said major. 
 As in, in Japan, Fire Emblem's about as popular as Kirby and Pokemon and Metroid and all their 
 other Nintendo pals. Getting back to the point, it's a shame that these games didn't make it to 
 the west coast until the seventh time around (which America shamelessly named it "Fire Emblem", 
 as opposed to "Fire Emblem: Blazing Sword") , and even once it was in America, it was still incredibly 
 unpopular. Fire Emblem 7 has stopped production, and yet one can still find "Drake and Josh" and 
 "That's so Raven" and "Pokemon Ruby" in stores. Not to group Pokemon with the likes of the former 
 two, but the point I'm trying to make is that Fire Emblem has a certain subtlety that fast-paced 
 Americans usually can't handle. In order to enjoy the glory that is Fire Emblem, one must have 
 a patient mind, and a caring heart towards each and every character. Fire Emblem 9, also known 
 as Path of Radiance, was highly praised, though not to the extent of earlier games. Why? Because 
 its graphics weren't amazing. That's really all there was to it. The sequel on the Wii, radiant 
 dawn, does not too much to change this, but before I get too far into the game, let me actually 
 begin my review.
  
  Story: This game has an expansive, amazing story. You may get lost at times, but that may be because 
 they're using too may big words for you. Enemies betray enemies, allies betray allies, and a huge 
 network of plots is unfolded before you. The plot is so incredible, it beats the past three games 
 combined, perhaps. It had to be split into four parts to contain all of its greatness. To summarize 
 the plot, after Daein lost to Begnion and Crimea in the Mad King's War (Path of Radiance) , the 
 snooty senators back in Begnion have been treating Daein like crap, and believe it or not, there 
 are actually people in Daein who AREN'T douchebags. And so, a new war unfolds, first between Daein 
 and Begnion, but the war soon evolves in unexpected manners, causing it to erupt in a war between 
 The Laguz Alliance, a group consisting of the beasts of Gallia, the hawks of Phoenicis, and the 
 humans (beorc) of Ike's mercenaries, and Begnion, who have Daein beneath its heels. A complex, 
 twisted plot swirves everywhere all the time, giving the player an amazing adventure along the 
 way.
  
  Control: As many people have (probably) been bxching about, this is a Wii game with no motion sensing. 
 "OH NOES, IT'S THE END OF THE WORLD, THERE'S NO MOVING THE REMOTE AROUND AND SHXT." Firstly, a 
 game like this doesn't need motion control, and if it had it, it would probably be for a cheap 
 gimmick, or would be something useless like using it to change the camera angle, resulting in a 
 spazing television set, in the case that your remote happens to bug out while you play. The other 
 thing is, just cause it's on a motion-sensing system doesn't mean it needs motion-sensing qualities. 
 Do all DS games use the stylus? Do all Xbox 360 games have HD? If a man has a gun, does he hold 
 up a bank? The point is, just because a game CAN do something, doesn't mean it should. Motion sensing 
 aside, the controls are very firm. There are four different control options, similar to what Smash 
 will be like, so if you don't like using the remote, or if you want to feel nastolgic with the 
 SNES/Gamecube controller, than you have that option. And, unlike Smash Bros. (we all know it will 
 be this way) , the alternate controllers are actually USABLE. Try playing Smash with a sideways 
 remote, I dare you. The controls for FE10 feel similar to the Gameboy Advance controlls and, to 
 a certain extent, the Gamecube controls, and their simple enough, so newcomers to the series and 
 veterans alike will feel fine with their handy dandy remote.
  
  Graphics: This, of course, is the game's Achille's Heel. The truth that graphics lovers don't realize 
 is that a game such as this that uses your mind does not require the best of graphics. To be fair, 
 the graphics on the board screen look similar, if not identical, to the Gamecube graphics. However, 
 the FMV's, which have increased dramatically in number since Path of Radiance, fill in some gaps 
 of text blocks to give you little wows. The actual battles look much better. Characters with weapons 
 do not merely do the same motion over and again, but have a variety of swipes and swings to make 
 the game look more dynamic. The criticals and Occult moves (Aether, Astra, Savage, etc.) look exceptionally 
 good in the game, giving the player a short yet dazzling display of total pwnage. Characters in 
 the previous game whose attacks seemed incredibly robotlike, namely Laguz and magic users, are 
 vastly improved. Laguz have quicker and more varied attacks (as opposed to the single attack that 
 took forever in 9) , and magic attacks are much more beautiful and dazzling, especially since they 
 added many more high-grade magic with long movie-like explosions of light and whatnot. Sadly, though, 
 the only characters who weren't healed of this repetitive curse were winged units. However, because 
 they must attack and then fly back to where they were, consecutive attacks are hard to animate 
 whilst riding on a Wyvern. A large number of painting-like images help show the beauty of this 
 game, while not focusing too greatly on the graphics and away from the gameplay.
  
  Audio: Fire Emblem is truly one of the greatest musical games to have ever existed. Their beautiful 
 pieces always help bring out the mood of the situation. If a royal snob is walking down an alleyway, 
 a pompous tuba plays in the background. If enemies are about to overrun the allied camps, quick 
 brass and violin strokes help create a mood of desperation. If a sweet young girl and her closely 
 loved one are having a plesent conversation, delicate flutes and harps can be heard to give a pleasant 
 feeling. Although the music in the game is amazing and will cause you to hum it to yourself against 
 your will, there is one thing about the game that will cause even the highest of fans to cringe: 
 the voice acting. I, a great fan of the series, did not greatly mind the acting in Path of Radiance. 
 However, in Radiant Dawn, it just becomes horrible. I've been told that the English translators 
 of the game bragged on to no end about how amazingly they translated it. Yeah, that would be like 
 Shigeru Miyomoto years ago saying "The Wand of Gamelon will be the greatest game ever!" I'll be 
 a little easy on the game; there are a select few voice actors, such as Ranulf, Skrimir, Tibarn, 
 Sothe, Michaiah, and Zelgius, but some characters (Yune exemplifies this extremely) just sound 
 plain ricidulous when they talk.
  
  Length: This game is long. No, seriously. It is monstrously long. If you turn off battle animations 
 and play on easy mode, I'm sure the gametime can be cut much shorter, but what's the fun in that? 
 It is an incredible adventure that's over 40 chapters in length (each chapter can take anywhere 
 from half an hour to two hours) , not to mention cut scenes and (optional) info conversations that 
 not only increase the length of the game, but also clue you in on the characters' backstories and 
 futures. If you like it short, then skipping cutscenes, taking out battle animations, and ignoring 
 greater aspects of the game can trim it down, but with a game like this, why WOULD'NT you want 
 to play for hours on end? I played this game for 70 hours, and I'm proud of it.
  
  Replay Value: As I just said, this is a freaking long game. You'd expect a game like this to be 
 played once, then put on the shelf to rot for the rest of your days. On the contrary; once you've 
 completed the game, you'll be begging for more, desperately wanting to take another crack on a 
 harder mode. Only after playing the game once can the demonically difficult Hard Mode be unlocked. 
 Plus, there are plenty of bonuses that may only be unlocked once, such as more conversations and 
 being able to play as characters that you were required to kill the first time around. It may shred 
 through many hours of your life, but this is definitely a game worth giving a second shot (or even 
 a third, if you have the patience) .
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Boss Fights: Truth is, there isn't too much to boss fights. Most of them are just like normal units, 
 save some stronger stats and weapons. There are a few memorable and greatly enjoyable climactic 
 fights, including fights with the Black Knight, a monstrous dragon, and many more. Although the 
 boss fights aren't terrifically impressive as a whole, there's nothing bad about them, either.
 
  
  Final Boss: Those who have played the Fire Emblem series know that, usually, there is a final chapter 
 with a climactic boss, followed by a second part to the chapter and another, huger boss. FE6 had 
 Zelphius and the Dark Dragon, FE7 had Nergal and the Fire Dragon, and FE8 had Lyon and the Demon 
 King. FE9, however, dissapointed many with the somewhat anticlimactic fight with Ashnard, with 
 no follow-up battle. Well, if you played on hard mode, he'd come back to full health, but that 
 doesn't really count. Radiant Dawn, however, pays back for this. With interest. The final chapter 
 has you climbing the Tower of Guidance, encountering many new and old enemies along the way. Is 
 it a one part final chapter? No, of course not. Two? No. Three? Four? Nope... FIVE. It's a five-part 
 final chapter, each part epic in its own way. I won't spoil too much, but the very final boss fight 
 is as tough and amazing as they get, with a monstrously epic music score to accompany slashing 
 apart a god (yes, you fight a god, but I won't say more, lest I spoil the entire fourth quarter 
 of the plot) .
  
  Extras: Should you be a true and faithful Fire Emblem fan, you will finally be rewarded for your 
 faithfulness: if you have a completed Path of Radiance file on your GC memory card, you will get 
 a few bonuses added to your characters that bump up their stats a bit when nearby their comrads 
 from the past game. However... if you have an easy file on your card, your FE10 game will explode, 
 and the game will freeze. Nothing permanent, but it's frustrating. There are plenty other bonuses 
 as well, such as a sound room to enjoy all the great music, a cinema where you may watch the FMV's, 
 and more.
  
  Final Statement: Gamespot was really a big bunch of idiots while reviewing this game. "Laughable 
 plot"? That may be true, if they had only played for the first three chapters. This plot if probably 
 the greatest plot of any games I've ever played. Its graphics, although still crummy for a Wii 
 game, are good enough to satisfy anyone who has been enchanted by the great gameplay and story. 
 This is probably the greatest game in the series, competing only with 7. However, that game is 
 usually looked at as the best merely because, as Americans, it was our first. If they were released 
 in reverse order, I'm sure that this would be considered the greatest Fire Emblem, and tactical 
 game for that matter, of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: innocent_geek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  this game, which i rated a 6.5 for casual gamers, got the score i thought it deserved. this game 
 is a various dissapointment in many fields for all it's high expectations.
  
  i'l start with the graphics. there is nothing totally flawed about this game in this factor except 
 for one thing. for the best the graphics go, we could have seen this title on a gamecube disk. 
 this is not to say, however, that those of you casual gamers would totally reel in shock from the 
 low grade graphics. the game has some decent action sequences (where the combatants have more than 
 two moves for once.) and has some moderate level cutscenes, but without unit rings you can find 
 it almost impossible to differentiate your units from your enemy's. all over for graphics=6
  
  gameplay gets off to a better start with the classic system that never dies for die-hard fire 
 emblem fans. you choose which units you want to move, have them attack, support, or trade with 
 other members, then the enemy does the same. some new commands have been added since the previous 
 gameboy counterparts, such as the order command in the leader's options, the amount of items a 
 unit can carry, and the options at base. having not played fire emblem: path of radiance i can't 
 say which of these features are new, but there are some thing i know FE: PoR didn't have. one thing 
 i dot like about the gameplay, though, is its massive difficulty at the begining. the game designers 
 decided to make the first chapter increadably difficult as the story gives you some of the best 
 and worst units in the game simultaniusly. either the units dont grow fast, or they get horrible 
 stat increases at level up. once you get around this problem *snicker* the game can glide though 
 the plot with only the few occasional bumbs. gameplay=9
  
  speaking of plot, i guess i can point out some major points that this game starts on. we begin 
 around three years after FE: PoR with Daein stuck of the ruthless control of the militia empire 
 Begnion. their only hope lies in the dawn brigade: six people who resist the begnion army. at their 
 heat is micaiah, a. k. a.: the silver haired maiden who can heal without use of staves or tomes and 
 can see minor elements of the future. the story moves in jerks. sometimes big jerks that make little 
 sence to little jerks that just barely moves the idea along. there are only a few occasions where 
 the plot moves smoothly as far as i've gotten (chapter 3) . story=7
  
  i think this just about sums it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4motherussia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I was very surprised to see Gamespot be so critical of this game. Especially for topics such as 
 a weak storyline and punishing difficulty. 
  The storyline of the game follows along very well with the gamecube installment Path of Radiance, 
 it both continues and elaborates on many loose ends left in it's predecessor.
  
  I also found the controls for the game to be very pleasing. It is ignorant to expect every game 
 for the Wii to incorporate the motion technology of the remote. Nintendo understands that sometimes 
 people want to sit down and play a game, also this title simply would not support motion technology 
 very well, that doesn't mean that the game should simply be left in the dust. I for one am happy 
 to see that Nintendo is showing that it can still create excellent traditional games that do not 
 require the wii remote to function.
  
  The difficulty issue really bothered me though. The game is challenging yes, but why is that a 
 bad thing. If you can't beat the game on the harder difficulties then don't play on them. I find 
 it funny that a game like Ninja Gaiden which was not merely difficult but had a ridiculous difficult 
 level with a learning curve of "keep trying until you get lucky enough to kill the boss" was given 
 an excellent review and praised for its difficulty level. But when it comes to Fire Emblem Nintendo 
 is reproached for making a challenging game (where you can save mid battle by the way) . The Wii 
 is constantly criticized for having such easy games, so when they make a difficult game the reviewers 
 at gamespot gripe about it.
  
  Overall I found Fire Emblem to be an excellent game, the cut scenes are great the storyline will 
 make you want to keep playing just to see what will happen next. So if you want to play a challenging 
 turn based strategy game then Fir Emblem is perfect for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply magnificent. The story is complex and in depth and the needed strategy for 
 the game is incredible. Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is the follow up of the previous fire emblem 
 for the gamecube. There are three parts to the game (that i know of so far) and each has a different 
 story but they all tie in to eachother. The writers for this game disserve a standing ovation for 
 the plot because it is so in depth that it is almost mind blowing. Playing this game is like reading 
 a great novel but you can control the out come of it. There is alot of reading (as in all of the 
 fire emblems) but thats apart of the great experience of the game. Now when they say the game is 
 hard they are telling the truth. If you are an idiot who likes to run up on the enemy with no thought 
 envolved don't buy this game (this game is like a hero scape for the Wii) . If you like to strategize 
 to win a huge battle with dragons, beasts and humans you will love this game. Also this game should 
 only be played if you have played and beaten the previous fire emblem for the gamecube. If you 
 havent played that one you will not understand the story in this one and the game will be confusing. 
 Now this game is fantastic and a blast to play. It doesnt have great graphics or anything but easily 
 one of the best games for the Wii. Buy this game ( dont rent it ) if you have beaten the previous 
 game, if you are not an idiot and if you can read. This is a great and instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyperson111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Intro:
  Here it is! The Wii Fire Emblem game that many fans have been waiting for. This game touched up 
 and perfected the mechanics in Path of Radiance (which I think provides an important past play 
 info) Depending on what you think, it's the best, or worst of the Fire Emblems
  Difficulty:
  I'd like to address the difficulty first because so many people have said how hard 
 this game is. Honestly speaking, I've tested the "easy" difficulty setting to 5 newbies: 2 elementary, 
 2 middle, and one high schooler. All whom have no past experiences with the game. the middle and 
 high schoolers past chapter 6 without all or most of their team intact. One game experienced elementary 
 kid past chapter 6 with all of his characters, and the other failed to reach chapter 6 during the 
 afternoon. In conclusion, the difficulty is definitly not all that it's cracked up to be. Hwoever, 
 these were just newbies. I found that more experienced players are willingly to take more risks 
 in leveling up their underleveled characters and end up resetting more than often. However, I think 
 this is simply the player's fault and I thought that the difficulty was very smooth in easy mode 
 and a bit rougher on normal
  
  Game Mechanics:
  Radiant Dawn perfects the flawed system in Path of Radiance. For example, Path of Radiance didn't 
 show statistics during the battle (HIt MT CRT) : only before you control the character. Radiant 
 Dawn shows this and made my life so much easier. The Wii controls are strange, but doable after 
 the first few chapters. The stats in this game skyrocket because of third tiers. This makes skills 
 much more useful, but on the other hand, the skills seem to lose value because of that. Instead 
 of an annoying flash under the character when the skill is activated, there is a label and it does 
 help a bit. I liked how they made the maps bigger so movement became another part of tactics.
 
  
  About Battle Save. This is really important for new players, but especially for old returning players 
 who got frustrated restarting a whole chapter. It lets you "suspend" data but resume the suspended 
 data over and over again. Basically, saving mid-battle. And if you Battle Saved on the wrong part 
 of the chapter, then you can just restart the whole chapter. It balances the difficulty level and 
 randomizes the RNG so the same thing doesn't happen over and over again. Seriously, with this I 
 don't see why returning players feel that the game is too hard.
  
  Set up:
  The game is separated in 4 parts. It makes the story really seem long and indepth. THis game has 
 many many chapters if you add everything up. However, the separation of chapters is really different 
 compared with the other games. It serves as showing different sides to the same war. It's good, 
 but just so.... different. It really is up the the player's preference, whether they like it or 
 not. I found both to be true.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are definitly somewhat reminiscent of the GameCube game. Personally, I feel that they 
 touched it up the best they could. Criticals and skills look much more impressive than the other 
 game as well. The cutscenes look impressive but the voiceovers are not great. I was satisfied with 
 the graphics! Although some of the returning characters look way to buff for my taste :P
  
  Sound:
  They did something a bit different with sound in this game. For one thing, You have a 
 new battle song with each army:
  Dawn Brigade, Liberation (Daein) Army, Ike's mercenaries, Apostle's Army.
  You'll probably hear 
 the Daein Army and Ike's mercenaries the most. The battles songs are very enjoyable and instead 
 of restarting the song at every one on one battle, the song resumes from the last part of the song. 
 It's a new thing which took some getting used to but it really works fine like that. The quality, 
 I feel, is better than the other games, although Path of Radiance probably had more memorable themes. 
 The battles songs are the most memorable and enjoyable in my opinion. The GBA ones had the same 
 song rolling over and over, but it fit really nicely and for an odd reason, it never got old. But 
 PoR made a mistake in choosing that theme (The one that you'd hear over and over) and it got old 
 quite quickly, especially the second theme. But enough about PoR, we're talking about Radiant Dawn. 
 Overall, I was pleased with the music :D
  
  Story:
  This storyline is very unique, due the the four parts the game is in. Apparently, Micaiah is the 
 main lord, but I feel like Ike is also like... a co-Lord if you know what I mean. Each chapter is 
 very packed and it makes you want to finish the chapter even faster. I think the story makes the 
 chapter completions more enjoyable. The chapters don't get as old and frustrating. however, I (along 
 with many others) do complain about he pitiful support conversations. They are a line or two long, 
 they probably don't even qualify to be called support conversations. In this way, the storyline 
 is pretty deep, but that's it. You can't get more than the storyline provides. The other games 
 made the world seem more mysterious with the support conversations deepening the character personalities. 
 On one hand, I do understand how hard it may be to do this, especially since it is a direct sequel 
 and it might interfear with the previous game's supports, but I'm still disappointed with this. 
 The epilouge isn't satisfying either. Overall, this game has a large, packed storyline, which goes 
 over a lot of info, but doesn't strive deep in.
  
  The is a LONG game. a LONG LONG game. I can barely remember the first few chapters due the to large 
 storyline and chapters. It feels like an old memory, unlike a game, which makes me happy :D
  
  Overall, this game perfected little things which I appreciated. Tried a lot of new things, 
 some worked, somw didn't really. If you were solid on the other games, you'll probably enjoy the 
 game. If you are a new player, the storyline might leave you in the blue a bit. But that's how 
 sequels work (not GREAT sequels, but yea, it's fine)
  
  I give is 8.5/10 dues to the large preference levels and lack of better controls. Its good mechanics 
 but questioning setup, its long and large, but limitedly deep story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Simply put I will admit as a Fire Emblem fan this game is highly addictive. The gameplay is top 
 notch, and all in all its a good length, but i cant help but feel Nintendo and Intelligent Systems 
 dropped the ball on this one. 
  
  The biggest problem with this game is that while it is really well done in terms of gameplay; there 
 is no evolution. There is no evolution in gameplay, no evolution in graphics, and no evolution 
 in story telling either. However when looked at in terms of gameplay, challenge, and overall experience 
 Fire Emblem Radiant of Dawn is a good game, and a worthy purchase. 
  
  Moving on, Fire Emblem Radiant of Dawn is a direct sequel to the Gamecube Fire Emblem game Path 
 of Radiance (P. o. R) . WHich was a very well done game and at the time highly polished as much as 
 any other gamecube games. Radiant of Dawn starts off with the story of Mechiah a citizen of Daien (a 
 kingdom you defeat in the P. o. R) and her band of rebels who are trying to help rebuild Daien. Before 
 long the games storyline takes many plot twists, changes, and even branches out. You will end up 
 playing the game as up to 3 different parties at one point. You will learn how Queen Elencia's 
 reign is going, and you will eventually take over as Ike and his Greil Mercenaries (the heroes of 
 P. o. R) . 
  
  So This is how the game runs down. 
  
  Graphics- 5/10... Yes the visuals are that bad, I honestly have hard time believing the gamecube 
 game looked this bad. Terrible graphics and Wii games have somewhat gone hand in hand, but for 
 a Nintendo 1st party game there is no reason for this poor quality. Especially with how well done 
 and polished Metroid Prime 3 and Mario Galaxy are. The few times the game does however look brilliant 
 is the animated cutscenes, which actually look amazing. Its actually quite sad that there are to 
 few of them. 
  
  Sound- 8/10..... the sound in this game is solid. Typical Fire Emblem music, some nice scores for 
 battle, some are more gentle, some have the thunderous sound of war, and on top of that there is 
 some pretty good voice acting. The animated cutscenes have some nice simple dialogue and all in 
 all the voice actors did a great job. 
  
  Gameplay-9/10...... Now maybe this is bias, but I honestly can not really come up with many strategy 
 rpg games that actually play way better. Even Final Fantasy tactics will get a run for its money 
 from Radiant of Dawn. FIre Emblem in general has had good gameplay. In fact great even. The typical 
 rock, paper, sissors mechanic still applies as before but with a massive upgrade from Path of Radiance. 
 Now that may make you say "but what about no evolution" well it isn't. WHen i mean a massive upgrade, 
 I am referring to the challenge aspect of it. For one in Radiant of Dawn no longer can you get 
 away with just being higher levels or a higher class and expect to damage anything, this time by 
 it is harder to level up and it is also very difficult for the weaker weapon to do massive damage 
 no matter how much the level difference. Also unlike in P. o. R where no matter what your character 
 almost always got two hits, this time unless he has the right weapon or the speed advantage is 
 really significant you wont get many multiple swings. 
  
  Fire Emblem Radiant of Dawn and generally any Fire Emblem gameplay is about almos the same thing, 
 being maticulous in your approach, knowing your target's weaponary, positioning the right people 
 in front, and using ranged attackers as safe hitters or quick finishers. However there is a new 
 addition to this formula while not extreme does add a layer to the strategy. That is the assist 
 system. Before each battle you can assign 2 party members as each others allies and creat a bond 
 between them. As this bond grows, you will see the effects on field. For instance Gatrie (a Heavy 
 Armored character) and Shinon (A quick, precise and evasive archer) can have an assist bond. Shinon 
 can assist Gatrie in Battle by increasinve his evasion when next to each other on the battle grid. 
 Gatrie in turn gives Shinon an added Defense boost, helping him take on more hits. 
  
  The gameplay in action is very well done, responsive, strategic, thoughtout, and all in all addicting. 
 As each level passes and your characters go stronger the more you want to play. Thus the stronger 
 your assist bonds get, and the more dominating you can make your party (for the time being) . 
  
  Now for the flaws, like I said before there is no evolution in gameplay. Obviousaly its hard 
 to complain about it when the gameplay is so good and addicting, but for a wii game it also does 
 nothing to make it feel like a wii game. Although i do perfer the fact that there is no cheap added 
 on waggle in this game. 
  
  The other major flaw is just the difficulty. Its not much of a problem for a vet, but it is very 
 difficult for most gamers to create a balanced party, it wont be long before you have true powerhouses 
 and weaker links in your party. 
  
  All in all the gameplay of Fire Emblem Radiant of Dawn does not dissapoint. It is highly addictive 
 and is some of the best you can get on a strategy rpg. 
  
  Concept/intangibles-8/10 this is my specific scoring for the conceptual ideas of the game and the 
 intangibles of the game that either feel left out or are there but hard to explain. 
  
  Firse the storyline and plot is solid. Its not as laughable as gamespot would have you believe, 
 just dont expect great and outstanding. It is solid. There are some decent mature themes, and there 
 are some charming characters from the past. However one will feel jipped that no effort was put 
 into going deeper with these characters. There is almost no relation with Ike an Elencia, yet the 
 game gives no reason why for it. mechiah and Solfe share a bond as siblings in the story, but it 
 really never feels like they wanna go deeper into this relationship and add more charisma to it. 
 There are also many other characters that almsot feel wasted, when you can see obvious potential 
 such as the Raven King and the Hawk King. Both are very well done characters and have some interesting 
 stories to tell, but The game never acts upon them. ANyway by the end of the plot you will get 
 a sastisfying ending on what happens to all your party members, and yes there are alot. 
  
  Another thing that kept this score down were the cutscenes, why weren't they used more often. To 
 many times did you get terrible ingame cutscenes, or drawings and letter boxes. The reading honestly 
 kills any cinematic feeling, especially in todays age when those ideas are all but gone from consoles (unless 
 its a Nintendo game) . Personally i would have liked to atleast see more use of the great voice 
 actors next time by. 
  
  Now as for the intangibles of gameplay, a great feature was the save system which works well so 
 you dont screw up, because if a character is gone in battle, he is gone for good (unless he is a 
 main character) . This is all fine and dandy, but why is it that there is such a clear difference 
 between the strong and the useless. To many times do you get characters that are leveled up to 
 high for you to use them effectively or that you get characters that are honestly only worthy of 
 being field fillers for you and just enhancements to the storyline and side storylines of the game. 
 
  
  Those tend to be my major flaws with the game. 
  
  Value- All in all id say the value is a solid 8/10. For this much quality gameplay and the length 
 of the game and the sheer challenge of the game its hard to say you dont get your 50 bucks worth. 
 If you can get over the visuals, the lack of evolution, missed opportunities, and the high difficulty 
 you will realise that Fire Emblem of Radiant of Dawn is a solid Strategy RPG with great addictive 
 gameplay, good length that is missing from some modern games these days, and a great challenge 
 for Fire Emblem vets. However if you were expecting the next step forward for this franchise as 
 a great console franchise you will not only be left waiting for that but you will be left disapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn for the Wii is the tenth Fire Emblem game, and the fourth to come out 
 in the United States. It's a direct sequel to Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance. Is this game an old-school 
 rehash or a great strategy game for the Wii?
  
  The game play is just like all the other Fire Emblems; you control your units on a grid like system, 
 you and your enemy alternate turns. One thing you need to be aware of is that this game is hard, 
 very hard. This could turn off new comers, but anyone with patience will grow to like it. The game 
 is about 40 hours long on the medium difficulty, with about 50 chapters, making it the longest 
 Fire Emblem game. It's not too long though as the story needs this much time to shine. 
  
  And it does, Radiant Dawn as a great story. You really do need to play Path of Radiance, the GameCube 
 prequel, but if you do, you get an excellent story, and a fitting end to this two part tale. If 
 you don't play Path of Radiance, you could get confused, and you will most likely not understand 
 the story. The addition of optional support conversations add some depth to the story, but not 
 much, as the classic support conversations where you could get a lot of back-story have been removed 
 for simple, battle cries, but some of them shed light on the story.
  
  The Graphics are sadly not very far off form a GameCube game, they are not very good, even on Wii 
 standards, the CG cut scenes are suburb, with great animation, but there isn't many of them, most 
 of the time you are looking at a good looking GameCube game.
  
  What it lacks in graphics, is made up in sound though. While not orchestrated, the sound is of 
 great quality. Each set of units has their own song in battle, such as the enemies or Ikes team, 
 some units, like the Halk King have their own music.
  
  In conclusion, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a great game for Fire Emblem fans, and if given the 
 chance, it would be loved by newcomers as well. This game has great, albeit slow game play, great 
 sound, and is a nice little challenge. The graphics may not be the best, and maybe a little too 
 hard, but this fact is eclipsed by all the positives. Radiant Dawn is simply Fire Emblem goodness.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Fire Emblem, and I had high hopes for Radiant Dawn, and did it deliver? Not as 
 much as I would have hoped....
  
  GRAPHICS- Well, the characters looked better and improved, and the 3D cutscenes looked great, but 
 the enviroments in the battles didn't look improved at all, they were actually a bit worse than 
 Path of Radiance's, at least Path of Radiance's wasn't as dull or as drab as Radiant Dawn's.
  
  STORY- The story did get captivating and interesting.... by part III. Before that, though, it 
 wasn't anything special or incredible or anything. Fans of Path of Radiance will be glad to see 
 so many familiar faces.
  
  MUSIC- This is the best part of Radiant Dawn. There were many memorable songs, and most were beautifully 
 made. I desired to listen to many of the songs again after I beat Radiant Dawn.
  
  GAMEPLAY- There was more strategical depth in this game, indeed, but there was more frustration 
 in this game, as well. Normal mode certainly felt alot more than normal mode. Many chapters in 
 the game had ridiculous amounts of enemies to deal with, and the game will give less than stellar 
 units to use to accomplist the task, which is irritating. Many times it didn't feel like I was 
 in the heat of war, and more like I was holding back and trying to protect my own ass in multiple 
 chapters. many times I didn't feel my skill was being tested and more like my patience was being 
 tested. Overall, the gameplay was not an enjoyable experience. 
  
  Radiant Dawn is a good game, it just wasn't as good as I would have expected, and didn't do much 
 service for Path of Radiance. You might get a greater experience if you can tolerate the unforgiving 
 difficulty. Any fan of Path of Radiance should give Radiant Dawn a shot, anyone else, though, is 
 much harder to recommend Radiant Dawn to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The idea of the game is really nice .
  But it don't actually work .
  I looks like a old game, the story is really lame , the dialogs if the characters just look like 
 a old comics, far away from a animation , it really don't look good at a wii game .
  The game is really hard, when a character dies there is no going back , at least my do died a lot, 
 so i had to start over many times .
  The leveling is really fast, but meaningless because you can 't choose how to distribute the points 
 .
  If you don't understand something there is no problem , there are many tutorials to make sure you 
 get the game .
  There are many playable characters , what is really nice, so you can build many strategics , especially 
 with the bounding and using each character especial habitability .
  But still this on of a kind game of wii , Fire Emblem is the only turn base rlg alike game .
 
  And that is all . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGPorkster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Talk about a big game. When you think your at the end level, it's just the end of the first story 
 stage. I haven't played a Fire EMblem game before so I will give you the basics.
  
  In my opinion the game is only lacking in these areas. The map size. Some character abilities seem 
 limited, like I would have like to used the weaker melee characters more. I say this as they are 
 usually killed even placed behind the tanks. The healers should get a turn after casting to correct 
 this. Resetting the game is tiresome. There's no easy way to reload when your character dies, now 
 this may seem like cheating , but the game is very difficult if you don't study every turn precisely.
 
  
  The strong points are the story, it's deep and colourful. The graphics are spectacular in the turn 
 area, but the cut shots of the dialogue and other story moments is great. The number of character 
 to manage is also a treat. 
  
  
  Overall the main draw card is the story and expanding your character abilities to kick butt. This 
 game is worth a try for any RPG'er.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon2754
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game isn't nearly as hard as stated. In fact, if you played the previous GBA installments, 
 it's almost exactly the same. Just think through your moves, and it's horribly easy... You can 
 usually tackle one foe at a time, seeing as foes wait to be baited out. Also, the story isn't nearly 
 as bad as many other RPG's out there. However, seeing as it is basically the original with better 
 graphics, it isn't quite as fun as I'd hoped. No real new substance. Basically, if you haven't 
 played the first, it'll probably be an extremely enjoyable game. If you haven't, it will feel just 
 like the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot most definately got the rating on this game wrong. I have never played a Fire Emblem game 
 before this one and I find nothing wrong with the plot. Now is it too hard? Maybe for some. It 
 is quite difficult. In one day I lost about 15 battles on normal. I have to say that this game 
 is up there with Final Fantasy Tactics on the PS1 and perhaps even better. This game gives you 
 a good story, a challenge, and entertainment. You will not be disappointed. If you like FFT (Final 
 Fantasy Tactics) , or any other Fire Emblem game then I am sure you will enjoy this one. It is worth 
 much more than its price. One thing that needs to be said, it does not make use of the Wii motion 
 controls. That does not bother me though. I really can't imagine an rpg game using motion controls, 
 but hey time will show me as it comes.
  
  God bless.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Not much has changed since Path of Radiance in the Fire Emblem series. The Wiimote can 
 be used, but you can't point and click, which is a bit of a letdown. Most of the combat revolves 
 around a rock-paper-scissors format, even though there are many different triangles of it. Of course 
 there are the special units that you have to carefully move around as well. There is still just 
 as much strategy involved as always, and even more so in many of the levels, as you have to defend 
 castles, flank or attack your enemies head on with powerful units in front, use catapults to your 
 advantage, fight a guerilla war with flying units, seize an area on the map, arrive in a certain 
 area in a certain amount of turns, quickly send in a strike force to kill a boss before your units 
 take too many casualties, burning enemy supplies, etc. Air battles add a new bit of excitement 
 as well. The strategy is much more varied, and there is a new twist with every level, so you rarely 
 know what's coming next. Many of the levels are fast-paced as you have to destroy as many enemies 
 quickly and set up a wall, and some are in muddy or sandy areas where you have to slowly advance 
 your army. Each one adds a new level of excitement as you go along in the game, though sometimes 
 they can drag on a bit. There are more units available along with the return of certain things 
 not seen in PoR, like dark magic. Leveling up is still easy and 3rd stage evolutions are a great 
 help later on. Like always, you have to talk to enemy units at times to convince them to join your 
 team, but that's usually less difficult in this game then in other installments in the franchise. 
 The game is massive, and should take you just over 50 hours to complete. At times it feels like 
 it drags on far too much for its own good (especially the monster of a last level) , but the end 
 should leave everyone satisfied. Overall, the fast-paced and highly varying levels are bound to 
 stick to even many people who don't normally play TBS games.
  
  Graphics- Like with the gameplay, not much has changed since PoR. On the regular map, the ground 
 has slightly improved textures, and the maps are usually bigger. Characters don't cut off their 
 turns anymore, which gives the game a more realistic feel. They also look a bit more realistic 
 and less colorful. In battle, the textures have been cleared up a little, and the character's faces 
 are more visible. The animations have been vastly improved, and the characters act more realistically 
 to attacks. The celebrations are cooler if still repetitive. Mounted units will charge if there 
 is open room on the map, but will attack like in PoR if in hallways or marshes. The area behind 
 the characters varies more depending on where you are on the map (if you're standing in a creek 
 for example, it'll look like a creek and not a whole ocean) , and depending on what's happening 
 in the map (if something's on fire, you'll see it) . The area around the characters is also much 
 larger and much improved graphically. The AI is slightly improved, and the enemy will try to block 
 your path if you're going after treasure, and move out of the way of your long-range attackers. 
 The level design is amazing, and you'll fight in places like swamps, deserts, plains, mountains, 
 hills, volcanoes, in houses, on the streets, castles, and even the sky. The attacks are about the 
 same, but have been improved slightly, and some look totally kick-ass. The cut-scenes are beautiful, 
 and often very enjoyable. Overall, while not much has changed, the whole way the animations and 
 everything works out gives Radiant Dawn an amazing feel to it.
  
  Sound- Like all Fire Emblems, RD is lacking in good backgroud music. Some of the themes are wonderful, 
 like the king of Gallia's, and a couple of the other battle themes. Luckily, there is more than 
 just one set battle theme and a boss theme like in PoR, and the themes don't start from the beginning 
 every time. It gives the game a new rush, and fills it with excitement better than PoR. The map 
 music can be very repetitive at times though. The sound effects are all about the same, and not 
 that good seeing as you should expect steel hitting steel to have a metallic ring, not a sound 
 as if someone is punching wood. There are splashes in water now unlike in PoR, and other sound 
 effects have been added.
  
  Story- Like in all Fire Emblems, the story is arguably the most important thing, and RD's story 
 has its ups and downs. It starts off promising, but is awfully told at the beginning, and will 
 leave players confused. The ending of Part I is much too abrupt, and just not that good. Part II 
 is very short, but much cooler, and well told. Some hot action and great cutscenes makes the story 
 of it much better than in Part I. Part III becomes the huge war story and is very exciting. Gaps 
 in the plot slowly start filling, and many character revelations are made. It becomes easier to 
 understand and very enjoyable. In Part IV, the story is wonderfully told and plot lines are completely 
 wrapped up from both PoR and RD. The back story is competely revealed and some huge twists and 
 turns makes it all the more exciting. However, the wind will probably be blown out of your sails 
 by the terrible ending. The feeling of accomplishment is great, but little dialogue at the end 
 (which means there is no true ending despite the world being saved) and the revelation of what 
 happens to the characters years later is a huge no-no. Stories should be put to an end without 
 the cliffhanger. Also, if you didn't beat PoR, there is little reason to play this game because 
 the characters will be unfamiliar and major plot lines will be very confusing.
  
  Overall- While there are some huge bumps in the story, Radiant Dawn's fast paced action and exciting 
 levels makes it a must for anyone that has beaten Path of Radiance. While it may drag on too long, 
 the 50+ hours of gameplay makes it worth every dollar. It's not as difficult as advertised (arguably 
 easiest in the series) and much better than the 6 given to it by some website that has lost its 
 credibility *cough*. Ike's adventure came to a worth end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandallarian
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I would like to say that the gamespot team has been a bit too harsh on this game ; it 
 is not that hard. Indeed, you need a bit of brains to play it, but which game nowadays doesn't 
 if we exclude mindless FPS games, with but a few exceptions? However, this Fire emblem is not as 
 easy as the first [english] fire emblem games, so if you liked Fire Emblem and thought it was hard, 
 this definitely isn't the game for you. Anyway, for my personal review :
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  
  Outstaind graphics, active battles like the one you want from Fire Emblem, 
 Radiant dawn's got it all. If you're not fighting in a prison or a bloody battlefield, you will 
 be in they sky fighting against mindless dragons. However, this doesn't happen too often ; only 
 once as a matter of fact. But, this is all new to Fire emblem; battles in the skies never happened 
 before.
  
  Graphics : 8.5/10
  
  If it weren't for the lack of expressions fighters have when getting hit or hitting ; I would give 
 it a 10. You get to see every bit of the general's armor move, the shadow of the swift assassin 
 ; it's worthy of the not-too-great Wii performances.
  
  Sound : 6/10 
  
  Just like the graphics, I would give it a 10 if it wasn't for just one inconvenient : the characters 
 have no voices. If they hit an enemy, or get hit by them, there is no yell, no battlecry, no sound 
 of pain, nothing, and I believe that that is quite important in a game such as Fire Emblem.
  
  Overall : 8/10
  
  I think that this great game is worth buying, but, if you are not just 
 a tad tactician, do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueresident87
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Fire Emblem series, I can say I'm honestly satisfied with the lates entry. 
 Radiant Dawn will not blow you away with its graphics, nor will it move you with its story. However, 
 the look of the game fits and the story is good enough to move the action of the game along well. 
 The music if one of the high-points in the title. Another high point is its playability, allowing 
 players to control an army of diverse units, each of which brings a unique style of fighting and 
 usuful set of abilities to the battle. 
  
  Obviously, as with most 'war' games, strategy is the focus. Deciding when and where to lock swords 
 is an important element of the game, and deciding who does the fighting is crucial to one's success. 
 Item management is of the upmost importance, since weapons wear with usage and gold is very limited. 
 A large part of the difficulty comes with trying to keep your army well stocked with healing goods 
 and weapons. 
  
  A very fun game, but may be too difficult to those who are not familiar with Fire Emblem or those 
 that are not interested with strategy games. For people like me, who love the challenge, it's great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  By now most Nintendo fans at least know what Fire Emblem is. The series first saw light in the 
 U. S. when a couple of the characters from the series appeared in Super Smash Bros. Melee, Marth 
 and Roy. Since then, America has seen three high quality Fire Emblem titles with rich character 
 development and stories as well as rock solid strategic gameplay. The fourth entry for the American 
 Fire Emblem lineup, Radiant Dawn, is nothing short of a fantastic adventure. 
  
  As Fire Emblem fans should know, Radiant Dawn takes place three years after 2005's Gamecube game 
 Path of Radiance. The setting is still in the land of Tellius and just about every character from 
 PoR makes a return. The story opens with you controlling the Dawn Brigade who are trying to end 
 oppression in the country of Daein from the supposedly evil country of Begnion. I'd rather not 
 go and farther into detail as it would be far too easy to spoil the story. There are four parts 
 to the story, each of which vary in length and the party you control changes throughout the story 
 (which leads to some pretty wacky moments, explained later in this review) . The story overall stays 
 strong, but there are definitely moments in the story as well as characters that are uninteresting 
 or just silly, especially compared to the other games in the series.
  
  The gameplay in Radiant Dawn retains exactly what the series is known for: hardcore, strategic 
 gameplay. Some of the mistakes you make will truly make you feel responsible for the death of a 
 character (who do not comeback after being defeated, a FE staple) or something else entirely. Other 
 times, however, you feel so relieved after defeating a boss and beating a level. For the most part, 
 RD retains the masterful gameplay of the series, but there are some strange faults that might turn 
 off some fans. For starters, throughout the game you control different teams, sometimes switching 
 from one team to another chapter next to chapter. This becomes annoying as you will have one team 
 completely inexperienced and weak while another team is strong because you have used them in more 
 levels. Heck, sometimes you end up fighting the team you just played as in the previous chapter. 
 Yeah, it's pretty crazy. Another problem is the difficulty level. Even on Normal mode, the game 
 is absolutely brutal at times, and you WILL become frustrated. I haven't played it on Easy mode 
 or Hard mode, but I can't imagine these other modes straying too far from the challenge of Normal 
 mode. While a challenge is always nice, RD just takes it a little too far and even seasoned veterans 
 will find themselves frustrated. Also keep in mind that the game will take at least a good 40 hours 
 to complete, giving the game a great value.
  
  The Fire Emblem series isn't necessarily known for standout graphics as all of the games simple 
 go for a generally good look. Radiant Dawn could have been a little bit better. It's definitely 
 nothing special on the Wii, and really, it's only a little bit improved over it's Gamecube predecessor. 
 The cutscenes, however, are some of the best looking on the system. Absolutely gorgeous FMV work 
 mixes with a cool art style for some of the most fantastic looking cutscenes on any system. Also, 
 the artwork, which appears throughout the game, is very well done.
  
  The music in RD is as good as every other game in the series. The soundtrack has a very epic feel. 
 The music ranges from heavy battle drums to the tranquil sound of the night. Also in the sound 
 department, the voice acting is great, especially compared to the PoR voice acting, which wasn't 
 so hot.
  
  Radiant Dawn is a worthy entry in the Fire Emblem series of games. The story is fantastically epic 
 and and the music is incredibly moving at times. The gameplay is, for the most part, as good as 
 it's ever been. However, some minor faults hold it down from being as great as it should have been. 
 Radiant Dawn is worth a purchase for all FE fans, but newcomers may want to rent it first to see 
 what they're getting into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 85718571
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  First off, this game has a better story than any game I've ever played.
  Gamespot has proven time and time again to fail at reviews.
  
  The difficulty is actually perfect 
 (Unless you're an idiot) there are three difficulty settings allowing you to adjust to the game.
 
  
  
  [Graphics:
  8.5/10
  
  This game has pretty good graphics, not the best on the Wii, but you will still see hardly any 
 rough edges and it certainly won't give you a headache.]
  
  [Story:
  10/10
  
  Has gamespot gone mad? Or have they been insane ever since they started? As is known by most, Radiant 
 Dawn's story is the sequal to Path of Radiance, (I won't go into any details, if you want to know 
 the story then play the game) just the fact that there are four different parts to the game (And 
 that it takes up to 40 hours to complete it) proves that this is not going to be some simple little 
 story like Gamespot makes it out to be.
  The first part you start off as the Dawn Brigade, the second part you play as various people from 
 Crimea, the third and fourth part, is something very unique, but also makes the game more fun and 
 interesting: which is that you're previous teams will battle each other.
  (FOR ANYONE WHO WANTS TO SPOIL THE STORY FOR THEMSELVES LOOK IT UP ON WIKI OR SOMETHING INSTEAD 
 OF BUGGING ME ABOUT WHAT THE STORY IS) ]
  
  [World:
  10/10
  
  With about 40 chapters to the game, the world varies quite alot.
  From little villages to giant 
 castles to normal caves and caves with lava in them, you won't easily get bored of the world.]
 
  
  [Control:
  10/10
  
  With three completely different controls to use (Not including the Wii-mote vertically) the controls 
 couldn't possibly get any better, you can also see what buttons to use at the bottom part of the 
 screen nearly constantly.]
  
  [Gameplay:
  9/10
  
  The gameplay is very addicting and ties in with the story perfectly, pulling you farther through 
 suspense, excitment... e. t. c....
  The game can get occasionally frustrating, but as long as you actually use your brain you'll get 
 through it.]
  
  [Replay:
  7/10
  
  After you complete the game you'll have to start a new file, which makes this unfortunately, the 
 games' worst area. ]
  
  [Sound:
  8.75/10
  
  The music in this game is hard to get bored of, it loops easily without making you think how annoying 
 it is, aside from that, the music is just all around very well made (Especially the opening theme 
 and the title theme) .
  The sound effects are very realistic and the gameplay sounds don't get very annoying.]
  
  [Items: 
 10/10
  
  You don't need to say much to know that this game has ALOT of items, and the items overall make 
 sense.
  You can also customize your own weapons.
  
  [Combat:
  8/10
  
  The combat you may not like, because you don't control your character during the fights.
  However 
 if you did, this would eliminate alot of the strategy of the game (as it wouldn't matter as much 
 where you're standing or what weapon you're using) .
  
  [Personal Skill:
  9/10
  
  Needless to say, this game is a strategy game, thus resulting in high amounts of skill.
  The 
 only reason why it wouldn't be 10/10 for skill, is that sometimes a battle might rely on your chance 
 to hit, miss, or critical.]
  
  That's about it, Gamespot, you need to think before you review a game.... or is it just that you 
 can't think think straight at all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csward
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Everyone seems to love this game and I can't really understand why. Have they played better strategy 
 RPGs than this? I know I have. Disgaea 1, 2, and Phantom Brave are much more appealing. First off, 
 the graphics are so dated, I think Nintendo must have intented this game for a gamecube release 
 and it never made it. Secondly, the graphics of NIS America's ps2 RPGs (Disgaea , ect.) are better 
 IMO, because of how generic and boring the FE graphics are. The cinema in FE are nice but rare 
 though. The battle mechanics are so old and dated; more or less it is rock, paper, scissors with 
 melee characters and ranged characters are more interesting because there are more parameters to 
 affect your decision making with them. The battle scenes get old real fast and I wanted to turn 
 them off rather than going to a cutscene everytime you attack. The wierd thing is, unlike the gamecube 
 version of FE, they give you one overpowered character early in the game, while other characters 
 are way underpowered. The overpowered character uses a dagger and could seemingly take on the whole 
 level by himself, while the underpowered (ranged) characters will die in one attack 90% of the 
 time. This oftentimes results in myself frequently getting angry because unless i make a wall of 
 melee chars around my ranged ones, i know a ranged char with be slautered and i will get to restart 
 the level (it took me a ways into the game to realize i could save in battle) . This is especially 
 frustrating considering in the early stages of the game you have more ranged than melee chars. 
 I mean all ranged characters have only 2 squares range (as in they are one square back from melee 
 range) , hardly enough to keep them safe from a one hit impending death. If that wern't annoying 
 enough your healer must cast from melee range and is the weakest character of all. Another thing 
 is you can't take back moves like you can in other modern strategy RPGs. For instance you are in 
 turn 10 out of 10 and you must have a character move on a certain square and choose the command 
 arrive , but instead you accidently click wait. This happened to me, game over, redo level. the 
 fact that I can't take that back is insane considering I could in any NIS America strategy RPG. 
 And while i am comparing the game to NIS Americas strategy RPGs, the item and character depth in 
 FE is sooo SNES era. Disgaea, for instance, is so much deeper in character and item development, 
 plus the battle animations and character skills are so much more interesting and plentiful in Disgaea. 
 Also, while characters dying for good is realistic to me it is no fun, i don't like repeating levels 
 over many times because I didn't want the character to die for good. The music in the game is decent, 
 neither annoying or appealing and the fact that there is no voice acting STILL really cheapens 
 the characters personality and is something I feel should've been added especially when other games 
 in the genre have voice acting standard. You do hear voices in the cinema but that isn't nearly 
 enough. The story overall is good, and i liked it somewhat although you will definetly enjoy it 
 more if you have played gamecube one before. It's a pretty typical fire emblem storyline, just 
 compelling enough to keep you mildly interested. It's also funny to see your characters conversations 
 change because a character has died. I do not hate fire emblem, I just feel Nintendo is WAY behind 
 the times and their competitors. If you have played any NIS America game on PS2 you will know exactly 
 why this game is comparably worse than the FE games in every aspect. I like challenging games, 
 but not ones that accomplish it by making the game frustrating. Disgaea gives a fun challenge, 
 FE gives a frustrating challenge; you will know what I mean if you have played both. FE doesn't 
 stack up to any other current strategy RPG franchise, period. If you are a fan of the FE series, 
 only own a Wii, or absolutly love strategy RPGs (like me) rent this game first, otherwise don't 
 waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict190
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing sequel to Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance! (And just as addicting) Sure this 
 game might not have top notch graphics, it makes up for it in other ways. Some improvements from 
 the other game include obsticals. There are boxes scattered around for a more challenging battle. There 
 are also chickens! =] Which make this game so much better =p. Sometimes there will be steps which 
 your characters climb to get somewhere faster. (but also your enemies!!) . Its also a bit more.. 
 realistic .
  Like, the chracters will fall down from getting slashed with a sword. Maybe i just like this game 
 because im a fire emblem fan, but i really don't think that's the case. Sure this game might not 
 be the best but it's fun, addictive, and one of the best wii games in my opinion! Buy this game 
 if you like a roleplaying fantasy game. Just a warning, it's not as easy as the other games!!! (but 
 still fun =] ] ) TOOTLES!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casinater
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game has gotten a bad rap by other reviews (not just gamespot's) . I bought this 
 game because I owned the previous one for the Gamecube and wanted to play the sequel and I must 
 say I have enjoyed it far more than the Gamecube one. Radiant Dawn does everything it's predessesor 
 did and much more. I thought Path of Radiance (the GC Fire Emblem) was far too short and simplistic. 
 It was fun but it was way to easy and short and I can only remember having to start one level over 
 in the entire time I played it. Radiant Dawn on the other hand is twice as big as Path of Radiance 
 and the games AI is far more intelligent than Path of Radiance. This definately is not a little 
 kiddie game. This game makes you think and use strategy and the slightest mess up can cost you 
 big time. I have had to restart levels multiple times until I figured them out. I believe the phrase 
 used by gamespot was insane when describing the difficulty level. I would say it was just right 
 for a strategy game. Strategy games weren't meant to be easy and I think that those that enjoy 
 the strategy genre will enjoy this game. There have also been statements made about the games lack 
 of motion controls and poor graphics. In regards to the lack of motion controls this game does 
 not really need them at all. I can't even see where motion controls could be used in a way that 
 makes sense. I think the developers were right by not putting motion controls in just for the sake 
 of having them. Also, the graphics in this game are really quite good for a wii game. The battle 
 animations for all of the characters are vastly improved from the almost statue like motions of 
 the Gamecube Fire Emblem. However I do agree that this game would have been far better if the developers 
 had incorporated the cel shaded graphics used in the cutscenes for the entire game. The cel shaded 
 cut scenes and voice acting that is used are quite amazing and it is a shame it is not used throughout 
 the game. Radiant Dawn is a strategy game and as a strategy game I believe it should be judged 
 as such. It most definately is not a casual game by any stretch of the imagination and is only 
 suited for those who enjoy strategy games or are hardcore gamers. In my opinion this is THE best 
 strategy game that is or probably ever will be available for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Before Radiant Dawn, I had already played Fire Emblem : The Sacred Stones, and I have to say, I 
 didn't like it that much, for me it was just another regular strategy game with medium difficulty. 
 But then there was Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn, and now I just can't stay away from my tv... seriously, 
 it's like the game owns me, and not the opposite... I've beaten it like 5 times now, then I had 
 to buy the prequel ( or whatever it's called) . If you think strategy games can't be perfect (like 
 I use to think) , I'm certain you've never played this one before.
  It might be a little hard for beginners to beat it the first time, but just put some effort to 
 it, and you'll see that it was all worth it, you'll love the game.
  Even though GS said the plot is laughable I found it to be very, I mean very good, and even better 
 if you have played Path of radiance, you'll see that many things that you didn't get in it, makes 
 sense after you play this. It's what I'd call the perfect sequel to it.
  The game basics are pretty simple and easy to get, and unlikely most strategy games this game has 
 got a lot o replayability, since you get more than 70 chars and can make multiple runs with different 
 units.
  Definitely worth the price and recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_bm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The new instalment in the Fire Emblem series is a direct sequel to Fire emblem Path of Radiance 
 for Game Cube. In this review, I won't refer to the every aspect and game play, instead, I'll detail 
 the elements of this game that improve the game mechanics of past FE.
  
  Taking place three years after Path of Radiance, this game has a great advantage; for people who 
 really liked the story and got used to the characters in the first game, in Radiant Dawn they will 
 get their chance to see them in action again and experience the magic of Tellius once more. This 
 time, the game is split in 4 parts, each one of them centring in a group of heroes. The first two 
 parts explain what has happened with the continent and the countries and are a sort of introduction 
 to parts 3 and 4. 
  The first one tells the situation of Daein, the country that started the great war of Path of Radiance. 
 You take control of the Dawn Brigade, commanded by a silver-haired woman called Micaiah. When I 
 played this part, I had the feeling the story was running way to fast, your objectives weren't 
 so clear and you had to get used top some new mechanics. Because of this, if you are not a real 
 fan of strategy games or FE, you might get bored. The second part centres in the figure of Elincia, 
 the Queen of Crimea, who has to regain the control of her land due to a starting rebellion. Both 
 parts are good, but they don't represent a great plot.
  
  However, parts 3 and 4 are the true core of Rdaint Dawn; what starts as a war between the half-beasts 
 laguz and the mighty Begnion empire ends up wrapping the whole world, threatening to free the dark 
 god of destruction. In these parts you get to know the secrets behind Path of Radiance and the 
 true identity of the goddess. The last parts are great and they make Radiant Dawn a great game 
 in the series.
  
  Now, in terms of game mechanics, the first things you really miss are the great support conversations 
 between each chapter, now merely reduced to in-battle chats. Also, by being separate stories, some 
 characters you train hard disappear and are involved later on in your party. That should be great, 
 but some of them may be in a level to low for you to use them.
  
  But not everything is bad in Radiant Dawn, many things where improved; little details such as showing 
 the actions and damage status during battles make this game more comfortable. Also, new animations 
 and more classes make this game a collection of all the FE elements.
  
  Another topic of discussion in this game is the lack of motion controls. What I've got to say is 
 that a Wii game can be without this element. True, we all like how the wiimote applies to many 
 games, but normal ones are not restricted, and Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn proves this by delivering 
 a solid game with normal controls.
  
  In conclusion, I can say that this game is one of the best Fire Emblem's in the series and it finishes 
 the excellent story of Tellius in a marvellous way. Although it has some flaws that keep it from 
 being perfect, it's still a great strategy game that entertains over and over.
  
  Recommendations: For full enjoyment, play Path of Radiance first; start with the easy difficulty.
 
  Best feature: Excellent in-game movies
  Best new-feature: Third class change
  Bad aspect: Horrible support conversations
  Could improve: Graphics
  
  That's all
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zangan_Zack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I personally enjoyed Path Of Radiance quite a bit and I was happy to hear that there was going 
 to be a follow-up to the game with this installment, Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is every thing I 
 wanted in a Fire Emblem game and more...
  
  To start off the in battle graphics are a huge step above the Path Of Radiance graphics on the 
 Gamecube not to mention I liked the support system in this game more then any other Fire Emblem 
 I have played I hated having to wait for 20+ turns just to get so and so to have a conversation 
 which is a bit unconventional on a raging battlefield.
  
  Now the story definately didn't keep me on the edge of my seat as I saw most of the stuff coming 
 anyway but thats not to say that story was not enjoyable at all I thought the story was great and 
 was a good conclusion to this chapter of the Fire Emblem series.
  
  If I had any qualm with the game it was the uselessness of alot of the units many of them just 
 seemed to be there for decoration, I understand having your options open but it just seems like 
 overkill to have 4 Swordmasters.
  
  Other then that I found the game to be very enjoyable and fun and I would recommend it to any fan 
 of turn-based strategy and of course the Fire Emblem fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Izakary
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game. Gamespot under judged this one. Although hard at times is was not infernally 
 annoying ,ever. To me story was great, albeit not as strong as the story in Path of Radiance it 
 is still a great story. Dissapointing that it didn't use the Wii in any way and that graphics weren't 
 really improved from the GC game. Cutscenes were well animated and over all beautifully done. This 
 game kept me playing from start to finish and is overall a great continuation to the fire emblem 
 series. Would not recommend this game to someone who doesn't want to think strategy or who hasen't 
 played a Fire Emblem game before though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmz99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  After having played several of the games in the series, I have to say that this is truly one of 
 the better ones, and definitely a great way to start off on the Wii. Gameplay-wise, there aren't 
 any major changes, but some minor additions are present, like the ability for staff-wielders and 
 untransformed laguz to counterattack instead of doing nothing, along with the addition of another 
 weapon rank and two more weapon types. The addition of height to terrain adds a nice little touch, 
 but isn't absolutely essential to beat the game, at least on easy mode. 
  This brings me to my next point: the difficulty. Many people are complaining that Radiant Dawn 
 is simply too hard. There are three difficulty settings for the game, but the hardest one is only 
 unlocked after beating normal mode. Admittedly, the game can be a little overwhelming for casual 
 players, but veterans of the series should find it to be quite enjoyable. Part of the extra difficulty 
 seems to come from Radiant Dawn being divided into several parts, with the player having to use 
 different characters on occasion. This can end up throwing off players, as they'll have to get 
 used to using units that they're unfamiliar with. 
  Plot-wise, the game manages to stay in the same vein as Path of Radiance on the Gamecube, and while 
 it is somewhat inferior, that doesn't necessarily mean that the story is terrible. While this is 
 without any doubt a fine game, it is definitely not for players new to the series, who should instead 
 try and get Path of Radiance, seeing as how you can buy it for around $20 now. Fire Emblem veterans, 
 on the other hand, should expect to have a great time playing Radiant Dawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Not the best in world, but very nice. The battle fields have a nice level of detail 
 that's missing in a lot of strategy RPGs, and the cut scenes are well done. Oooo, and the sprites 
 aren't 2D drawings, and have good detail. (8/10)
  
  Sound - Generic orchestral stuff. It's a convention I'd wish someone would break, but meh, whatever. 
 Voice acting (though sparse) is decent. I prefer reading stuff and listening to cut scenes, so 
 this game is perfect for me. (7/10)
  
  Gameplay - a) Wii remote specific controls would've ruined the feel of this game. I'm glad there 
 isn't motion contol. It works VERY well. The challengeg is EXCELLENT. Instread of a game where 
 you have cakewalk battles for 3 hours, then one big boss fight that's hard, the difficulty is there 
 from the get go. If battle wasn't so fun, it might be irritating, but honestly, I LOVE all the 
 battles. Because it's so easy to die, strategy really comes into play on every field, and makes 
 for a more cerebral game. I really love it.
  And let's be honest, FF Tactics wasn't exactly the easiet game in the world, and it's legendary. 
 (10/10)
  
  Overall - Excellent game. For a system in dire need of an RPG, this really fills a void. It's probably 
 more challenging than a casual gamer would want, but all the RPG fans out there will find something 
 to love. I think this is at LEAST worth a rent. I bought it. I have NO REGRETS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The Fire Emblem series has always been great. When you get a Fire Emblem game, you can expect a 
 lot out of it. This game is no different. Only it's the best game in the series. It has the best 
 story, gameplay, and, well, everything else of all the games in the series before it. It's a true 
 masterpiece.
  
  
  
  I'll start by giving you a little background on the game. Path of Radiance puts you in the shoes 
 of Ike, the young son of a great mercenary, Greil. You eventually lead Ike and a grand army to 
 defeat Mad King Ashnard of Daein, who had invaded his neighboring country of Crimea without warning 
 or reason. Along the way, Ike is aided by many new friends, including the beast and bird Laguz 
 (shapeshifters who can shift between human-like and animal forms) , a young empress, and even a 
 couple of dragon Laguz as well.
  
  
  
  The story in Radiant Dawn picks up three years after the end of Path of Radiance. You begin by 
 playing as the Dawn Brigade in Daein, led by Miciah, which is a group of freedom fighters attempting 
 to rid Daein of their new oppressors- the Begnion Empire. After the Mad King's War three years 
 ago, Queen Elincia gave Begnion control of the newly conquered Daein. The Begnion army officials 
 have had free reign in Daein, and it hasn't been pretty. The Dawn Brigade fights against the occupation 
 army in part one of the four part epic. They find new hope when they discover that Ashnard had 
 a son, and he's still alive. They join up with the prince of Daein, Pelleas, and begin to take 
 back what is theirs. Part two follows Queen Elincia in Crimea. Although she has been doing an excellent 
 job as queen, the nobles keep on criticizing her every move and some people are turning against 
 her. After confirming her suspicions of rebellion, she sends the Crimean Royal Knights to bring 
 down the rebels, culminating in the grand return of the Greil Mercenaries! Part three follows Ike 
 and the newly formed Laguz Alliance against Begnion. Prince Rafiel, a survivor of the Serenes Forest 
 massacre, tells the Laguz who was responsible for the burning of his beloved home: the Begnion 
 senators. The Laguz Alliance (formed by the countries of Gallia, beast Laguz; Phoenecis, hawk Laguz; 
 and Kilvas, raven Laguz) , accompanied by the Greil Mercenaries, invade Begnion and discover a deeper 
 conflict within the empire that must be dealt with for everyone's sake. Part four is the finale 
 of the story, and I won't spoil any of it. This story is so full of surprises, sadness, plot twists, 
 and big moments to almost make the game worth playing just to find out how it ends, even if the 
 gameplay wasn't very good. It covers all the stuff you didn't find out by the end of Path of Radiance 
 as well, which was also very cool. It's also about 40 chapters long and took me about 35 hours.
 
  
  
  
  The game itself is also great. The graphics, while not improving much from its GameCube predecessor, 
 are a little finer, but there is no dramatic improvement in this area. The battle animations are 
 improved very much from Path of Radiance. They look more like an actual fight rather than a predetermined 
 set of slashes and stabs. Each unit type has a few different ways that they attack and dodge rather 
 than just one. For example, a Swordmaster may do a simple slash or do a flip and hit the enemy 
 with his sword. They may also dodge by a backward roll or a simple sidestep. The battles are much 
 smoother because of this, and the rest of the game is smoother and easier to watch as well. While 
 seeming like a tiny, insignificant improvement, characters moving diagonally across spaces (rather 
 than up, side, up, side, etc.) makes the game a whole lot smoother and easier to watch. There is 
 also a new function called Battle Save. It allows you to pick up in the exact spot you saved and 
 retry as many times as you want rather than making you replay the entire chapter again if your 
 character dies or something bad happens. This is overall a better way to save the game, but it 
 makes the game almost too easy. Speaking of easy, there are three difficulty levels in the game- 
 easy, normal, and hard. Easy mode gives you optional instructions and tutorials as you go, and 
 this is definitely the mode to play for first time players of the series. I played it on this mode 
 and found it to be pretty easy, but I have played a lot, and I mean a lot, of Fire Emblem, so it 
 was only easy for me because of that 'natural talent.' Otherwise, the game is a challenge to beat, 
 but isn't impossible once you get the hang of it. Probably the best addition to the traditional 
 gameplay is third character classes. In the previous Fire Emblem games, your characters could only 
 upgrade to a better class once. Now, they become super powerful and can become nearly unstoppable, 
 and it's great fun to train characters up through their third classes. This is definitely a step 
 up from before and I enjoyed it very much. Almost all the characters you get by the end of the 
 game were from Path of Radiance, which was really cool. I smiled many times upon seeing memorable 
 characters from the previous game and enjoyed that very much as well. There are also more animated 
 cutscenes than Path of Radiance. The animation is as stunning as it was, and they now portray more 
 action rather than a girl holding a shining medallion.
  
  
  
  Well, I think that covers it. This game is one of the best games I've ever played and will remain 
 so for a long time. If you're a Wii-owning fan of the Fire Emblem series, then YOU MUST PLAY THIS 
 GAME. Otherwise, you should be careful with it. This game doesn't appeal to everyone and can be 
 boring or frustrating if you don't like strategy games. Overall, this is a great game with a great 
 story and great improvement within the series, and I recommend it to any Fire Emblem fan out there! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supardood
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Basically, here is what I thought of Radiant Dawn:
  
  Graphics: 7 / 10 - 10 / 10
  
  
  
  
  Summary: Don't believe the horrible ratings. This is a great game and any Wii owner should 
 buy. It has incredible graphics for cutscenes, addicting gameplay, and a challenging tactical theme. 
 Its easier than people say it is, especially when you have it on easy mode. Th characters are also 
 really great with well-defined personality. 
  But on the other hand, it has really sucky, overdone music. imagine 4 orchestras playing on top 
 of eachother. In addition, the plot is short and skips around too much. The main character shifts 
 every 10 or so chapters, and your party completely changes. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cao_PI
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Of course, I must start off buy saying that I feel Gamespot's sad rating of 6.0 for this game is 
 highly off. The difficulty is admittedly greater than it was in Path of Radiance, but they give 
 you a good number of characters that are of greater strength then the rest of your part that you 
 may choose to use if the situation grows too tough. The Easy mode is not as hard as they make it 
 sound, sometimes you just need to get use to the strategy of a particular area before you can beat 
 it. With the addition of the Battle Save function, it is now, in my opinion, easier then ever on 
 easy.
  
  With a greater cast of characters then in the past, it gives you far more choice over what type 
 of party you most prefer, and also gives players of Path of Radiance a good fill of nostalgia. 
 The way they pit you against your own heroes at certain points in the game also makes it all the 
 more interesting. Although it can be hard if you really built up certain characters, it is a highly 
 interesting concept. 
  
  The storyline is not the best ever, but not horrible. If you don't care to listen to the "Movie-Trailer 
 Voiced Man" explain what is happening, then skip it plain and simple. If you've played Path of 
 Radiance and enjoyed the story, then picking this one up to see how it all ended is not such a 
 bad idea. When it comes down to the point when they pit Ike and Micaiah's parties against each 
 other, the way they play out the thoughts and actions against the opposing group was well executed. 
 There are moments in which it can get a little cheesy, particularly in the fourth part, but it 
 is not horrendous. I think we all have been curious about the identity of the Black Knight (Which 
 I won't reveal here.) Speaking of supposedly having an "unforgiving difficulty" and "Weak Characters", 
 Destroying the Black Knight is now far less based around pure luck. The Cast of characters now 
 has become stronger, with many of them almost being invincible if set up correctly, you can't just 
 randomly fidget and hope your combination works, you have to plan it out. Unlike before however, 
 you can re-set skills you don't want on someone, and if someone starts out with a certain skill, 
 it doesn't count towards the skill capacity (Got to love Soren's Adept skill.)
  
  Unlike the past game, there are far more different varieties of mission objectives. They range 
 from the basic "Route the Enemy", to "Defend for X Turns", to "Hold the Line", to Defeating X amounts 
 of enemies. There are more as well,, this provides for much more overall variety when playing the 
 game. The Same strategy may not always work again anymore. If you must try things over and over 
 however, you can always battle save at critical moments. When your heroes reach their Third Class, 
 which is also new to this fire emblem, they learn their Final Skills, skills of exceptional power 
 that usually kill the enemy in one blow. Most Boss foes do not even have these abilities. The ones 
 that do, there are ways around them.
  
  All in all, this was a great game, and I will continue to play it more until I've mastered it, 
 just like the first one. If there's one thing this one lacks that Path of Radiance had, it was 
 the Trial Maps that made you want to have the strongest party at the end. Even without that, it 
 is still fun to prepare for the final fight. See for yourself how untrue that 6.0 is.
  
  Note: For those of you than don't care for the storyline value, you can skip almost (if not) all 
 the talking ;) .
  
  Another Note: The Difficulty is how you want it to be really. For some it really might be hard. 
 Don't forget: Battle Save often! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Treble
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Yes ... this game is hard.
  Yes ... this game is identical to the last one. 
  But they have a winning mix for me. I have a hard time finding good hard game. I am pretty tired 
 of those child's game that is just a walk in the park to end (straightforward and too easy) . 
 
  Other than the difficulty, the game genre is not seen very often, so it is still original even 
 if its identical to the last fire emblem. 
  I removed some points because they could have added some new ideas to the game.
  
  You like 
 : 
  - strategy games
  - games that take a while to finish
  - games that are very hard ....
  Go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokirikid12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn for Wii. According to Gamespot, it is incredibly difficult and has a 
 laughable storyline. All I can say is, what the hell were they playing? First off, the storyline 
 is very good, not the best, but certainly better than Path of Radiance. The difficulty would be 
 incredibly hard, if not for one thing, in-battle saving!! This makes the game INCREDIBLY less frustrating, 
 which is a huge improvement over the previous Fire Emblem games. If you played Fire Emblem Path 
 of Radiance, then you'll be happy to know that most of the characters from game make an appearance. 
 As do the amazing 3-D cutscenes. I'm sorry this review is so short, the only reason I'm writing 
 this is because the Gamespot review angers me greatly. Its a must-buy for any fan of the Fire Emblem 
 series, or for people who like strategy-RPG games. If your not sure if you're into those types 
 of games, then at least rent it. I can bet that you'll be pleasently surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goron14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay, no other way to put his. Gamespot made a HUGE mistake. 6.0? No way. It is way better than 
 that. The story line could use a little bit of work, because, for those of you who beat it will 
 know what happens to Lethe, Ranaulf, and Ike. And lots of others. I became attached to them in 
 Path of Radiance, so when I found out what happens... But anyways. People say that the formula 
 for the game didn't change much, but its an RPG. What do you expect. A direct sequel to Path of 
 Radiance, it can't change to much. That would be stupid. All of the Fire Emblem fans will agree 
 that this game is great. And Sothe isn't a kid like he is in Path of Radiance. The game was great. 
 Anyone thinking of buying this game, don't be discouraged by Gamespot's rank. That is a HUGE lie. 
 Go with your gut, and BUY IT. Alright? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCrunner161
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  While many people prefer the intense action and nonstop mindless killing of fps games, others like 
 to sit down and really think about what they are doing. Fire Emblem has always been a game that 
 you either hate it or love it. This game is no exception. As a sequel to the GCN Path of Radiance, 
 this expands on the bonds the player makes with the rich cast of characters that fire emblem has 
 become famous for. As a sequel, RD does everything it should. The game itself is a step harder 
 than PoR which makes sense because most who play this game have also played PoR. The harder difficulty 
 adds to the enjoyment of the game. Also, the game's story line, now told from multiple points of 
 view, leave you wanting to keep playing. Whenever I play, I tell myself that I will only play for 
 a little while but after every chapter, I say to myself, "just one more chapter." It truly is an 
 addictive game. For those who like challenges and games that require thinking, planning, and executing, 
 Radiant Dawn is a rewarding experience that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  6??!!!! This is a freeking joke, it isn't even funny O_O common, I mean the plot is awesome, it's 
 new, the videos (as few as they are) are amazingly well made, as good as halo 3 wich was also really 
 fun -- but I'm not talking about halo for today. I play fire emblem and seriously, I don't even 
 see the difference in difficulty with the other one --- COMON -- you can SAVE your battle in the 
 middle of the fight and start back to that point, each time you don't like what happened -- HOW 
 CAN IT BE ANY EASIER --- shure you need strategies but if your not to experienced just choose the 
 easy mode 
  -___-' 
  
  
  --Same turn-based strategy and same weapon triangle (axe, sword, lance) and two magic triangles 
 (wind, fire, thunder and light, dark, anima) . Even the old characters come back (all but one) and 
 plenty of new ones. The story is verry good but the only point of the story I can understand they 
 took points off is your understanding depends on if you played the previous game, BUT, THEY DO 
 EXPLAIN IT ANYWAYS, so it doesn't really matter... --
  
  
  How could they have wanted to use wii senses --- ITS A STRATEGY GAME --- we'd only get tired at pointing 
 at screen all the time for nothing...
  
  anyways, I think that if you liked the previous you NEED this one, it's just hours and hours of 
 fun! if you never tried it, at least rent it -- You won't be deceived I garantue it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabeeteez14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem has always been Nintendo's "diamond in the rough" franchise which unfortunately doesn't 
 get the attention it deserves from the players. Perhaps it's the fact that the majority of the 
 games are Japanese only but the English games have been critically acclaimed, until now. When I 
 saw the unfairly low score Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn received from Gamespot I was both shocked 
 and dismayed. While it may not live up to all its fans' expectations, it brings enough new as well 
 as old elements to make it a great game. As for gameplay it is basically the same as in Path of 
 Radiance with new elevations and now 3 choices for controls: the old Gamecube controller (my favorite) , 
 the Wii Remote horizontally, and the Classic Controller. Same turn-based strategy and same weapon 
 triangle (axe, sword, lance) and two magic triangles (wind, fire, thunder and light, dark, anima) . 
 Even the old characters come back (all but one) and plenty of new ones to tickle your fancy. The 
 story it good but not the best but your understanding does depend heavily on if you played the 
 previous game. Probably the worst part of the game are the graphics, which didn't really improve 
 from its Gamecube predecessor. For some it may be too difficult even on easy and on maniac mode, 
 forget about it. While I recommend this game to Fire Emblem fans and strategy game veterans, I'd 
 recommend Path of Radiance for newcomers to the series or genre. My first Fire Emblem game was 
 Path of Radiance and now I've played and loved all of the English games. On that note, Radiant 
 Dawn is a great game in general and is pretty good by Fire Emblem standards if they just improve 
 the graphics and that glitch in game transfer in the next installment it will be a perfect strategy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the most messed up games in the franchise. Although you can play as 
 both armies for the first time this adds a sense of confusion or frustration when forced to kill 
 a charcter you've played as on the other side. With its large cast of around 50 playable charcters 
 its a good choice for gamers who like RPGs with alot of customizable options. Every charcter in 
 the game redeems their own class and can go through either one or two class changes throuout the 
 game based on the class at which you recieve the charcter. For attacks there is Light, Dark, Wind, 
 Fire, and Thunder magic or if you prefer weapons there are Swords, Lances, Axes, Bows, and Knifes. 
 There are also laquz in the game that can shift into tigers, lions, cats, hawks, wolves, crows, 
 dragons, and heroins. Although the graphics aren't much improved from Path of Radiance for the 
 (GC) , they are still better and this game also brings back almost all charcters from PofR and allows 
 hidden conversations and possible stat boost with the use of a GC memory card with PofR saved data. 
 Although this games plot is seriously lacking no other aspects of the game have really changed 
 except maybe a steeper difficulty setting but you should welcome the challenge. For all RPG goers 
 that own a Wii this should be a must buy or at least rent it to check it out. 
  
  WARNING: If you do rent it note that the game has 39 chapters + prologues to each section so don't 
 plan on beating it if rented unless you do practically nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  The Good- Keeps the same great gameplay from other Fire Emblems
  
  * Great story
  
  * Battle Save feature 
  
  * Great musical scores
  
  * Incredibly long
  
  * Transferring 
 character bonuses can lessen the difficulty
  
  The Bad-
  
  * Keeps the same gameplay from other Fire Emblems
  
  * Very difficult
  
  * Graphics could 
 have been better
  
  * The game would have been better left on the Gamecube
  
  * Incredibly long
  
  * Does not make use of Wii functionalities
  
  * Part 1 of the game 
 
  
  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a direct sequel to 2004's Fire Emblem Path of Radiance. The game picks 
 up 3 years after Path of Radiance left off. The story is divided into four Parts, each occurring 
 directly after the next. Each part will take place in a different territory in Tellius and for 
 the most part will have different characters available to the character. Like in Path of Radiance, 
 you will have a base you visit before each chapter where you can manage items, bonus experience, 
 and support bonds between characters. Support conversations have now been shortened to one line, 
 and hardly make you want to read them, unlike in other Fire Emblem games where support conversations 
 would reveal info about characters. Characters also have Bonds now, but they are preset between 
 characters, and the two characters bonded together must be adjacent to receive the benefits of 
 a bond.
  
  Each battle is played out in a chapter and each will have their own specific objective to complete 
 a battle. The amount of variety between chapters is rather impressive, especially considering the 
 length of the game. Its not just the amount of variety in the missions, but the maps themselves 
 that have variety as well. Some maps will be the standard flat map with a few shrubs and maybe 
 some mountains or something on the outside; nothing really special there. Other maps will have 
 elevation, which adds an enormous amount of depth to battles. Characters higher on the stage gain 
 an extra 50 hit and avoidance when engaging in battle with an enemy. Characters can also climb 
 ledges, which as little as that sounds, can be a boon, or curse, to the player. One map that really 
 stood out was entirely in the air. The level itself was a perfect square with nothing but clouds, 
 which provided defense and avoidance, as map characteristics. The interesting thing about the stage 
 was that the clouds would actually move, which just amazed me for some reason.
  
  Since I am on the topic of variety, there is no shortage of weapons in Radiant Dawn. In terms of 
 magic spells, there are not too many additions, but magic has been improved from Path of Radiance, 
 and the addition of Dark Magic adds more depth to the magic system. Not only has Wind, Fire, and 
 Thunder magic been kept, but they have all be grouped together as Anima when so that magic triangle 
 can remain between Light, Anima, and Dark. As for physical weapons, knives have been a Weapon level 
 now and they remain neutral as to avoid messing with the weapons triangle. Added to weapons are 
 Bronze rank weapons, which are weaker than iron, heavy weapons for Lances and Axes (higher power 
 but lower accuracy) , crossbows which have their own Might (so they are not based off of strength) 
 and can be used by certain infantry units without the ability to use regular bows and can attack 
 directly and indirectly, and finally throwing knives. Many of these weapons help to add more depth 
 to battles, mainly the crossbow and throwing knives, and can add to strategy.
  
  There are many new skills in Radiant Dawn as well. Some can be quite helpful on certain enemies, 
 such as Birdfoe which increases damage done to bird tribe laguz. Others, such as Mercy, which always 
 leaves an enemy with 1 HP, are absolutely useless in most occasions, and will hinder you more than 
 help. As for advanced skills, characters automatically receive advanced skills when they are promoted 
 to their 3rd tier ranks. The advanced skills are incredibly powerful, almost unfair. However you'll 
 find that you will rely on these skills later in the game.
  
  Laguz are not left out of the battle improvements. Laguz now have a transformation bar of 30, instead 
 of 20 allowing them to stay transformed longer. Laguz are now capped at level 40 instead of 20, 
 allowing much more stat growth. Laguz can counter attack when they are not transformed, but these 
 attacks are still too weak to do much, and they cannot perform a regular attack for some reason. 
 Laguz also receive specific skills. These skills can be used by all the tribes, or maybe only certain 
 tribes. Advanced skills are acquired by an item called a Latori sign, which grants a Laguz an advanced 
 skill if they are at level 30 or above. Finally, a new laguz tribe is introduced in Radiant Dawn, 
 even though they are not incredibly important to the plot. Oh yeah, and dragons are actually useful 
 now when you get them.
  
  As for the story, the player will start off with Micaiah of the Dawn Bridage. The Dawn Bridage 
 is based in town of Nevassa in Daein, a country devastated by the Mad King's War from Path fo Radiance. 
 Begnion now rules over Daein and treats its people as peasants. The Dawn Bridage fights against 
 Begnion's oppression and attempts to free Daein. Part 2 takes place in Crimea where a civil war 
 due to Queen Elencia's "poor" ruling skills. Certain nobles attempt to overthrow Elencia and take 
 command of Crimea to themselves. Part 3 invloves the Griel's Mercenaries, lead by Ike, and the 
 Laguz nations, except for Goldoa, who form the Laguz Alliance and Begnion. The Laguz Alliance and 
 Begnion constantly battle each other throughout part 3. Part 4 is too crucial to the plot, so I 
 cannot discuss it without spoiling the story. Part 1 is a rather poor addition to the game, and 
 might have been better off left out of the game. In fact, Part 1 is actually hard to play through, 
 and you may not even want to finish Part 1 due to its difficulty and overall feeling of boredom 
 in it. Part 2 progresses the plot amazingly well, and player will immediately forget about the 
 disappointment of Part 1. Part 3 is the bulk of the game, and is probably the best part. The end 
 of Part 3 is such an amazing plot twist, nobody can be disappointed by it. Other than Part 1, the 
 only negative is that you must play Path of Radiance, otherwise you will be confused at many plot 
 points.
  
  One complaint some people might have is that the game doesn't use the Wiimote for motion sensing. 
 Now as a Wii game, Radiant Dawn should at least have the option to use the pointer or tilt controls. 
 Personally, I find that they are unneeded, but the option to use them would not hurt. Online functionality 
 could have been useful for additional maps or chapters. As for other. The lack of graphical improvement 
 is disappointing. The graphics are not bad and they have been improved to a noticeable extent, 
 but they are not anything above Gamecube level.
  
  Overall, Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is a great successor to Path of Radiance and improves on mostly 
 all aspects of Path of Radiance. The story is poor at the beginning, but quickly picks up later 
 in the game, however, if you have not played Path of Radiance, yo should stay away from this game 
 until you have completed it. The game is incredibly difficult; so much that Normal mode can send 
 veterans home crying, not that the difficulty is a bad thing, but it could alienate newcomers or 
 less experienced gamers from the game. The gameplay is as tight as ever, and minor improvements 
 to the maps and battles can drastically change the outcome of battles. Fans of the series will 
 undoubtedly love Radiant Dawn, while newcomers will find themselves wondering why they bought the 
 title in the first place. The game is outstanding for what it is, and what it is a true successor 
 to Path of Radiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOL333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out there first and foremost: Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is not innovative or groundbreaking. 
 It is not pushing the Wii graphically or audio wise and it does not take advantage of the Wii's 
 unique controller. Radiant Dawn is simply a great game.
  
  Radiant Dawn keeps the stylistic element that have existed since the series' inception, and it 
 is beginning to shows its rust. No to mention aside from more fluid frame rates the graphics and 
 sound have hardly improved from its predecessor. Although disappointing, Radiant Dawn's presentation 
 is not terrible enough to demerit it, as the gameplay has retained its unique charm.
  
  The value of the game hinges on its trademark gameplay, which is as good as ever. The level of 
 strategy required in Radiant Dawn requires meticulous thinking and wise choices. Even with the 
 added save feature, the gameplay remains pretty much the same, and by not straying far away from 
 that formula, fans of the series and strategists everywhere will definitely appreciate the game. 
 The lack of addition to the gameplay such as motion sensor controls hardly take away from the game, 
 as it would hardly make an impact in the first play. This is an RPG anyway, so multiplayer and 
 online are hardly required.
  
  The story is great and it continues from its predecessor. Full of twists and turns, the storyline 
 spans 37 chapters. Touching up on the themes from the last game, it hardly can be called terrible. 
 The best part of the story is the individual backstories of each of the 72 characters. Rich and 
 well thought out, every character in the game has his or her own unique story that adds to each 
 time use that character.
  
  The difficulty is the same as the rest of the series, but rather than causing you to bash your 
 controller in the wall, like the rest of series it forces you to become a better strategist. Rather 
 than dumbing down for its audience, it tries to make them better players.
  
  Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn comes down to its gameplay. The story is great. The presentation is average. 
 The difficulty is hard, but not to the extent of being harsh or unforgiving. It doesn't change 
 the formula for good reason, as its as good as strategy gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  It's been said that "if it isn't broke, don't fix it" and Fire Emblem developer Intelligent Systems 
 has this down to the tee. Sure they make minor tweaks with each passing entry into their beloved 
 strategy RPG series, but the gameplay is still largely the same. Well, there is a reason for this 
 and it is quite evident in Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn. Intelligent Systems core gameplay is spectacular. 
 If they changed it many fans would go into a rampage and rightfully so because each installment 
 is just as good as, and sometimes better than, the last entry in the series. With their first entry 
 on the Nintendo Wii, Radiant Dawn is a large success, but it also has a few shortcomings that are 
 noticeable early on in the game.
  
  Radiant Dawn picks up 3 years after the Mad King's War from Path of Radiance on the Gamecube, putting 
 you in the footsteps of many of the key characters from it. Micaiah or the "silver-haired maiden" 
 as her people call her, is the leader of the Dawn Brigade who are fighting to reclaim their land 
 of Daein from the Begnion forces who have taken it. Along the path to victory Radiant Dawn will 
 take you through 4 parts each with a variety of chapters accompanying them, and along the way you 
 will meet with many faces that were in the previous game and even a few unexpected ones at that. 
 Suffice to say, that isn't the entire plot, but to say anymore would give it away, so we'll leave 
 it a that.
  
  If you are familiar with the series then you will feel right at home with this one. The gameplay 
 is largely untouched from Path of Radiance and still contains alot of what made Path of Radiance 
 so great, while adding slight tweaks. It still plays like a chess match where every action has 
 a reaction. One thing that has been prominent in the Fire Emblem series is its challenging difficulty, 
 but with Radiant Dawn Intelligent Systems kicked it up a notch. Radiant Dawn is easily the hardest 
 game in the series, especially in the early going. It shouldn't be enough to infuriate veterans, 
 but it will most certainly put off newcomers. This is why there is an easy mode accessible right 
 at the start, which is still considerably tough, but not nearly as tough as the normal mode. Most 
 vets will start with normal mode, which they should, because Radiant Dawn will put up a hardy challenge 
 to even the most seasoned strategy role-players. After the game is completed on normal mode, hard 
 mode is unlocked, but this will most likely go untouched by most players unless they are the hardcore 
 of the hardcore.
  
  The first noticeable shortcoming Radiant Dawn has going for it is it's subpar visuals which haven't 
 been touched at all since Path of Radiance debuted on the Gamecube. Path of Radiance was no powerhouse 
 in terms of graphics, but it had a distinct style and some great animated cutscenes for the pivotal 
 events in the story. While Radiant Dawn does indeed have these aesthetically pleasing scenes as 
 well, the visuals definitely need a facelift. The standards have been raised with the Wii and this 
 isn't even a game that would score high on graphics if it were on the last-gen consoles. Still, 
 most will be able to look past this and enjoy Radiant Dawn. The soundtrack to Radiant Dawn is good, 
 but not remarkable. It isn't as good as Path of Radiance's soundtrack was, but the voice-acting 
 in the cutscenes are actually pretty good. It is just too bad that the voice-acting is only used 
 in the lush animated cutscenes that are only seen once or maybe twice in each part of the story. 
 Radiant Dawn still primarily uses text boxes to convey its story, and although this won't matter 
 to most, it would still be great to have a fully acted out story considering the Fire Emblem series 
 has been doing the same thing since the NES. The future does look good for the Fire Emblem series 
 on the Wii though because with a substantial facelift (maybe we can get the whole game in those 
 amazing animated cutscenes) and a good dose of voice-acting this would be an awe-inspiring game.
 
  
  Radiant Dawn has one feature that may put off those who haven't played a game in the series in 
 an instant: lack of motion control. Granted the game still plays marvelously without it, the entire 
 reason the Wii exists is to use its motion sensing technology to further immerse the player in 
 their experience. It wouldn't have been hard to move characters around on the battlefield via the 
 Wiimote and they opted to not have this function at all. This will definitely be a huge bummer 
 to most Wii owners who haven't played a game in the series before, but veterans of this series 
 definitely won't mind one bit. Even with these shortcomings though, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is 
 still an excellent title. It may not be as good as its predecessor, but it is surely a top-notch 
 strategy RPG for the Wii. Anyone who is a fan of this genre will probably find themselves loving 
 Radiant Dawn. The only sad part is that most will skip over this gem simply because Super Mario 
 Galaxy and Metroid Prime 3: Corruption have come out roughly the same time. If only they knew that 
 Fire Emblem is also a Nintendo exclusive, top-tier series they are missing out on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashnard08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  After I played Path of Radiance, I was excited for the sequel. As the day drew close, I could hardly 
 contain my excitement. When I finally got the game, I was in no way what-so-ever disapointed. Words 
 could not describe what I thought of it. The plot was an excellent follow up to Path of Radiance, 
 with everything nicely resolved. The sound is excellent and all the music flows well with the game 
 and story. The graphics are similar, but better than POR and the visuals flow much better. For 
 difficulty, it will be difficult to get used to if you have never played a Fire Emblem Game before, 
 but other than that, Past players should have no problem. If people are new or do have trouble, 
 remember the easy skill level was invented for a reason people!! Finally, the controls are very 
 diverse. You can use the Wii-Remote horizontally or vertically, use the gamecube controller or 
 the Wii classic controller, so it's pretty easy to be flexible with the controllers. Personally, 
 this is my favourite Fire Emblem game, however, I will admit, it may not be your cup of tea. But 
 no matter what, I encourage anyone who is even slightly interested, to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foonugget
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game takes place a few years after the events in Path of Radiance. Basicaly you get the chance 
 to play as a few different groups and get the chance o see all the sides of the war, something 
 that fire emblem has never done before. 
  Im not really sure what all the hate is about, the way i see it this is another great addition 
 to the fire emblem series. I dont believe that you really can use very many wii functions so i 
 dont know why all of the 'experts' are crying over that. The game may be tough but that is the 
 way of fire emblem. 
  One of the really cool things about this game that i thought was pretty impressive was the aerial 
 battles. I have always thought that the falcons knoghts or Wavwren Lods lookd dumb on the ground 
 so it was good to see them up in the air where they belong. 
  This game is overall impressive and anyone who plays it will agree.
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossignol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  If you like chess, you will like this game!!!! If you have not played Prev. FE or even the GC game, 
 which this is the sequel to, you can pick up this game and get into it pretty easily. Basic strategy 
 is key, aka dont put your mages/archers in reach of enemys. use them to blast at the beging of 
 the turn, then push your front line melee up so enemies cant reach your mages. Try to keep your 
 guys shoulder to shoulder rather then staggered, this ensures you guy cant get ganked and also 
 build up the support they get from neiboughs. I dont find the game to be any more difficult then 
 Advanced wars, and in fact I much prefer the fantasy versions of the Turn based strategy because 
 you get to keep your units and develop their skills/atributes rather then just buy new tanks when 
 they die. it encourages you to keep your guys alive. 
  One of the best features FE for the Wii brings is "battle save" which allows you to create a save 
 point anywhere in a battle which you can restart from infinite number of times. This was left out 
 of the GC version, sometimes making you re-do 120 min battles cuz you lost a guy in the last turn. 
 Unlike other genres like FPS or RTS, this genre (Turn based fantasy strategy) is almost devoid of 
 development. You start with a game on the sega genesis - the Shining Force serries and move onto 
 Fire Emblem and there is not much else available. Further to the additions to FE, now EVERYONE 
 is available for support. this is great as in prev. FE versions you had to line up specefic team 
 members to get these bonuses.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prolifikshadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Alright, here goes nothing. If you enjoy fast paced, all action games, avoid Fire Emblem. However, 
 you if enjoy strategy, character development, and feeling really REALLY good when you finish a 
 level, pick this one up. Fire Emblem is famous for being a game thats not easy, but Radiant Dawn 
 can really vamp up the difficulty at times. If you are an impatient person you may find your self 
 throwing the Wii remote at your TV (and then crying about the Wii remote lodged in your TV) . But 
 this difficulty has a redeeming quality. You see, unlike other games, Fire Emblem is very rewarding. 
 Lets face it, most games are not hard anymore. Its very easy to see this by playing a few games 
 off the Virtual Console. It feels good to beat a level or whatever, but in Fire Emblem you really 
 feel good. After hours of getting owned by the Lance General that you just keep forgetting about, 
 you finally beat the level. Let me tell you, it is one of the best feelings you can get from video 
 games. Except maybe when your pokemon evolve but thats a whole other story. Anyway, the character 
 development is top notch, the level design really makes you think when your positioning your units, 
 and the CG cut scenes are some of the best in the business. Even the voice acting in the cut scenes 
 are very nice, which is surprising since its the first time American Fire Emblem games have used 
 voice acting. If your a fan of the series this is a definite buy, otherwise I would say rent it 
 before you buy it. There is a lot of text but that comes with the territory. If your like the GameSpot 
 reviewer and are not patient enough to read than avoid the game, but don't give it a low score 
 because you hate reading. Thanks for listening, no doubt that I'll be doing quite a lot of reviews 
 so keep an eye out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii -- x360
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn basically starts 3 years after Fire Emblem Path of Radiance. The game 
 is a great sequel to the previous game. The story is even better in this game, take my word for 
 it. The guy from gamespot gave it the weak story merit the only he could've of given the game that 
 merit is if the guy who reviewed the game skipped all the text and didn't bother to read them. 
 And to say the plot was laughable the guy who said that is laughable. The guy who gave Fire Emblem 
 Radiant Dawn that merit clearly didn't play the previous game. I will not lie the difficulty was 
 extremely punishing but that is one of the many great things about Fire Emblem series is that they 
 keep you on edge the whole game and one wrong move may cost one of your best character's lives. 
 So if your a new to the game I would recommend picking up the previous game before taking on Fire 
 Emblem Radiant Dawn. the game doesn't use any of the Wii motion capilities but the game doesn't 
 need any. Gamespot marked the game down for a lot of tweaks but the game is great just the way 
 it is why should you try to make a masterpiece better? It's great just the way it is and you shouldn't 
 try to make it any better. The game also has great sharp looking graphics. Either your looking 
 for a fun challenge or a great story if your a wii owner you should defintely check it out don't 
 even bother to read the gamespot review in fact game spot should get someone who has the played 
 the last game and rereview the game and gamespot shoul alpogize for giving a great game a terrible 
 score. All and all I would give Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn a 9.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn for the Wii
  
  The Good- Lots of characters to choose from, viewing both sides of the story, great length of a 
 game, fresh sequel to fire emblem 9, one of the best games to his the wii this year!
  
  The Bad- No more in-depth supports! No wii controls 
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 First off this game 
 does not use the wii remote in any way, it just uses it like a normal remote and you can also use 
 the gamecube controller as well with this game. I believe this was for the best as the game didn't 
 need any of them. The game offers the same formula as the last game with skills added to your character 
 and there own traits and level ups. Each time you level up your states will randomly go up. This 
 has been a custom with all fire emblems but the twist to 9 and 10 was the main skills which did 
 killer damage. This game allows for 3 class ups which is totally unique to fire emblem Radiant 
 Dawn as all others only have 2 class ups. The skills this time can be removed and placed back on 
 your other guys unlike the last game where they could not be switched over. This game allows you 
 to learn your ultimate skill in the 3rd class up instead of the occult scroll of FE9 which is great. 
 I just find the skills could of looked better then they did, but some still have there charm. During 
 the game you move around attacking with the sword-spear-axe formula of rock paper sissors same 
 as magic fire-wind-lighting and then light-dark which was added to this game. You use these tactics 
 to beat down your enemies and hopefully not die as if you do its no coming back! This game however 
 has added a quicksave feature which allows you to save in the middle of battle. I find this super 
 cheap, but because of the added difficulty of this game compaired to others its sorta a nice touch 
 for chapters that can take up to an hour and then the boss critical hits you and your like WTF! 
 Overall solid gameplay, not much has been changed, but its still great and why change a great thing?
 
  
  Graphics- 9/10 Yes this game looks like a GC game, BUT did the GC game looked nice? Why yes it 
 did. This game was ment for the GC so its expected and since this game has graphics nicer then 
 most wii games at the moment why complain? If you do then your just a graphics hog, as these had 
 nice clean graphics to it, no complaining here. 
  
  Sound- 9/10 The music fits the battles very well, but theres nothing to probly store on your IPOD 
 and such. The voice actors are great this time around! Great soundeffects!
  
  Storyline- 9/10 The game follows different events in each chapter and shows both sides of the story 
 on a all out war against each other. You even end up fighting your own guys from different teams, 
 luckly they don't die if you strike them down. The games story has been kinda done before, but 
 what hasn't? Its nice smooth and basic and thats what makes it solid and great. 
  
  Extra material and Replay Value 8/10- This game kills me in 1 thing NO TRIAL MAPS! Thats what made 
 FE9 so dam great was those extra maps you could use when you beat the game. Also supports have 
 been downgraded to pathetic 2 lines which nothing! Its sad as those 2 things give neverending gameplay! 
 The game does over extra's in the second playthrough but after that theres no modivation for a 
 third unless you just love the game. 
  Gameplay x3 
  Graphics x2
  Sound x2
  Storyline x2
  Extra's and Reply x1
  
  Overall- 89 out of 100 for a 9/10 Great game, but without 
 the trial maps or supports it kills the game compaired to others of the series. Still the overall 
 game lasting 40 hours is great and its a masterpiece of a game to play so pick it up if you like 
 tactic games/rpgs as this game is lots of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem made its US debut on the GBA a few years back. Although it was the first in the series 
 to hit our shores, there have been many of the games produced in Japan. Playing the new Fire Emblem: 
 Radiant Dawn brings back some fond memories of the GBA Fire Emblems (I've never played the GC one) , 
 but it also makes me wonder: how far will Fire Emblem go as a series before it takes a significant 
 step forward? 
  
  The series has always been about turn based strategy role playing, and it does it pretty well. 
 FE would be nothing without its unique battle systems, and although the battles are ever so slightly 
 different from what can be found in other SRPGs, that doesn't mean that it is neccesarily worse. 
 In most new SRPGs, battles are deep and strategic affairs. They allow players to move their units 
 across a grid-based battlefield and attack or sometimes steal from enemies, heal allies, or perform 
 a number of other actions. In this regard, FE is similar. But other strategy games allow for much 
 deeper customization of characters than is allowed here. In FE: RD, every character is shoehorned 
 into a specific class with a specific role to play in battle. This can feel a little limiting compared 
 to the systems found in Final Fantasy Tactics or Jeanne D'Arc, for example. Also, as mentioned 
 earlier, the battles are slightly less complex in FE and they come down to a matter of luck more 
 often than I would like. The direction in which your character faces makes no difference in attack 
 strength and accuracy, which makes positioning of units a little less important. Finally, since 
 the stats increased with each level up are random, some characters can turn out to be unfortunately 
 useless. This becomes a problem because in Fire Emblem games, if a character dies, he or she is 
 gone for good. With such high consequences for failure, it kind of sucks that some of your units 
 might not be up to snuff. 
  
  At the same time, though, the fact that any of your units (aside from the main characters) can 
 die for good adds a heaping helping of suspense to many battles that keeps the game fun even after 
 failure. Whether you're engaging a powerful enemy boss in mortal combat or rushing to get your 
 healer to an injured unit before he is killed, the tactical battles in Fire Emblem are almost always 
 pure, unadulterated fun. There is something powerfully addictive about moving through this game. 
 
  
  Radiant Dawn seems to be getting an unfair rap from the critics. They complain that the series 
 hasn't evolved enough, and that the game is too difficult to really be fun. Well the difficulty 
 problem is easy to solve-simply set the game mode to easy before starting the campaign. It's pretty 
 clear that normal and hard mode will be plenty challenging for all of you masochistic gamers, while 
 easy will prove fun for the rest. Surprising that reviewers didn't seem to take that into account...
 
  However, it is a fact that Fire Emblem isn't exactly the fastest evolving series out there. While 
 those who have never played the GC game will find some cool updates to the GBA formula such as 
 characters who can transform into animal warriors and the ability to "shove" allied characters, 
 thus moving a character who you've already commanded to wait one square farther in a certain direction, 
 those features were available in the GC release as well. So while I love the classic Fire Emblem 
 gameplay, I would like to see it evolve to a certain extent in a future game. A little IR-sensor 
 control and online gameplay in the next version would be a great start. 
  
  The graphics have been criticized, and I can't disagree. This was clearly made with the Gamecube 
 in mind, and while it would make a very nice looking GC game, it is a mediocre looking Wii game. 
 The CG cutscenes which play every so often, on the other hand, are exactly what I was hoping for. 
 These scenes are gorgeous and very well directed, but they are few and far between. The battles 
 themselves are sort of a mixed bag. For each attack, the camera will zoom in on the battling characters 
 and show a cool attack. The basic attacks look alright, but the critical hits and magic are pretty 
 neat looking despite the primitive engine that powers them. The fact that the camera zooms in so 
 close only serves to highlight the "meh" character models.
  The sound is not very elaborate (no orchestrated stuff here... and seriously, how incredible would 
 orchestrated Fire Emblem music be??) , but it is still fitting and it drives the battles forward 
 well. Weapon sound effects are all par for the course. Most of the dialouge in the game is not 
 spoken, but presented in classic FE text box format, which is fine by me. The spoken dialouge that 
 plays during the CG scenes, like the graphics during said scenes, is great. 
  
  All in all, FE: RD is a strategy game for the FE purists above all else. That's not to say that 
 it won't please newcomers, so long as they set the difficulty to easy. The game has been harshly 
 criticized, but SRPG fans should find an addictive adventure hiding beneath the surface.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 - IR control would have been nice, but the controls mapped pretty intuitively to 
 the Wiimote.
  Graphics: 7/10 - The amazing cutscenes saved the graphics score. 
  Sound: 8/10 - It would be nice to hear some orchestrated music, but all in all the sound fits the 
 game.
  Entertainment: 9/10 - Personally, I find it fairly addictive. Others may back down from the challenge 
 that normal and hard modes present.
  Overall (not an average) : 8.5/10. Worth a rental for all hardcore Wii gamers. A great buy for SRPG 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stickynotz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  First off, this is my second fire emblem game, POR being my first one. If u have been playing fire 
 emblem for a long time, then u should ignore this review. 
  
  fire emblem takes place three years after POR, and has u controlling sothe and micaiah who are 
 trying to save daein from begnion clutches. As u pogress u will play as different characters like 
 queen elincia and Ike from the first game. many old characters and maps will appear from the old 
 game, but many new ones will also appear.
  
  
  Fire emblem is a strategy RPG game, and its an amazing one. It has simple rock paper sisscors mechanics, 
 simple but deep customization, memorable characters and is very addicting. though it is very hard, 
 the new addition to save mid-battle makes it have a less higher level of difficulty than POR (but 
 radiant dawn is still quiet diffucult) .
  the storyline is on par with POR, which was ok, but there are plenty of better video game stories.
 
  
  while playing ull find urself completley emmersed in the battles, always tring to figure out the 
 best way to defeat ur enemy. And of course the , ur character theyre gone for good, approach is 
 still in the game, making your characters seem very important. And sometimes through the game, 
 there are parts that are made extremely easier if u sacrifice a character, which is ok because 
 some of the characters are useless.
  
  the graphics are, sadly, terrible. though u wont really care that much, the character models are 
 clunky and look outdated. but the CG movies are gorgeous. they are a blast to watch, and feels 
 like ur watching a real movie.
  i wish all the cut scenes were animated like this, but sadly, they arent.
  
  this game will 
 last u aproximitly 25 to 50 hours depending on ur diffuculty and skill level. If u enjoyed the 
 game as much as i did, ull want to go through the game again to see how else u could beat certain 
 levels and see how good different characters are.
  
  in conclusion, i love this game. it doesnt improve to much on POR, but POR was a great game so 
 there is no real need to change it. If this is you're first fire emblem, its a great buy, but i 
 suggest u get POR first to get a better feel for the story and characters and since radiant dawn 
 is more difficult then POR.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kafka123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  About the reviewer: This is my first Fire Emblem game. I do not share the bias of long time fans 
 of the series. I am an old generation gamer, and do have a wide experience with RPGs and strategy 
 games, on console, PC and table top. 
  
  First Impression: I was hooked to the game soon after I started playing, despite the flaws that 
 some reviewers have highlighted: graphics, early story, controls and difficulty. Is it possible 
 to enjoy the game despite these issues for players new to the series? Read on.
  
  About the storyline: What you have been reading in other reviews is mostly true. Antagonists early 
 in the game are one dimensional and shamefully evil. The plot seems somewhat stained with some 
 juvenile 'navet'. Be assured however that the storyline greatly improves, and becomes more exciting 
 with every passing chapter. The approach becomes more mature and the grey line between good and 
 evil does widen. 
  
  About the graphics: Yes, the graphics are not on par with current standards. This is only a problem 
 if the RPG aspect is more important to you than the strategy game side. Today's RPGs are expected 
 to draw the most out of the system with top notch graphics (think Final Fantasy, Mass Effect and 
 Oblivion) . This is not the case in strategy games. Much of your time is spent planning and calculating, 
 so the game flow has to be smooth and the battle map has to show as many units as possible. Most 
 serious players end up cutting the animations and zooming out in strategy games.
  
  About the difficulty: I only tried the normal mode. The main source of debate is the permanent 
 death aspect. To me this is simply a factor that naturally drives you toward a unique set of strategies, 
 so the game plays differently than your average tactical RPG. This is a plus. Now it does make 
 the game more difficult, especially if you are more of an RPG player. Without careful planning 
 (and some luck) your characters will die then you reload and change your move. Then they die again! 
 This can be frustrating even for experienced players. I had to reload several (even a dozen) times 
 in some battles due to slight calculation errors that turned out to be fatal. The loading time 
 is fast and does not hurt the game flow. Be patient and you will greatly improve. Advice for noobs: 
 Always save at the beginning of each turn, and only at the beginning!
  
  About the controls: ok, it has been said over and over again: no use of Wii specific motion control. 
 As a matter of fact, this could have been a GC game. I suspect they only made it on the Wii so 
 die hard fans of the series would buy the game system. There is no excuse for not using the remote 
 like a computer mouse for fast unit movement with point and click. Well, maybe next time.
  
  Closing comments: I am enjoying this game so much that I stopped playing midway through! I 
 decided to buy the prequel (Path of Radiance) and play it first. This addictive game grows on you, 
 and challenges you to be smart. If you really want a smoother learning curve and to better appreciate 
 the story, then get Path of Radiance first (be aware that it is a rare game difficult to find in 
 stores) . If you are an RPG fan looking for a great story, but are unfamiliar with strategy games, 
 then be careful, you may be overwhelmed by the difficulty, and disappointed by the lack of dialog 
 options and absence of side quests. Maybe rent it first. If you are into strategy games, then consider 
 Fire Emblem as a deep and satisfying tactical game (and massive battles with over 50 units on the 
 map) with a good story and interesting characters as a bonus. You can always skip the talk and 
 jump right into battle. If you like both strategy and role playing games, than this is for you 
 provided you can handle a bit of frustration. If you are a fan of the series, then I assume you 
 have already completed the game.
  
  I prefer Gamespot's old score system, so here I go:
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  Overall: 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erictggw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Excellent sequel. I don't understand the harsh reviews. I bought the Wii just to play 
 this game and loved it. Sure the game doesn't use all of the tools available because of the Wii, 
 but it has a good story line. It isn't even a hard game either. They should make more games like 
 this. The battle system is a cool one and they shouldn't tweak it at all. Nobody should make the 
 same mistake as the shining force genre. If you haven't played either of the fire emblem games, 
 I would recommend that you did so soon. Instant classic in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  
  Amid the released of highly anticipated Wii games like Sonic & Mario at the Olympic Games, and 
 Super Mario Galaxy, it is rather easy to overlook the newest game in Nintendo's Fire Emblem series. 
 Radiant Dawn
  
  Dawn is a direct sequel to the Gamecube's Path of Radiance. As such, most of the core characters, 
 stories, and game play elements remain unchanged. You'll still be taking on hordes of knights and 
 bandits, leveling up your characters while trying to avoid death, and progressing through a series 
 of plot twists and turns. 
  
  The story of Radiant Dawn begins in the country of Daein, which was ravaged three years priorduring 
 Path of Radiance -- by the wars perpetrated by the Mad King Ashnard. The player starts the story 
 in control of a light mage known as the 'Silver Haired Maiden', Michaiah. Michaiah leads a group 
 of rebels known as the Dawn Brigade who oppose the occupation of Daein by the oppressive country 
 of Beignion. While you will control Michaiah and her group for most of the story, several plot 
 twist will cause the focus to shift toward other bands of fightersincluding the mercenary group 
 lead by the pervious game's hero, Ike. As usual, the game blends political and social intriguing 
 with the realities of war, however, Radiant Dawn also develops upon points which had only previously 
 been touched upon in Path of Radiance, and eventually the player learns the truth about the mysterious 
 medallion known as the Fire Emblem.
  
  Game play is, as previously stated, relatively unchanged from Path of Radiance. The player progresses 
 through the game in several phases: story sequences, camp menu, map menu, and battle itself. The 
 story sequences consist of dialogs between other members of the group, and often leads up to a 
 battle of varying proportions. The camp menu allows you to customize and prepare your team for 
 battle, while the map menu gives you an overview of the upcoming battle and allows you to pick 
 and choose which forces will take part in it. 
  
  Battle itself takes place on a 3D plane, identical to the ones found in Radiance. Only a few differences 
 are even worth noting about combat. One of which is that the beastmen tribes known as Laguz, who 
 can shape shift into animals, are now slightly more useful due to the fact that they can move, 
 shift, and act all in one turn. Additionally, there are items which allow characters to induce 
 beast form at any timeas well as abilities which allow certain characters to always have the ability 
 to shift. Although in Path of Radiance, I found myself avoiding the use of the Laguz, several pillars 
 of my army in Radiant Dawn consisted of Laguz. 
  
  There are no Wii-specific controls for the game, although you can freely switch between a Gamecube, 
 Classic, and Wii-mote controller while playing. With the wii-mote only control, you merely hold 
 the controller horizontally as you do in most virtual console games. It works well, and actually 
 became my favored control method over the bulkier Gamecube controller.
  
  Bonus Exp has returned in Radiant Dawn, which is definitely a good thing. One improved features 
 of using Bonus Exp is that, if a character levels up via bonus Exp, he or she will be given a stat 
 boost in three stats. This clears away the problem in Path of Radiance, where your characters could 
 be 'gimped' by leveling up via Bonus Exp, as its effects were off erratic.
  
  The difficulty level of Radiant Dawn is in fact, rather high. Even on the 'easy' setting, which 
 is filled with tutorials and hand-holdingthe game can be very difficult. For those new to the 
 series, the fact that units and comrades actually die in battle can be discouraging, which may 
 be why the developer decided to add a new feature to the gamein battle saving. With the new save 
 feature, you are able to save any time during your turn and pick up later from where that save 
 took place.
  
  The last real important thing to mention about the game play is the fact that you can import your 
 data from Path of Radiance onto Radiant Dawn. Although it is unlikely that many players still have 
 data from Path of Radiance, let alone the game itself, it is a nice touch that allows for some 
 more depth in character customization and game play experience. 
  
  Graphically, Radiant Dawn is basically identical to its predecessor. The hand drawn backgrounds, 
 character portraits, and illustrations are wonderfully doneas are the infrequent, but expertly 
 rendered CG sequences. The character animations in battle are basically the same, but with slightly 
 improved animations and movement.
  
  Radiant Dawn's sound quality is probably it's least impressive area. Voice acting is restricted 
 to the rare CG cut scenes, and when it is present... it is rather mediocre. The music is well done, 
 but forgettable, and the sound effects during battle are completely average. 
  
  On the whole, Radiant Dawn is a capable sequel and installment in the Fire Emblem series. Although 
 it may stray a bit with its story, the grand plot and revelations will likely add enjoyment factor 
 to those who have played the previous game. While the difficulty and plot-threads from the previous 
 game may push away new comers, the series itself has never been one to try and capture every gamer 
 in a big tent. For people who often complain that Nintendo ignores the 'hardcore' gamers, Radiant 
 Dawn and the Fire Emblem series claim otherwise. With the expertly crafted game play, interesting 
 story and characters, and playtime of over 20 hours... Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn will likely suck 
 away the free time of any RPG or Strategy fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx369
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  First, I would like to apologize for any gramatical mistakes in the text. I'm brazilian and I'm 
 still learning English.
  
  Fire-Emblem is a turn-based middle-age strategy series that was not very well-know outside Japan, 
 actually the first Fire-Emblem game released outside Japan was a GBA game and the series was already 
 going on in Japan since the NES time. Anyway, the game was a success and following it a new Fire-Emblem 
 game was released outside Japan, but this time for the Game Cube, Fire-Emblem Path of Radiance. 
 That game was another success and now, Radiant Dawn, its sequel has gone out for the Wii.
  
  As a direct sequel from Path of Radiance, Radiant Dawn is placed in the same world of its predecessor, 
 the world of Tellius, where two races exist, the beorc (humans) and the laguz (half-humans, half 
 beasts) . Radiant Dawn takes place 3 years after Ashnard, the mad ruler of Daein was defeated by 
 Ike and the Crimean army. After winning the war, Crimea receives the right to rule Daein, but with 
 the country in reconstruction, and without enough resources to rule another country, Crimea renounces 
 to its right to rule Daein and passes it to Begnion Empire, but instead of rulling Daein with justice, 
 Begnion starts an oppression. You start the game in control of the Dawn Brigade, a group of people 
 who try to solve Daein's problems. You start the game with just this group of characters, but you'll 
 soon see yourself involved in a war to free Daein from Begninon's oppression. That summarizes the 
 story from the first part of the game, actually, Radiant Dawn is divided in 4 parts, that's pretty 
 cool, since you can play with different nations, with different points of view, but this design 
 choise has a big problem. The 4 parts work as almost almost independent storys from each other, 
 but then the story has to be told in 7 or 10 stages. The storyline is still great, but if compared 
 to Path of Radiance, that had one story for 30 stages, it lacks deepness.
  
  Radiant Dawn is very similar to its predecessor, but in this case, its a bad thing. Let's start 
 with the graphics, Radiant Dawn looks exactly like Path of Radiance, but Radiant Dawn is a Wii 
 game and Path of Radiance is a Game Cube game, the problem is that PoR's graphics were already 
 lacking, the game suffers from low-detailed character models with some poor animation, the story 
 is only told by 2D pictures and texts, and what is even worse is that the DS could easily do this. 
 The graphical highlights in the game are some impressive CG animations. The sound is quite simple 
 too, the musics are good but its all midi, and they manage to get old really fast.
  
  Radiant Dawn doesn't use any of the Wii's features, it has no online mode and no motion-sensing 
 controls. The controls work just like in PoR, you can use the Wii-Remote (held in its NES position) , 
 the Classic controller or the Game Cube controller, just select your unit and attack someone. No 
 motion-sensing controls included, but in Fire-Emblem's case the controls just wouldn't add anything 
 to the overall experience. 
  
  In RD, difficulty was seriously increased, Fire-Emblem veteran or not, you should not start playing 
 in the Normal difficult, but in the Easy one. A good new is that now you're allowed to save in 
 the middle of the battle, so you won't have to do the stage all over again. Other thing that increase 
 difficulty is that just like any other Fire-Emblem, once your characters die, they don't come back.
 
  
  If I have criticized the game a lot until now, I'll tell some good news now. The battles are as 
 complex as ever. In battle, a lot of patience is needed, you'll always have to analyse the opponents 
 weakness before attacking ( That thing of rock-paper-scissor is present: Swords are strong against 
 axes, axes are strong against lances and lances are strong against sword, the same goes for the 
 magics) , and since there are various classes in the game, each one with their own advantages and 
 weakness, you'll also have to pay attention to that. Once in your base, you can assign special 
 skills to your characters, to award them with bonus experience, to sell and to buy items, to forge 
 your own weapons (even choosing their colors and names) , to create special relationships between 
 your characters and to get some special info. As you can see, there is a plenty of things to do.
 
  
  In the end, Radiant Dawn is a great game, but its quite a disappointment too, because its just 
 like Path of Radiance, a long time released Game Cube game with weaker story. Anyone who has not 
 played Path of Radiance should try to, and the ones who have already played and liked it, should 
 get this game, expect for 30 to 40 hours playing a really addictive
  game. 
  
   6,5
   
 7,0
   8,0
   8,5
  Reply  
 8,0
  
   8,0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrum0404
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot got this game so wrong... This game should at least have an 8.7 score instead of a 6.0 
 - In my opinion every Fire Emblem game should have a 10, but that is just not posible. Then Nintendo 
 stated that they didn't involve the Wii controler, and what would you do with the controller? Point 
 at the TV to choose characters or where to move them? It could make sense but stil one would get 
 tired pointing at the screen every few seconds just because Gamespot thought that this game should 
 use the Wii controller.
  The difficulty may be greater than the last games but Intelligent Systems made the "battle save" 
 option available so inexperienced players couldget used to the game then go on into a greater dificulty.
 
  
  In my opinion it is a game worth having, don't care what GS says. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sscloud123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is another big wii title that for some unknown reason gamespot has decide to rate very low. 
 If you play the game there are parts of the GS review that make no sense like about the story being 
 terrible and things jumping randomly.
  
  In short:
  GOOD:
  - Great Fire Emblem gameplay
  - Awesome CGI cutscenes
  - More classes and weapons than the 
 previous one.
  - Get to upgrade twice instead of once - (not for every unit only for about 10-15 ish i think)
 
  - Follow on from Path of Radiance - which is also amazing.
  - A GOOD story that does get slightly hard to follow sometimes but no way near as bad as GS claim 
 (seriously, unless the reviewer just skipped or half watched the cutscenes or text)
  - Seriously Challenging Hard Mode - for all those who complained about POR
  
  BAD:
  - Could've 
 pushed the boat a bit more with the features
  - Graphically a GC game - not a bad thing i suppose but it could have lookes SO much better
  
 - Text HEAVY
  - Except the easiest setting the difficulty will be tough for newcomers to handle.
  
  OVERALL: 
 KICK ASS EXPERIENCE! Don't listen to GS and their Ant-Wii Stance, if you're into strategy RPGs 
 this is a MUST HAVE. Or if you are a newbie then definitely check it out, you won't regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud039
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Trust me it, s simple the game isn't like GS said it is. Its a masterpiece. Yes im a FE fan so youll 
 say you lover all FE but this one is a must be play. The game is long, have lots of caracters and 
 a good plot. GS said the plot is laughable. Its their review who is.... I loved the game The graphics 
 are not the best but they are OK. Yes the game is maybe too hard for beginners but atleast play 
 it first! For Fire Emblem sake ill fight till the end and a 6.0 is not acceptable! All is said. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow280
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  This game does have a few flaws. The lack of the support conversations being the biggest one, though 
 most of these type of conversations are just added into the "info" section at base. And it is hard, 
 especially in the chapters 1-7.
  
  But I didn't lose a battle after that, and i'm not a guy who lets a single unit die. If it takes 
 you 7 tries to beat a level (Ahem, gamespot Editor) then you're trying something that's not working 
 and need to change tactics... for, you know, a tactical game.
  
  Overall great game, fun, entertaining, decent story, and as for villains? They switch from insidious 
 to downright dicks, and its always a pleasure to get to take them down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem is a series that has not made too many huge changes in it's over 20 years of existence 
 and it doesn't have to. It's always been about the strategy and story. Radian Dawn is no different. 
 It picks up right where Path of Radiance ended and the story is very good. But if you have not 
 played the previous installment you might be a little confused and the story won't impact you as 
 much since pretty much all the characters return from the previous game and old references and 
 relationships appear again. The graphics are nicely improved over Path of Radiance. While the graphics 
 don't make a huge leap there are lot's of improvements. For starters, the battle sequences are 
 more cinematic and the character models look much better and have more detail in them, also they 
 animate nicely. The camera angle also has been made to provide some interesting shots and the whole 
 thing looks great. The game in "board Mode" also looks a little better and I noticed there are 
 some nice details like you might see smoke coming out of the chimney or birds walking along the 
 ground. The game also has some dialog conversations while the scene is being performed with the 
 game's "board mode" graphics engine. The game has some excellent CGI cutscenes with some good voice 
 acting and the artwork in the game is excellent. The sound is also a little improved but mostly 
 in the music area. They mixed some old tunes in with some new ones and it sounds good. Sound effects 
 have been improved a little but not by much. The diaolog in general is pretty well written. Although 
 the new "converse" option, where you talk to a character on the map, the dialog is pretty wierd 
 and sometimes is very akward, it might have been lost in translation but the quality of the dialog 
 here is lower than in the rest of the game. There is no Wii functionality support and there does 
 not really need to be. Sure, they could have added some pointer functionality but it would not 
 have made much of a difference. There really was no need to implement motion controls in a game 
 that is all about moving units on a map. An online mode would have been cool and is the only Wii 
 functionality that I would actually want but the Single player campaign is long enough to last 
 a while. There are many small improvements to the core gameplay but it should still be immediately 
 familiar to anyone who has played Path of Radiance. The game does feel harder than Path of Radiance 
 though. This can be a very frustrating experience for those who try to keep everybody alive but 
 if you play the game without caring if a unit or two dies than the game is actually not too difficult. 
 Overall this is an excellent and challenging game. I recommend that you play the previous game 
 before this one. This way you will be familiar with the gameplay and story and the higher difficulty 
 level won't turn you off. I can easily say that this is the best Strategy/RPG on a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I love Fire Emblem, but it wasn't always that way I never knew what Fire Emblem was until I got 
 the GBA versions and I loved it. It was a different type of strategy game and It is really fun 
 and addicting. I can't believe it didn't get a good score. The storyline is great and adds on to 
 the Fire Emblem Path of Radiance storyline. Many characters make their return from the last Fire 
 Emblem. The graphics may not be top of the game, but the gameplay totally makes up for it. The 
 levels aren't all that hard and if your a FE fan already you will already have the controls and 
 everything else down. The game really has nothing wrong with it! The story wasn't weak, the diffculty 
 isnt bad and the first impression wasnt terrible. It isn't a total let down like the people say 
 they just gave a game a bad score thats all. They will see what they did wrong later, but they 
 will not change it... The game really is fun and deserves a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCC
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Radiant Dawn improves upon Path of Radiance in every way, continuing the story while 
 maintaining a sense of familiarity. Your favorite characters from PoR all return, with exactly 
 two exceptions, and many of them are better than before! If you have PoR clear data, you can even 
 import it to boost some characters' stats (depending on who you used) and possibly unlock a hidden 
 Support-based conversation.
  
  The story starts off simple enough: Three years have passed since the end of the Mad King's War 
 (the events of PoR) . Micaiah, a girl with the extroardinary power of being able to heal by literally 
 transferring her HP to the injured character, and Sothe, her friend and a PoR veteran, are members 
 of a Robin Hood-style group in the occupied Daein capital city of Nevassa just trying to live on 
 while giving the citizens some hope that their country will be restored instead of suffering criminal 
 abuses under the thumb of the occupying Begnion army. If that was too complicated, there's an in-game 
 glossary of important terms and characters to help keep everyone straight - even those characters 
 who died during the story of PoR. That's the beginning of the game's tangled plot... I have not 
 yet seen the ending, but this Fire Emblem goes into uncharted territory: Characters you've grown 
 attached to over the course of Radiant Dawn are facing off against each other. Stages with that 
 cruel mechanic take extra skill to win, as you will not want to have any of your characters die 
 on either side! It can be done... tricky as it is.
  
  Gameplay, other than the scenarios above, is tried-and-true Fire Emblem. Several characters can 
 never die, or it's automatically Game Over. Most characters, once they reach Level 21, promote 
 into a new class... however, this now happens TWICE. Fittingly, though, a vast majority of the 
 characters in this game are already at their second class, so most characters only promote once. 
 There are, though, ten characters received as completely unpromoted ones... naturally, they need 
 the most protection and the most experience to rise up to par later in the game. The rest plays 
 out identically to Path of Radiance with the exception of Staves. Not only are there an insane 
 number of new weapons of every type, but Staves can attack back and grant bonuses to the holder. 
 A Heal Staff, for example, heals 5 HP at the beginning of any Player Phase it's equipped on. Also, 
 some bows now can attack at close range, making the Archers/Snipers/Marksmen even handier to have 
 around, especially the one who gains a large amount of Defense as he levels up.
  
  The music is still mostly background themes, but some tracks return from Path of Radiance such 
 as Elincia's theme (heavily rearranged) and the Recruitment theme.
  
  Graphics, on the other hand, have been completely redone. It's as if PoR was practice for this, 
 the difference is that great. Very, very few of your units are generic-type palette swaps of each 
 other or enemies. Most, in fact, are carefully detailed to match their artwork. In battles, heads 
 and armor match who the character is supposed to be, while there are new animations for being hit. 
 Enemies can be knocked off their feet or shot backwards, as can your characters.
  
  On the subject of graphics, the in-game movies and artwork are vast improvements. Pictures of an 
 action happening look like they were painted, while the movies are of such high quality that they 
 must be at least slightly straining the Wii's capbilities. And given that most of the movies I've 
 seen are of crowd scenes with characters interspersed around them, that's saying something. They 
 keep just enough of an anime quality to them to distinguish them from real life, and yet there 
 are no really visible edges. The opening movie from turning on the game, which changes at least 
 once depending on how far you've gotten in the game, is a prime example. Putting together clips 
 from other movies with probably some original clips as well, it's a wonderful introduction to the 
 world of Fire Emblem.
  
  Buy/Rent/?: This game is not the type to be completable in a rental. With the game divided into 
 four parts, and myself only being in the middle of Part III, there will be frustrations, laughs, 
 and probably a few moments of shock as well. It raises the banner of the series high, as it should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LunarFlame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Fire Emblem series is one of the most respected tactical RPGs in the industry, and Radiant 
 Dawn doesn't disappoint. The game has noticeable improvements over previous installments: thieves 
 are extremely powerful, Snipers can use crossbows (allowing them to attack spaces directly next 
 to them) , and Sothe is actually useful. Let me reiterate that: Sothe is probably one of the most 
 powerful people in the game. Fans of Path of Radiance will remember Sothe as being nearly useless; 
 this time he starts off with stats so incredible it made me want to drool. 
  
  But the biggest change of them all is the Battle Save system. Previous games in the series had 
 the major drawback of that if a character died that was either important to the story or important 
 to the player (characters don't come back after dying) , the player would have to restart the entire 
 mission. Now, a player may save their game during any point in their turn (it's a good idea to 
 do this at the BEGINNING of the turn...) , checking back an unlucky attack or character positioning.
 
  
  Another major difference between the two games is the difficulty: Radiant Dawn is MUCH harder than 
 Path, and the use of character levels in the game challenges previous conventions of the series. 
 On normal mode, players will often find themselves using Battle Saves extremely frequently due 
 to the massive increase in the number of enemy characters on an individual map overwhelm their 
 defenses. Players returning the series will enjoy the challenge, but new players should be encouraged 
 to try Path of Radiance first. 
  
  All in all, the game is an amazing experience. Even with all the frustrations of an increased difficulty, 
 none of the missions feel overwhelming, and there is always a huge sense of accomplishment to defeat 
 more than fifty enemies on a single map. New and returning characters all have stories with depth 
 and back story, and all add to the story (yes, even Makalov, although I don't like him much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjayd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  After enduring a 6-month delay, Fire Emblem fans have finally been able to pick this game up. Being 
 a die hard FE fan, I had it preordered and got it on day 1. I immediately brought it home and, 
 huge smile on my face, popped it into my Wii. Then I put my GameCube memory card in and got ready 
 to transfer data.
  And it crashed.
  So I tried a couple times, and tried a fix that worked for a couple of people (deleting easy mode 
 saves) but to no avail.
  That glitch aside, I'd still recommend Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn to practically everyone. It stays 
 true to the FE formula we know and love without being an exact clone. It boasts much improved graphics, 
 and more in-depth combat animations which don't get old nearly as soon as those in Path of Radiance, 
 this game's prequel.
  Some other new features include the return of dark magic (which was sadly missing in PoR) , weapon 
 levels for knives and strikes (laguz attacks) and the addition of nearly two dozen new weapons.
 
  Some of the players might be overwhelmed by it. With practically no explanation, crossbows appear 
 on the scene, laying waste to any unfortunate pegasus knight which gets in their way. Although 
 I disliked crossbows, a lot of the new weapons are for the better.
  In the last game, knife users were sadly neglected. With a choice of only three weapons, (knife, 
 dagger or stiletto) none of which can be bought in the armoury, they didn't have a lot of choice.
 
  In this game, the exact opposite can be said. There are inexpensive and relatively powerful daggers. 
 Throwing knives. And even an S level knife, the Baselard.
  Other knew weapons include bronze weapons, which are cheaper and weaker than iron, but cannot critical. 
 Great lances- heavier, powerful weapons which are best suited to mounted units. Ranged swords- 
 most noticeably the wind edge, an equivalent to hand axes and javelins. And, how could we forget, 
 heavy axes? As if they weren't powerful and inaccurate enough...
  All in all, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn is a title that I would recommend to anyone who is a fan 
 of tactical RPGs or turn-based strategy games, and if you are a fan of Fire Emblem, you owe it 
 to yourself to get this game. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saranya21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I was immediately drawn in to the story and FE: RD gives me the same feel when I played FF Tactics 
 back in the day. Graphics are good and there is quite a bit of depth in the character system. 
 
  
  Be prepared to chew on some sticks because it can get frustrating sometimes when you mis save and 
 lose a good charatcter. But it's part of that nostalgia and part of the strategy tactics aspect. 
 You can't win them all but if you can, there is a great sense of accomplishment. I'm glad for the 
 difficulty as that's part of the challenge. Keep bringing these games on! Front Mission... please!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: presto7640
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is another good entry in the Fire Emblem series, and if you've played any of the others, you'll 
 know exactly what to expect. Very little has changed from previous games, including the graphics, 
 even though it is now on a next gen system.
  
  Gameplay is great. It doesn't make use of the wii motion abilities, but the controls are simple 
 enough that it doesn't really need to. The game is very challenging on harder difficulties, and 
 very unforgiving. If you make a tactical mistake with a character, that character is very likely 
 to die before the turn is over. And when a character dies, he/she is gone for good, forcing you 
 to proceed with a weakened team for the rest of the game, or restart that mission from the last 
 save... so be careful!
  
  My only serious gripe with the game is the presentation. Simple battle animations and graphics 
 are part of the game's charm, but even so, much more could have been done on the wii. There are 
 virtually no graphic improvements from the previous Gamecube Fire Emblem. Also, the story is complicated, 
 but not all that immersive or impressive. The dialogue is childish, and most of the character personalities 
 are on-sided and forgettable.
  
  But, as far as tactical strategy games go, it's hard to top Fire Emblem. It's overall presentation 
 is dated, but this game is about in depth tactics, and it does what it does very well. I highly 
 recommend it, but you do need to realize what you're getting beforehand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello8888888888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Fire emblem has been around since Famicom- and impressive pedigree. Only in the past few years 
 has it broken into the western market. This amazing series of turned based rpg's has formed quite 
 a following here in the USA. Basically, you move units on a grid like map, and when you fight enemies, 
 the screen goes into a close up of the fighting. There is more to it than that , though, because 
 there are several unique features to fire emblem, the main being that when one of your characters 
 die, you can never use them again. Which means unless you make the right decisions, you will lose 
 valued fighters. Wrap a strategically demanding game, a plotline involving the Machiavellian domination 
 of the continent by an empire for the 'godess' and, a demented and unhealthy desire to stay inside 
 and complete it again and again, and you will have a briliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MutePukes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Fire Emblem Radiant Dawn is amazing. Ever since the beginning, Fire Emblem has been the best Tactical 
 game yet and Radiant Dawn proves that. Its lack of wii controls was a little disappointing but 
 the gameplay is still superb. It has it all, great gameplay, beautiful graphics, a great story, 
 and awesome characters. Its gameplay is very and I mean VERY addictive. After starting, you never 
 want to quit playing it. Its cell-shaded but realistic graphics makes it a beautiful presentation 
 to look at while playing. It doesn't fail to be like all the other Fire Emblem. It still has the 
 same tactics, the same battles, and the same long, super annoying cut scenes. Fire Emblem Radiant 
 Dawn is definitely worth the time and the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fickelmatter
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Such a long storyline with so many characters with different pasts that effect the game, the fact 
 that you actually have to think what to do instead of just throw your guys in there an they'll 
 win, ya sure some levels can take forever but its FE its expected. nothing better. what was really 
 great though is that previous games are heavily involved, more-less fire emblem for game-cube though. 
 but its interesting because you start on the opposite side of the previous game to try an bring 
 back the country that had lost the war in the previous game ... i give the game perfect. may not 
 be be intense graphics or fast pace action. but it leaves any gamer with a challenge. ( keep in 
 mind i'm talking about if your not in easy mode) an after you complete that challenge u always 
 feel good. but thats when hard mode comes :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KonohaKakashi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today, on its release date. Let me tell you, Radiant Dawn, even at the beginning, 
 is an excellent game with an immersive storyline that picks up three years after Path of Radiance. 
 The character development is superb, the original Fire Emblem formula hasn't changed, and the graphics 
 are just splendid.
  
  The difficulty of the game has a noticeable increase compared to Path of Radiance, the higher Speed 
 of the enemies being the first thing you'll probably notice.
  
  As for the controls, you can use any of the three controllers available for the Wii: The Wiimote, 
 Classic controller, or GC controller. The Wiimote's functions as a controller are rather strange, 
 but they're pretty neat at the same time.
  
  There are less "Wii functions" than you may expect, like motion sensor control, etc. However, the 
 absence of these features do nothing to tarnish this game's value, as every minute playing this 
 game is a minute well spent. Don't delay yourself, get this game as soon as possible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paper_Zelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played Fire Emblem before, and you say you are any kind of RPG or war game fan, 
 you've been missing out terribly. The series boasts great storylines, character development, and 
 strategy. It's not like you have to be a genious to play the game, but a general sense of strategy 
 helps. The only thing wrong with the game is that you have to play it with the classic controller. 
 I think Intelligent Systems could have at least used the wii remote to select enemies and movement 
 squares, but this does not take away from the gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
