-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fishing Master
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/tsurimaster/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great arcade-style take on fishing.
 Landing a huge fish is immensely satisfying.
 More than 100 vividly detailed fish.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fishing spots aren't very pretty.
 Fun only in short spurts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 90 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson Soft
Genre: Fishing
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fishing Master neatly captures the drama and thrill of landing a fish, but the fun only holds up 
 for short sessions. 

  Since its release last November, the Wii has seen no shortage of sports titles attempting to integrate 
 authentic motions into gameplay. Fishing Master takes its cue from some of the more successful 
 attempts, like Wii Sports, that have elected to steer away from simulation in favor of a more arcadey 
 approach. It isn't a particularly ambitious game, and it won't dazzle you with presentation or 
 engross you with deep gameplay. Rather, it is a competent distillation of the core elements of 
 fishing that offers an entertaining experience commensurate with its scope.  

           The Kanto Province. Map not to scale.      

  Fishing Master starts you off in your 
 home with your fishing mentor, Grandpa. Here you begin by choosing one of five big-headed family 
 members for your avatar and one of two dogs for your pet. A brief tutorial in the mechanics of 
 fishing ensues, after which you'll find yourself in the home menu. Here you can save your game, 
 view your records, and get tips and missions from Grandpa. When you venture out into the world, 
 you'll find yourself in the Kanto Province of Japan. This is one of eight regions that you'll be 
 able to fish in over the course of the game. Each is geographically different and host to different 
 species of fish, though all contain the same menu elements  your house, a shop, a regional tournament, 
 and four fishing spots. These maps are consistent with the basic cartoon aesthetic of the game 
 and have landmark icons unique to each region. They don't thrill, but the slight variations are 
 a nice touch. One odd thing you'll notice during your map navigation though the menu elements are 
 laid out willy-nilly all over the screen, they are navigable only by analog stick or D pad. Cycling 
 through options will make you yearn for point-and-click navigation, which usually comes standard 
 on Wii games.  

  Once you pick a spot to fish your avatar will appear on the shoreline on the bottom of the screen. 
 You can walk up and down the limited area, which is just big enough so that moving from one end 
 of it to the other will provide a change of scene and different groupings of fish. The scenery 
 definitely leaves something to be desired, with uniformly flat water and uninteresting textures. 
 Still, there are significant differences between spots (rivers, bridges, and the like) so you won't 
 feel as though you're always fishing at the same place.  

  Pulling the trigger will activate casting mode, and thus commenceth the waggling. The casting mechanic 
 is straightforward: Hold your remote upright, then snap it down and flick the trigger. The quicker 
 you flick, the less you'll hinder the line, and the farther your hook will go. Revolving the Nunchuk 
 in small circles will reel your bait in, as will wiggling it back and forth. This can easily get 
 tiresome, so you'll likely find yourself using the smartly mapped Nunchuk buttons that offer two 
 different speeds of nonfatiguing reeling. Getting a bite is a matter putting the right bait near 
 the right fish, and the bulletin board in the shop is very helpful in accomplishing the former. 
 Fish will go for almost anything in the early stages, but later on the variety of fish and bait 
 available will force you to be a little more diligent with your selection.  

  When you get a nibble, jerk the remote up and the fight begins. Ignore any outburst your dog makes, 
 as the beast doesnt seem to differentiate between fish and garbage. To land a fish (or an old 
 boot) , you're required to do two things. The first is to reel it in, keeping consistent tension 
 on the line. A meter at the top of the screen shows your fish on a spectrum between "escape" and 
 "break." Youll have to reel to prevent the fish escaping, but too much reeling will cause your 
 line to break. This is pretty easily managed with most fish, but with a particularly big or rare 
 fish, it can get tricky.  

  The second thing required is to occasionally jerk the remote left or right opposite the fish's 
 movement in order to tire it out. A flashing image onscreen will prompt this, and missing it will 
 cost you one mistake. Your standard rod allows three mistakes, though you can buy tougher ones 
 that are more forgiving. Keeping the fighting limited to these two actions and not including more 
 elements, like the ability to let your line out, works quite well. When you've hooked a big fish, 
 the fight gets tense and challenging. Add to this a time constraint, as in the tournaments or the 
 multiplayer mode, and things can get downright hectic as you try to land the fish quickly without 
 breaking the line.  

  The fight is over when the fish is close enough for you to land it with a final jerk of the remote. 
 Your reward is an animation of the fish you've caught leaping out of the water followed by a still 
 image of your catch with its weight and length. The fish models are detailed and vivid, and seeing 
 a monster fish leap on to your screen after a hard-fought battle can be truly exhilarating. Aside 
 from the satisfaction of catching and cataloguing new species of fish, almost the entire appeal 
 of Fishing Master is contained in this moment of hard-earned triumph.  

           Now you're cooking with sea lice!      

  The multiplayer mode pits up to four players 
 against each other in a contest to earn points by catching fish within a set time limit. Bigger 
 fish take longer to land but are worth significantly more. This mode augments the excitement of 
 the fight with the addition of other players and a time limit. Regrettably, some of the thrill 
 of victory is dulled, because the fish you catch are displayed for only the briefest of moments. 
 Were the endgame to display the contestants posing with all the fish they'd caught, it would make 
 for better postgame chatter and camaraderie.  

  That Fishing Master has so neatly captured the drama of the fight and the thrill of the catch is 
 its chief virtue and biggest endorsement. It's not a game that will compel you to sit for hours 
 on end, trying to clear fishing spots and land all the rare fishes. Ultimately, the simplicity 
 of the control mechanics and repetitive gameplay (buy bait, fish, go home, repeat) discourage such 
 sessions. Rather, Fishing Master is meant to be enjoyed in a manner similar to the sport which 
 it emulates: Take an hour or so on a lazy afternoon or evening to head out to the bay or down to 
 the river, make a couple of casts, land a few fish, and leave with a smile on your face.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RingCollector
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game is actualy realy good, but it is let down by a few problems. 
  
  Sound- The music/sound effects fit perfectly
  
  Graphics- Average wii graphics
  
  Storyline- 
 Basicily youre just trying to become a fishing master.
  
  Multiplayer- In multiplayer you fish against each other and it sucks.
  
  Gameplay- Your remote 
 is the rod and your reel is the numchuck (you can use the control pad on the wiimote but it sucks 
 the fun out of the game) The only problem with the nunchuck is that it can get tireing so you might 
 have to take a brake in the middle of the game. 
  
  While reeling in a fish you will have to swing your rod to the left and right and make sure your 
 line dosn't brake (Do this by pacing yourself) . As you catch new types of fish you unlock new fishing 
 areas across japan. There are over 30 locations to visit and over 100 types of fish to catch. Whenever 
 you catch a fish you will recive points, wich can be spent on baits (to catch rare fish) and better 
 rods.
  
  My main problem with this game is it can get too repetive at times. Its one of those games you 
 should only play a bit at at a time.
  
  Overall: Its a great game that can get boring quickly, so pace yourself with this game.
  
  
 P. S real fishing is a 1000000000x better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog_69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  The game is so cool. Just like real fishing if you use your knunchuck. You'll get a lot of excercise 
 doing the reeling motion. Lets talk about graphics. Scenery/Background are not that sharp, just 
 right. Pictures of fishes at the fishing chart ar so cool. Sharper and got details about the fishes. 
 Sound is catchy especially when your fighting the fish. Learning to play the game is easy. Cast, 
 Hook, Reel, Catch. The bigger the fish, The harder it is to reel. There are lots of Lures and Fishing 
 rods and there are 100 fishes to catch. But you must unlock the fishing spots, and every map has 
 a shop that sells different types of lures for saltwater and fresh water fishing. There are some 
 fishing rods and some hints on what bait you should use to catch those rare ones. There are also 
 quests given to you by your grandpa and tourney you must enter to become the Fishing Master. This 
 game is for people who likes to sit down and relax, fishing by the shore waiting for the fish to 
 bite not for those who has no patience. If you like fishing, I recommend you to get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darnydb
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Fishing Master is meant to be enjoyed in a manner similar to the sport which it emulates: Take 
 an hour or so on a lazy afternoon or evening to head out to the bay or down to the river, make 
 a couple of casts, land a few fish, and leave with a smile on your face. 
  
  I'm sorry... when you drop $50 on a game, you deserve more than an hour or so on a lazy afternoon.
 
  
  The repetitive mechanics of gameplay and game cycle is enough for me to never want to pick up this 
 title again. was it made for 8 year olds? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Gosh can i write out a review here on fishing master i will try. frist off the Graphics is this 
 about all the wii can do well the wii did metroid 3 great why is the rest of the games look like 
 the ps1. me and my wife played fishing master for about 30 minns my wife said i dont like it boring 
 and i said the samething. just not enough there to fishing master. you pick what place you want 
 to fish from cast out your fishing line and fish. i did ok but it seems you cant cast out that 
 far the fish dont look that good its like the ps1. and i dont want to look at ps1 Graphics. why 
 cant we get better looking games we see metroid 3 and the game looks great. so why the rest look 
 like ps1 games. looks does matter and the wii remote only can save the wii for so long in my view. 
 fishing master is just awful looking and boring. buy metroid 3 best game out there for the wii. 
 thanks mars188 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conalone
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting of this game for around 10 years since another fishing RPG created by Konami 
 (I guess) . I was never into fishing, but that game was totally addictive, with a simple, decent 
 storyline, and a lot of fishes. This game basically delivered everything again, with a very cool 
 wii-mote control today. It's just awesome and addictive, especially the wow factor when you pull 
 a 700lb rare fish up. (They did a great job with the camera angle when you pull the fish up)
  
  +ve:
  You explore the whole Japan with new fishing spots being added. You step up from fishing 
 beginner to fishing master (there are many rank titles) . The fishes are fun to catch. Every kinds 
 of fishes have different responses when you hooked them. Some are easier, some are very tough and 
 tricky. The variety of fishes are what makes the game so addictive.
  
  There are different challenges from your grandpa and tournaments in different states of japan adding 
 more depth to the game. There are a lot of hints and funny messages posted on the bulletin boards 
 within the shops. There are even descriptions of every fish and ways to cook and eat them. -ve:
 
  Graphics are cute and decent, but the sceneries are just ok.
  There's not a compelling storyline going on other than conquering the whole Japan with fishing 
 skills.
  
  Anyway, don't miss this game! You can even play the game with or without nunchuck, reeling with 
 your nunchuck, or press downward with joystick/d-pad. So you don't need 4 nunchucks for 4-player 
 mode. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
