-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Geometry Wars: Galaxies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/geometrywarsgalaxies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Revamped control scheme provides surprisingly solid accuracy.
 Gameplay is still intense and engaging.
 Galaxy mode is deep and addictive.
 Visuals are sharp and colorful.
 Multiplayer is good fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online multiplayer options.
 No GameCube controller support .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 350 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Galaxies adds a great deal of depth to an already intense shooter. 

  Geometry Wars just keeps getting bigger and bigger. Originally released as a hidden minigame in 
 developer Bizarre Creations' Xbox racer Project Gotham Racing 2, the brightly-colored dual-stick 
 shooter eventually evolved into its own entity as a $5 download on the Xbox Live Arcade. Now the 
 game has come to the DS and Wii in Geometry Wars: Galaxies. One might be wondering how a $5 game 
 translates into a worthwhile value on these platforms for $30 and $40, respectively. The answer 
 is depth. Galaxies overhauls the Geometry Wars experience into a structured series of unique levels 
 that continually ramp up in challenge as you go. There are unlockables to acquire, multiplayer 
 modes to check out, and on top of it all, the XBLA version of Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved is included 
 as well. There's a surprising amount of stuff to do here, and while it all basically translates 
 to shooting lots of geometric shapes over and over again, the gameplay is so consistently intense 
 and crazy that you're bound to get sucked in.  

  For the uninitiated, Geometry Wars is a colorful take on the sort of dual-stick shooter that games 
 like Robotron and Smash TV popularized years and years ago in arcades. You control a small ship 
 that looks like a few hexagons smooshed together, and move around a grid shooting a wide variety 
 of threatening geometric shapes, like spinning pinwheels, splitting squares, ship-seeking diamonds, 
 circular serpents, and the like. The number of enemies you face steadily increases over time until 
 the whole thing looks like some kind of neon-colored geometric orgy, at which point your best bet 
 is often to either to drop a nuke and wipe the screen clean, or likely get destroyed.  

           All geometry is evil and must be vanquished into the darkness, so sayeth Geometry Wars. 

  One might question how exactly a system like the Wii would manage to host something like Geometry 
 Wars, and play well to boot. There are actually a couple of different answers to this question. 
 If you go with the standard Wii Remote/Nunchuk combination, you control your little semihexagon 
 of a ship using the Nunchuk's control stick, and aim your gun by pointing the remote at the screen. 
 A small red line dictates where your gun is aiming, and an icon that sits on that line denotes 
 where exactly the remote is pointing. You simply move the remote around in circular patterns to 
 shoot all around you. At first, this takes some getting used to. There are moments where you'll 
 be moving the remote too quickly or not fast enough, and not getting the kind of precise aim you 
 want. But once you settle in and get used to this control scheme, it actually works really nicely. 
 If for some reason you just can't get behind this control method, the game also includes support 
 for the classic controller, which obviously comes with two control sticks, thus giving you the 
 control method this game was built for originally. This works just about as well as it did on the 
 Xbox 360, so if you're a purist, you can just stick to this method. Sadly, GameCube controller 
 support isn't available.  

  Little of the intensity that made the Xbox 360 game so addictive has been lost in translation in 
 Galaxies. The DS version of the game does run slightly slower than the Wii version, which sometimes 
 makes some of the more furious battles a bit more easygoing than you might prefer. The DS game 
 also lacks some of the visual flair of the console games. The background grid never distorts, making 
 the onscreen action a little less chaotic. But that's really half the fun of the game, seeing so 
 many insane colors bearing down on you at once, and, quite frankly, not quite knowing what the 
 heck is going on. So with those details missing, the DS version loses a bit of its appeal. By no 
 means does it wreck the game, as the DS version can be quite a lot of fun on its own merits. But 
 if you're deciding between the two, the Wii version definitely has better, more exciting action. 
 At least both versions include the same delightful techno soundtrack.  

  One interesting thing about the two versions of Galaxies is that they both offer nearly identical 
 content. Both include the original, never-ending Xbox 360 game, both include multiplayer options 
 (though those options do differ a bit -- we'll get to that shortly) , and both offer up the Galaxies 
 mode, which is where the meat of the experience lies. Galaxies mode takes the standard Geometry 
 Wars gameplay, and spreads it out across several galaxies, each with multiple planets to visit. 
 Each of the game's 64 planets is a slightly different take on the standard game. One level might 
 take place in a jaggedly shaped grid and include ever-moving barriers that you have to avoid getting 
 stuck on while ducking incoming enemies. Another might include a couple of mine-laying baddies 
 whose mines you can actually trip yourself to take out large groupings of enemies and earn a higher 
 score.  

  Each level comes with a gold/silver/bronze medal system for high scores, but that's not the only 
 incentive to keep going back to levels again and again. New to this game and exclusive to the Galaxies 
 mode are geoms, little collectible shapes that fall out of recently exploded enemies. Geoms actually 
 act as your score multiplier in this mode, replacing the old method of multiplying via kills. That's 
 sort of a curse, since it forces you to actively upgrade your multiplier rather than having the 
 game do it for you, and running around to collect those geoms can sometimes put you in a dicey 
 situation. Still, it's a neat variance on the old scoring system.  

  These geoms can be used to unlock new galaxies and planets, as well as to buy upgrades for your 
 drone. The addition of a little helper drone is also brand new to this game. Essentially, this 
 little dot will follow your ship around, attacking enemies as you command it to. Initially it starts 
 out with only one ability, attack. However, over time, you can buy new upgrades that change up 
 how it attacks. You can program it to hover close and defend you, snipe enemies with more powerful 
 but less frequent shots, act as bait to draw enemies away, or just run around collecting more geoms. 
 Now, keep in mind that you can pick only one skill for each stage you play. Each new ability starts 
 off fairly weak, but as you play with it more and more, your helper will level up. Leveling up 
 seems to be exclusively based on playing time, though the game is never 100 percent clear on how 
 the experience is doled out.  

  Multiplayer options also give the game some legs, though they aren't quite as fleshed out as the 
 single-player experience. The game includes versus, and co-op modes. Versus play has you and a 
 partner competing for scores, whereas co-op mode has the two of you sharing the same score counter, 
 number of lives, and number of available nukes. There is also a variant on the galaxies mode available 
 in multiplayer, but it's just a single galaxy with several stages to play through cooperatively. 
 There might not be a lot to this aspect of the game, but the multiplayer can be a lot of fun, especially 
 when you've got someone next to you that plays at a similar skill level.  

           Multiplayer options are limited, but fun.      

  It's also worth quickly noting that 
 there is a bit of connectivity between the Wii and DS versions of Galaxies. It's nothing too major, 
 but if you sync up a Wii copy and a DS copy via the connectivity mode, you'll unlock an extra galaxy 
 in both versions of the game.  

  In the end, Geometry Wars: Galaxies proves its worth. This isn't just the same $5 game all over 
 again for a higher price. The content added with the galaxies mode and the multiplayer functionality 
 adds a lot of depth to the experience, and the control changes to both versions, while not as spot-on 
 as a straight-up dual-analog control setup, work well enough to be not only playable, but fun as 
 well. If you were a fan of the original game or just like intense shooters, Geometry Wars: Galaxies 
 fits the bill.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  9 CommentsZelda. Metroid. Mario. A tiny see-through ship that has no animation and explodes if 
 so much as a crisp packet fluttering through the breeze touches it. The latter is not your usual 
 videogame icon but Geometry Wars: Galaxies isn't your usual videogame, ditching plot, characterisation 
 and other such nonsense for an addictive leaderboard chase.
  
  The premise is simple enough. You control a ship that has three controls: fire, move and smart 
 bomb. As enemies constantly spawn in greater numbers, you have to clear them to build up your multiplier 
 and your score. As the screen gets swamped in more enemies, Chernobyl explosions fizz all over 
 and your poor, poor eyes are left trying to unpick the mental discotheque mess to figure out where 
 you are and to plan your next move. 
  
  
  Advertisement:
  Rather than swishing around a boxed arena as in the original, there are different planets which 
 contain their own variants. Triangle arenas, split up arenas, arenas with enemies passing through 
 rather than bouncing around inside, there's plenty here for gamers to blast their way through.
 
  
  Do The Maths
  Kuju has also added a drone to fight alongside you. While the initial drone hesitantly fires shots, 
 you can buy different behaviours for them while building them up so they become more efficient. 
 Unfortunately, you can't buy a drone that makes using the Wii Remote any fun - count the times 
 you swear in resigned frustration when an enemy slips past your haphazard aiming to collide into 
 your ship - but as an evolution of a strong title, adding drones is a gamble that pays off.
  
  It's not great value for money though. 24.99 might seem inexpensive for a Wii game but Geometry 
 Wars originally cost roughly two quid on Xbox Live Arcade. Then consider it plays best with the 
 Classic Controller and the fact that you need the DS version of Geometry Wars: Galaxies to unlock 
 an extra set of levels and you could be paying over 50 to get the most out of the game. Suddenly, 
 the comparison to Zelda, Metroid and Mario isn't quite as favourable. 
  
  Having said that, due to its online leaderboards, Geometry Wars: Galaxies is horribly addictive 
 and purist shooter fans will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungry_Homer111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  2003 saw the release of an Xbox exclusive racing game called Project Gotham Racing. The creators 
 of this game decided to give the players a bonus in the form of a side-game called Geometry Wars. 
 This game was a space shooter, where you flew around a rectanle grid, shooting various enemies 
 (or blowing them up with a limited number of bombs) , trying to survive as long as possible. Geometry 
 Wars managed to gain a fairly large fan base. This was because, while simple, the different enemies 
 had various behaviors, such as aimlessly bouncing around the grid, following your ship, retreating 
 when fired upon, along with a few other traits, depending on the enemy. These different traits, 
 as well as the constanty increasing rate of the enemies appearing on the grid, forced the players 
 to adapt to different situations, often relying on split-second reations. The fact that the game 
 seems to go on forever (assuming you don't die to quickly) brought people back to try to beat their 
 previous scores, making for a very replayable experience. In later years, it has been updated as 
 Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved, and placed in Project Gotham Racing 3 as well as Xbox Live Arcade 
 (becoming the first very big hit for that download service) . Now Sierra Enterainment have realized 
 the potential of the formular, and made a full-blown sequel for both the Wii and DS.
  
  With Geometry Wars, the presentation plays a big role in the adding to the very hectic nature of 
 the game. The graphics in the game are purpously basic, having very basic looking enemies, represented 
 by different kinds of shapes (hence the "geometry" part of the title) . So in that respect the graphics 
 are not comparable to any of today's graphics. That isn't to say that they are bad though. In fact, 
 behind the simplicity, there is a lot of very impressive effects, that use the modern technology 
 in order to present what seems like a fire works display with all the explosions of the enemy ship, 
 the constant gun fire, and even a rippling effect on the grid based on everything that happens 
 while you're playing. There are different style grids, which each have a different kind of rippling 
 effect, sometimes much more noticable, but sometimes much more subtle. And the Wii is able to handle 
 all of the effects, and all the enemies on the screen (which can be a lot) without any slowdown 
 in the gameplay, which is very important to the feeling of the game. The game has techno music, 
 which fits very well with the retro gameplay of Geometry Wars, and adds a lot to the fast, frantic 
 feeling that the game tries to convey. The music often is based on the kind of level that you're 
 playing in. For example, the slower levels have slower music, but the much faster levels have a 
 much faster pace, fitting in with their respective levels.
  
  Since the game was originally on the Xbox, and remade for the Xbox 360, it was played by moving 
 the ship with the left analog stick, while shooting by aiming the right stick in the direction 
 you want to shoot. On the Wii, there are two different control schemes. The first is with the Wii 
 remote and Nunchuck attachment. With this, you move using the Nunchuck attachment, and aim by pointing 
 your Wii remote at the screen. There is a line coming from your ship showing the direction that 
 you are aiming. The people who have played the original game may find this hard to get used to, 
 but that is more because of the differences between the pointer or the remote and the analog stick. 
 For those who are new to the game, it will take much less time to get used to, and works very well 
 for the fast-baced gameplay. For the people who are used to the older way of playing the game, 
 you have the option to play with the Classic Controller if you have it, allowing you to play the 
 way that you're used to.
  
  The main draw in this game is Galaxies mode. This is a pretty large mode, which contains 64 new 
 grids for you to play through. These grids are divided up into several different galaxies, each 
 containing a different number of "worlds," or grids. At first, there are only 3 grids available 
 to play on, with the rest unlockable after a while. The grids are basically the equivalent to a 
 sequel of the original game, with the same never-ending gameplay, and the same basic idea of destorying 
 the different enemies. However, the developers have done a great job at mixing things up for the 
 different grids. The developers put more thought into the kinds of things they did with the levels. 
 The grids are shaped pretty much perfectly to accomplish something unique. Some of the grids are 
 wide open, for more manuverability while trying to avoid the enemies. But then there are also some 
 levels which give you much less space to move, sometimes having small corridors for you to navigate 
 through in order to avoid the enemies. Also, the enemies are used in a much smarter way than the 
 original game. The original game seemed to have very little thought in terms of when the enemies 
 should appear. It did have an increasing number of enemies over time, as well as introducing the 
 harder enemies after having introduced the more basic enemies, but it still felt somewhat random, 
 especially when compared to the enemy placement within Galaxies. For example, there are some levels 
 where the enemies all come from one side of the grid, so that you have to stay on the other side 
 of the grid, and try to kill the enemies from there. It is very similar to a faster paced version 
 of Space Invaders. There are some levels that give you one life, and no bombs, forcing you to use 
 your manuverability skills and shooting skills, while shooting enemies that follow you around the 
 grid. Then there are levels which have a black hole in the middle, which changes the gravity within 
 the level, and at first this can seem a bit disorienting, making you get killed a few times, but 
 then after getting used to it, the player can actually use it to their advantage. There are also 
 levels which have enemies that lay down mines which you can activate yourself, which set off a 
 chain reaction that can kill a number of enemies if used correctly. Pretty much every level forces 
 you to change your strategy in some way. However, there are unfortunately a few which just use 
 variations of themes used in other levels. Sometimes these variations are enough to make these 
 levels feel worth playing, but sometimes these levels just seem too much like the same level, with 
 not much to keep your interest. These levels are in the minority though, and are made up for by 
 the other more unique ideas within the game.
  
  Each of the levels have 3 trophies to unlock by getting a certain amount of points. In some cases, 
 these aren't that hard to get. However, in some cases, it does take a while in order to get the 
 gold trophie for that level. But once you do, there is still a lot of reason to come back, to try 
 improve your high score. The game also allows you to connect to the Wi-Fi connection to see where 
 you rank on a leaderboard, giving you more incentive to go back, in order to try to climb the leaderboard.
 
  
  Outside of adding new maps, the developers have added a lot of depth into the game that wasn't 
 there in the original game. One of the big additions is something called geoms. These will now 
 be familiar to people who have played Geometry Wars Retro Evolved 2. They are little green dots 
 that are left behind by enemies you kill. Within the grids, they serve as a new way of adding to 
 your multipier. Instead of having to kill a certain amount of enemies before adding to the score 
 multiplier, for every 1 geom you get, you add 1x to the multiplier, until you reach the max of 
 150x. But the collecting of the geoms helps to change the way that the verteran Geometry Wars players 
 will approach the game. In the first, you just try to shoot and avoid the enemies. However, in 
 order to collect the geoms, you have to shoot the enemy, and then go back to the area where the 
 enemy was killed. But you can't be too reckless about it, because there could be other enemies 
 around that area that you want to avoid as well. In addition to adding to the score multiplier, 
 the geoms are used as a kind of currency within the game, allowing you to unlock different things. 
 You can use them to unlock galaxies, and the worlds within the galaxies, and you can use them in 
 order to buy different abilities for your partner drone.
  
  The drone is a new addition to the game as well. It has a number of different abilities that you 
 can choose from. It can collect geoms while you are taking care of the enemies. It can snipe enemies 
 that are a danger to you. It can attack (shooting at the same place that you're shooting) , or defend 
 (shooting in the opposite direction) . It can act as bait for those enemies that follow you. And 
 there are others as well. Choosing which one you want it to do adds to the strategy of the game, 
 because different grids would benefit from some abilities more than others. Also, once you have 
 one of the abilities unlocked, if you use that ability and do well, it will help to level that 
 ability up. At first, the drone with that ability is not too smart. The sniping drone snipes very 
 slowly, the collecting drone collects the geoms at a slow pace as well, and the bait drone isn't 
 that effective either. However, after leveling the drones up, they are very effective at doing 
 their different jobs.
  
  In addition to the Galaxies mode, you can play the original Geometry Wars game. This is pretty 
 much left alone from the original. It's a very nice addition, especially for those who have never 
 played the original game. There are also three different multiplayer modes included. The first 
 is versus mode, where you play on separate grids while trying to get a higher score. The second 
 is co-op, where you play on the same grid, and share the same number of lives, bombs, and score, 
 and try to last as long as possible. Finally, there's a smaller version of Galaxies mode, which 
 is basically just one galaxy and several grids to play on, while again playing through cooperatively. 
 These are a pretty good addition, although not amazing. There is no online gameplay, with the multiplayer 
 modes being offline only. Some may not like the omission, but it might have been hard to keep up 
 the fast-paced action online without any kind of slowdown, which would have killed tense feeling 
 that the game is meant to have.
  
  Sierra Entertainment has turned the original, simple idea into a much bigger experience, with much 
 more depth, but have managed to maintain the simplicity of the basic gameplay. Because it is based 
 on such a simple idea, some people might not feel like the extra cost over the $5 original game 
 is worth it, because despite having some very interesting twists to the original idea, there's 
 only so much that they can do with it. All I can really say is that if you're interested in a much 
 more expanded experience as opposed to the single grid game, they do add enough content to warrant 
 the purchase. However, for those who don't think it would be worth it, then it might be better 
 to stick to the original. But either way, Geometry Wars Galaxies is a great experience that you'll 
 come back to again and again, and is among the best 3rd party Wii games that I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdisen2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Geometry Wars Galaxies is yet another under-appreciated game for the Nintendo Wii's 3rd party. 
 When Retro-Evolved first released, the top-down shooting experience was fun, but extremely shallow, 
 even for the budget price of $5. The only objective on that single level was to achieve the highest 
 score possible. Galaxies took Retro-Evolved and attempted to turn that simple demo into the full 
 game it arguably deserved in the first place. 
  
  Geometry Wars Galaxies premise revolves around just that, Galaxies. Instead of the single level 
 Retro-Evolved offered, Galaxies offers dozens, each with their own unique experience. It cannot 
 be understated the difference a change of scenery can make to the longevity and enjoyment of a 
 game, especially since Geometry Wars by design can get repetitive after awhile. Each of these levels 
 also includes three medals of accomplishment, bronze, silver, and gold, giving the player some 
 goals and organization beyond the endless gameplay of Retro-Evolved. Another feature of Galaxies 
 includes several different upgradeable bots that patrol around your ship supplying much-needed 
 support in many of the levels. There were some concerns about the controls, whether or not the 
 Wii-mote and nunchuck combination was viable. And after playing with both the classic controller 
 and Wii-mote, I definitely prefer the Wii-mote and have found it to be almost as responsive and 
 precise as a mouse and keyboard. I wasn't however a big fan of the duel-joystick control, which 
 I guess puts me in the minority. 
  
  In addition to Retro-Evolved being included with the game, Galaxies offers various multiplayer 
 modes ranging from versus, to a full campaign with medal objectives. And since you can find the 
 game for $20 now, its value is definitely intact. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goten_king
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I'd just like to start of with a quick note.
  
  I payed $9 for this game at Kmart... So my enjoyment from this game is highly biased by the cheap 
 price i payed. 
  
  
  I suppose we should start with the basics. 
  This is an arcade game. Bottom line. However, that doesn't take any of its glory away. The addictive 
 features that make GW on Live such a great game are still fully intact. All the while, there are 
 new modes of play that greatly enhance the game play. 
  
  The new level modes are very well made and offer unique challenges and require some strategy in 
 choosing your ally shooter. You can defend, add fire power, use turrets, and even shields. This 
 can really make or break a level and is a very welcome addition. 
  
  Also, the scoring in this mode is different. Its all about your multiplier, which goes up by collecting 
 geoms. They are little bits left behind after defeating another enemy. These go up to x150, making 
 scores insanely high. The whole goal is to get the highest score possible and obtain a gold, silver 
 or bronze medal. This greatly increases the addictiveness. 
  
  
  Bottom line. Buy this game, but don't pay more than 15. Its a great game, but it still has that 
 glorified flash game feel. Its still highly recommended by me. 
  
  Graphics : 8 (colorful and nice, but nothing special)
  
  Game-play: 8.5 (the wii-mote controls 
 are decent and work nicely, but there's also the classic controller that would be more familiar 
 to xbox users. )
  
  Addictiveness: 9.5 (so this really isn't a real category, but it should be)
  
  Overall 9.0 
 ... buy this game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Americanluau197
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Great Music
  Addictive
  Very Nice Graphics
  Great Sounds
  Retro, Yet Modern
  Decent Multiplayer
  Classic Controller Support
  Multiple Modes
  Ability To Play Retro Evolved
 
  
  Cons:
  Slightly Steep Learning Curve For Some
  Multiplayer Isn't Worth Playing With Someone Bad
  Addictive
  No Online Play, Except For High 
 Scores
  Grid Warps Get Kinda Annoying (I'll get to that in my review)
  No Gamecube Controller Support
  Wii Remote Sensor Range Short (5-15 ft)
  Geoms Hard To Collect 
 In Frays
  No Storyline
  
  
  Geometry Wars: Galaxies is a classic arcade shoot-em-up with a touch of sci-fi. All you really 
 do is move around a small level, shoot enemies, and collect geoms (game's currency) . Sounds simple, 
 right? Well, throw in 4 modes, the ability to play Retro Evolved, 9 galaxies (10 if you count the 
 DS-Wii connected bonus galaxy) , a helper drone with several tasks, and countless enemies, and you've 
 got the essence of a great retro-modern shooter.
  
  The general mode, Galaxy Mode, puts you in several "solar systems" with 2 to 8 "planets", or levels, 
 in each. There are bronze, silver, and gold medals that you try to earn by beating that set score. 
 You beat the said score by destroying enemies, and multiplying the amount of points you get per 
 enemy by collecting geoms. Geoms serve as the game's currency, and are shown by little triangles 
 (10) , diamonds (20) , small X's (50) and large X's (100) . They are easy to collect in some levels, 
 but in others, they are nearly impossible to get, due to the fifty some enemies on screen. Another 
 annoying thing is the grid warp. The background is a blue grid, and whenever you shoot or kill 
 an enemy, it warps. It's either cool or irritating.
  
  The controls can be tricky for some, but for others, easy to grasp. If you're a Retro Evolved player, 
 the classic controller adds some easier controls for you. Multiplayer, all in all, is decent, with 
 a co-op Retro Evolved mode, co-op Galaxies mode, and a versus (scorewise) mode. First off, there 
 is no online play. Second, in the co-op, bombs (they clear the screen from enemies) and lives are 
 shared, so try to get someone good to play with. Otherwise, it's a pretty fun multiplayer experience. 
 And for those of wondering if Retro Evolved has changed, it's pretty much the same thing.
  
  Lastly, the sounds and graphics both look and sound great. A shot actually SOUNDS like a shot, 
 not a spec of white noise. The music is immersive, a cool upbeat techno style music. IT changes 
 per level. The graphics look great, from showing the galaxies to the enemies and bullets alike.
 
  
  All in all, I give this game a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-wario-bro
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  So as a 28 year old gamer who still believes that his 2600 Atari and his Super Nintendo has some 
 of the best games still around, would a game that looked like Geometry Wars grab my attention? 
 YOU BET!!!
  Seeing the still screen shots and watching the videos really make a difference to your opinion 
 of Geo Wars. The screen shots have the same appeal of Warioware in a sense that it can look bland 
 and characterless because you don't get a feel of how the game might play. However once you see 
 the game in action, flowing, the enemy swarming the screen, the colourful explosions of everything 
 you shoot, and the panic on the face of the bloke who is struggling to stay alive for the short 
 duration of the level, you soon get a feeling that Geo wars is special.
  The aim of the game is to steer your spaceship (using the analogue stick) and shoot all enemys 
 that attack you (using the Wii pointer) and to stay alive for as long as possible within a small 
 boundry. Some levels will give you 3 lives and 3 bombs, some will give you 1 life and no bombs. 
 Some levels will have mines to dodge and some will have moving blocks to avoid. The aim of every 
 level is always the same .... score as higher score as possible and move on to the next.
  The enemys are brilliantly designed and all have different ways of attacking you, some will hide 
 until you turn your back, some will gang up together, some beeline for you and some act like snakes 
 and can make life difficult by taking up large areas of the screen.
  Everything about Geo Wars is brilliant. The game mechanics work really well and at no point will 
 you wonder how you died or what happened which is amazing considering how frantic the game can 
 get. The music is atmospheric and even though the levels are short you may be huming the tunes 
 once you go to bed after playing this, and on that note you will also go to bed seeing Geo Wars 
 because the graphics are mighty fine, very colourful and simply put beautiful.
  I have only scratched the surface of this game. Please also consider that there is a online score 
 board, a retro feel, and real pick up and play game elements as well as a game made for hardcore 
 players.
  
  THE SUMMARY
  Please buy this game, it is not very often that you get a retro looking game, a hardcore game, 
 and a game that is so easy to pick up and play all in one package.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Picture me, an average happy-go-lucky game nut who was waiting for a good game to tide me over 
 until Smash Bros. Brawl and a few other releases, when all of a sudden I see this shiny box entitled 
 "Geometry Wars."
  
  "Hmmm.," I said to myself, "this could be mentally and visually stimulating." So I gave it a try. 
 The bright colors, plus the simplistic, immersive, and challenging gameplay made Geometry Wars 
 a success in my book (and that's a pretty difficult book to get published into these days) . The 
 game plays EXACTLY like the tagline for it suggests: "It's 'Asteroids' on steroids." So call this 
 game Barry Bonds.
  
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Extremely visually stimulating. It's simple and colorful objects are a nice change of pace from 
 the different shades of brown we see in today's games. Each different bad guy is a different color, 
 plus there is so much action happening at once your eyes will never stop jumping around.
  
  - The controls are pretty good. To rotate your ship in the classic Asteroids fashion, you simply 
 point the remote at the screen where a cursor appears, and your ship points in that direction. 
 other than that, there are 2 fire buttons and the joystick. The pointing system is fast and responsive.
 
  
  - Lots of levels. Lots... of levels. Somewhere around 64 levels, I can't quite remember. So far 
 I've only experienced about 20 of them, and they are ridiculously hard. Which reminds me.... 
 
  
  - This game is CHALLENGING. Most of the time it's too hard, but it's nice once in a while to actually 
 work for victory, isn't it? Suddenly all your gaming accomplishments over the past few years seem 
 like child's play when you're trying to shoot down about 100 polygonal alien ships all bull-rushing 
 you at the same time. Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, you can suck it. 
  
  - There is an aspect of the game where you have a little droid buddy who helps you out in battle, 
 kinda like a familiar. As you play the game his capabilities level up. The droid can perform different 
 firing patterns, which each have to be leveled up individually. This little guy will save your 
 butt A LOT of times, believe me.
  
  - It's a game that uses points! You advance levels by earning points. Something so ancient and 
 classic still holds up and works well. "So, you have 120,225, huh? Oh I'm sorry, you need 120,250 
 to advance... you suck." The points earn you medals for each stage, and you unlock stages buy getting 
 medals, but in order to access the stages, you must purchase them with a currency called "genomes," 
 which you pick up after blasting enemies. Between medals and genomes, it takes a lot of work to 
 get through every stage.
  
  
  
  The Bad: 
  
  - There are some levels that you can only unlock by having the Nintendo DS version of this game. 
 Piss off, Nintendo! We don't want to buy your stupid dual screen garbage when we're playing console 
 games. I'm sick to the bone from all this DS and GBA extra crap keeping me from enjoying my console 
 games to the fullest. 
  
  - No online play, although this is a very common problem for early Wii games such as this one. 
 The good news is you can compare your scores to other players around the world. We'll let this 
 one slide for now. 
  
  - This game may be too hard. You could experience intense frustration. 
  
  - The repetition 
 in this game can be irritating. You may get bored after an hour or so. This is a game to play in 
 moderation, not in a full day's sitting.
  
  
  
  Who will enjoy Geometry Wars? Someone looking for a stimulating and fun game offered in a traditional 
 yet un-modern package. You fly around and shoot stuff. Simple, to the point, and it's a blast. 
 You're not going to get a very big game that's horribly deep, but you'll still have fun without 
 every bell and whistle. Huh, after writing this review, I have a sudden urge to play this again. 
 Damn you, inspirational writing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars: Galaxies is a top-down shooter with a little twist involving geometrical shapes. 
 You are a small geometrical shape ship like thing yourself, you battle against hordes of other 
 shapes in a variety of cool and neon lighting maps.
  
  Firstly, what's great about Geometry Wars is the simplicity. I played this game with the Classic 
 Controller and it felt great to simply move with the left stick and shoot with the right, nothing 
 else but the R button which is used for bombing the whole map (limited number of course!) . The 
 controls are simple, but the gameplay is where the difficulties lies in.
  
  Though it looks simple, and Asteroid-esk, it's very different. As described before, you are a geometrical 
 shape in space aimed to survive the wave after wave of evil shapes, you shoot them down and gain 
 EXP so your little weapon attachments (things like Turret, Attack, Defend (these are the things 
 that float around your ship and attack an such along with your shooting) and more!) You also gain 
 points in order to buy such weapons and unlock new planets (maps) .
  
  Also you are ranked based on your score, fulfill the requirements and either gain, Gold, Silver 
 and Bronze and receive bonus points! Though the game is repetitive throughout, it's addiction level 
 is what makes this game so entertaining. Combined with fast paced and incredible neon lighting 
 graphics, this game is certainly fun and impressive that it makes worth buying.
  
  As a bonus, if you own both DS and Wii versions, sync them up wirelessly, you can unlock bonus 
 maps. Which means more shooting mayhem for the galore!
  
  I highly recommend this game to those who are willing to commit themselves hours of mindless fun 
 shooting. With an addiction level on par with Tetris, I found myself playing it more than I could 
 possibly imagine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle_Fish
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars is fun frantic shooter that started out as a Xbox Live Arcade launch title. It was 
 great fun, but the options were limited and it got a little repetitive. Now Geometry Wars is back 
 in Geometry Wars: Galaxies but is the transition from a $5 downloadable game to a $30 full-retail 
 game good? The answer is yes. 
  
  If you are new to Geometry Wars here the rundown. You play as a little ship and the object of the 
 game is to shoot down enemy ships. Simple enough. You use one analog to shoot and the other to 
 move, however, the Wii is giving the game its own flair. 
  
  In this version, you can play with the Classic Controller or the Wiimote+Nunchuck. The classic 
 controller feels awkward because the analogs are placed too close together. The Wiimote and Nunchuck 
 however offer surprisingly fluid controls that shatter the classic controller. In the Wiimote+Nunchuck 
 option, you move with the Nunchuck's analog and shoot with either the A or B button on the Wiimote. 
 Your shooting direction is handled with the wiimote as well. A laser pointer is displayed telling 
 you which direction you are shooting in, you move this laser with the wiimote and it is fluid and 
 is just as good as the 360 controller. It is a shame though that there is no Gamecube controller 
 support, while the wiimote works, the game can get extremely hectic at times and a second analog 
 would be much better.
  
  Now lets get to the gameplay and the campaign. The original Geometry wars just had you set in a 
 square grid and had you fight untill you ran out of lives. In Galaxies, there is a Campaign mode 
 which has you travel to different Galaxies and beat all of the planets. It sounds like it would 
 get repetitive and it does after a while, but each new planet offers something unique, whether 
 its an interesting grid shape, more enemies, more intelligent enemies or a level quirk. In each 
 planet you play to get the high score, which is a little annoying because most of the levels you 
 may complete with 3 lives remaining, but the level keeps playing. Now to most people this would 
 not be bothersome but to me it is. Do I go for a higher score? or Kill myself to progress farther 
 in the game? Who knows. You also have a little droid who will follow you around and help you. You 
 can upgrade him and change is battle scheme, but when it comes done to it, the droid is pretty 
 much useless seeing as it fires less bullets at a much slower rate. 
  
  The game also offers a simple but fun multiplayer, whether it is co-op through the campaign mode, 
 or competitive and Co-op play in the original Geometry wars, which is also included in the game. 
 This is all fun, but where is the online multiplayer? There is Wi-Fi in the game, in the form of 
 leaderboards which is nice for hardcore players, but for people like me who would just like to 
 play with a friend across the world, your out of luck.
  
  Geometry Wars has always had a distinctive graphic style and it is still present in the wii version. 
 It looks great, explosions, enemies, etc. explode with color and the movement is fluid and the 
 framerate stays consistant. Now while there really isnt anything to complain about graphics wise, 
 the graphics do get in the way at times. Towards some of the harder levels, there is so much stuff 
 going on. Explosions everywhere, tons of enemies, it might get distracting and confusing. One of 
 the weapon upgrades even effects and distorts the background to add on to the confusion. 
  
  Geometry Wars has a perfect soundtrack and sound effects for a game of this type. It has a 
 nice, upbeat techno soundtrack, combined with pleasing sound effects, there isnt much to complain 
 about here
  
  Now, the series started out as a $5 download so his this new game in the series worth $30. Well, 
 if you are a fan of top down 2D shooters then yes. There is a lot of content for a game of this 
 genre and the multiplayer will help entertain you. Roughly you could beat this game in around 5 
 hours, but that is not including all the times you will die and all the high scores you will go 
 for. 
  
  Geometry Wars Galaxies is a great game, and it is easily one of the best classic shooters I have 
 ever played. It is fun, challenging and just plain crazy at times, if you are looking for a a great 
 classic shooter or a great Wii game in general, GW: G is just for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  This is by far the most addicting game I've ever played. I went into it wondering what it was, 
 but after the 4th i rented it, i ended up just buying it. Now, i can't stop. The gameplay is amazing, 
 the wii-mote works perfectly for a game like this. I liked using the classic controller, but one 
 you get used to the wii-mote, you would never go back to a game pad.
  This is Astroids on crack. The levels start off pretty easy, but the longer you play, the more 
 intense. The enemies, are insane, the game is bright and colorful, the levels are really cool, 
 a lot of fun with the drone ship.
  This is one of the best co-op games ive played too. 
  Having the extra galaxies that the original didnt have added some depth to the game, This is no 
 real way to describe this game, but just get it. Totally worth it
  THIS GAME IS WHAT VIDEO GAMES ARE ALL ABOUT, POINTS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Growing up I was never a big fan of the shooting genre. Whether it was the top down shooters like 
 Galaga and Space Invaders or the side scrolling shooters like Galaxian or R-Type. I could only 
 play them for short durations. This was partly attributed to the fact that I was terrible at these 
 games as a kid.
  
  Just glancing at Geometry Wars: Galaxies you could easily pass it off as simply an updated version 
 of Asteroids. On the surface the gameplay is similar due to the perspective. A top down shooter 
 where you move your star craft around in space blasting the surrounding enemies. Pretty simple 
 right?
  
  Once you actually start playing the game you quickly realize there is much more to it than that. 
 Your ship can be moved independently of the direction you are shooting. Your ship is also aided 
 by a drone by your side. It can be programmed to do many different tasks. Some involve offense 
 like Attack mode and Turret mode. Others offer defense by circling your ship to help take damage 
 for you. It can even be programmed to retrieve the geo bits that are left behind as you destroy 
 your enemies. These geo bits serve as the games currency to unlock new levels. The more you use 
 your helper drone in a specific mode the more experience it will get at that task and therefore 
 more efficient.
  
  There are a variety of level designs in the game that offer many different forms of gameplay. Some 
 revolve around a swirling black hole in the middle that you must avoid. Others place moving obstacles 
 between you ad the enemies that you must constantly navigate. As you progress through the game 
 the difficulty ramps up by adding more enemies on the screen and newer, tougher enemies. Each with 
 its own attack pattern that must be learned and navigated. The gameplay is fast and furious and 
 nonstop. You play until you run out of lives. Your ultimate goal is to get the best high score 
 possible on each level. A benchmark of scores is set in place for Bronze, Silver, and Gold Medals. 
 This will award you bonus points and help you gain experience faster.
  
  Even when the levels increase in difficulty and become frustrating you still find yourself continuing 
 on. Trying to better your high score. The gameplay is instantly addictive and you will find yourself 
 playing it for hours in one setting. I have never played a shooter for so long in my life. Its 
 that good. I should note if you own a DS with the same game you can link the two together to play 
 the original arcade version. I don't have the DS game so I can't say anything about this.
  
  If you love shooters and quite possibly even if you don't just give this a try and see how 
 quickly it sticks to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. It is like a buffed-up asteroids game in laser form. Story mode is cool 
 could have more depth. The big thing is that the multiplayer action could be better. it needs a 
 Co-op story mode for more depth into the game. I think it could be better if they added a plot 
 dto blowing up the alien shapes that appear. It needs a multiplayer wi-fi to add more depth and 
 make it more fun. Though, overall this game is pretty amazing, even though it needs more depth. I 
 suggest buying this game even though it could have some minor changes it is great for families, 
 friends, and parties. The story mode is preety bland because you just buy galaxies and plants then 
 blow them up. Once again go out right now and buy this game you will not regret the choice of this 
 game. This is way better than Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games. This game has intriguing graphics 
 and like I said has great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Story is cut due to irrelevance.
  
  Graphics:
  Who would have through you could throw so many effects into such little geometric shapes. This 
 is a very VERY colorful game. As you simply move your ship around, tiny little fire pixels spit 
 out the back of your ship. Every enemy blows up in a nice pixely way. The grid forms and ripples 
 to the action happening and near the climax of your gametime will be flying around like a piece 
 of paper in a hurricane. Everything done has been done to make the game more action packed and 
 more explosive the further you get, and little of it gets in the way of the actual gameplay to 
 distract you.
  
  That being said, you do get problems occasionally. I find the sucking red circles will spit out 
 too many pixels at times, and cause enemies to go unnoticed as I go crashing in towards them. Rinse 
 cycle levels which I will cover later, also are amazingly hard to keep up with due to the effects 
 going on. This is rarely a problem though, and maybe I'm just lacking the skill to spot them like 
 a pro no doubt would.
  
  Gameplay:
  Some may wonder why I didn't use the old school tag like so many others do for this game. I don't 
 see this as retro at all, I see this as new age, as evolution of the genre. This feels like an 
 arcade game, but not an old one in any respects. This utilizes the power of modern age gaming.
 
  
  Controls are tight as ever, no matter which control scheme you use. I find myself going back to 
 dual anolog however, as I don't feel comfortable with a pointer that could disappear at any given 
 moment. The main campaign mode consist of lots of planets you have to unlock, and each one plays 
 surprisingly differently. The whole thing is a good deal different than the main arcade mode of 
 play. Your multiplier is determined by yellow orbs you can run in to pick up that are dropped by 
 dead foes, and you get a little lackey which you can buy various AIs for. When you get bored of 
 the arcade play "retro evolved", galaxies changes enough to make the game fun again, and vice versa. 
 They support eachother in such a way that does make this game go from $5 to $30 worth of value, 
 so don't worry about bang for your buck.
  
  Some galaxies are just plain insane though, like to a bad point. What I refer to as "Rinse cycle" 
 levels are levels with a sucker in the middle that will spin everything around at crazy speeds. 
 You'll die in very random situations here and it's not the only example of a level that isn't too 
 fun. These are rare however, and you aren't forced to play every level there is. 
  
  Sound:
  Everything here is as tight as it could be for sound. Music is something that you can 
 stand listening to for quite a few rounds, and the singleplayer mode has it's own variety of musics 
 that are very well composed to the action you're in. Further more, you can use sound to your advantage 
 in gameplay. Each enemy that spawns has a distinct sound to it. Simply by listening closely, you 
 can gain and edge and tell what's coming before it hits you, so to take evasive action. Even your 
 gunfire has a small bit of variety to it's sounds. I cannot shame this in sound, as it has done 
 everything it could to include sound as a part of this game.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Someone who wishes to fit as much action awesomeness as they possibly can in a short amount of 
 time. Someone who can feel good fighting for a highscore. Someone who loves an arcade experience. 
 
  
  Extra Note:
  There is a multiplayer, but I got only 3 rounds out of it because my bro hasn't played it with 
 me ever. The only thing he feels like doing is competing with my scores in this game. From those 
 3 rounds however, I can say it was fun, despite my competition being bad at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Geometry Wars Galaxies is probably the best arcade game out there for the Wii. It a soundtrack 
 that makes you want to crank up the volume, sharp graphics that put HDTVs in their prime, and finally, 
 gameplay that will wear out your controller from not being able to put it down.
  
  The levels in this game are so well designed that each level is better than the last. This is probably 
 the key to why this game is so addictive.
  
  The only bad thing I can think about this game is that presentation is a little poor. But that 
 does not affect the amazing gameplay that is infused with this game.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is a bonus. The controls are right on so no frustrations will be encountered. 
 Also, the fact that you can download a demo of the game onto your DS from the Wii makes this game 
 solid. If you're not sure whether to spend $40 on this game or not, do yourself a favor and buy 
 this classic game. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Who would have thought the smallest mini-game hidden inside a racing game would turn out to be 
 one of the most popular and exciting games of the past year. Geometry Wars impressed everyone with 
 its delicate controls and its trance-inducing visuals that seem to explode right off the screen. 
 It's caffeine in gaming form, and once you start playing, you can't seem to stop. But surely, with 
 Geometry Wars spending the majority of its life on the Xbox 360, things are looking up for Nintendo 
 fans as Geometry Wars Galaxies still gives plenty of shooting fun while adding new bonuses to keep 
 you entertained for a long time.
  
  For those of you who have never played Geometry Wars or have no idea what it is, don't be fooled 
 by the name; it has nothing to with math at all. Prejudice aside, Geometry Wars is your average 
 shooter with enemies that look likewell, geometry shapes. You will constantly be shooting swarms 
 of enemies, all of which look like diamonds, squares, circles, stars and parallelograms (we know 
 more about math than you think!) . The concept is simple- shoot anything that moves or gets in your 
 way. Surely it is easier said than done, but the further you get into the game the harder the enemies 
 become, as more of them will attack you at once, black holes will try to suck you into nothing, 
 and some enemies will even try to ram into you, sacrificing their own selves just to destroy you. 
 The beauty about Geometry Wars is that no two games are ever alike. The game is structured to your 
 difficulty, meaning if you constantly hold down the fire button the game will send more enemies 
 at you, but if you are a pacifist and conserve, the game will give you less enemies to deal with.
 
  
  The simplicity of the game is what makes it so appealing. The visuals are impressive yet give off 
 a simple old school vibe, while the controls are as simple as using the two analog sticks on the 
 classic controller. Herein lies the only big problem with Geometry Wars Galaxies, the mixture of 
 unusual controls. If you happen to own a classic controller, by all means use that when playing 
 simply because the two analog sticks make it much easier to control. If you don't own a classic 
 controller however, be ready for the fight of your lifein more ways than one. Instead of using 
 two analog sticks for movement and shooting, you will use the wiimote and nunchuck for shooting 
 down foes. Because the sensor on the remote could be infuriating to see sometimes, the game shows 
 you which way you are shooting by giving your ship a red infrared laser in the direction it is 
 shooting (which doesn't entirely help considering how nearly impossible it is to see when the entire 
 screen is literally swollen with enemies) . While helpful, it doesn't make up for the inconsistent 
 stutters or the fact you will tend to get tired a lot faster by waving your arms around than just 
 using your fingers to play.
  
  The visuals still pack that neon punch in every level of the game. From the moment you start, you 
 will notice the striking similarities of the original version as well as extra enhanced particle 
 effects and enemy movements. In the later parts of the game, the screen can be so twisted and convoluted 
 with enemies, it will look like a 70's music video, complete with bright lights, flashing objects, 
 and tons and tons of explosions. The music is still the same sci-fi drone as it was in the XBLA 
 version, which is fine, but it would have been nice to have some sort of original soundtrack for 
 the Wii version. But than again, when you are being swarmed with dozens of enemies and flashing 
 neon lights, music is probably the last thing on your mind.
  
  Visuals aside, Geometry Wars Galaxies has much more to it than a ported version of the original. 
 New to the Wii version is a mode entitled Galaxies, which lets you earn special powerups that will 
 help you in racking up more points. The points fly out much quicker in this round and the enemies 
 also get much more aggressive. The game also throws new challenges at you the farther you get into 
 the mode, such as blue waves that travel around the screen, sucking in anything that touches it, 
 or enemies that can shoot from the sides who you can't see. Thankfully though, you have a drone 
 ship flying along with you to help you mow down any potential threats. While engaging in combat, 
 certain enemies will drop tiny orbs called geoms, which when collected will allow you to earn special 
 skills and powers for your drone. Many of these powers help increase the drone's attack, defense, 
 or speed; but other cooler ones have it shooting in the opposite direction you are (which makes 
 shooting enemies behind you a breeze) , and sniping enemies from across the screen. Since you can 
 only pick one skill at a time for your drone, choosing which one to use can be both fun and infuriating.
 
  
  Multiplayer is also making its debut in the series and it is both engaging and exciting to play. 
 VS mode lets you take on a friend to the death and after all lives are taken whoever has the most 
 points wins. Co-op lets you two work together to take down the same swarm of enemies. The game 
 gets a lot more aggressive in this mode, and geoms seem to drop a lot slower than usual, but its 
 still great tons of fun to be able to have an extra helping hand unleash fury against those dreaded 
 shapes.
  
  Geometry Wars Galaxies is an excellent transition from old to new with a bevy of extras that will 
 keep fans engaged for a long time. The psychedelic visuals and addicting gameplay are fun enough 
 that even the most hardcore gamer can enjoy. If you own a Wii and are looking for something to 
 play this holiday season besides Mario, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simondawabbit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars had humble beginnings as a side game in Project Gothem Racer before moving into one 
 of the best Xbox Live arcade Games on the 360. Now it has a full release as Geometry Wars Galaxies... But 
 on a Wii?
  
  Firstly, I reassure you this is no watered down kids game. This is Geometry Wars we all know and 
 love from XBLA, that includes its difficulty level and additive gameplay, and then some.
  One of the main issues with the XBLA game was how difficult it was to get multipliers. Now you 
 can get multipliers of x150! And yet this does not break the game.
  
  The developers may have added new content, changed the multipliers, and added new enemies, but 
 none of this breaks the game. The developers have managed to take an existing formula and improved 
 upon it creating a game better than it's more famous XBLA original.
  
  The only way this game does not live up to the XBLA title is in the graphics. They may have been 
 some of the simplest graphics on the 360, but they were some of the most effective and it's a shame 
 that this was lost in this version. On the Wii, the shapes just are not as clear, not as defined 
 and I can't but feel that this does detract from the game. Whilst this may be an inconvenience, 
 the game more than makes up for it in other areas. 
  
  one noticeable area is the time it takes to load a level. The game has seamless loads throughout. 
 This fact coupled with how short (or long, depending on how good you are) and varied the levels 
 are puts this as a ideal mini game, something you can pick up for minutes at a time but also a 
 game you can put a hours worth of playing into.
  
  Two key new features for the game is the geoms and the drone. Firstly, the geoms act as the multipliers 
 in the game as well as the currency. Each enemy drops these, the bigger the enemy the bigger the 
 geom, though it is only ever worth an extra x1 multiplier. These geoms can be spent to unlock new 
 planets, as well as new drones. The drone is an interesting addition to the game, giving the player 
 a hand in many different ways. You get a standard drone which will shoot randomly when you shoot, 
 but you can unlock different ones which can do different things such as a turret, a snipe, a collector 
 of geoms, and more. Each of these drones can be levelled up improving it's abilities and effectiveness. 
 Whilst all levels can be played with any drone, as the game progresses, you may find that some 
 drones are more effective than others.
  
  Unfortunately, this game is terrible with the Wii mote. It may not be broken but it's not far off. 
 I highly recommend playing this game with the classic controller. This is based of a game designed 
 for two analogue sticks and even now it shows. When using the Wii mote you get a lazer line of 
 where the ship fires and in the other hand you use the nun-chuck which is tolerable for easy situations 
 with few enemies, but useless when faced with the more complicated frantic levels.
  
  In all, it is a highly enjoyment collection of mini games, and a perfectly balanced stand alone 
 game. One which is available for around 20 and one which should be in every Wii collection. In 
 a period where serious games are missing, Geometry Wars Galaxies offers a cheap solution until 
 Smash Brothers and No More Hero's comes out which will still be enjoyable and playable in many 
 months to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved was a smash hit on the XBOX 360's Live Arcade, and for good reason. 
 It is an intense, crazy, and fun arcade-style shooting game where you have a ship on a grid and 
 move with one control stick while shooting with the other to destroy the various enemies that come 
 on the grid. Now, Geometry Wars has come to Wii and DS, and while both versions are good, the Wii 
 version is much better than the DS version. Both games include Retro Evolved and a new campaign 
 called 'Galaxies'. 
  
  
  
  In Galaxies mode, there are a ton of levels all with different point requirements, life and bomb 
 amounts, grid shape, and enemies. You also get a little ship that follows you, called a drone, 
 to help you. Before you begin a level, you tell the drone what action to take. You can make it 
 fight with you (Attack) , go in circles around you and destroy enemies on contact (Sweep) , have 
 it stay in one place and fire in a circle (Turret) , and more. The drone levels up in each ability 
 and gets better and better until it reaches level 10. There are also objects called geoms in the 
 Galaxies mode, which is the currency of the game. With geoms, you can buy new drone abilities, 
 galaxies, and planets. They also increase your score multiplier within a level. There are also 
 online leaderboards for every planet in the game and for Retro Evolved as well, which is a good 
 addition to an already complete game. To top it all off, there is one galaxy that can only be unlocked 
 by connecting a Wii game with a DS game.
  
  
  
  In this version, you have two control options: you can either use the two control sticks on a Classic 
 controller or use a remote and nunchuk configuration where you move your ship with the nunchuk's 
 control stick and shoot by pointing at the screen with the remote and holding A or B. While those 
 who are used to the XBOX 360's style of playing this game will prefer the Classic controller, the 
 remote and nunchuk work very well and allow for more accuracy. The game, overall, is as crazy as 
 Retro Evolved, and the colorful, unique graphics are just as good as on the XBOX 360. It has everything 
 it needs to be a true Geometry Wars title, because a Geometry Wars game without intensity and craziness 
 isn't much of a Geometry Wars game at all. The music is cool, but there are literally about five 
 tracks in the game. 
  
  
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode in this game. In the multiplayer, there are actually two ships 
 on the grid, which sounds like it would get confusing, but it somehow isn't that confusing. You 
 can do versus or co-op on Retro Evolved or do select Galaxies levels with a partner. The multiplayer 
 was a nice addition to the game and is very good and fun.
  
  
  
  Well, they did it! The makers of Geometry Wars have successfully made their small arcade shooter 
 into a full game. It doesn't build on the original gameplay much, but it doesn't ever get boring. 
 If you're looking for an intense, fast, crazy, and endlessly enjoyable arcade-style shooter, then 
 this is definitely the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The simple-looking yet very intense shooter makes a huge comeback on the Wii. Fans of Retro Evolved 
 will find much to enjoy as this addicting game returns with all new modes, and cooperative play. 
 60+ levels await to challenge the most die-hard player. Co-op play is tremendous fun and one of 
 the best additions made to the game.
  
  Gameplay 10- Addicting and incredible action. The levels give you a reason to progress moreso than 
 the 'aim for the highest score' of the original. new enemies mean new difficulty and tests of skill
 
  Graphics 9- Squares and basic shapes never looked so good. the explosion particles are excellent.
 
  Sound 9- More great tracks to add to the action on the screen.
  Replay Value- 9 High- You will still be playing this game weeks from now.
  Fun Factor- 10 Very 
 High- Near endless shooter action entertainment. Playing with a friend only makes this game even 
 more exciting.
  
  My Final Score- 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easykill_astari
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars : Galaxies is just a No - Brainer , its a fun game , youll start playing it and if 
 no one talks to you youll play for hours before looking at a clock and going '' Damn ! ive been 
 playing for 4 hours ( Real Fact ! ) and you cant go bad whit such a full game for 30 bucks , ok 
 ! I didint want to buy it at first becauze i tough it was expensive but it all goes into it when 
 you start playing that fun little game !
  
  Youl never get bored , there isint any ''real'' myultiplayer but you can still have some fun whit 
 it .. its didint make as mutch hype as QHIII ( guitar hero 3 ) and it sure aint got the graphics 
 of SMG ( Super Mario Galaxy ) But it is , less pricy and super fun ! ( You should all still go 
 and get SMG anf GHIII cuz there super but you get the point ) 
  
  
  So as i said before , If you have a wii , 30 bucks and some brains , youll go and get Geometry 
 Wars : Galaxy ! 
  
  You cant go bad whit Geometry ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  First off, Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved is a fun, classic game. So if you've played it and enjoyed 
 it, this title will be sure to satisfy your craving for destroying glowing shapes in space. The 
 galaxies campaign mode is pretty fun, with the whole point to score gold medals on all of the various 
 60+ planets on the map, earning "geome" points as you go and unlocking new areas and features. 
 The main problem (and only real problem) I have with the game is that it gets slightly repetitive 
 in the fact that all you're doing is shooting different geometric designs as they surround you 
 in blood thirsty groups. Repetitive as it may be, though, it is still a very enjoyable, intense 
 game. The controls may be slightly awkward at first, but in no time you'll be easily navigating 
 your ship while targeting multiple units with your lasers. What I really like is how responsive 
 and relaxing the controls are, too. So, all in all, Geometry Wars: Galaxies is a worthwhile game 
 that I would say is definitely worth your 40 bucks. But like I said before, if you don't like the 
 original, chances are this one won't have much appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  PROS: =======================================
  Different enemies have different behaviors, which demand different movement & shooting strategies.
 
  
  Cooperative mode changes a lot of your strategies as you create crossfire which changes how you 
 can handle enemies subtly but dramatically. After a few hours you and your partner will begin to 
 "feel" what to do to support each other, and that's an incredible rush.
  
  CONS: =======================================
  As always, the game gets confusing. You die because 
 your eyes failed to track something a lot - the trick is avoiding those situations as best you 
 can by managing the enemies.
  
  It's very hard.
  
  Graphics might not be for everyone.
  
  ============================================
  
  
 This is a game that works well for the loner hardcore gamer as well as the hardcore with friends. 
 It is too much for casual gamers to handle very easily - my 10yo daughter loves to sit down with 
 me and play, but my wife & my 8yo daughter aren't even tempted to try it.
  
  The game offers new modes which are neat: the galaxy mode, like Super Mario Galaxies, offers different 
 worlds with unique layouts that alter how you play them. You can choose many (if not all) galaxies 
 from the outset, which is nice.
  
  There is an NDS option but I don't have the NDS cartridge and can't track down anything definitive 
 about what that does. Apparently you can "unlock additional content." That's not nearly as exciting 
 as "you can have your friends with NDS's play with you and one other on your Wii." So it's not 
 about interacting, it's about getting rewarded for having both copies. Sad.
  
  However, $40 (at EBgames. com) is a tad steep for a game of this type. You can't explore or spend 
 hours immersed in a story - it is strictly a matter of learning how to play better and having fun 
 with the different scenarios.
  
  That said, I can't find many faults with the playability other than the same thing Geometry Wars 
 has always suffered from: it's difficult/impossible to track all of the objects on the screen and, 
 ultimately, it's a flat 2d space shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassman67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I'll begin by saying that I really have enjoyed this game on the 360. I have yet to score over 
 1 million points on that system, but the game keeps me coming back time after time. I've been playing 
 since the original Geometry Wars that was included with Project Gotham Racing 2 for the XBOX. 
 
  
  The controls take 30 minutes to get used to. There are still plenty of times when I would prefer 
 dual sticks to aiming with the wiimote, but it is a viable control method.
  
  The graphics look good on a standard def TV. There is only so much detail needed after all. Everything 
 is clean and colorful. The animation runs very smoothly.
  
  The gameplay has that quality that makes you play 'just one more time.' You can pop in the game, 
 play for a few minutes, and then head out the door. Or, you can play for a couple of hours trying 
 to unlock medals, unlock more planets, and upgrade your drone. Upgrading the drone consists of 
 using it for one of several different roles. One of his jobs may be to set up as a rotating turret 
 taking out enemies. Another role sees him as a collector of the important geoms (score multipliers 
 and currency for the game) . The various planets available offer different shapes of landscapes 
 and different rules of play with the same theme of destroying everything in a quest for a higher 
 score.
  
  The multiplayer is a great addition, but the screen gets hectic. If you can maintain focus on your 
 shooter, you'll fare well. 
  
  If you have a DS you can download the full version of Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved from the Wii 
 to the DS for playing on the go. It'll keep me going until the full DS version releases later this 
 week.
  
  It's a great deal at $40. I'm anxious to see if/when it comes to the 360 so I can compare scores. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santiagosniper
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Online is an nice addititon and it just grows on you. I bought it and never lookde back or regreted 
 it from then on. Tottaly awesome shooter. I really loved the way you can customize everything on 
 your ship and yes even the weapons to fire. There's a lot for Wii owner's to find here and it's 
 easy to get lost in the fun game. If you get Online my Wii friend name is Bob Salad1 for various 
 reasons and see me later and I'll give you my Wii number so u can add me! Also send me your number. 
 Seriously though I love this game since the first one lost it's game fun on XBLA because it was 
 too repetitive. But this one is some fun in the sun as you can play Multiplayer too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokamak85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Geometry Wars Galaxies shows that you don't have to use pixel shaders and bloom lighting effects 
 to make a fun game.
  
  Galaxies is simple - destroy everything that moves and acquire score multipliers after you've destroyed 
 the moving things to enhance your score. In this version of the game you have a companion polygon 
 that assists you in destroying rival polygons. It can attack, defend, gather score multipliers, 
 etc.
  
  So far I only have positive things to say about the game. The particle effects are awesome, as 
 is the space-time grid distortion. This is definitely one of the better games on the Wii. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
